{"id": "41270069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41270069", "title": "AccuSystems", "text": "AccuSystems\n\nAccuSystems LLC is an American company headquartered in Pueblo, Colorado that develops, licenses, supports, and sells document imaging software and electronic document management, primarily to the banking and finance industries. Over 200 banks currently use AccuSystems' software.\n\nIn 2002, AccuSystems made its first sale to People's Bank.\n\nAccuSystems' software, known as AccuAccount, is mainly used to electronically scan, store, and manage loan files and any other associated paperwork. In September 2010, AccuSystems announced the acquisition of Xtria RMS. Financial institutions use the Xtria RMS software, now known as Tickler, to track exceptions electronically.\n\nIn 2012, AccuSystems won the BankNews Innovative Solutions Award for Management Software Solutions.\n\nIn 2013, BankTech published a survey taken by AccuSystems that surveyed 80 community banks. The survey found that only 12% of banks are using paperless systems for issuing loans. The study is often used when discussing paperless systems in the US's banking industry.\n"}
{"id": "8041214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8041214", "title": "Ally &amp; Gargano", "text": "Ally &amp; Gargano\n\nAlly & Gargano (A & G) was an American advertising agency, which \"Advertising Age\" named Agency of the Year in 1982. It was the first advertising agency used by Federal Express, beginning their work with the company in 1973. \n\nCarl Ally left Papert, Koenig, Lois in 1962 to open his own agency. Founded as Carl Ally, Inc. in 1963, Ally elevated partner Amil Gargano and renamed the firm Ally & Gargano in 1976. Ally sold his voting stock in the agency to Gargano in 1979, remaining chairman. That year Edward M. Gallagher joined A&G as chief operating officer, and quickly brought in the MCI account.\n\nThe company went public in 1983, but a string of client losses and budget cutbacks increased internal tensions. Ally formally retired from Ally & Gargano on January 1, 1985, and in June 1986, Marketing Corporation of America (MCA) bought Ally & Gargano for $26.6 million. After further account losses, including the showcase Saab account in December 1988, MCA sold control and 50 percent of the agency to Wesray Capital Corporation for $30 million.\n\nCarl Ally was inducted into the American Advertising Federation Hall of Fame in 1991, and Gargano left A&G that year when his contract expired. The agency closed on July 26, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "39849257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39849257", "title": "Behavioral analytics", "text": "Behavioral analytics\n\nBehavioral analytics is a recent advancement in business analytics that reveals new insights into the behavior of consumers on eCommerce platforms, online games, web and mobile applications, and IoT. The rapid increase in the volume of raw event data generated by the digital world enables methods that go beyond typical analysis by demographics and other traditional metrics that tell us what kind of people took what actions in the past. Behavioral analysis focuses on understanding how consumers act and why, enabling accurate predictions about how they are likely to act in the future. It enables marketers to make the right offers to the right consumer segments at the right time.\n\nBehavioral analytics utilizes the massive volumes of raw user event data captured during sessions in which consumers use application, game, or website, including traffic data like navigation path, clicks, social media interactions, purchasing decisions and marketing responsiveness. Also, the event-data can include advertising metrics like click-to-conversion time, as well as comparisons between other metrics like the monetary value of an order and the amount of time spent on the site. These data points are then compiled and analyzed, whether by looking at session progression from when a user first entered the platform until a sale was made, or what other products a user bought or looked at before this purchase. Behavioral analysis allows future actions and trends to be predicted based on the collection of such data.\n\nWhile business analytics has a more broad focus on the who, what, where and when of business intelligence, behavioral analytics narrows that scope, allowing one to take seemingly unrelated data points in order to extrapolate, predict and determine errors and future trends. It takes a more holistic and human view of data, connecting individual data points to tell us not only what is happening, but also how and why it is happening.\n\nData shows that a large percentage of users using a certain eCommerce platform found it by searching for “Thai food” on Google. After landing on the homepage, most people spent some time on the “Asian Food” page and then logged off without placing an order. Looking at each of these events as separate data points does not represent what is really going on and why people did not make a purchase. However, viewing these data points as a representation of overall user behavior enables one to interpolate how and why users acted in this particular case.\nBehavioral analytics looks at all site traffic and page views as a timeline of connected events that did not lead to orders. \nSince most users left after viewing the “Asian Food” page, there could be a disconnect between what they are searching for on Google and what the “Asian Food” page displays. Knowing this, a quick look at the “Asian Food” page reveals that it does not display Thai food prominently and thus people do not think it is actually offered, even though it is.\n\nBehavioral analytics is becoming increasingly popular in commercial environments. Amazon.com is a leader in using behavioral analytics to recommend additional products that customers are likely to buy based on their previous purchasing patterns on the site. Behavioral analytics is also used by Target to suggest products to customers in their retail stores, while political campaigns use it to determine how potential voters should be approached. In addition to retail and political applications, behavioral analytics is also used by banks and manufacturing firms to prioritize leads generated by their websites. Behavioral analytics also allow developers to manage users in online-gaming and web applications.\n\nIBM and Intel are creating ecosystems of connected solutions and advanced analytics. In retail, this is the Internet of Things (IoT) for tracking shopping behaviors.\n\n\nAn ideal behavioral analytics solution would include:\n"}
{"id": "43738681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738681", "title": "Business History (journal)", "text": "Business History (journal)\n\nBusiness History is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of business history. It was established in 1958 by Liverpool University Press and is now published by Taylor and Francis. The editor-in-chief is Ray Stokes (University of Glasgow).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 0.564.\n"}
{"id": "8613151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8613151", "title": "Business economics", "text": "Business economics\n\nBusiness economics is a field in applied economics which uses economic theory and quantitative methods to analyze business enterprises and the factors contributing to the diversity of organizational structures and the relationships of firms with labour, capital and product markets. A professional focus of the journal \"Business Economics\" has been expressed as providing \"practical information for people who apply economics in their jobs.\"\nBusiness economics is an integral part of traditional economics. It is an extension of economic concepts to the real business situations. It is an applied science in the sense of a tool of managerial decision-making and forward planning by management. In other words, Business economics is concerned with the application of economic theory to business management.\n\nBusiness economics is concerned with economic issues and problems related to business organization, management, and strategy. Issues and problems include: an explanation of why \"corporate\" firms emerge and exist; why they expand: horizontally, vertically and spacially; the role of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship; the significance of organizational structure; the relationship of firms with the employees, the providers of capital, the customers, the government; the interactions between firms and the business environment.\n\nThe term 'business economics' is used in a variety of ways. Sometimes it is used as synonymously with industrial economics/industrial organisation, managerial economics, and economics for business. Still, there may be substantial differences in the usage of 'economics for business' and 'managerial economics' with the latter used more narrowly.\nOne view of the distinctions between these would be that business economics is wider in its scope than industrial economics in that it would be concerned not only with \"industry\" but also businesses in the service sector. Economics for business looks at the major principles of economics but focuses on applying these economic principles to the real world of business. Managerial economics is the application of economic methods in the managerial decision-making process.\n\nMany universities offer courses in business economics and offer a range of interpretations as to the meaning of the word.\n\nThe Bachelor of Business Economics (BBE) Program at University of Delhi is designed to meet the growing need for an analytical and quantitative approach to problem solving in the changing corporate world by the application of the latest techniques evolved in the fields of economics and business.\n\nThe Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB), the Universidad Pública de Navarra (UPNa) and the University of the Balearic Islands (UIB) developed an official Master of Science in Management, Organization and Business Economics focused on management and business topics to train professionals in the study of organizations, on a conceptual and quantitative basis. To achieve this, advanced analysis tools are used from the fields of Neoclassical economics, New institutional economics, Statistics, Econometrics and Operations research. This focus is complemented with contributing ideas and theories to develop the necessary instruments to facilitate the management of sophisticated and complex organizations.\n\nThe program at Harvard University uses economic methods to analyze practical aspects of business, including business administration, management, and related fields of business economics.\n\nThe University of Miami defines business economics as involving the study of how we use our resources for the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services. This requires business economists to analyze social institutions, banks, the stock market, the government and their relationships with labor negotiations, taxes, international trade, and urban and environmental issues.\n\nCourses at the University of Manchester interpret business economics to be concerned with the economic analysis of how businesses contribute to welfare of society rather than on the welfare of an individual or a business. This is done via an examination of the relationship between ownership, control and firm objectives; theories of the growth of the firm; the behavioural theory of the firm; theories of entrepreneurship; the factors that influence the structure, conduct and performance of business at the industry level.\n\nItalian Universities borrow their concept of business economics from the tradition of Gino Zappa, for example a standard course at the Politecnico di Milano involves studying corporate governance, accounting, investment analysis, budgeting and business strategy.\n\nLa Trobe University of Melbourne, Australia associates business economics with the process of demand, supply and equilibrium coordinating the behaviour of individuals and businesses in the market. Also, business economics extends to government policy, economic variables and international factors which influence business and competition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1990966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1990966", "title": "Business education", "text": "Business education\n\nBusiness education involves teaching students the fundamentals, theories, and processes of business. Education in this field occurs at several levels, including secondary education and higher education or university education. Approximately 38% of students enroll in one or more business courses during their high school tenure.\n\nBusiness is taught as an academic subject at secondary level in many countries, including Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Lesotho, Nepal, New Zealand, Pakistan, Nigeria, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Zimbabwe, Argentina, Sweden, Tanzania, Malaysia and the United Kingdom. At pre-tertiary level, it is often called Business Studies, and usually combines elements of accountancy, finance, marketing, organizational studies, human resource management and economics.\n\nAt the university level, students have the opportunity to take undergraduate degrees, usually a bachelor's degree, in business and management. Specific curricula and degree-granting procedures differ by program and by region. In general though, the program will comprise either preparation for management and general business, or a detailed - more academic - focus on a specific area. Regardless, all will typically include basic selections such as Accounting, Marketing, Finance, and Operations Management.\n\nManagement-directed programs are designed to give a broad knowledge of the functional areas of a company, and their interconnection, and also to develop the student's practical managerial skills, communication skills and business decision-making capability. These programs thus incorporate training and practical experience, in the form of case projects, presentations, internships, industrial visits, and interaction with experts from the industry.\n\nSubject specific programs, on the other hand, focus on a particular area, and are often more weighted towards theory. Even in these cases, however, additional to their major, students are exposed to general business principles, taking initial courses in accounting/finance, human resources, statistics, marketing, economics, and information systems.\n\nDegrees offered here include:\n\nAt the graduate school level, students seek a variety of master's degrees, either in general management–very commonly the MBA–or in a specific area, such as marketing or finance. A further distinction is that students pursuing postgraduate degrees often have some business experience, although this is not always a program requirement. \n\nCorresponding to both of these, graduate degrees in business and management are generally of two sorts. \n\nA related distinction: the M.Sc in Management is more specialized than an MBA, and is more suited for academic research, while the MBA is more industry- and management-focused. \n\nAs regards degree structure, postgraduate business programs are, in general, designed such that students gain exposure to theory and practice alike; the mix, though, will differ by degree and by school, as discussed. Learning is then through lectures, case studies, and often team projects (“syndicate” work). The theory is covered in the classroom setting by academic faculty. Particularly in the MBA, the theory is then reinforced, and revisited, also in the classroom setting, through the case method, placing the student in the role of the decision maker, \"complete with the constraints and incomplete information found in real business issues.\" Practical learning often comprises consulting projects with real clients, or at least addressing an actual case, and is often undertaken in teams. The practical elements (as well as the case studies) may involve external practitioners, and sometimes executives, supporting the teaching from academic faculty. (See Business school #Use of case studies and #Other approaches.) One of the challenges for business academics is demonstrating that their curriculum is relevant to those who want to become managers.\n\nDegrees offered here include:\n\nAt the doctoral level, all degrees offered are research focused, although they do differ as regards their relative weightings of theory versus practice. Typically, the DBA, DPA, DHA and D.Mgt emphasize managerial practice alongside research; relatedly, the theses for these degrees will often focus on applied research. The other doctorates here are (exclusively) theory and research based. Entrance is usually on the basis of a relevant master's degree, and for practice-weighted degrees, relevant managerial experience. For the topic areas applicable to the thesis component see: List of fields of doctoral studies in the United States\n\n"}
{"id": "4706893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4706893", "title": "Business executive", "text": "Business executive\n\nA business executive is a person responsible for running an organization, although the exact nature of the role varies depending on the organization.\n\nExecutives run companies or government agencies. They create plans to help their organizations grow.\n\nThe business executive occupation covers many jobs. These positions include chief executive officer, department store manager, and small business operator. Executives are in charge of their organization. They create and review goals for the company. They work closely with a team of upper-level staff or assistants. This team may make both long- and short-range plans to achieve these goals. Once the plans are set, executives make sure the company follows the changes. They do this by meeting with the managers of all the departments and getting progress reports. Executives are typically elected by the organization's owners, shareholders, board of directors. The term usually refers to the person running the organization or someone involved in the upper-level management role of a corporation, company, as opposed to being the founder, owner, or majority shareholder of the organization.\n748\n\nExecutives' duties depend on how many people are on their staff. Some executives oversee general managers in different areas. In larger organizations, they may direct one area, such as marketing, finance, or legal services. For example, in the financial area, executives may direct the buying or selling of land or other investments. Other executives get more involved. They may hire and train new staff. They may direct staff in what tasks need to be done. They may choose computer systems to record data, such as budgets. When complaints arise, executives may direct investigations to resolve what occurred in the agency or between staff members.\n\nA large part of an executive's job is developing relationships with people outside the organization. These people may be customers or contributors. One way executives create relationships is by giving speeches at conferences. Executives may also serve on the boards of community groups. These activities promote the company and its leader.\n\nIn addition, executives oversee budgets. They use budgets to analyze how well the organization is running. They make suggestions about where to cut expenses. Executives may also suggest where improvements could be made. Executives also negotiate contracts with outside agencies. They need good persuasion skills to keep costs down. Some executives write yearly reports to let their communities know what has been accomplished.\n\nGovernment executives oversee agencies that develop laws and regulations. They meet regularly with their citizens. They learn how voters feel about the issues. Officials need to do these reality checks to see if they have the citizens' support. Executives also promote economic growth within their communities. They plan and organize different activities to help meet these goals. Government executives make connections between the United States and other countries. They help to promote international trade.\n\nThe government executive occupation also covers many jobs. They range from city council member, mayor, and governor, all the way up to President of the United States. Some of these positions are elected. Other officials are appointed to their jobs. In smaller communities, many of these jobs may be volunteer positions. Sometimes these jobs run through only part of the year.\n"}
{"id": "24104531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24104531", "title": "Cleaning card", "text": "Cleaning card\n\nCleaning cards are disposable products designed to clean the interior contact points of a device that facilitates an electronic information transaction (point of sale terminal, automated teller machine, remote deposit check scanners, micr readers, magnetic stripe reader, bill acceptor, bill validator, access control locks, etc.). In order for the cleaning card to work properly in the device, the card resembles or mimics the material of the transaction media – such as a credit card, check, or currency. As the cleaning card is inserted and passed through the device, it will clean components that would normally come in contact with the transaction media such as readers, lenses, read/write chip and pins, belts, rollers, and paths. Cleaning card products are widely accepted and endorsed by device manufacturers and industry professionals. Many have developed their own cleaning cards to better clean their particular devices.\n\nA typical cleaning card is much like a wiper or sponge that can get into areas that are not readily accessible. Typically, the cleaning card has a solid core covered by a soft wipe-like material. The product is then saturated with a cleaning solution recommended by the device manufacturer and then placed in a sealed pouch to maintain the saturation level and cleanliness of the card.\n\nThe cleaning card was originally patented by Stanley H. Eyler and the patent (US#5525417 A) was assigned to his employer, the Clean Team Company. The Clean Team Company later changed its name to KICTeam, Inc., which continues to be the leading manufacturer of cleaning cards. The cleaning card has evolved with the equipment they need to clean. A good example is the bill acceptor. Initially, the bill acceptor was designed for vending machines as a means of selling candy to the public. It includes a device that recognizes that a US one dollar bank note has been inserted. The cleaning card was required to be the same shape as US currency in order to be accepted into the device to clean it. Vending machines began accepting higher denominations as well as having the ability to make change. Specialized sensors were introduced into the bill acceptors to recognize multiple denominations and to only accept media that contained bank note characteristics. The bill acceptor cleaning card was redeveloped to contain magnetic ink and bank note characteristics so as to be accepted by the equipment. The development of bill acceptors for slot machines in the gaming and casino industry required the bill acceptor to be more sophisticated. The bill validators needed to validate currency of multiple denominations up to a one hundred dollar bank note. Fraud was now a critical issue and was addressed by multiple sensors and optics throughout the inserted currency pathway. These sensors and optics were recessed so as to keep currency from running across them with each insertion and wearing down sensitive lenses.\n\nCleaning cards are used in the gaming, wagering, vending, hotel, retail, lottery, petroleum, manufacturing, shipping, auto id, card printing, banking. For example, this includes all places that credit cards or cash are inserted into a machine to make payments.\n\nThe magnetic head inside the POS Terminal is a fixed component and for this reason it only can be cleared by cleaning cards that are flexible enough to clean the leading, center and trailing edges of this round reader head. The cleaning of the magnetic head is very important because it's responsible for the reading of the card and so it decides acceptance or rejection of the inserted card.\nThe cleaning card is not only cleaning the reading area of the magnetic head which is cleared. There is also a cleaning process within the device along the card path. The cleaning in these high dirt build-up areas is especially important and ensures efficient cleaning of the card reader.\n\nChip Cards are also known as Smart Cards and EMV Cards. There are two different types of EMV card readers - friction and landing. Contaminated contacts can result in rejection of the inserted payment or authorization card. The cleaning card with ensures optimal cleaning of chip reading contacts.\n\nMotorized readers are built in, for example ATMs. The credit/debit-card is inserted into the card slot, where the first magnetic head is placed. If a magnetic stripe can be recognized, a shutter will be opened and the card will be transported to the second magnetic head by roles. The card is read, thereby the device knows whether the transaction goes over the micro chip or the magnetic stripe. If no micro chip is placed on the card, the transaction goes directly above the magnetic head. If the data gives the order for a transaction over the micro chip, the card is placed on the chip reading contact and is stopped. The chip contacts, are fitted on the chip and now the transaction begins. If the reading of the magnetic stripe respectively by the micro chip is not possible, the card will be declined.\nA cleaning card for a motorized card reader will need a magnetic stripe built into it to activate the acceptance shutter.\n\nCheck scanners are used by banks or business through remote deposit capture programs to take a digital image of the check and send the information to the bank for deposit. This is where the image of a check on your bank statement originates. If a check scanner is not properly cleaned financial institutions risk increased transaction failures, equipment malfunctions, personnel costs to reconcile poor images, equipment repair or exchange and non-compliance due to poor image quality. A cleaning card designed to clean a specific model of check scanner is run through the device the same way the operator would run a check through the device. The cleaning card makes contact with the optical lenses, micr reader, transport belts and rollers, print heads and clears the check path.\n\nTransactions are any action that has a monetary implication or transfer information from one media to another. The most commonly thought of transactions are the use of credit or debit cards through a card reader of some type. Card readers are also widely used for hotel door locks or access control devices. Another of the most common is a currency transaction via vending, slot machines, or self-checkout kiosk where a bill acceptor takes currency or a currency detector tabulates quantity. Many printers are transaction devices such as cashless ticket printers in the gaming industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "553722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553722", "title": "Closed shop", "text": "Closed shop\n\nA pre-entry closed shop (or simply closed shop) is a form of union security agreement under which the employer agrees to hire union members only, and employees must remain members of the union at all times in order to remain employed. This is different from a post-entry closed shop (US: union shop), which is an agreement requiring all employees to join the union if they are not already members. In a union shop, the union must accept as a member any person hired by the employer.\n\nInternational Labour Organization covenants do not address the legality of closed shop provisions, leaving the question up to each individual nation. The legal status of closed shop agreements varies widely from country to country, ranging from bans on the agreement, to extensive regulation of the agreement to not mentioning it at all.\n\nThe Taft–Hartley Act outlawed the closed shop in the United States in 1947. The union shop was ruled illegal by the Supreme Court. States that have passed right-to-work laws go further by not allowing employers to require employees to pay a form of union dues called an agency fee. An employer may not lawfully agree with a union to hire only union members, but it may agree to require employees to join the union or pay the equivalent of union dues to it, within a set period after starting employment. Similarly, while a union could require an employer that had agreed to a closed shop contract prior to 1947 to fire an employee who had been expelled from the union for any reason, it cannot demand that an employer fire an employee under a union shop contract for any reason other than failure to pay those dues that are uniformly required of all employees.\n\nThe United States Government does not permit the union shop in any federal agency regardless of state law allowing for such.\n\nConstruction unions and unions in other industries with similar employment patterns have coped with the prohibition of closed shops by using exclusive hiring halls as a means of controlling the supply of labor. While such exclusive hiring halls do not, in a strictly formal sense, require union membership as a condition of employment, they do so in practical terms, in that an employee seeking to be dispatched to work through the union's hiring hall must either pay union dues or pay a roughly equivalent hiring hall fee. So long as the hiring hall is run on a non-discriminatory basis and adheres to clearly stated eligibility and dispatch standards, it is lawful. The Taft–Hartley Act also bars unions from requiring unreasonably high initiation fees as a condition of membership in order to prevent unions from using initiation fees as a device to keep non-union employees out of a particular industry. Also, the National Labor Relations Act permits construction employers to enter into pre-hire agreements, in which they agree to draw their workforces from a pool of employees dispatched by the union. The NLRA prohibits pre-hire agreements outside the construction industry.\n\nFor the entertainment industry, unions representing performers have as their first rule one banning any represented performer from working on any non-union production. Penalties are imposed on the union member, not on the employer, and can lead to loss of union membership. Most major productions are union productions, and non-members join the Screen Actors Guild through performing as extras and earning three union vouchers, or by being given a speaking line and entering that way. The other performance unions do not have minimum membership standards, but joining the union bars one from working on non-union productions.\n\nAll four major sports leagues are union shops, even though a franchise may be located in a state that has a right-to-work law or constitutional provision.\n\nThe status of closed shops varies from province to province within Canada. The Supreme Court has ruled that, while Section Two of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms guaranteed both the freedom to associate \"and\" the freedom not to associate, employees in a work-environment largely dominated by a union were beneficiaries of union policies, and as such should pay union fees, regardless of membership status. However, religious and conscientious objectors were allowed the option of paying the amount to a registered charity instead.\n\nDunn and Gennard found 111 United Kingdom cases of dismissals on the introduction of a closed shop, involving 325 individuals. They state \"While proponents of the closed shop may argue that an estimated minimum 325 dismissals is a relatively small number compared with the total population covered by closed shops, critics would see the figure as substantial arguing that one dismissal is one too many.\" In relation to the pre-entry closed shop, they state \"Its \"raison d'être\" is to exclude people from jobs by denying them union membership\". \nAll forms of closed shops in the UK are illegal following the introduction of the Employment Act 1990. They were further curtailed under section 137(1)(a) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 (c. 52) passed by the Conservative government at the time. The Labour Party, then in opposition, had supported closed shops until December 1989, when it abandoned the policy in accordance with European legislation. However, Labour shadow arts minister Thangam Debbonaire announced to an Equity conference in May 2016 that she favoured the introduction of a \"limited\" closed shop for actors, as part of Jeremy Corbyn's pledge to strengthen and introduce a new package of employment rights beneficial to employees. Equity was one of the last trade unions in the United Kingdom to offer a pre-entry closed shop until the 1990 act.\n\nAll forms of closed shops in the Commonwealth are illegal under Workplace Relations Act 1996. There was an attempt by the Howard Government to change the definition of what constituted a closed shop under the Workplace Relations Legislation Amendment (More Jobs, More Pay) Bill 1999. However the bill was subsequently defeated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42005", "title": "Collaborative software", "text": "Collaborative software\n\nCollaborative software or groupware is application software designed to help people involved in a common task to achieve their goals. One of the earliest definitions of collaborative software is \"intentional group processes plus software to support them\".\n\nIn terms of the level of interaction it allows, collaborative software may be divided into: real-time collaborative editing (RTCE) platforms that allow multiple users to engage in live, simultaneous and reversible editing of a single file (usually a document), and version control (also known as revision control and source control) platforms, which allow separate users to make parallel edits to a file, while preserving every saved edit by every user as multiple files (that are variants of the original file).\n\nCollaborative software is a broad concept that overlaps considerably with computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW). According to Carstensen and Schmidt (1999) groupware is part of CSCW. The authors claim that CSCW, and thereby groupware, addresses \"how collaborative activities and their coordination can be supported by means of computer systems.\" Software products such as email, calendaring, text chat, wiki, and bookmarking belong to this category whenever used for group work, whereas the more general term social software applies to systems used outside the workplace, for example, online dating services and social networking sites like Twitter and Facebook.\n\nThe use of collaborative software in the work space creates a collaborative working environment (CWE).\n\nFinally, collaborative software relates to the notion of collaborative work systems, which are conceived as any form of human organization that emerges any time that collaboration takes place, whether it is formal or informal, intentional or unintentional. Whereas the groupware or collaborative software pertains to the technological elements of computer-supported cooperative work, collaborative work systems become a useful analytical tool to understand the behavioral and organizational variables that are associated to the broader concept of CSCW.\n\nDouglas Engelbart first envisioned collaborative computing in 1951 and documented his vision in 1962, with working prototypes in full operational use by his research team by the mid-1960s, and held the first public demonstration of his work in 1968 in what is now referred to as \"The Mother of All Demos.\" The following year, Engelbart's lab was hooked into the ARPANET, the first computer network, enabling them to extend services to a broader userbase. See also Intelligence Amplification , ARPANET Section on ARPANET Deployed, and the Doug Engelbart Archive Collection.\n\nOnline collaborative gaming software began between early networked computer users. In 1975, Will Crowther created Colossal Cave Adventure on a DEC PDP-10 computer. As internet connections grew, so did the numbers of users and multi-user games. In 1978 Roy Trubshaw, a student at University of Essex in the United Kingdom, created the game MUD (Multi-User Dungeon).\n\nThe US Government began using truly collaborative applications in the early 1990s. One of the first robust applications was the Navy's Common Operational Modeling, Planning and Simulation Strategy (COMPASS). The COMPASS system allowed up to 6 users to create point-to-point connections with one another; the collaborative session only remained while at least one user stayed active, and would have to be recreated if all six logged out. MITRE improved on that model by hosting the collaborative session on a server that each user logged into. Called the Collaborative Virtual Workstation (CVW), this allowed the session to be set up in a virtual file cabinet and virtual rooms, and left as a persistent session that could be joined later.\n\nIn 1996, Pavel Curtis, who had built MUDs at PARC, created PlaceWare, a server that simulated a one-to-many auditorium, with side chat between \"seat-mates\", and the ability to invite a limited number of audience members to speak. In 1997, engineers at GTE used the PlaceWare engine in a commercial version of MITRE's CVW, calling it InfoWorkSpace (IWS). In 1998, IWS was chosen as the military standard for the standardized Air Operations Center. The IWS product was sold to General Dynamics and then later to Ezenia.\n\nCollaborative software was originally designated as \"groupware\" and this term can be traced as far back as the late 1980s, when Richman and Slovak (1987) wrote:\n\nEven further back, in 1978 Peter and Trudy Johnson-Lenz coined the term groupware; their initial 1978 definition of groupware was, “intentional group processes plus software to support them.” Later in their article they went on to explain groupware as “computer-mediated culture... an embodiment of social organization in hyperspace.\" Groupware integrates co-evolving human and tool systems, yet is simply a single system.\n\nIn the early 1990s the first commercial groupware products were delivered, and big companies such as Boeing and IBM started using electronic meeting systems for key internal projects. Lotus Notes appeared as a major example of that product category, allowing remote group collaboration when the internet was still in its infancy. Kirkpatrick and Losee (1992) wrote then:\n\nThe complexity of groupware development is still an issue. One reason for this is the socio-technical dimension of groupware. Groupware designers do not only have to address technical issues (as in traditional software development) but also consider the organizational aspects and the social group processes that should be supported with the groupware application. Some examples for issues in groupware development are:\n\n\nOne approach for addressing these issues is the use of design patterns for groupware design. The patterns identify recurring groupware design issues and discuss design choices in a way that all stakeholders can participate in the groupware development process.\n\nGroupware can be divided into three categories depending on the level of collaboration:\n\n\nCollaborative management tools facilitate and manage group activities. Examples include:\n\nThe design intent of collaborative software (groupware) is to transform the way documents and rich media are shared in order to enable more effective team collaboration.\n\nCollaboration, with respect to information technology, seems to have several definitions. Some are defensible but others are so broad they lose any meaningful application. Understanding the differences in human interactions is necessary to ensure the appropriate technologies are employed to meet interaction needs.\n\nThere are three primary ways in which humans interact: conversations, transactions, and collaborations.\n\n\"Conversational interaction\" is an exchange of information between two or more participants where the primary purpose of the interaction is discovery or relationship building. There is no central entity around which the interaction revolves but is a free exchange of information with no defined constraints, generally focused on personal experiences. Communication technology such as telephones, instant messaging, and e-mail are generally sufficient for conversational interactions.\n\n\"Transactional interaction\" involves the exchange of transaction entities where a major function of the transaction entity is to alter the relationship between participants.\n\nIn \"collaborative interactions\" the main function of the participants' relationship is to alter a collaboration entity (i.e., the converse of transactional). When teams collaborate on projects it is called Collaborative project management.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28985052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28985052", "title": "Communication audit", "text": "Communication audit\n\nA communications audit is a comprehensive evaluation of an organization’s ability to send, receive and share information with various audiences within the organization (and as organizations become flatter to allow groups within the organization to cooperate and share among themselves), as well at key constituencies outside, such as customers and investors, in the case of publicly traded companies. This type of audit can be performed to evaluate an organization's external or internal communication effectiveness. The purpose of a communications audit is to uncover the strengths and weaknesses between management, typically, and employees, customers and other groups such as investors, the news media, and regulators and legislative bodies with the objective to improve future communications by developing a strategic plan, through a series of recommendations, and to determine where gaps exists which need to be bridged.\n\nA communications audit may be undertaken by corporate communications team or by outside consultants who are retained by management to assess the company’s communications effectiveness in accordance with the business objectives, compare the company vs. competitors, and identify target audience perceptions and motivators. The resulting strategic positioning and corresponding communications plan is focused on achieving strategic communications objectives – whether they be to achieve brand recognition, modify perceptions, maximize sales, encourage community support or establish leadership. If an outside auditor is retained, the auditor may include an evaluation of the corporate communications staff and the activities of the corporate communications department with recommendations to management designed to streamline departmental communications and inter-company communications effectiveness.\n"}
{"id": "29753610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29753610", "title": "Communities of innovation", "text": "Communities of innovation\n\nCommunities that support innovation have been referred to as Communities of Innovation (CoI), Communities for Innovation, Innovation Communities, Open Innovation Communities, Communities of Creation.\n\nCoakes and Smith (2007) define Communities of Innovation (CoI) as a form of Communities of Practice that are dedicated to the support of innovation. They suggest that CoI can be formed from champions of innovation and their social network and that CoI are safe places for the creation and support of innovatory ideas. COI are groups made up of motivated individuals working together towards a common goal, not because of orders from their superiors, but because they are convinced of their common cause.\n\nSawhney and Prandelli (2000) proposed the model of Communities of Creation as a new governance mechanism for managing knowledge found in different companies for the purpose of innovation. Intellectual property rights are considered to be owned by the entire community although the community is governed by a central firm which acts as the sponsor and defines the ground rules for participation. This model lies between the closed hierarchical model and the open market-based model.\n\nThese are Communities that take total financial, administrative and operational control over the development of their communities. Democratically elected and answerable to the whole community. It is simply an extension of the community saving societies that have existed for centuries. The prime objective is sustainable environmental and social development controlled by the skills and finance available. It provides employment, improves the future prospects for all participants and their children, and injects a sense of pride and achievement. Using locally available materials linked to new environmentally friendly cost effective construction materials will produce affordable housing, schools and roads.\n\nTraditionally, the company is the most efficient mean of managing knowledge belonging to different people. The primary motivation is job security, career advancement and recognition. Lee and Cole (2003) argue for a community structure for knowledge creation that crosses firms’ boundaries. To substantiate their argument they put forth the case of how “thousands of talented volunteers, dispersed across organizational and geographical boundaries, collaborate via the Internet to produce a knowledge-intensive, innovative product of high quality,” the Linux kernel (Lee and Cole 2003, p. 633). The Linux community has proved to be a very efficient mean of managing knowledge belonging to different people. The primary motivation is value system, recognition and potential career advancement or hop. Lee and Cole (2003) argue that research on knowledge management has to date focused on hierarchy and therefore has not adequately addressed the mobilization of distributed knowledge, knowledge that is dispersed among many people. They note that, as illustrated by the Linux case, “the advent of the Internet and Web-based technologies has enabled specialized communities to convene, interact, and share resources extensively via electronic interfaces,” even across firms’ boundaries (Lee and Cole 2003, p. 633). People are able to contribute effectively outside their working hours. coordination of the work (including feedback) is possible even when people are working from different locations. The catchment area is therefore much larger and the critical mass of software engineers required to develop and maintain the Linux project was therefore achievable.\n\nSuccessful COIs increase innovations within an organization. They therefore have the potential to contribute to organizational ambidexterity, which refers to the organization’s dual capabilities of managing current business and being flexible and adaptable to meet future changes and demands.\n\nGoogle search on “Communities of Innovation” generated 66100 findings on 24 June 2012.\n\n\nContrast with:\n\n"}
{"id": "49597315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49597315", "title": "Computer bureau", "text": "Computer bureau\n\nComputer bureaus developed during the early 1960s, following the development of time-sharing operating systems. These allowed the services of a single large and expensive mainframe computer to be divided up and sold as a fungible commodity. Development of telecommunications and the first modems encouraged the growth of computer bureau as they allowed immediate access to the computer facilities from a customer's own premises.\n\nThe computer bureau model shrank during the 1980s, as cheap commodity computers, particularly the PC clone but also the minicomputer allowed services to be hosted on-premises.\n\n"}
{"id": "7035221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7035221", "title": "Converters (industry)", "text": "Converters (industry)\n\nConverting companies are companies that specialize in combining raw materials such as polyesters, adhesives, silicone, adhesive tapes, foams, plastics, felts, rubbers, liners and metals, as well as other materials, to create new products.\n\nMaterials such as paper, plastic film, foil and cloth often are produced in long, continuous sheets that are rolled up for more convenient handling and transportation. These rolls of material vary significantly in size and weight — ranging from wide and weighing as much as several tons. The converting industry takes these continuous rolls of thin, flat materials — known as webs — threads them through processing machines (such as printing presses, laminating, coating and slitting machines) and converts or changes the web of material into an intermediate form or final product. For example, a converter’s equipment might take a web of plastic film, cut it into lengths, and fuse their edges, thus converting it into plastic bags. This activity is known as web processing.\n\nTypical converting processes are coating, laminating and printing. Coating technologies can include hot melt coating, gravure coating, curtain coating and slot-die coating. The most common printing techniques are flexo printing and rotogravure (gravure) printing. Both print processes are suited to high speed roll-to-roll processing.\n\nMany converting companies will process large diameter, wide rolls of material as this increases the converting efficiency by minimising changes. On completion of the converting process the rolls may be cut into smaller rolls on a slitting machine. These rolls are then a convenient size for handling on packaging and other machines. Alternatively, the rolls may be sheeted-cut into sheets — as happens in newspaper and book printing. Further processes such as collation may occur after sheeting.\n\nWeb alignment is an important part of a converting operation as a moving web of material has a tendency to track off course and wander out of alignment during the converting processes. To avoid these problems, engineers have developed a variety of automatic web-guiding systems that assure production accuracy and reduce waste. Web-guiding systems typically are positioned just before a critical stage on a converting machine (for example, just before a print station on a printing press).\n\nEach type of web guiding system uses a sensor to monitor the web position for lateral tracking, and each has an actuator to shift the running web mechanically back on course whenever the sensor detects movement away from the set path. Actuators may be pneumatic or hydraulic cylinders, or some kind of electromechanical device. Because the web may be fragile — particularly at its edge — non-contact sensors are used. These sensors may be pneumatic, photoelectric, ultrasonic, or infrared. The system’s controls must put the output signals from the sensors in to a form that can drive the actuator. Many controls today are electronic, typically using an amplifier to convert signals from the sensor, then commanding a special servo motor incorporating a lead or ball screw for guiding actuation. The latest web guiding systems have touch screen controls to simplify the setup procedure. Some web guiding systems have been designed specifically for the converting industry.\n\nMany converters specialize in \n\nSome converting companies now incorporate electronics in their finished products. For example, converters producing RFID stock labels must incorporate RFID chips and antenna inlays. The electronic components make up the RFID tag. The tag stores the information about the items that have been tagged. These converters therefore sometimes incorporate volume electronics manufacturing practices including controlling static electricity, electronic manufacturing test and similar processes. Solving some of the issues of inclusion of materials sensitive to external influences has led to more tech companies embracing roll-based manufacturing processes, with particular success in the lithium ion and solar cell manufacturing sectors.\n\nThe process of processing pre-cut cartons or \"blanks\" and folding them into the appropriate shape to become finished packaging containers is known as tray forming or carton erecting. These machines can create, for example, nacho trays, chinese noodle soup boxes, pizza boxes, french fry trays, hamburger clamshells, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "8385046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8385046", "title": "Core banking", "text": "Core banking\n\nCore (Centralized Online Real-time Exchange) banking is a banking service provided by a group of networked bank branches where customers may access their bank account and perform basic transactions from any of the member branch offices.\n\nCore banking is often associated with retail banking and many banks treat the retail customers as their core banking customers. Businesses are usually managed via the corporate banking division of the institution. Core banking covers basic depositing and lending of money.\n\nCore banking functions will include transaction accounts, loans, mortgages and payments. Banks make these services available across multiple channels like automated teller machines, Internet banking, mobile banking and branches.\n\nBanking software and network technology allow a bank to centralise its record keeping and allow access from any location.\n\nCore banking became possible with the advent of computer and telecommunication technology that allowed information to be shared between bank branches quickly and efficiently.\n\nBefore the 1970s it used to take at least a day for a transaction to reflect in the real account because each branch had their local servers, and the data from the server in each branch was sent in a batch to the servers in the data center only at the end of the day (EOD).\n\nOver the following 30 years most banks moved to core banking applications to support their operations creating a Centralized Online Real-time Exchange (or Environment) (CORE). This meant that all the bank's branches could access applications from centralized data centers. Deposits made were reflected immediately on the bank's servers, and the customer could withdraw the deposited money from any of the bank's branches.\n\nAdvancements in Internet and information technology reduced manual work in banks and increasing efficiency. Computer software is developed to perform core operations of banking like recording of transactions, passbook maintenance, interest calculations on loans and deposits, customer records, balance of payments and withdrawal. This software is installed at different branches of bank and then interconnected by means of computer networks based on telephones, satellite and the Internet.\n\nGartner defines a core banking system as a back-end system that processes daily banking transactions, and posts updates to accounts and other financial records. Core banking systems typically include deposit, loan and credit-processing capabilities, with interfaces to general ledger systems and reporting tools. Core banking applications are often one of the largest single expense for banks and legacy software are a major issue in terms of allocating resources. Spending on these systems is based on a combination of service-oriented architecture and supporting technologies.\n\nMany banks implement custom applications for core banking. Others implement or customize commercial independent software vendor packages. Systems integrators like Cognizant, EdgeVerve Systems Limited, Capgemini, Accenture, IBM and Tata Consultancy Services implement these core banking packages at banks.\n\nChoosing right core banking solution is again a tough task for banks its not always that easy to select right core banking solution.\n\nOpen source Technology in core banking solution or software can help banks to maintain their productivity and profitability at the same time.\n\nWhile larger financial institutions may implement their own custom core, community banks and credit unions tend to outsource their core systems to system providers. While there is no consensus or a public register on the actual Core Banking Providers, various market research companies like Gartner or Forrester Research release annual deal surveys mentioning platform deals \n"}
{"id": "912407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912407", "title": "Corporate tax", "text": "Corporate tax\n\nA corporate tax, also called corporation tax or company tax, is a direct tax* imposed by a jurisdiction on the income or capital of corporations or analogous legal entities. Many countries impose such taxes at the national level, and a similar tax may be imposed at state or local levels. The taxes may also be referred to as income tax or capital tax. Partnerships are generally not taxed at the entity level. A country's corporate tax may apply to:\n\nCompany income subject to tax is often determined much like taxable income for individual taxpayers. Generally, the tax is imposed on net profits. In some jurisdictions, rules for taxing companies may differ significantly from rules for taxing individuals. Certain corporate acts, like reorganizations, may not be taxed. Some types of entities may be exempt from tax.\n\nCountries may tax corporations on its net profit and may also tax shareholders when the corporation pays a dividend. Where dividends are taxed, a corporation may be required to withhold tax before the dividend is distributed.\n\nEconomists disagree as to how much of the burden of the corporate tax falls on owners, workers consumers and landowners, and how the corporate tax affects economic growth and economic inequality.\n\nNote:*Considered indirect because the cost of the tax can transferred to the consumer.\n\nA corporate tax is a tax imposed on the net profit of a corporation that are taxed at the entity level in a particular jurisdiction. Net profit for corporate tax is generally the financial statement net profit with modifications, and may be defined in great detail within each country's tax system. Such taxes may include income or other taxes. The tax systems of most countries impose an income tax at the entity level on certain type(s) of entities (company or corporation). The rate of tax varies by jurisdiction. The tax may have an alternative base, such as assets, payroll, or income computed in an alternative manner.\n\nMost countries exempt certain types of corporate events or transactions from income tax. For example, events related to formation or reorganization of the corporation, which are treated as capital costs. In addition, most systems provide specific rules for taxation of the entity and/or its members upon winding up or dissolution of the entity.\n\nIn systems where financing costs are allowed as reductions of the tax base (tax deductions), rules may apply that differentiate between classes of member-provided financing. In such systems, items characterized as interest may be deductible, perhaps subject to limitations, while items characterized as dividends are not. Some systems limit deductions based on simple formulas, such as a debt-to-equity ratio, while other systems have more complex rules.\n\nSome systems provide a mechanism whereby groups of related corporations may obtain benefit from losses, credits, or other items of all members within the group. Mechanisms include combined or consolidated returns as well as group relief (direct benefit from items of another member).\n\nMany systems additionally tax shareholders of those entities on dividends or other distributions by the corporation. A few systems provide for partial integration of entity and member taxation. This may be accomplished by \"imputation systems\" or franking credits. In the past, mechanisms have existed for advance payment of member tax by corporations, with such payment offsetting entity level tax.\n\nMany systems (particularly sub-country level systems) impose a tax on particular corporate attributes. Such non-income taxes may be based on capital stock issued or authorized (either by number of shares or value), total equity, net capital, or other measures unique to corporations.\n\nCorporations, like other entities, may be subject to withholding tax obligations upon making certain varieties of payments to others. These obligations are generally not the tax of the corporation, but the system may impose penalties on the corporation or its officers or employees for failing to withhold and pay over such taxes. A company has been defined as a juristic person having an independent and separate existence from its shareholders. Income of the company is computed and assessed separately in the hands of the company. In certain cases, distributions from the company to its shareholders as dividends are taxed as income to the shareholders.\n\nCorporations property tax, payroll tax, withholding tax, excise tax, customs duties, value added tax, and other common taxes, are generally not referred to as “corporate tax.”\n\nCharacterization as a corporation for tax purposes is based on the form of organization, with the exception of United States Federal and most states income taxes, under which an entity may elect to be treated as a corporation and taxed at the entity level or taxed only at the member level. See Limited liability company, Partnership taxation, S corporation, Sole proprietorship.\n\nMost jurisdictions tax corporations on their income, like the United Kingdom or the United States. The United States taxes all types of corporate income for a given company at the same rate, but provide different rates of tax depending on income levels or size of the company.\n\nThe United States taxes corporations under the same framework of tax law as individuals, with differences related to the inherent natures of corporations and individuals or unincorporated entities. Individuals are not formed, amalgamated, or acquired; and corporations do not incur medical expenses except by way of compensating individuals.\n\nMost systems tax both domestic and foreign corporations. Often, domestic corporations are taxed on worldwide income while foreign corporations are taxed only on income from sources within the jurisdiction. \n\nThe United States defines taxable income for a corporation as all gross income, i.e. sales plus other income minus cost of goods sold and tax exempt income less allowable tax deductions, without the allowance of the standard deduction applicable to individuals.\n\nThe United States' system requires that differences in principles for recognizing income and deductions differing from financial accounting principles like the timing of income or deduction, tax exemption for certain income, and disallowance or limitation of certain tax deductions be disclosed in considerable detail for non-small corporations on Schedule M-3 to Form 1120.\n\nThe United States taxes resident corporations, i.e. those organized within the country, on their worldwide income, and nonresident, foreign corporations only on their income from sources within the country. Hong Kong taxes resident and nonresident corporations only on income from sources within the country.\n\nCorporate tax rates generally are the same for differing types of income, yet the US graduated its tax rate system where corporations with lower levels of income pay a lower rate of tax, with rates varying from 15% on the first $50,000 of income to 35% on incomes over $10,000,000, with phase-outs.\n\nThe Canadian system imposes tax at different rates for different types of corporations, allowing lower rates for some smaller corporations.\n\nTax rates vary by jurisdiction and some countries have sub-country level jurisdictions like provinces, cantons, prefectures, cities, or other that also impose corporate income tax like Canada, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, and the United States. Some jurisdictions impose tax at a different rate on an alternative tax base.\n\nExamples of corporate tax rates for a few English-speaking countries include:\n\nCorporate tax rates vary widely by country, leading some corporations to shield earnings within offshore subsidiaries or to redomicile within countries with lower tax rates. \n\nIn comparing national corporate tax rates one should also take into account the taxes on dividends paid to shareholders. For example, the overall U.S. tax on corporate profits of 35% is less than or similar to that of European countries such as Germany, Ireland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, which have lower corporate tax rates but higher taxes on dividends paid to shareholders. \n\nCorporate tax rates across the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are shown in the table. Rates within the OECD vary from a low of 8.5% in Switzerland to a high of 34.43% in France, since the United States had recently decreased corporation tax to 22%. The OECD average is 22%. The first column in the table below represents corporate income tax rates mandated by the central government. The second column lists total combined tax rates which, in addition to the government tax rate, may also include various provincial, state and local taxes. For example, the 2015 provincial corporate tax rates in Canada range from 11.5% to 16% in addition to the federal tax rate of 15%, unless taxable profits of small corporations are low enough to qualify for a lower tax rate.\n\nThe corporate tax rates in other jurisdictions include:\n\nMost systems that tax corporations also impose income tax on shareholders of corporations when earnings are distributed. Such distribution of earnings is generally referred to as a dividend. The tax may be at reduced rates. For example, the United States provides for reduced amounts of tax on dividends received by individuals and by corporations. \n\nThe company law of some jurisdictions prevents corporations from distributing amounts to shareholders except as distribution of earnings. Such earnings may be determined under company law principles or tax principles. In such jurisdictions, exceptions are usually provided with respect to distribution of shares of the company, for winding up, and in limited other situations.\n\nOther jurisdictions treat distributions as distributions of earnings taxable to shareholders if earnings are available to be distributed, but do not prohibit distributions in excess of earnings. For example, under the United States system each corporation must maintain a calculation of its earnings and profits (a tax concept similar to retained earnings). A distribution to a shareholder is considered to be from earnings and profits to the extent thereof unless an exception applies. Note that the United States provides reduced tax on dividend income of both corporations and individuals.\n\nOther jurisdictions provide corporations a means of designating, within limits, whether a distribution is a distribution of earnings taxable to the shareholder or a return of capital.\n\nThe following illustrates the dual level of tax concept:\n\nC Corp earns 100 of profits before tax in each of years 1 and 2. It distributes all the earnings in year 3, when it has no profits. Jim owns all of C Corp. The tax rate in the residence jurisdiction of Jim and C Corp is 30%.\nMany systems provide that certain corporate events are not taxable to corporations or shareholders. Significant restrictions and special rules often apply. The rules related to such transactions are often quite complex.\n\nMost systems treat the formation of a corporation by a controlling corporate shareholder as a nontaxable event. Many systems, including the United States and Canada, extend this tax free treatment to the formation of a corporation by any group of shareholders in control of the corporation. Generally, in tax free formations the tax attributes of assets and liabilities are transferred to the new corporation along with such assets and liabilities.\n\nExample: John and Mary are United States residents who operate a business. They decide to incorporate for business reasons. They transfer the assets of the business to Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation of which they are the sole shareholders, subject to accrued liabilities of the business in exchange solely for common shares of Newco. Under United States principles, this transfer does not cause tax to John, Mary, or Newco. If on the other hand Newco also assumes a bank loan in excess of the basis of the assets transferred less the accrued liabilities, John and Mary will recognize taxable gain for such excess.\n\nCorporations may merge or acquire other corporations in a manner a particular tax system treats as nontaxable to either of the corporations and/or to their shareholders. Generally, significant restrictions apply if tax free treatment is to be obtained. For example, Bigco acquires all of the shares of Smallco from Smallco shareholders in exchange solely for Bigco shares. This acquisition is not taxable to Smallco or its shareholders under U.S. or Canadian tax law if certain requirements are met, even if Smallco is then liquidated into or merged or amalgamated with Bigco.\n\nIn addition, corporations may change key aspects of their legal identity, capitalization, or structure in a tax free manner under most systems. Examples of reorganizations that may be tax free include mergers, amalgamations, liquidations of subsidiaries, share for share exchanges, exchanges of shares for assets, changes in form or place of organization, and recapitalizations.\n\nMost jurisdictions allow a tax deduction for interest expense incurred by a corporation in carrying out its trading activities. Where such interest is paid to related parties, such deduction may be limited. Without such limitation, owners could structure financing of the corporation in a manner that would provide for a tax deduction for much of the profits, potentially without changing the tax on shareholders. For example, assume a corporation earns profits of 100 before interest expense and would normally distribute 50 to shareholders. If the corporation is structured so that deductible interest of 50 is payable to the shareholders, it will cut its tax to half the amount due if it merely paid a dividend.\n\nA common form of limitation is to limit the deduction for interest paid to related parties to interest charged at arm's length rates on debt not exceeding a certain portion of the equity of the paying corporation. For example, interest paid on related party debt in excess of three times equity may not be deductible in computing taxable income.\n\nThe United States, United Kingdom, and French tax systems apply a more complex set of tests to limit deductions. Under the U.S. system, related party interest expense in excess of 50% of cash flow is generally not currently deductible, with the excess potentially deductible in future years.\n\nThe classification of instruments as debt on which interest is deductible or as equity with respect to which distributions are not deductible can be complex in some systems.\n\nMost jurisdictions tax foreign corporations differently from domestic corporations. No international laws limit the ability of a country to tax its nationals and residents (individuals and entities). However, treaties and practicality impose limits on taxation of those outside its borders, even on income from sources within the country.\n\nMost jurisdictions tax foreign corporations on business income within the jurisdiction when earned through a branch or permanent establishment in the jurisdiction. This tax may be imposed at the same rate as the tax on business income of a resident corporation or at a different rate.\n\nUpon payment of dividends, corporations are generally subject to withholding tax only by their country of incorporation. Many countries impose a branch profits tax on foreign corporations to prevent the advantage the absence of dividend withholding tax would otherwise provide to foreign corporations. This tax may be imposed at the time profits are earned by the branch or at the time they are remitted or deemed remitted outside the country.\n\nBranches of foreign corporations may not be entitled to all of the same deductions as domestic corporations. Some jurisdictions do not recognize inter-branch payments as actual payments, and income or deductions arising from such inter-branch payments are disregarded. Some jurisdictions impose express limits on tax deductions of branches. Commonly limited deductions include management fees and interest.\n\nNathan M. Jenson argues that low corporate tax rates are a minor determinate of a multinational company when setting up their headquarters in a country. Nathan M. Jenson: Sinha, S.S. 2008, \"Can India Adopt Strategic Flexibility Like China Did?\", Global Journal of Flexible Systems Management, vol. 9, no. 2/3, pp. 1.\n\nMost jurisdictions allow interperiod allocation or deduction of losses in some manner for corporations, even where such deduction is not allowed for individuals. A few jurisdictions allow losses (usually defined as negative taxable income) to be deducted by revising or amending prior year taxable income. Most jurisdictions allow such deductions only in subsequent periods. Some jurisdictions impose time limitations as to when loss deductions may be utilized.\n\nSeveral jurisdictions provide a mechanism whereby losses or tax credits of one corporation may be used by another corporation where both corporations are commonly controlled (together, a group). In the United States and Netherlands, among others, this is accomplished by filing a single tax return including the income and loss of each group member. This is referred to as a consolidated return in the United States and as a fiscal unity in the Netherlands. In the United Kingdom, this is accomplished directly on a pairwise basis called group relief. Losses of one group member company may be “surrendered” to another group member company, and the latter company may deduct the loss against profits.\n\nThe United States has extensive regulations dealing with consolidated returns. One such rule requires matching of income and deductions on intercompany transactions within the group by use of “deferred intercompany transaction” rules.\n\nIn addition, a few systems provide a tax exemption for dividend income received by corporations. The Netherlands system provides a “participation exception” to taxation for corporations owning more than 25% of the dividend paying corporation.\n\nA key issue in corporate tax is the setting of prices charged by related parties for goods, services or the use of property. Many jurisdictions have guidelines on transfer pricing which allow tax authorities to adjust transfer prices used. Such adjustments may apply in both an international and a domestic context.\n\nMost income tax systems levy tax on the corporation and, upon distribution of earnings (dividends), on the shareholder. This results in a dual level of tax. Most systems require that income tax be withheld on distribution of dividends to foreign shareholders, and some also require withholding of tax on distributions to domestic shareholders. The rate of such withholding tax may be reduced for a shareholder under a tax treaty.\n\nSome systems tax some or all dividend income at lower rates than other income. The United States has historically provided a dividends received deduction to corporations with respect to dividends from other corporations in which the recipient owns more than 10% of the shares. For tax years 2004–2010, the United States also has imposed a reduced rate of taxation on dividends received by individuals.\n\nSome systems currently attempt or in the past have attempted to integrate taxation of the corporation with taxation of shareholders to mitigate the dual level of taxation. As a current example, Australia provides for a “franking credit” as a benefit to shareholders. When an Australian company pays a dividend to a domestic shareholder, it reports the dividend as well as a notional tax credit amount. The shareholder utilizes this notional credit to offset shareholder level income tax.\n\nA previous system was utilised in the United Kingdom, called the Advance Corporation Tax (ACT). When a company paid a dividend, it was required to pay an amount of ACT, which it then used to offset its own taxes. The ACT was included in income by the shareholder resident in the United Kingdom or certain treaty countries, and treated as a payment of tax by the shareholder. To the extent that deemed tax payment exceeded taxes otherwise due, it was refundable to the shareholder.\n\nMany jurisdictions incorporate some sort of alternative tax computation. These computations may be based on assets, capital, wages, or some alternative measure of taxable income. Often the alternative tax functions as a minimum tax.\n\nUnited States federal income tax incorporates an alternative minimum tax. This tax is computed at a lower tax rate (20% for corporations), and imposed based on a modified version of taxable income. Modifications include longer depreciation lives assets under MACRS, adjustments related to costs of developing natural resources, and an addback of certain tax exempt interest. The U. S. state of Michigan previously taxed businesses on an alternative base that did not allow compensation of employees as a tax deduction and allowed full deduction of the cost of production assets upon acquisition.\n\nSome jurisdictions, such as Swiss cantons and certain states within the United States, impose taxes based on capital. These may be based on total equity per audited financial statements, a computed amount of assets less liabilities or quantity of shares outstanding. In some jurisdictions, capital based taxes are imposed in addition to the income tax. In other jurisdictions, the capital taxes function as alternative taxes.\n\nMexico imposes an alternative tax on corporations, the IETU. The tax rate is lower than the regular rate, and there are adjustments for salaries and wages, interest and royalties, and depreciable assets.\n\nMost systems require that corporations file an annual income tax return. Some systems (such as the Canadian and United States systems) require that taxpayers self assess tax on the tax return. Other systems provide that the government must make an assessment for tax to be due. Some systems require certification of tax returns in some manner by accountants licensed to practice in the jurisdiction, often the company's auditors.\n\nTax returns can be fairly simple or quite complex. The systems requiring simple returns often base taxable income on financial statement profits with few adjustments, and may require that audited financial statements be attached to the return. Returns for such systems generally require that the relevant financial statements be attached to a simple adjustment schedule. By contrast, United States corporate tax returns require both computation of taxable income from components thereof and reconciliation of taxable income to financial statement income.\n\nMany systems require forms or schedules supporting particular items on the main form. Some of these schedules may be incorporated into the main form. For example, the Canadian corporate return, Form T-2, an 8-page form, incorporates some detail schedules but has nearly 50 additional schedules that may be required.\n\nSome systems have different returns for different types of corporations or corporations engaged in specialized businesses. The United States has 13 variations on the basic Form 1120 for S corporations, insurance companies, Domestic international sales corporations, foreign corporations, and other entities. The structure of the forms and imbedded schedules vary by type of form.\n\nPreparation of non-simple corporate tax returns can be time consuming. For example, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service states in the instructions for Form 1120 that the average time needed to complete form is over 56 hours, not including record keeping time and required attachments.\n\nTax return due dates vary by jurisdiction, fiscal or tax year, and type of entity. In self-assessment systems, payment of taxes is generally due no later than the normal due date, though advance tax payments may be required. Canadian corporations must pay estimated taxes monthly. In each case, final payment is due with the corporation tax return.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1896889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896889", "title": "Critical management studies", "text": "Critical management studies\n\nCritical management studies (CMS) is a loose but extensive grouping of theoretically informed critiques of management, business and organisation, grounded originally in a critical theory perspective. Today it encompasses a wide range of perspectives that are critical of traditional theories of management and the business schools that generate these theories.\n\nIt is generally accepted that CMS began with Mats Alvesson and Hugh Willmott's edited collection \"Critical Management Studies\" (1992). Critical Management Studies (CMS) initially brought together critical theory and post-structuralist writings, but has since developed in more diverse directions.\n\nA dominant narrative within CMS is that perhaps the most important development in its stimulation was the global expansion of business schools, an American invention, especially in Europe. Decreases in state funding, so the narrative has it, for social sciences and increases in funding for business schools during the 1980s resulted in many academics with graduate training in sociology, history, philosophy, psychology and other social sciences ending up with jobs \"training managers\".\n\nThese academics brought different theoretical tools and political perspectives into business schools. They began to question the politics of managerialism and to link the techniques of management to neo-liberalism. These new voices drew on the Frankfurt School of critical theory, and the work of Michel Foucault, Jacques Derrida and Gilles Deleuze. Later Feminism, queer theory, post-colonial theory, anarchism, ecological philosophies, and radical democratic theory also had some influence. (See Alvesson and Willmott 2003 for a survey of the field.)\n\nThe roots of CMS also came from a series of UK Labour Process Conferences that began in 1983 and reflected the impact of Braverman's (1974) attempt to make Marxist categories central to understanding work organisations. Industrial relations and labor studies scholars have joined the CMS fold in the US, seeking new opportunities for employment as labor-related programs have diminished in number.\n\nAt the same time a significant strand of critical accounting studies began to develop marked by the publication of Tony Tinker's \"Paper Prophets\" (1985) and the appearance of the journal \"Critical Perspectives on Accounting\".\n\nContrasting with the dominant origin narrative is an account which states that, along with the contributors to CMS from the intellectual traditions identified here, there is a significant - and overlapping - bloc among CMS scholars of those who have had extensive pre-University experience as workers and managers. The inconsistencies between their experiences in the workplace and the claims of mainstream managerialism, and an intention to connect those experiences to broader explanations and theorizing leads these people to CMS.\n\nThe main home of CMS has been in the organisation theory and behaviour parts of British, Australian and Scandinavian business schools, though there are strong contributions in related fields such as sociology, sociology of education, and critical pedagogy. Further, contributions stem from accounting with growing interest in other management specialisms, such as marketing, international business, operational research, logistics etc. Since the 1990s academics from North America and other parts of the world are also engaging with this body of writing and research. The CMS Division within the (American) Academy of Management (AoM), with a membership of around 800, is larger and more international than some of its other divisions.\n\nMany heterodox scholars in various parts of the world had been inspired by the international activities of the Standing Conference on Organisational Symbolism. This latter grouping developed work which drew variously on post-structuralism and symbolic interactionism in order to develop a cultural and anthropological understanding of contemporary organizations. Others, though, were without affiliation and/or seeking new formations and alliances. Since 1999, there has been a bi-annual CMS conference held in the UK as well as workshops and a bi-annual conference held at US Academy of Management.\n\nToday there are significant concentrations of CMS scholars in the UK at the School of Business and Management at Queen Mary, University of London, at the School of Management at the University of Leicester, the Essex Business School at the University of Essex, Alliance Manchester Business School at the University of Manchester, and the Marketing Research Group at Royal Holloway. Elsewhere, Copenhagen Business School, Lund School of Economics and Management at Lund University and Istanbul Bilgi University have clusters of CMS scholars, but many CMS scholars globally rely on conferences and journals like \"Tamara Journal for Critical Organization Studies\", \"ephemera: theory and politics in organization\", \"Culture and Organization\", or \"Organization: the critical journal of organization, theory and society\" for their affiliations.\n\nMajor points of debate have focused on the relationship with more orthodox forms of Marxism, the nature and purposes of CMS critique, as well as on questions of inclusion and exclusion (Fournier and Grey 2000), the possibilities of social transformation from within business schools (Parker 2002), and the development of alternative models of globalisation.\n\nOne trend in CMS has seen the incorporation of autonomist Marxist theory, first introduced in the English-speaking world by the work of Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri (2000). New CMS scholars using these theories have interests in proposing alternative non-capitalist forms of organizing work and life - often around the notion of collective responsibility for the commons. Other developments include engagements with post-colonial theory and critical race theory to investigate the way management and business schools contribute to what Cedric Robinson (1983) has called \"racial capitalism\". Recent critical works have referred to Bourdieusian theory (structuralist constructivism) to point to the risks of elitism and social inequality, particularly in management education. Michael Loughlin of Manchester Metropolitan University has discussed aspects of management theory as \"pseudo-science\".\n\nWider impatience with market-managerial forms of organization occur commonly enough outside the business school, from anti-corporate protest to popular-media presentations of managers. CMS attempts to articulate these voices within the business school, and to provide ways of thinking beyond current dominant theories and practices of organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54332547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54332547", "title": "Data blending", "text": "Data blending\n\nData blending is a process whereby big data from multiple sources are merged into a single data warehouse or data set. It concerns not merely the merging of different file formats or disparate sources of data but also different varieties of data. Data blending allows business analysts to cope with the expansion of data which they need to make critical business decisions based on good quality business intelligence.\n\nData blending has been described as different to data integration due to the requirements of data analysts to merge sources very quickly, too quickly for any practical intervention by data scientists.\n\nThe most common custom metadata question is: “How can this dataset blend with (join or union to) my other datasets?”. A 2015 Forrester Consulting study found that 52% of companies are blending 50 or more data sources - and 12% are blending over 1,000 sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "7990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7990", "title": "Data warehouse", "text": "Data warehouse\n\nIn computing, a data warehouse (DW or DWH), also known as an enterprise data warehouse (EDW), is a system used for reporting and data analysis, and is considered a core component of business intelligence. DWs are central repositories of integrated data from one or more disparate sources. They store current and historical data in one single place that are used for creating analytical reports for workers throughout the enterprise.\n\nThe data stored in the warehouse is uploaded from the operational systems (such as marketing or sales). The data may pass through an operational data store and may require data cleansing for additional operations to ensure data quality before it is used in the DW for reporting.\n\nThe typical extract, transform, load (ETL)-based data warehouse uses staging, data integration, and access layers to house its key functions. The staging layer or staging database stores raw data extracted from each of the disparate source data systems. The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the data from the staging layer often storing this transformed data in an operational data store (ODS) database. The integrated data are then moved to yet another database, often called the data warehouse database, where the data is arranged into hierarchical groups, often called dimensions, and into facts and aggregate facts. The combination of facts and dimensions is sometimes called a star schema. The access layer helps users retrieve data.\n\nThe main source of the data is cleansed, transformed, catalogued, and made available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining, online analytical processing, market research and decision support. However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform, and load data, and to manage the data dictionary are also considered essential components of a data warehousing system. Many references to data warehousing use this broader context. Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools, tools to extract, transform, and load data into the repository, and tools to manage and retrieve metadata.\n\nA data warehouse maintains a copy of information from the source transaction systems. This architectural complexity provides the opportunity to:\n\nThe environment for data warehouses and marts includes the following:\n\n\nIn regards to source systems listed above, R. Kelly Rainer states, \"A common source for the data in data warehouses is the company's operational databases, which can be relational databases\".\n\nRegarding data integration, Rainer states, \"It is necessary to extract data from source systems, transform them, and load them into a data mart or warehouse\".\n\nRainer discusses storing data in an organization's data warehouse or data marts.\n\nMetadata are data about data. \"IT personnel need information about data sources; database, table, and column names; refresh schedules; and data usage measures\".\n\nToday, the most successful companies are those that can respond quickly and flexibly to market changes and opportunities. A key to this response is the effective and efficient use of data and information by analysts and managers. A \"data warehouse\" is a repository of historical data that are organized by subject to support decision makers in the organization. Once data are stored in a data mart or warehouse, they can be accessed.\n\nA data mart is a simple form of a data warehouse that is focused on a single subject (or functional area), hence they draw data from a limited number of sources such as sales, finance or marketing. Data marts are often built and controlled by a single department within an organization. The sources could be internal operational systems, a central data warehouse, or external data. Denormalization is the norm for data modeling techniques in this system. Given that data marts generally cover only a subset of the data contained in a data warehouse, they are often easier and faster to implement.\n\nTypes of data marts include dependent, independent, and hybrid data marts.\n\nOnline analytical processing (OLAP) is characterized by a relatively low volume of transactions. Queries are often very complex and involve aggregations. For OLAP systems, response time is an effectiveness measure. OLAP applications are widely used by Data Mining techniques. OLAP databases store aggregated, historical data in multi-dimensional schemas (usually star schemas). OLAP systems typically have data latency of a few hours, as opposed to data marts, where latency is expected to be closer to one day. The OLAP approach is used to analyze multidimensional data from multiple sources and perspectives. The three basic operations in OLAP are : Roll-up (Consolidation), Drill-down and Slicing & Dicing.\n\nOnline transaction processing (OLTP) is characterized by a large number of short on-line transactions (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE). OLTP systems emphasize very fast query processing and maintaining data integrity in multi-access environments. For OLTP systems, effectiveness is measured by the number of transactions per second. OLTP databases contain detailed and current data. The schema used to store transactional databases is the entity model (usually 3NF). Normalization is the norm for data modeling techniques in this system.\n\nPredictive analytics is about finding and quantifying hidden patterns in the data using complex mathematical models that can be used to predict future outcomes. Predictive analysis is different from OLAP in that OLAP focuses on historical data analysis and is reactive in nature, while predictive analysis focuses on the future. These systems are also used for customer relationship management (CRM).\n\nThe concept of data warehousing dates back to the late 1980s when IBM researchers Barry Devlin and Paul Murphy developed the \"business data warehouse\". In essence, the data warehousing concept was intended to provide an architectural model for the flow of data from operational systems to decision support environments. The concept attempted to address the various problems associated with this flow, mainly the high costs associated with it. In the absence of a data warehousing architecture, an enormous amount of redundancy was required to support multiple decision support environments. In larger corporations, it was typical for multiple decision support environments to operate independently. Though each environment served different users, they often required much of the same stored data. The process of gathering, cleaning and integrating data from various sources, usually from long-term existing operational systems (usually referred to as legacy systems), was typically in part replicated for each environment. Moreover, the operational systems were frequently reexamined as new decision support requirements emerged. Often new requirements necessitated gathering, cleaning and integrating new data from \"data marts\" that was tailored for ready access by users.\n\nKey developments in early years of data warehousing were:\n\n\nA fact is a value or measurement, which represents a fact about the managed entity or system.\n\nFacts, as reported by the reporting entity, are said to be at raw level. E.g. in a mobile telephone system, if a BTS (base transceiver station) received 1,000 requests for traffic channel allocation, it allocates for 820, and rejects the remaining, it would report three facts or measurements to a management system:\n\nFacts at the raw level are further aggregated to higher levels in various dimensions to extract more service or business-relevant information from it. These are called aggregates or summaries or aggregated facts.\n\nFor instance, if there are three BTS in a city, then the facts above can be aggregated from the BTS to the city level in the network dimension. For example:\n\n\nThere are three or more leading approaches to storing data in a data warehouse — the most important approaches are the dimensional approach and the normalized approach.\n\nThe dimensional approach refers to Ralph Kimball's approach in which it is stated that the data warehouse should be modeled using a Dimensional Model/star schema. The normalized approach, also called the 3NF model (Third Normal Form) refers to Bill Inmon's approach in which it is stated that the data warehouse should be modeled using an E-R model/normalized model.\n\nIn a dimensional approach, transaction data are partitioned into \"facts\", which are generally numeric transaction data, and \"dimensions\", which are the reference information that gives context to the facts. For example, a sales transaction can be broken up into facts such as the number of products ordered and the total price paid for the products, and into dimensions such as order date, customer name, product number, order ship-to and bill-to locations, and salesperson responsible for receiving the order.\n\nA key advantage of a dimensional approach is that the data warehouse is easier for the user to understand and to use. Also, the retrieval of data from the data warehouse tends to operate very quickly. Dimensional structures are easy to understand for business users, because the structure is divided into measurements/facts and context/dimensions. Facts are related to the organization's business processes and operational system whereas the dimensions surrounding them contain context about the measurement (Kimball, Ralph 2008). Another advantage offered by dimensional model is that it does not involve a relational database every time. Thus, this type of modeling technique is very useful for end-user queries in data warehouse.\n\nThe model of facts and dimensions can also be understood as data cube. Where the dimensions are the categorical coordinates in a multi-dimensional cube, while the fact is a value corresponding to the coordinates.\n\nThe main disadvantages of the dimensional approach are the following:\n\nIn the normalized approach, the data in the data warehouse are stored following, to a degree, database normalization rules. Tables are grouped together by \"subject areas\" that reflect general data categories (e.g., data on customers, products, finance, etc.). The normalized structure divides data into entities, which creates several tables in a relational database. When applied in large enterprises the result is dozens of tables that are linked together by a web of joins. Furthermore, each of the created entities is converted into separate physical tables when the database is implemented (Kimball, Ralph 2008).\nThe main advantage of this approach is that it is straightforward to add information into the database. Some disadvantages of this approach are that, because of the number of tables involved, it can be difficult for users to join data from different sources into meaningful information and to access the information without a precise understanding of the sources of data and of the data structure of the data warehouse.\n\nBoth normalized and dimensional models can be represented in entity-relationship diagrams as both contain joined relational tables. The difference between the two models is the degree of normalization (also known as Normal Forms). These approaches are not mutually exclusive, and there are other approaches. Dimensional approaches can involve normalizing data to a degree (Kimball, Ralph 2008).\n\nIn \"Information-Driven Business\", Robert Hillard proposes an approach to comparing the two approaches based on the information needs of the business problem. The technique shows that normalized models hold far more information than their dimensional equivalents (even when the same fields are used in both models) but this extra information comes at the cost of usability. The technique measures information quantity in terms of information entropy and usability in terms of the Small Worlds data transformation measure.\n\nIn the \"bottom-up\" approach, data marts are first created to provide reporting and analytical capabilities for specific business processes. These data marts can then be integrated to create a comprehensive data warehouse. The data warehouse bus architecture is primarily an implementation of \"the bus\", a collection of conformed dimensions and conformed facts, which are dimensions that are shared (in a specific way) between facts in two or more data marts.\n\nThe \"top-down\" approach is designed using a normalized enterprise data model. \"Atomic\" data, that is, data at the greatest level of detail, are stored in the data warehouse. Dimensional data marts containing data needed for specific business processes or specific departments are created from the data warehouse.\n\nData warehouses (DW) often resemble the hub and spokes architecture. Legacy systems feeding the warehouse often include customer relationship management and enterprise resource planning, generating large amounts of data. To consolidate these various data models, and facilitate the extract transform load process, data warehouses often make use of an operational data store, the information from which is parsed into the actual DW. To reduce data redundancy, larger systems often store the data in a normalized way. Data marts for specific reports can then be built on top of the data warehouse.\n\nA hybrid DW database is kept on third normal form to eliminate data redundancy. A normal relational database, however, is not efficient for business intelligence reports where dimensional modelling is prevalent. Small data marts can shop for data from the consolidated warehouse and use the filtered, specific data for the fact tables and dimensions required. The DW provides a single source of information from which the data marts can read, providing a wide range of business information. The hybrid architecture allows a DW to be replaced with a master data management repository where operational, not static information could reside.\n\nThe data vault modeling components follow hub and spokes architecture. This modeling style is a hybrid design, consisting of the best practices from both third normal form and star schema. The data vault model is not a true third normal form, and breaks some of its rules, but it is a top-down architecture with a bottom up design. The data vault model is geared to be strictly a data warehouse. It is not geared to be end-user accessible, which when built, still requires the use of a data mart or star schema based release area for business purposes.\n\nThere are basic features that define the data in the data warehouse that include subject orientation, data integration, time-variant, nonvolatile data, and data granularity.\n\nUnlike the operational systems, the data in the data warehouse revolves around subjects of the enterprise (database normalization). Subject orientation can be really useful for decision making.\nGathering the required objects is called subject oriented.\n\nThe data found within the data warehouse is integrated. Since it comes from several operational systems, all inconsistencies must be removed. Consistencies include naming conventions, measurement of variables, encoding structures, physical attributes of data, and so forth.\n\nWhile operational systems reflect current values as they support day-to-day operations, data warehouse data represents data over a long time horizon (up to 10 years) which means it stores historical data. It is mainly meant for data mining and forecasting, If a user is searching for a buying pattern of a specific customer, the user needs to look at data on the current and past purchases.\n\nThe data in the data warehouse is read-only which means it cannot be updated, created, or deleted.\n\nIn the data warehouse, data is summarized at different levels.The user may start looking at the total sale units of a product in an entire region. Then the user looks at the states in that region. Finally, they may examine the individual stores in a certain state. Therefore, typically, the analysis starts at a higher level and moves down to lower levels of details.\n\nThe different methods used to construct/organize a data warehouse specified by an organization are numerous. The hardware utilized, software created and data resources specifically required for the correct functionality of a data warehouse are the main components of the data warehouse architecture. All data warehouses have multiple phases in which the requirements of the organization are modified and fine tuned.\n\nOperational systems are optimized for preservation of data integrity and speed of recording of business transactions through use of database normalization and an entity-relationship model. Operational system designers generally follow Codd's 12 rules of database normalization to ensure data integrity. Fully normalized database designs (that is, those satisfying all Codd rules) often result in information from a business transaction being stored in dozens to hundreds of tables. Relational databases are efficient at managing the relationships between these tables. The databases have very fast insert/update performance because only a small amount of data in those tables is affected each time a transaction is processed. To improve performance, older data are usually periodically purged from operational systems.\n\nData warehouses are optimized for analytic access patterns. Analytic access patterns generally involve selecting specific fields and rarely if ever 'select *' as is more common in operational databases. Because of these differences in access patterns, operational databases (loosely, OLTP) benefit from the use of a row-oriented DBMS whereas analytics databases (loosely, OLAP) benefit from the use of a column-oriented DBMS. Unlike operational systems which maintain a snapshot of the business, data warehouses generally maintain an infinite history which is implemented through ETL processes that periodically migrate data from the operational systems over to the data warehouse.\n\nThese terms refer to the level of sophistication of a data warehouse:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28557850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28557850", "title": "Dimensional fact model", "text": "Dimensional fact model\n\nThe dimensional fact model (DFM) is an ad hoc and graphical formalism specifically devised to support the conceptual modeling phase in a DW project. DFM is extremely intuitive and can be used by analysts and non-technical users as well. A short-term working is sufficient to realize a clear and exhaustive representation of multidimensional concepts (e.g., attributes, measures and hierarchies). It can be used from the initial DW life-cycle steps, to rapidly devise a conceptual model to share with customers.\n\nData warehouses (DWs) are databases used by decision makers to \"analyze\" the status and the development of an organization. DWs are based on large amounts of data integrated from heterogeneous sources into multidimensional databases, and they are optimized for accessing data in a way that comes naturally to human analysts (e.g., OLAP applications).\n\nData in a DW are organized according to the multidimensional model, that hinges on the concepts of fact (a focus of interest for the decision-making process, such as sales and orders) and dimension (a coordinate for analyzing a fact, such as time, customer, and product). Each fact is quantified through a set of numerical measures, such as the quantity of product sold, the price of products, etc.\n\nDW design and development require ad hoc methodologies and an appropriate life-cycle.\n\nThe DFM is a graphical conceptual model, specifically devised for multidimensional design, in order to:\n\nThe conceptual representation generated by the DFM consists of a set of fact schemata. Fact schemata model facts, measures, dimensions, and hierarchies (Figure 1). Besides these basic elements, the DFM includes a large set of constructs for expressing the multitude of conceptual nuances that characterize actual modeling scenarios in projects of small to large complexity. A multidimensional schema modeled with the DFM can easily (i.e., semi-automatically) be implemented on both ROLAP and MOLAP platforms.\n\nA \"fact\" is a concept relevant to decision-making processes. It typically models a set of events taking place within a company. Examples of facts in the commercial domain are sales, shipments, purchases, and complaints.\n\nA \"measure\" is a numerical property of a fact and describes a quantitative attribute that is relevant to analysis. For example, each sale is measured by the number of units sold, the unit price, and the total receipts.\n\nA \"dimension\" is a property, with a finite domain, that describes an analysis coordinate of the fact. A fact generally has multiple dimensions that define its minimum representation granularity. Typical dimensions for the sales fact are products, stores, and dates; in which case, the basic information that can be represented is product sales in one store in one day.\n\nA \"fact\" is represented by a box that displays the fact name along with the measure names. Small circles represent the dimensions, which are linked to the fact by straight lines (see Figure 1).\n\nA \"dimensional attribute\" is a property, with a finite domain, of a dimension. Like dimensions, a dimensional attribute is represented by a circle. For instance, a product may be described by its type, category, and brand; a customer may be represented by city and nation. The relationships among the dimensional attributes are expressed by hierarchies.\n\nA \"hierarchy\" is a directed tree whose nodes are dimensional attributes and whose arcs model many-to-one associations between dimensional attribute pairs. A hierarchy includes a dimension, positioned at the tree's root, and all of the dimensional attributes that describe it. Arcs are graphically represented by straight lines that connect dimensional attributes. Hierarchies define the way elemental business events can be selected and aggregated for decision-making processes.\n\nA \"descriptive attribute\" specifies a property of a dimension attribute, to which it is related by a x-to-one association. Descriptive attributes cannot be used for aggregation; they are always leaves of a hierarchy and are graphically represented by horizontal lines, like \"telephone number\" in Figure 2.\n\nA \"cross-dimensional attribute\" is a dimensional or descriptive attribute whose value is defined by the combination of two or more dimensional attributes, possibly belonging to different hierarchies. For example, if a product value added tax (VAT) depends both on the product category and on the country where the product is sold, you can use a cross-dimensional attribute to represent it. Figure 2 shows this example by joining the arcs that define a product VAT with a circular arc.\n\nA \"convergence\" takes place when two dimensional attributes within a hierarchy are connected by two or more alternative paths of many-to-one associations. Convergences are represented by letting two or more arcs reach the same dimensional attribute. For instance, in Figure 2 the geographic hierarchy on the customer dimension contains a convergence if we assume that, though no inclusion relationships exists between districts and cities/states, sales districts never cross the nation boundaries. In this case, each customer belongs to exactly one nation whichever of the two paths is followed.\n\n\"Optional arcs\" are used to model scenarios for which an association represented in a fact schema is not defined for a subset of events. Optional arcs are marked with a dash. For instance, attribute \"diet\" in Figure 2 takes a value (such as cholesterol-free, gluten-free, or sugar-free) only for food products; for the other products, it is undefined.\n\nA \"multiple arc\" models a many-to-many association between the two dimensional attributes it connects. Graphically, it is denoted by doubling the line that represents the arc. Consider the fact schema modeling the sales of books, represented in Figure 3, whose dimensions are date and book. It would certainly be interesting to aggregate and select sales on the basis of book authors. However, it would not be accurate to model author as a dimensional child attribute of book because a book may have more than one author, and authors can write more than one book. Hence, the relationship between books and authors is modeled as a multiple arc.\n"}
{"id": "29655047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29655047", "title": "E. Fessler", "text": "E. Fessler\n\nE. Fessler is a stove-fitter company that produces stoves, fireplaces and other ceramics in Vienna. The company headquarters is located at the Mozartgasse 3 in the 4th District Wieden.\n\nThe company was founded in 1794 Lorenz Fessler from Vorarlberg at Alt Lerchenfeld 40. Over the centuries, it became very successful and received an imperial warrant from the emperor as a purveyor to the imperial and royal court of Austria-Hungary.\n\n"}
{"id": "17116305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17116305", "title": "Early-arriving fact", "text": "Early-arriving fact\n\nIn the Data Warehouse practice of ETL, an early fact or early-arriving fact \n\ndenotes the detection of a dimensional natural key during fact table source loading, prior to the assignment of a corresponding primary key or surrogate key in the dimension table. Hence, the fact which cites the dimension arrives early, relative to the definition of the dimension value.\n\nProcedurally, an early fact can be treated as:\n"}
{"id": "45260885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45260885", "title": "Energy consulting", "text": "Energy consulting\n\nEnergy consulting is a sub-discipline of environmental consulting that focuses on optimizing a business' energy usage, as well as the sources from which the actual energy is derived. Energy consulting is often centered on reducing operational costs, though this is not always the main goal. With the increasing importance of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in the minds of the general public, enterprise level businesses may contract an energy consultant to include more environmentally friendly energy sources into their energy mix.\n\nWith the recent volatility in the energy industry, energy consulting is quickly becoming a main component of business operations for enterprises worldwide.\n\nAs a result of the volatility in the modern energy industry, many enterprise level businesses are turning to financial analysts, specifically through the use of derivatives and hedging to minimize exposure to the unstable energy industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2286665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2286665", "title": "Enterprise asset management", "text": "Enterprise asset management\n\nEnterprise asset management (EAM) involves the management of the maintenance of physical assets of an organization throughout each asset's lifecycle. EAM is used to plan, optimize, execute, and track the needed maintenance activities with the associated priorities, skills, materials, tools, and information. This covers the design, construction, commissioning, operations, maintenance and decommissioning or replacement of plant, equipment and facilities.\n\n\"Enterprise\" refers to the scope of the assets in an Enterprise across departments, locations, facilities and, potentially, supporting business functions eg; Finance & GL, Human Resources and Payroll. Various assets are managed by the modern enterprises at present. The assets may be fixed assets like buildings, plants, machineries or moving assets like vehicles, ships, moving equipments etc. The lifecycle management of the high value physical assets require regressive planning and execution of the work. \n\nEAM arose as an extension of the Computerized maintenance management system (CMMS) which is usually defined as a system for the computerisation of the maintenance of physical assets.\n\nEnterprise asset management software is a computer software that handles every aspect of running a public works or asset-intensive organization. Enterprise asset management (EAM) software applications include features such as asset life-cycle management, preventive maintenance scheduling, warranty management, integrated mobile wireless handheld options and portal-based software interface. Rapid development and availability of mobile devices also affected EAM software which now often supports Mobile enterprise asset management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8522483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8522483", "title": "Front and back office application", "text": "Front and back office application\n\nA front office application is any software that has a direct relation to customers. It provides functionality and data necessary to take orders, configure complex products and provide effective service and support to customers. It includes customer relationship management (CRM), sales force automation, customer support and field service. In turn, a back office application has no such direct relation. It provides functionality for internal operations such as enterprise resource planning (ERP), inventory control, manufacturing and all of the supply chain activities associated with procuring goods, services and raw materials. If an ERP system includes order entry and customer service capabilities, that system would bridge both back office and front office.\n\nThe software enabling the customer to order a product from a company is considered a front office application. If a salesperson is typing the order into the application, it is still considered a front office application even though the customer is not directly interacting with the software.\n\nIf the company uses different software to order the product from a manufacturer, it is considered a back office application.\n\n"}
{"id": "30703633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30703633", "title": "HP Business Service Management", "text": "HP Business Service Management\n\nHP Business Service Management (BSM) is an end-to-end management solution that integrates network, server, application and business transaction monitoring. HP Business Service Management is developed and marketed by the HP Software Division. \n\nHP introduced HP Business Service Management 9.0 as a common single platform for managing complex applications, including those supported by both private and public cloud computing, outsourced IT, software-as-a-service (Saas) and traditional IT service delivery. \nThe 9.0 release was made generally available in June 2010 and was part of a portfolio of solutions developed by HP to aid businesses and government organizations with the management of cloud computing as well as traditional IT service delivery.\n\nBusiness service management is an area of Information Technology that focuses on management of software tools, methods and processes that help the IT department manage technology in a way that supports the business through the services they provide. The BSM methodology connects key IT components to the goals of the business so that the IT department can forecast how technology will affect the business and how business will impact the IT infrastructure. \n\nHP Business Service Management includes operations intelligence, operations bridge, application performance management, systems and virtualization management, network management and storage management. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "36477650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36477650", "title": "Hortapharm B.V.", "text": "Hortapharm B.V.\n\nHortaPharm B.V. is a cannabis research and development business in the Netherlands.\n\nThe business was founded by David Paul Watson in 1990. He was soon joined by David W. Pate and eventually Robert C. Clarke. They obtained the first license issued by the Dutch government to permit a \"Cannabis\" research facility in the Netherlands. HortaPharm B.V. has a partnership with GW Pharmaceuticals to develop \"Cannabis\" varieties for the manufacture of pharmaceuticals.\n\nUsing selective breeding and production control, HortaPharm created \"Cannabis\" strains that produce virtually single cannabinoids, approximately 98% tetrahydrocannabinol or cannabidiol, relative to the total of other cannabinoids present.\n"}
{"id": "38781483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38781483", "title": "Ince Park", "text": "Ince Park\n\nInce Park is a resource recovery facility being developed by Peel Group near Ince, Cheshire.\n\nIt will be the largest such facility in the UK. Ince Park will be utilized by taking waste and transforming it into energy. It is a facility dedicated to waste management and environmental technologies. It is located on the south bank of the Manchester Ship Canal. It is 126 acre site that has road and rail access and it can accommodate ships into the canal. It is being developed by a joint venture partnership by Peel Environmental and Covanta Energy. This park will possibly generate over 110 megawatts of renewable and low cost energy. The main concept of Ince Park is to perceive waste as a greener and more sustainable resource for energy rather than a costly issue that needs to be dealt with. It will also provide careers in the areas of waste, manufacturing, engineering, power generation, warehousing, supply chain, and logistics. Ince Park has received approval with the planning and will be the centre of Eco Park. It will be able to provide about 16 percent of the North West's renewable energy.\n"}
{"id": "49864584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49864584", "title": "Indian Ethos in Management", "text": "Indian Ethos in Management\n\nIndian Ethos in Management refers to the values and practices that the culture of India (\"Bharatheeya Sanskriti\") can contribute to service, leadership and management. These values and practices are rooted in \"Sanathana Dharma\" (the eternal essence), and have been influenced by various strands of Indian philosophy.\n\n1. \"Paropakaaraartham Idam Shareeram\" - The body is meant for serving others or for the higher common good.\n\n2. \"Atmanomokshartham Jagat Hitayacha\" - Endeavors should be made considering the well-being of the world too, while considering the (spiritual) well-being of oneself.\n\n3. \"Trikaranasuddhi\" - To consider work as a means to grow oneself in 'Purity and Unity of Thought, Word and Deed'.\n\n4. \"Yagnaya charatha: karma\" - To engage in work as a sacred offering\n\nAttempts have been made to distill aspects related to management theory and practice from various texts of India. A variety of works has influenced this area and few of them include \"Autobiography of a Yogi, Thirukkural, Mahabharatha, Ramayana\" and \"Bhagavad Gita\"\n\nA number of examples indicating the practice has been documented.\n\nAcademicians and practitioners such as Prof S K Chakraborty, Jack Hawley, Debra and William Miller, Devdutt Pattanaik, Prof Subhash Sharma, Prof Sharda Nandram, Ankur Joshi etc. have contributed to the evolution and popularisation of this domain. Stephen Covey has detailed the application of Gandhian values in leadership, through his book \"Principle Centered Leadership\".\n\nThis theme is embedded in varying levels as part of programmes in business management offered by various business schools and universities.\n"}
{"id": "1330313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1330313", "title": "Information broker", "text": "Information broker\n\nAn information broker or data broker collects information about individuals from public records and private sources including census and change of address records, motor vehicle and driving records, user-contributed material to social networking sites, media and court reports, voter registration lists, consumer purchase histories, most-wanted lists and terrorist watch lists, bank card transaction records, health care authorities, and web browsing histories. \n\nThe data are aggregated to create individual profiles, often made up of thousands of individual pieces of information such as a person's age, race, gender, height, weight, marital status, religious affiliation, political affiliation, occupation, household income, net worth, home ownership status, investment habits, product preferences and health-related interests. Brokers then sell the profiles to other organizations that use them mainly to target advertising and marketing towards specific groups, to verify a person's identity including for purposes of fraud detection, and to sell to individuals and organizations so they can research people for various reasons. Data brokers also often sell the profiles to government agencies, such as the FBI, thus allowing law enforcement agencies to circumvent laws that protect privacy.\n\nBeginning in the late twentieth century, technological developments such as the development of the internet, increasing computer processing power and declining costs of data storage made it much easier for companies to collect, analyze, store and transfer large amounts of data about individual people. This gave rise to the information broker or data broker industry.\n\nIndividuals generally cannot find out what data a broker holds on them, how a broker got it, or how it is used. Some data brokers retain all information indefinitely.\n\nFiles on individuals are generally sold in lists; examples cited in testimony to the U.S. Congress include lists of rape victims, seniors with dementia, financially vulnerable people, people with HIV, and police officers (by home address). Less controversial are lists of rich people, doctors, or parents.\n\nThere are probably between 3500 and 4000 data broker companies, and about a third may provide opt-outs, with some charging over a thousand dollars for them.\n\nData brokers collect information concerning myriad topics, ranging from the daily communications of an individual to more specialized data such as product registrations.\n\nData brokers in the United States include Acxiom, Experian, Epsilon, CoreLogic, Datalogix, inome, PeekYou, Exactis, and Recorded Future. Acxiom claims to have files on 10% of the world's population, with about 1500 pieces of information per consumer (quoted in Senate.gov). In 2017, Cambridge Analytica claimed that it has psychological profiles of 220 million US citizens based on 5,000 separate data sets (another 2017 claim is 230 million Americans).\n\nCredit scores were first used in the 1950s, but did not become widely known or specifically regulated until the 1990s.\n\nIn 1977 Kelly Warnken published the first fee-based information directory, which continues to be published and has expanded to cover international concerns.\n\nA U.S. Senate Committee in 2013 published \"A Review of the Data Broker Industry: Collection, Use, and Sale of Consumer Data for Marketing Purposes\". It states that \"Today, a wide range of companies known as “data brokers” collect and maintain data on hundreds of millions of consumers, which they analyze, package, and sell generally without consumer permission or input.\" Their main findings were that:\n\nThe information produced by data brokers has been criticized for enabling discrimination in pricing, services and opportunities. For example, a May 2014 White House report found that web searches that included black-seeming first names such as Jermaine were more likely to result in ads being displayed that include the word \"arrest,\" compared with web searches including white-seeming first names such as Geoffrey.\n\nAn Online Information Broker FAQ is published by Privacy Rights Clearinghouse (PRC), a nonprofit consumer organization in the United States. PRC also maintains a list of information brokers (data brokers, with links to their privacy policies, terms of service, and opt-out privisions.\n\nData brokers have also faced legal charges for security breaches due to poor data security practices.\n\nA 2007 University of California study, after requesting and analyzing information-sharing practices at 86 companies, found many operating under an opt-out model that it described as inconsistent with consumer expectations, and recommended that the California state legislature require companies to disclose their information-sharing policies using clear, unambiguous language, and consider creating a centralized, user-friendly method for consumers to opt out of information-sharing.\n\nIn 2009, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission had recommended the U.S. Congress develop legislation enabling consumers to see the information that data brokers hold about them, a recommendation it renewed in subsequent reports in 2012 and 2014. In 2013, the U.S. Government Accountability Office also called for Congress to consider legislation.\n\nThe Data Accountability and Trust Act contained a number of requirements for auditing and verification of accuracy of data held by information brokers, and additional measures in the case of a security breach. The bill also gave identified individuals the means and opportunity to review and correct the data held that related to them. It passed through the United States House of Representatives in the 111th Congress, but failed to pass the United States Senate. It was revived by the 112th Congress in 2011 as H.R. 1707., but died after being referred to committee. The bill was first introduced by Rep. Bobby Rush [D-IL1] on Apr 30, 2009, H.R. 2221\n\nIn fiction, information brokers usually find data for a story's main character(s). Fictional information brokers can be of varying importance and have varying methods. For example, a hacker can be an information broker, though they may be simply transferring whatever information they find to the main character(s). Other brokers may have memorized data and tell the main character(s) covertly. Also, a fee is not always involved. The information broker may have an alliance with the main character(s) or be one themselves.\n\nExamples of information brokers in contemporary fiction would be Edward G. Robinson's character Sol in the film \"Soylent Green\"; the Shadow Broker in the video game series \"Mass Effect\"; Nicholas Wayne, Rachel, Elean Duga, Gustav St. Germain, Carol, and the President of the Daily Days newspaper company in \"Baccano!\"; or Izaya Orihara in the light novel series \"Durarara!!\". A few of the characters in Neil Stephenson's novel Snow Crash find work selling data as \"stringers\" for the Central Intelligence Corporation. Information broker characters play a prominent role in stories published by DC Comics. The character trope is best exemplified by the superhero Oracle, but the trope is later used with the characters Calculator, Proxy, Chloe Sullivan, and Felicity Smoak as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13474358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13474358", "title": "Information technology outsourcing", "text": "Information technology outsourcing\n\nInformation technology (ΙΤ) outsourcing is a company's outsourcing of computer or Internet related work, such as programming, to other companies. It is used in reference to business process outsourcing or BPO, which is the outsourcing of the work that does not require much of technical skills.\n\nIT outsourcing refers to outsourcing all or parts of IT functions to an external party. Information technology outsourcing is a subset of business process outsourcing (BPO).\nThe reasons for IT outsourcing include lack of resources and cost reduction. This is especially significant for applying technical certifications and building disaster recovery sites. IT outsourcing is sometimes called IT enabled services (ITES) outsourcing.\n\nThe typical destinations of overseas IT outsourcing are India and Philippines for the American and European companies and China and Vietnam for the Japanese companies.\n\nA combination of high overhead in the United States and strong cultural ties between the domestic and Asian information technology industries have led many companies to outsource labor-intensive software programming to Asia and Eastern Europe.\n\nAlthough Eastern Europe has created a lot of competition for India in recent years, India has always been a major player in information technology (IT); they even make their own supercomputers for predicting monsoons. It wasn't until the Y2K bug emerged that the need for legions of cheap programmers really arose, however, and American companies began to see the potential for outsourcing overseas. After Y2K the IT service industry exploded, with American companies outsourcing everything from data entry to customer service to India and other Asian countries.\n\nDespite its distinct advantages for companies looking to outsource their IT services, India's volatile political climate and rampant corruption present problems. Some of the 185 Fortune 500 companies that outsource software to Asia are choosing places like Vietnam or China with more predictable politics and less corruption. The Vietnamese government has succeeded in retaining a low cost, lower risk market, while significantly improving income, per capita. A series of educational measures and incentives have also been applied to promote the technology sector. In addition, Vietnam is exceptionally attractive due to competitively low salary of the technically skilled workforce.”While not the cheapest outsourcing destination, Vietnam is still very competitive when compared to other global locations, especially, as wage rises in India and China. This is what contributed to it surging up the rankings, to take first place in 2015,” commented Richard Middleton, Cushman & Wakefield’s head of occupier services for Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa.\n\nThailand was ranked as the 6th best IT outsourcing country in 2016. It benefits from a combination of low costs and good infrastructure. Thailand could be ranked higher with improved English language ability among skilled workers.\n\nOther (mainly American) companies that outsource their customer service are finding that their customers prefer the Americanized English of the Philippines to the British English that predominates in India, though all of these countries have their drawbacks, from censored Internet lines in China and Vietnam to Muslim militancy in the Philippines.\n\nDespite the hiccups the IT service industry continues to grow as the software industry becomes more competitive and U.S. companies try to reduce overhead. The Asian IT service market is still in its infancy, but in 2008 industry think tank Nasscom-McKinsey predicted a $17 billion IT service industry in India alone.\n\nCountries like United States and Canada usually seek nearshore outsourcing in Latin American countries like Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Panama, and others because of a closer cultural match and timezone.\n\nIn recent years Eastern Europe has also become a common ITO destination. ITO to Eastern Europe allows Western European and North American companies to nearshore, remote insource, and in general benefit from timezone and cultural proximity. Countries like Belarus, Russia and Ukraine are common destinations for ITO within Eastern Europe.\n\nOutsourcing IT to Eastern Europe has been on the rise because of the low-cost but highly skilled labor available in this region, as well as its geographical and cultural proximity. At first, many companies chose to outsource to more traditional Asian destinations. However, as software development and security needs grew, along with a preference for geographically closer partners, Eastern Europe became a more common destination for ITO. In 2009, the number of IT professionals working for an ITO company in the Central-East European Region (not including Russia), reached 95,000; this number represents a 9% growth for countries like Ukraine.\n\nAlthough many associate outsourcing of the IT industry to be leaving America, the United States does receive a wide variety of outsourcing work from other countries. A 2009 study on oDesk employment had the United States ranked #3 in countries that received outsourced work. This is credited to the enhancements in cloud computing, and the high evaluation marks that United States located workers have and continue to receive. The adverse effect that the American economy has brought to the American worker, has also increased the demand for seeking employment in other countries. Prior to 2008, the need was not that high, as the average American worker was able to find work within the 50 domestic states.\n\n"}
{"id": "57018677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57018677", "title": "La French Touch Conference", "text": "La French Touch Conference\n\nLa French Touch Conference is an itinerant business event for entrepreneurs, investors, corporates, and members of the creative industries. It aims to promote French entrepreneurship abroad, and was founded in 2014 by French entrepreneurs Gaël Duval & Cédric Giorgi. A total of seven editions were organized in Paris, San Francisco, and New York City. \nSome of the past speakers hosted at the events include Yann LeCun, Eric Hippeau, Rachel Haot, Alexandre Mars, the writer Harlan Coben, the French designer Ora-Ito and the pastry chef Dominique Ansel. \n\nLa French Touch Conference has been supported by the French government and the city of New York during its previous events, having hosted:\n\nIn June 2016, La French Touch Conference launched a start-up competition which took place aboard an airplane, called \"Pitch in the Plane\". \nTwo editions have been organized on Paris-New York commercial flights. The start-ups SkyLights and Mapwize won the competitions in 2016 and 2017 respectively. Among the jury members: VentureBeat European Correspondant Chris O’Brien, Géraldine Le Meur, Olivier Mathiot and Paul-François Fournier\n"}
{"id": "3236500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3236500", "title": "List of international business journals", "text": "List of international business journals\n\nThe following is a list of major and notable scholarly journals in international business. The list is not comprehensive, as there are many other journals that are published. The list contains most of the prominent journals in the field. \n"}
{"id": "42666266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42666266", "title": "List of national quality awards", "text": "List of national quality awards\n\nThis article is a list of national quality awards.\n\nA national quality award is typically part of a larger effort by a government to make its country's businesses more competitive in the world economy. The awarding institutions are generally either government departments or ministries or not-for-profit organizations with government ties. In many countries, however, the awarding institutions are consortia of businesses. Candidate companies compete in award-specific assessments of business quality and excellence criteria. The assessments are annual and firms who wish to be considered for the awards file applications with the organization that conducts the competition in their home country. Competitors are evaluated by teams of examiners who are volunteers in Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, and possibly elsewhere. Several examiners separately evaluate company submissions against award criteria after which they meet to discuss their findings and to agree on a consensus score. The highest scoring firms advance to the next phase where examiners perform site visits to compare actual practices against those reported in the company submission and finally, awards are given to companies whose practices best fulfill the criteria of the award models.\n\nWhile each nation's awards programs only consider businesses within its national borders, there are two notable exceptions: The EFQM Excellence Award is a transnational award open to businesses operating in one or more European countries and the Deming Prize, which began as the Japan Quality Medal, became the first (and as of 2014 the only) global quality award in 1984.\n\nThe most widely-recognized quality awards are the Deming Prize (the first of its kind) and the EFQM Excellence and Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Awards (due to their size). The national quality award phenomenon grew out of the Total Quality Management movement of the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11988019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988019", "title": "Managerial psychology", "text": "Managerial psychology\n\nManagerial psychology is a sub-discipline of industrial and organizational psychology, which focuses on the efficacy of individuals, groups and organizations in the workplace. Its purpose is to specifically aid managers in gaining a better understanding of the psychological patterns common among individuals and groups within any given organisation. Managerial psychology can be used to predict and prevent harmful psychological patterns within the workplace and can also be implemented to control psychological patterns among individuals and groups in a way that will benefit the organisation long term. (Robbins, SP et al.2010).\n\nIf in the early stages managerial psychologists used to study the problems of fatigue, boredom, and other working conditions that could impede efficient work performance. More recently, their contributions have expanded to include learning, perception, personality, emotions, training, leadership, effectiveness, needs and motivational forces, job satisfaction, decision-making processes, performance appraisals, attitude measurement, employee-selection techniques, work design, and job stress(Robbins, SP et al.2010). This means that they apply psychology principles to the workplace and use their skills to study workplace productivity, morale, employee screening or organizational development. Apart from this, they can also train and screen job applicants, assist with organizational development, and consult with corporations on a problem-solving basis.\n\n\nHerzberg et al.’s (1959) seminal two-factor theory of motivation theorized that satisfaction and dissatisfaction were not two opposite extremes of the same sequence, but two separate entities caused by quite different facets of work – these were labelled as “hygiene factors” and “motivators”. Hygiene factors are characterized as extrinsic components of job design that contribute to employee dissatisfaction if they are not met. Examples include: supervision, working conditions, company policies, salary, and relations with co-workers. Motivators, however, are intrinsic to the job itself and include aspects such as achievement, development, responsibility and recognition. On the other hand, intrinsic factors have long been acknowledged as important determinants of motivation. There is a longstanding debate as to whether hygiene factors really contribute to job satisfaction (Furnham et al., 1999; Warr, 1987). Most job satisfaction and motivation research literature is concerned with organisational or situational predictors (such as pay and supervision) (Locke, 1976) while neglecting individual differences (Staw and Ross, 1985). O’Reilly et al. (1980) discovered that individuals’ significantly differ in the way they perceive their jobs, even if the job description and the tasks they had to perform remained constant, thus suggesting that some individual differences must have an effect on work attitudes.\n\nStaw et al. (1986) argued that individual disposition may have a profound influence over how the working world is perceived (i.e. what is important to the individual), and this is likely to affect the type of jobs that are sought.\n\nIt was first introduced in Gosling et al., (2003) and the ten items of this measure are scored using a seven-point scale, with two statements (one reversed) used to measure each personality variable. The authors report extensive data showing good reliability and validity of this instrument.\n\nThis inventory introduced in Furnham et al., (2005) consists of 37 items and requires individuals to report the extent to which intrinsic (e.g.responsibility and personal growth) and extrinsic (e.g. pay and benefits) components are important to them on a six-point scale. The WVQ is a revised version of Mantech’s(1983) questionnaire. Previous studies have indicated that between two and four factors tend to be extracted, and that these often correspond to Herzberg et al.’s (1959) hygiene and motivator factors .\n\nThis scale introduced in Warr et al., (1979) consists of 15 items, seven of which measure intrinsic satisfaction, whilst the remaining eight measure extrinsic job satisfaction. Responses are given on a seven-point scale and can be summed to create and overall satisfaction score as well as an intrinsic and extrinsic value.\n\nIn a recent issue of Journal of Managerial Psychology published in 2009 is presented an experiment with 202 full-time employees (81 males, mean age=38.3 and 121 females, mean age= 28.4) working in very different jobs in the retail, manufacturing and healthcare to investigate the extent to which personality and demographic factors explain variance in motivation and job satisfaction as defined by Herzberg et al.’s (1959) two-factor theory. Every person was given 3 questionnaires ( The ten item personality inventory, The work values questionnaire (WVQ), The job satisfaction scale) and had to complete them via a website.\n\nAs predicted, personality and demographic variables were significant correlates of the extracted factors, accounting for between 9 and 15.2 per cent of the variance. Similarly, personality and demographic variables were also significantly related to all three job satisfaction scores and accounted for between 10.5 and 12.7 per cent of the variance. As expected, conscientiousness was a significant correlate of job satisfaction scores in both correlational and regressional analyses. Contrary to expectations, age, job tenure and years working full-time were not significantly related to job satisfaction scores; however, in line with predictions and the two-factor theory, job status was significantly associated with these scores.\n\nNegative relationships were observed between the security and conditions factor and job status, as well as years in full-time employment. These results suggest that individuals with low job status (e.g. graduate positions and non-managerial roles) are more concerned with working conditions and clarity in their work than those of a higher status and individuals who have been working for longer periods.\n\nThese results further validate the contention that work attitudes are not the product of situational factors alone, and that both literature and organisations should further investigate the variables that contribute to these values with the intention of increasing job satisfaction and performance, through effective selection methods and pervasive job interventions.\n\nAbraham Maslow developed the Hierarchy of Needs model in 1940-50s USA, and the Hierarchy of Needs theory remains valid today for understanding human motivation, management training, and personal development. Maslow's ideas surrounding the Hierarchy of Needs concern the responsibility of employers to provide a workplace environment that encourages and enables employees to fulfill their own unique potential (self-actualization).\n\nWhile Maslow referred to various additional aspects of motivation, he expressed the Hierarchy of Needs in these five clear stages.\n\n\nDouglas McGregor, an American social psychologist, proposed his famous X-Y theory in his 1960 book 'The Human Side Of Enterprise'. Theory X and Theory Y are still referred to commonly in the field of management and motivation. McGregor's ideas suggest that there are two fundamental approaches to managing people. Many managers tend towards theory x, and generally get poor results. Enlightened managers use theory y, which produces better performance and results, and allows people to grow and develop.\n\n\n\nSee also Need theory\n\nDavid McClelland in his 1961 book, \"The Achieving Society \" identified three motivators that he believed we all have: a need for achievement, a need for affiliation, and a need for power. People will have different characteristics depending on their dominant motivator. According to McClelland, these motivators are learned (which is why this theory is sometimes called the Learned Needs Theory).\n\nMcClelland says that, regardless of our gender, culture, or age, we all have three motivating drivers, and one of these will be our dominant motivating driver. This dominant motivator is largely dependent on our culture and life experiences.\n\nPeople motivated by achievement need challenging, but not impossible, projects. They thrive on overcoming difficult problems or situations, so make sure you keep them engaged this way. People motivated by achievement work very effectively either alone or with other high achievers.\n\nWhen providing feedback, give achievers a fair and balanced appraisal. They want to know what they're doing right – and wrong – so that they can improve.\n\nPeople motivated by affiliation work best in a group environment, so try to integrate them with a team (versus working alone) whenever possible. They also don't like uncertainty and risk. Therefore, when assigning projects or tasks, save the risky ones for other people.\n\nWhen providing feedback to these people, be personal. It's still important to give balanced feedback, but if you start your appraisal by emphasizing their good working relationship and your trust in them, they'll likely be more open to what you say. Remember that these people often don't want to stand out, so it might be best to praise them in private rather than in front of others.\n\nThose with a high need for power work best when they're in charge. Because they enjoy competition, they do well with goal-oriented projects or tasks. They may also be very effective in negotiations or in situations in which another party must be convinced of an idea or goal.\n\nWhen providing feedback, be direct with these team members. And keep them motivated by helping them further their career goals\n\n"}
{"id": "3232424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3232424", "title": "Memorandum of association", "text": "Memorandum of association\n\nThe memorandum of association of a company is an important corporate document in certain jurisdictions. It is often simply referred to as the memorandum. In the UK, it has to be filed with the Registrar of Companies during the process of incorporating a company. It is the document that regulates the company’s external affairs, and complements the articles of association which cover the company's internal constitution. It contains the fundamental conditions under which the company is allowed to operate. Until recently it had to include the \"objects clause\" which let the shareholders, creditors and those dealing with the company know what is its permitted range of operation, although this was usually drafted very broadly. It also shows the company's initial capital. It is one of the documents required to incorporate a company in India, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, Nigeria, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, and Tanzania and is also used in many of the common law jurisdictions of the Commonwealth.\n\nIt is still a requirement to file a memorandum of association to incorporate a new company, but it contains less information than was required before 1 October 2010. The Companies (Registration) Regulation 2008 included pro-forma Memoranda.\n\nIt is basically a statement that the subscribers wish to form a company under the Companies Act 2006, have agreed to become members and, in the case of a company that is to have a share capital, to take at least one share each. It is no longer required to state the name of the company, the type of company (such as public limited company or private company limited by shares), the location of its registered office, the objects of the company, and its authorised share capital. Companies incorporated prior to 1 October 2009 are not required to amend their memorandum. Those details which are now required to appear in the Articles, such as the objects clause and details of the share capital, are deemed to form a part of the Articles.\n\nThe memorandum no longer restricts the activities of a company. Since 1 October 2009, if a company's constitution contains any restrictions on the objects at all, those restrictions will form part of the articles of association.\n\nHistorically, a company's memorandum of association contained an objects clause, which limited its capacity to act. When the first limited companies were incorporated, the objects clause had to be widely drafted so as not to restrict the board of directors in their day to day trading. In the Companies Act 1989, the term \"General Commercial Company\" was introduced which meant that companies could undertake \"any lawful or legal trade or business.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54071918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54071918", "title": "Memorandum of conversation", "text": "Memorandum of conversation\n\nMemorandum of conversation (abbrev.: MEMCON) and also memorandum of a conversation and memo to the file refers to a method of contemporaneous documentation of a conversation in the form of a memorandum used by the United States federal government.\n\n\"The Weekly Standard\" characterized the use of the tactic in the U.S. government as among \"the most basic ways of Washington\".\n\nTypically an individual will document the events of the conversation as soon as possible after the occurrence. All material statements and discussed items are quoted and described as accurately as possible soon after the discussion and filed for future reference. Memcons function as documentation of historical events, such as conversations between heads of state and law enforcement officials. Specific developments discussed, the time of the meeting, location, and individuals in attendance are all documented in-depth within the memo.\n\nUnited States Department of Justice attorneys and Federal Bureau of Investigation special agents commonly make use of memoranda of conversation. A majority of intermediate-rank managerial staff and bureaucrats within the U.S. federal government consistently make use of the method. The creation of a memorandum of understanding allows federal employees to memorialize and keep a record of their conversations and transactions.\n\nMemoranda to file are used in investigations in the private sector. For example, the fraud unit of a large corporation may use memoranda to file, to report individual interviews and significant telephone conversations. Generally, \"the memorandum will show the name of the author, date of preparation, the case name or number, and the specific subject covered. It will also contain the detailed narrative of the event, interview, or other investigative activity described and should be written as close in time as circumstances permit to those events.\"\n\nFormer Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and subsequently Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Brent Scowcroft, who served as such in the U.S. presidential administration of Gerald R. Ford, kept copious documentation of his meetings in the form of memorandum of conversation. He would take handwritten notes, and immediately have them transcribed in typewritten format with the assistance of his staff from the United States National Security Council. The Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library and Museum contains over 1,000 such memorandum of conversation documents relating to the Presidency of Richard Nixon and Presidency of Gerald Ford, mainly related to national security of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "58966244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58966244", "title": "MetaSolv Solution", "text": "MetaSolv Solution\n\nMetaSolv Solution (\"also known as MetaSolv or MSS\") is an Operations Support System database application originally created by MetaSolv Software, Inc. for use by the telcommunications industry. The company was acquired by Oracle Corporation, and Oracle still supports the application today under the umbrella of Oracle Communications. The software is used by many telecom companies (not just telephone, but ISPs, cable companies, and more).\n\nWhen MetaSolv was originally developed in the early 1990s, the new application was first referred to as ASAP (\"Access Services and Provisioning\"). ASAP provided a method for tracking equipment inventory, port consumption and circuit designs for engineering departments within telecom companies. But, by 1997, the need for tracking customer service orders was identified, and the system enhanced to provide for it. Along with order tracking, the need for workflow management was also addressed.\n\nBy the late 1990s, the application was rebranded by the company as TBS (\"Telecom Business Solution\") from version 3.10 through version 4.11, until the introduction of the 5.0 version. At that time (\"about 2003\"), MetaSolv Inc again rebranded the application, this time to MetaSolv Solution, also known as M/5. The latest release is often simply referred to simply as M6.\n\nMetaSolv Inc had several other products besides M6, and made efforts to provide seamless integration and connectivity between MetaSolv and those products in various ways. After Oracle acquired MetaSolv Inc (see below), Oracle absorbed all of MetaSolv Inc's products and continued the trend of integrating them. Even without those integrations, MetaSolv is a stand-alone OSS application that supports service provisioning through the entire life-cycle of customer and network development.\n\nMetaSolv Software Inc. (\"Nasdaq: MSLV\") was privately founded in 1992 soon becoming a leading provider of service fulfillment solutions designed to meet the needs of telecommunications providers. MetaSolv Inc became a publicly traded company offering an IPO in 1999. MetaSolv (\"the company\") was acquired by Oracle in 2006 for $219 million. On December 15, 2006, a majority of MetaSolv stockholders approved Oracle's acquisition of MetaSolv Software Inc.. Oracle continues to offer and maintain the application today.\n\nMetaSolv Solution (\"the software\") is an Oracle Database application sometimes described as \"Telco in a Box\". The system provides for many business processes common among all types of telecommunications businesses including:\n\n\nTypical implementation of MetaSolv within any telecom company often include users from Customer Care, Service Ordering, Engineering, Switching, Central Office and Field Technician departments.\n\nEarly in the development of the application, MetaSolv Inc realized the need to implement common industry standard practices such as those provided today by iConectiv (\"previously known as Telcordia Technologies, but rebranded after Ericsson acquired them\"). These standards included such things as standard equipment identifiers, circuit identification, location identification (\"commonly called CLLI code\"), connection codes (\"also known as Network Channel codes\"), rate codes, and much more. Across the industry, such standards are typically provided by iConectiv in the form of Common Language Information Services. By adding these standards to MetaSolv, the application more properly fit into the telecom OSS industry.\n\nLater however, companies expressed an interest in varying from industry standards. Releases after version 6.0 (6.1, 6.2, etc) included the ability to do so in some areas.\n\nToday, MetaSolv is often interfaced with other telecom company OSS/BSS systems through APIs and other means. Since the software is a front-end database application with an Oracle database behind it, multiple off-the-shelf SQL-based reporting tools are used to support business intelligence needs in several departments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49331824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49331824", "title": "MyLocalPitch", "text": "MyLocalPitch\n\nMyLocalPitch is an internet booking engine that enables people to book grassroots sports facilities online. The company is headquartered in the United Kingdom with offices in Holborn, London. The service is free to users and is currently available in London, Manchester and Dublin.\n\nMyLocalPitch was founded in January 2014 by Jamie Foale and Sandford Loudon after struggling to find and book sports pitches for their 11-a-side football team. The site started by listing London based sports venues before expanding into Dublin in March 2015.\n\nIn November 2015 the MyLocalPitch iPhone App was released to market to enable users to book and search for venues on the move using geolocation.\n\nMyLocalPitch initiated its 'Outstanding London Sports Venue Award' in 2015 to recognise outstanding sports facilities for services provided and their role in the community. March's award was claimed by Westway Sport and Fitness and April's went to Playfootball Romford.\n\nIn April MyLocalPitch received a 2016 Sports Technology Awards nomination for the Best Technology to Promote Participation category.\n\nAs an extension of Sport England's new strategy to increase sports participation, MyLocalPitch has introduced bespoke borough pages to further speed up the booking process. A few examples can be seen for Clapham, Islington, Hackney and St Albans.\n\nIn April 2017 MyLocalPitch launched its second iOS app with new features including an interactive map, secure payments and a live bookings calendar. The same month saw the MyLocalPitch service became available in Greater Manchester with partnerships with Salford Community Leisure and Greater Sport. In May 2018 MyLocalPitch started working with Brighton Aldridge Community Academy to bring the service to Brighton.\n\nAs 2017 drew to a close MyLocalPitch signed as London FA's official Bookings Partner and for the Middlesex FA to grow participation numbers. The partnership will provide a simple means for London FA’s members to search and book football facilities in London either online or through the app.\n\nDaily Mirror features MyLocalPitch's app as number one in its 'Best iPhone apps 2018'. An Android app launched in August 2018 and has featured in TechWorld and AndroidPit.\n\nAt the start of 2018 MyLocalPitch became the first London-based SportsTech business to raise more than £1 million and Graeme Le Saux joined the board of directors.\n\nIn July, the Football Foundation, the largest sports charity in the UK, has teamed up with MyLocalPitch to roll out its innovative booking portal for community football venues.\n\nThe partnership seeks to revolutionise the way grassroots players access football facilities by delivering cutting edge technology to venues. \n\nThe site has received coverage in the UK media, especially with the Venue Awards which have appeared in London’s Evening Standard, Sport and Recreation and London Sport. The Irish Sun recently covered the Dublin launch of the instant booking app.\n"}
{"id": "19975724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19975724", "title": "Open Options Corporation", "text": "Open Options Corporation\n\nOpen Options Corporation is a privately owned business strategy consulting company that specializes in applied game theory and business war games where there are multiple stakeholders who can all influence the final outcome of a particular situation.\n\nOpen Options’ original software development was funded by the CIA through a company called Waterloo Engineering Software. The software was designed to help the American government better anticipate the collapse of the Soviet Union into many different breakaway republics. The software was based on academic research by Dr. Niall Fraser from the University of Waterloo. Dr. Fraser has written several books on game theory including Mathematical Modeling of Resolutions of Conflict and Conflict Analysis: Models and Resolutions.\n\nOpen Options uses a type of game theory called Ordinal Non-cooperative Game Theory which is a less well-known sub-section of game theory. However, this approach and proprietary software enables Open Options to analyze millions of possible outcomes.\n\nbusiness ideas\n\n"}
{"id": "1377904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377904", "title": "PEST analysis", "text": "PEST analysis\n\nPEST analysis (political, economic, socio-cultural and technological) describes a framework of macro-environmental factors used in the environmental scanning component of strategic management. It is part of an external analysis when conducting a strategic analysis or doing market research, and gives an overview of the different macro-environmental factors to be taken into consideration. It is a strategic tool for understanding market growth or decline, business position, potential and direction for operations. \n\nVariants that build on the PEST framework include:\n\nThere is also STEER, which considers sociocultural, technological, economic, ecological, and regulatory factors, but does not specifically include political factors.\n\nThe basic PEST analysis includes four factors:\n\nExpanding the analysis to PESTLE or PESTEL adds:\n\n\nOther factors for the various offshoots include:\n\n\nMore factors discussed in the SPELIT Power Matrix include:\n\n\nThe model's factors will vary in importance to a given company based on its industry and the goods it produces. For example, consumer and B2B companies tend to be more affected by the social factors, while a global defense contractor would tend to be more affected by political factors. Additionally, factors that are more likely to change in the future or more relevant to a given company will carry greater importance. For example, a company which has borrowed heavily will need to focus more on the economic factors (especially interest rates).\n\nFurthermore, conglomerate companies who produce a wide range of products (such as Sony, Disney, or BP) may find it more useful to analyze one department of its company at a time with the PESTEL model, thus focusing on the specific factors relevant to that one department. A company may also wish to divide factors into geographical relevance, such as local, national, and global.\n\nThe PEST factors, combined with external micro-environmental factors and internal drivers, can be classified as opportunities and threats in a SWOT analysis. A graphical method for PEST analysis called \"PESTLEWeb\" was developed at Henley Business School in the UK; research showed that PESTLEWeb diagrams are considered by users to be more logical, rational, and convincing than traditional PEST analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9750806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9750806", "title": "Palo (OLAP database)", "text": "Palo (OLAP database)\n\nPalo is a memory resident multidimensional (online analytical processing (OLAP) or multidimensional online analytical processing (MOLAP)) database server and typically used as a business intelligence tool for controlling and budgeting purposes with spreadsheet software acting as the user interface. Beyond the multidimensional data concept, Palo enables multiple users to share one centralised data storage (single version of the truth).\n\nThis type of database is suitable to handle complex data models for business management and statistics. Apart from multidimensional queries, data can also be written back and consolidated in real-time. To give rapid access to all data, Palo stores them in the memory during run time. The server is available as open source and proprietary software.\n\nJedox was founded by Kristian Raue in 2002 and developed by Jedox AG, a company based in Freiburg, Germany. The firm currently employs approximately 100 people. Kristian Raue's departure from Jedox was announced in June 2014.\nPalo for Excel is an open source plug-in for Microsoft Excel. There is also an open source plug-in for OpenOffice.org named PalOOCa (discontinued), with Java and web client also available from the JPalo project. Palo can also be integrated into other systems via its client libraries for Java, PHP, C/C++, or .NET Framework. It is fairly easy to communicate with Palo OLAP Server, since it uses representational state transfer (REST).\n\nStarting in October 2008, Palo supports XML for Analysis and MultiDimensional eXpressions (MDX) APIs for connectivity, and OLE DB for OLAP interface which allows standard Excel pivot tables to serve as a client tool.\nStarting September 2011, Palo supports SDX dialect of LINQ.\n\nPalo also provides a web-based spreadsheet interface called Palo Web.\n\nPalo Suite is a tightly integrated framework consisting of: Palo MOLAP Server, Palo ETL Server, Palo Web (Palo Spreadsheet - Connection, User, ETL, File and Report Manager), Palo for Excel, Palo Supervision Server and the Palo Client Libraries.\n\nThe Data in Palo database is stored as a cube in the Palo MOLAP server. The Palo Excel Add-In component is used as a service to communicate between the Excel and the Palo MOLAP Server.\n\nJedox announced only commercial licensing is available since 5.1 version (2015).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8889260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8889260", "title": "Payment card industry", "text": "Payment card industry\n\nThe payment card industry (PCI) denotes the debit, credit, prepaid, e-purse, ATM, and POS cards and associated businesses.\n\nThe payment card industry consists of all the organizations which store, process and transmit cardholder data, most notably for debit cards and credit cards. The security standards are developed by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council which develops the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards used throughout the industry. Individual card brands establish compliance requirements that are used by service providers and have their own compliance programs. Major card brands include American Express, Discover Financial Services, China UnionPay, Japan Credit Bureau, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa International. Most companies use member banks that connect and accept transactions from the card brands. Not all card brands use member banks, like American Express, these instead act as their own bank.\n\n, the United States uses a magnetic stripe on a card to process transactions and its security relies on the holder's signature and visual inspection of the card to check for features such as hologram. This system will be outmoded and replaced by EMV in 2015. EMV is a global standard for inter-operation of integrated circuit cards (IC cards or \"chip cards\") and IC card capable point of sale (POS) terminals and automated teller machines (ATMs), for authenticating credit and debit card transactions. It has enhanced security features, but is still susceptible to fraud.\n\nOn 7 September 2006, American Express, Discover Financial Services, Japan Credit Bureau, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa International formed the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council (PCI SSC) security council with the goal of managing the ongoing evolution of the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. The council itself claims to be independent of the various card vendors that make up the council. As of 1 August 2014, the PCI SSC website lists 688 \"Participating Organizations\". Internationally, 61 different financial institutions were noted, including Bank of America, Capital One, JP Morgan Chase, Royal Bank of Scotland, TD Bank and Wells Fargo. A total of 275 merchants were listed, including Amazon.com, Burger King, Citgo, Dell, Equifax, Exxon Mobil, Global Cash Access, Motorola, Microsoft, Southwest Airlines and Walmart.\n\nMasterCard's Nicole Krieg has noted that the Russian credit card market started in early 2000, when issuers first began launching products. However, credit products became especially popular in Russia in 2005, after new legislation took effect. Immense growth was noted in just eight years, by comparing second quarter growth on Visa card purchases, which went from $306 million in 2002 to $61.5 billion in 2010. Merchants who accepted Visa cards also increased from 21,000 to 331,000 during the same period. Visa also noted that they had issued 70 million cards and the Central Bank of the Russian Federation reported that 8.6 million credit cards were on issue.\n\nThe Interac Association is Canada's national organization linking Financial Institutions and enterprises that have proprietary networks, to enable communication with each other for the purpose of exchanging electronic financial transactions. The Association was founded in 1984 by the big five banks. Today, there are over 80 members. The Interac Association is the organization responsible for the development of Canada's national network of two shared electronic financial services: Shared Cash Dispensing (SCD) for cash withdrawals from any ABM not belonging to a cardholder's financial institution; and Interac Direct Payment (IDP) for Debit Card payments at the Point-of-Sale\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30872348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872348", "title": "Queen's Awards for Enterprise", "text": "Queen's Awards for Enterprise\n\nThe Queen's Awards for Enterprise is an awards programme for British businesses and other organizations who excel at international trade, innovation or sustainable development. They are the highest official UK awards for British businesses. The scheme was established as The Queen's Award to Industry by a royal warrant of 30 November 1965, and individual categories have been known in the past as The Queen's Awards for Export, Export Achievement, Technology, Technological Achievement and Environmental Achievement. The scheme also includes an award for individuals, The Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion.\n\nEvery April winners of the Queen’s Awards for Enterprise are officially announced in a special Gazette supplement. The Queen's Award to Industry, the scheme's original title, was instituted by Royal Warrant in 1965. It became the Queen's Awards for Export and Technology in 1975, with Environmental Achievement added in 1992. In 1999, the scheme became the Queen's Awards for Enterprise with International Trade, Innovation and Sustainable Development as the categories. In 2017, a fourth category was introduced, Promoting Opportunity (through social mobility). Since 2005, individuals have also been recognised with the Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion. As of 2017, this individual award has been rested.\n\nThe total numbers of winners in each class each year are shown below.\n\nThe Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion is awarded to individuals. Unlike the Queen's Award for Enterprise, nomination must be by a third party. As of 2017, this individual award has been rested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10790983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10790983", "title": "Rules of origin", "text": "Rules of origin\n\nRules of origin are used to determine the country of origin of a product for purposes of international trade. There are two common types of rules of origin depending upon application, the preferential and non-preferential rules of origin (19 CFR 102). The exact rules vary from country to country, from agreement to agreement.\n\nNon-preferential rules of origin are used to determine the country of origin for certain purposes.\nThese purposes \"may\" be for quotas, anti-dumping, anti-circumvention, statistics or origin labelling.\n\nThe basis for the non-preferential rules originates from the Kyoto convention which states that if a product is wholly obtained or produced completely within one country the product shall be deemed having origin in that country. For a product which has been produced in more than one country the product shall be determined to have origin in the country where the last substantial transformation took place.\n\nTo determine exactly what was the last substantial transformation, three general rules are applied:\n\nAccording to the non-preferential rules a product always has exactly one country of origin. However, the non-preferential rules may differ from country to country; the same product may have different origins depending on which country's scheme is applied. Usually it is the rules of the country into which a product is being imported that apply.\n\nPreferential RoO are part of a free trade area or preferential trade arrangement which includes tariff concessions. These trade arrangements might be unilateral, bilateral or regional (also sometimes called multilateral) trade arrangements. The rules of origin determine what products can benefit from the tariff concession or preference, in order to avoid transshipment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "155698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155698", "title": "Sales", "text": "Sales\n\nSales are activities related to selling or the number of goods or services sold in a given time period.\n\nThe \"seller\" or the provider of the goods or services complete a sale in response to an acquisition, appropriation, requisition or a direct interaction with the \"buyer\" at the point of sale. There is a passing of title (property or ownership) of the item, and the settlement of a price, in which agreement is reached on a price for which transfer of ownership of the item will occur. The \"seller\", not the purchaser generally executes the sale and it may be completed prior to the obligation of payment. In the case of indirect interaction, a person who sells goods or service on behalf of the owner is known as a salesman or saleswoman or salesperson, but this often refers to someone selling goods in a store/shop, in which case other terms are also common, including \"salesclerk\", \"shop assistant\", and \"retail clerk\".\n\nIn common law countries, sales are governed generally by the common law and commercial codes. In the United States, the laws governing sales of goods are somewhat uniform to the extent that most jurisdictions have adopted Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code, albeit with some non-uniform variations.\n\nA person or organization expressing an interest in acquiring the offered item of value is referred to as a potential buyer, prospective customer or prospect. Buying and selling are understood to be two sides of the same \"coin\" or transaction. Both seller and buyer engage in a process of negotiation to consummate the exchange of values. The exchange, or selling, process has implied rules and identifiable stages. It is implied that the selling process will proceed fairly and ethically so that the parties end up nearly equally rewarded. The stages of selling, and buying, involve getting acquainted, assessing each party's need for the other's item of value, and determining if the values to be exchanged are equivalent or nearly so, or, in buyer's terms, \"worth the price\". Sometimes, sellers have to use their own experiences when selling products with appropriate discounts.\n\nFrom a management viewpoint it is thought of as a part of marketing, although the skills required are different. Sales often form a separate grouping in a corporate structure, employing separate specialist operatives known as \"salespersons\" (singular: \"salesperson\"). Selling is considered by many to be a sort of persuading \"art\". Contrary to popular belief, the methodological approach of selling refers to a \"systematic process of repetitive and measurable milestones, by which a salesman relates his or her offering of a product or service in return enabling the buyer to achieve their goal in an economic way\". According to a 2018 survey of salespeople, selling has become more difficult in recent years due to changes in technology and general access to prospects. While the sales process refers to a systematic process of repetitive and measurable milestones, the definition of the selling is somewhat ambiguous due to the close nature of advertising, promotion, public relations, and direct marketing.\n\nSelling is the profession-wide term, much like marketing defines a profession. Recently, attempts have been made to clearly understand who is in the sales profession, and who is not. There are many articles looking at marketing, advertising, promotions, and even public relations as ways to create a unique transaction.\n\nTwo common terms used to describe a salesperson are \"Farmer\" and \"Hunter\". The reality is that most professional salespeople have a little of both. A hunter is often associated with aggressive personalities who use aggressive sales technique. In terms of sales methodology, a hunter refers to a person whose focus is on bringing in and closing deals. This process is called \"sales capturing\". An example is a commodity sale such as a long distance salesperson, shoe salesperson and to a degree a car salesperson. Their job is to find and convert buyers. A sales farmer is someone who creates sales demand through activities that directly influence and alter the buying process.\n\nMany believe that the focus of selling is on the human agents involved in the exchange between buyer and seller. Effective selling also requires a systems approach, at minimum involving roles that sell, enable selling, and develop sales capabilities. Selling also involves salespeople who possess a specific set of sales skills and the knowledge required to facilitate the exchange of value between buyers and sellers that is unique from marketing, advertising, etc.\n\nWithin these three tenets, the following definition of professional selling is offered by the American Society for Training and Development (ASTD):\nTeam selling is one way to influence sales. Team selling is \"a group of people representing the sales department and other functional areas in the firm, such as finance, production, and research and development\". (Spiro) Team selling came about in the 1990s through total quality management (TQM). TQM occurs when companies work to improve their customer satisfaction by constantly improving all of their operations.\n\nMarketing and sales differ greatly but generally have the same goal. Selling is the final stage in marketing which puts the plan into effect, which also includes pricing, promotion, place, and product (the 4 P's). A marketing department in an organization has the goals of increasing the desirability and value to the customer and increasing the number and engagement of interactions between potential customers and the organization. Achieving this goal may involve the sales team using promotional techniques such as advertising, sales promotion, publicity, and public relations, creating new sales channels, or creating new products (new product development), among other things. It can also include bringing the potential customer to visit the organization's website(s) for more information, or to contact the organization for more information, or to interact with the organization via social media such as Twitter, Facebook and blogs. Social values also play a major role in consumer decision processes. Marketing is the whole of the work on persuasion made for the whole of the target people. Sales are the persuasion and effort that from one person to one person (B2C), one person makes to the corporation (B2B) in the face or in the phone or in the digital environment, to make a living resource enter the company.\n\nThe field of sales process engineering views \"sales\" as the output of a larger system, not just as the output of one department. The larger system includes many functional areas within an organization. From this perspective, \"sales\" and \"marketing\" (among others, such as \"customer service\") label for a number of processes whose inputs and outputs supply one another to varying degrees. In this context, improving an \"output\" (such as sales) involves studying and improving the broader sales process, as in any system, since the component functional areas interact and are interdependent.\n\nMany large corporations structure their marketing departments so they are directly integrated with all lines of business. They create multiple teams with a singular focus and the managers of these teams must coordinate efforts in order to drive profits and business success. For example, an \"inbound\" focused campaign seeks to drive more customers \"through the door\", giving the sales department a better chance of selling their product to the consumer. A good marketing program would address any potential downsides as well.\n\nThe sales department would aim to improve the interaction between the customer and the sales facility or mechanism (example, website) or salesperson. As Sales is the forefront of any organization, this would always need to take place before any other business process may begin. Sales management would break down the selling process and then increase the effectiveness of the discrete processes as well as the interaction between processes. For example, in many out-bound sales environments, the typical process includes outbound calling, the sales pitch, handling objections, opportunity identification, and the close. Each step of the process has sales-related issues, skills, and training needs, as well as marketing solutions to improve each discrete step, as well as the whole process. In many cases becoming a salesperson is a default career as not many people aspire to be a salesman but rather fall into the job due to circumstances. It can be highly rewarding as you receive remuneration in the form of a salary and also commission.\n\nOne further common complication of marketing involves the inability to measure results for a lot of marketing initiatives. In essence, many marketing and advertising executives often lose sight of the objective of sales/revenue/profit, as they focus on establishing a creative/innovative program, without concern for the top or bottom lines – a fundamental pitfall of marketing for marketing's sake.\n\nMany companies find it challenging to get marketing and sales on the same page. The two departments, although different in nature, handle very similar concepts and have to work together for sales to be successful. Building a good relationship between the two that encourages communication can be the key to success – even in a down economy.\n\nThe idea that marketing can potentially eliminate the need for salespeople depends entirely on context. For example, this may be possible in some B2C situations; however, for many B2B transactions (for example, those involving industrial organizations) this is mostly impossible. Another dimension is the value of the goods being sold. Fast-moving consumer-goods (FMCG) require no sales people at the point of sale to get them to jump off the supermarket shelf and into the customer's trolley. However, the purchase of large mining equipment worth millions of dollars will require a salesperson to manage the sales process – particularly in the face of competitors. Small and medium businesses selling such large ticket items to a geographically-disperse client base use manufacturers' representatives to provide this highly personal service while avoiding the large expense of a captive sales force.\n\nAnother area of discussion involves the need for alignment and integration of corporate sales and marketing functions. According to a report from the Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Council, only 40 percent of companies have formal programs, systems or processes in place to align and integrate the two critical functions.\n\nTraditionally, these two functions, as referenced above, have operated separately, left in siloed areas of tactical responsibility. Glen Petersen's book \"The Profit Maximization Paradox\" sees the changes in the competitive landscape between the 1950s and the time of writing as so dramatic that the complexity of choice, price, and opportunities for the customer forced this seemingly simple and integrated relationship between sales and marketing to change forever. Petersen goes on to highlight that salespeople spend approximately 40 percent of their time preparing customer-facing deliverables while leveraging less than 50 percent of the materials created by marketing, adding to perceptions that marketing is out of touch with the customer and that sales is resistant to messaging and strategy.\n\nThere are two types of sales: direct selling and indirect selling.\n\nA sale can take place through:\n\n\nAgents in the sales process can represent either of two parties in the sales process; for example:\n\n\nIn the United States, the Fair Labor Standards Act defines outside sales representatives as \"employees [who] sell their employer's products, services, or facilities to customers away from their employer's place(s) of business, in general, either at the customer's place of business or by selling door-to-door at the customer's home\" while defining those who work \"from the employer's location\" as inside sales. Inside sales generally involves attempting to close business primarily over the phone via telemarketing, while outside sales (or \"field\" sales) will usually involve initial phone work to book sales calls at the potential buyer's location to attempt to close the deal in person. Some companies have an inside sales department that works with outside representatives and book their appointments for them. Inside sales sometimes refers to upselling to existing customers.\n\n"}
{"id": "9779961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9779961", "title": "Semantic layer", "text": "Semantic layer\n\nA semantic layer is a business representation of corporate data that helps end users access data autonomously using common business terms. A semantic layer maps complex data into familiar business terms such as product, customer, or revenue to offer a unified, consolidated view of data across the organization.\nBy using common business terms, rather than data language, to access, manipulate, and organize information, a semantic layer simplifies the complexity of business data. Business terms are stored as objects in a semantic layer, which are accessed through business views.\n\nThe semantic layer enables business users to have a common \"look and feel\" when accessing and analyzing data stored in relational databases and OLAP cubes. This is claimed to be core business intelligence (BI) technology that frees users from IT while ensuring correct results.\n\nBusiness Views is a multi-tier system that is designed to enable companies to build comprehensive and specific business objects that help report designers and end users access the information they require. Business Views is intended to enable people to add the necessary business context to their data islands and link them into a single organized Business View for their organization.\n\nSemantic layer maps tables to classes and rows to objects.\n"}
{"id": "19818206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818206", "title": "Sustainopreneurship", "text": "Sustainopreneurship\n\nSustainopreneurship (entrepreneurship and innovation for sustainability) is a concept that has emerged from the earlier concepts social entrepreneurship and ecopreneurship, via sustainability entrepreneurship. The concept means to use creative business organizing to solve problems related to sustainability to create social and environmental sustainability as a strategic objective and purpose, at the same time respecting the boundaries set in order to maintain the life support systems in the process. In other words, it is a \"business with a cause\" – where the world problems are turned into business opportunities by deployment of sustainability innovations. \n\nThe definition first introduced in a conference article in 2006:\n\n\nThe business world has been nominated as a premier force for creating a sustainable world, especially when acting as a source of innovation and creativity – e. g. as Robinson (2004:378) puts it:\n\nSustainopreneurship is a candidate to be the accentuating factor to give even more leverage to forces emerging from world of business activities to contribute to sustainability. The concept of sustainopreneurship was first introduced as a term in 2000 where it was predominantly related to the proactive change management approaches associated with process adjustment with increased respect to the environment. The phenomenon developed with publications in 2003, and further evolved and was tentatively defined in 2006 by Anders Abrahamsson. This tentative definition was empirically tested in his Master thesis, where the enactive research process confirmed that the definition stood the test contrasting it towards the auto-ethnographical empirical material. A paper to identify future research challenges was made beyond this in 2007, and developed further with a book chapter published in September 2008.\n\nIn general, the entrepreneurial discourse has opened up to move beyond a strictly economic phenomenon, rather than being perceived primarily as a social process at large. Preceding the conceptual formation were two traces of social entrepreneurship and eco-preneurship, dealing primarily with the social and ecological dimensions of sustainability. Primary associations with social entrepreneurship have also been establishing not-for-profit venturing and charities to innovatively address and solve social problems, whereas ecopreneurship has been primarily focused on solving environmental problems. See Principles of ecopreneurship.\n\nBoth these traces of conceptual development are taken beyond, merge and integrate into the suggested conceptual construct at hand, where distinctions are made from both of these concepts – sustainopreneurial processes taking place institutionally through for-profit organizing, but not with profit as its main driving force. Sustainopreneurial venturing is done in a holistic manner that meets both ecological and social challenges simultaneously with regard to both purpose and process. \n\nThe definition of sustainopreneurship needs to be highlighted by three distinguishing dimensions with all three being simultaneously present in the applied (inter)action it reflects. The first is oriented towards \"why\" – its purpose and motive. The second and third are reflecting two \"how\"-related dimensions – its process. \n\n1. Sustainopreneurship consciously sets out to find and/or create innovations to solve sustainability-related problems\n\n2. Sustainopreneurship means to get solutions to the market through creative organizing \n\n3. Sustainopreneurship in process adds sustainability value with respect for life support systems \n\nWith these dimensions clarified and distinctions made a common conceptual vagueness or lack of clarity needs to be addressed, where a strong need to distinguish clearly between sustainable, vs. \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship is identified. From this point of view, a very important distinction with the concept formed is claimed – \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship as in the concept \"sustainopreneurship; \"the use of entrepreneurial activity in a \"determined action orientation towards solving a sustainability-related problem\" with (creative) business organizing as a \"means\" to solve the problem(s) – business with a cause: to turn business activity from a part of the problem to a part of the solution.\" Sustainable\" entrepreneurship is just a generic entrepreneurial process that takes into consideration the boundaries set by sustainability, and does not address where to and why, the destination, the purpose or the aim of the venture. The strategic intent and the business idea in itself are not related to sustainability \"per se,\" sustainability just being an \"attachment\" to the entrepreneurial process. The second and third dimensions are represented, but not the first. \"Sustainability\" entrepreneurship, in contrast, takes as its root of existence and strategic aim to solve a sustainability-related problem. This means that all three dimensions are simultaneously present: to take a sustainability innovation to the market through creative organizing with respect for life-supporting systems in the process.\n\nGiven its recent date, there is a need for future research, as mentioned above. Main findings here are that conceptually, a deeper analysis is needed to be conducted with a nuanced and detailed taxonomy and framework created of sustainability innovations, the core of sustainopreneurship, primarily by cataloging and categorizing case stories. It is also needed to make a more detailed description to relate sustainopreneurship to other concepts in the wider, general idea-sphere of the \"business case of sustainability\", in the contemporary plethora of \"buzz-words\", approaches, methods and acronyms that already exists – and in this context also to motivate why this concept adds value. \n\nIt has been recommended, though, to keep the research applied, to identify obstacles and institutional barriers, and how to overcome them; i. e. facilitating factors for sustainopreneurship, researching prospective tools, enablers and approaches. Appropriate areas and domains for sustainopreneurship applied are recommended to be digested. Research methods recommended are Enactive Research and Open Space Technology, since they add instant value among stakeholders, and in themselves naturally builds arenas where sustainopreneurship evolves and proliferates. For progress, beyond these \"how\"-related pointers, the key is to single out \"the big questions\", getting answers through collaborative, collective dialogue and conversation, with an explicit interaction and results orientation. Issues and topics have been formulated and outlined, where it is of striking importance with an intention to attract authentic forces potentially hearing this call of exploring the phenomenon further, with the purpose to collapse the degrees of separation in between the stakeholders of the sustainopreneurial concept – in idea, reflective practice and applied interaction to generate collective and collaborative wisdom for a deeper understanding of the concept. An association with this purpose is in its interim stages, ÆREAS(i).\n\n"}
{"id": "4082874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4082874", "title": "Workplace bullying", "text": "Workplace bullying\n\nWorkplace bullying is a persistent pattern of mistreatment from others in the workplace that causes either physical or emotional harm. It can include such tactics as verbal, nonverbal, psychological, physical abuse and humiliation. This type of workplace aggression is particularly difficult because, unlike the typical school bully, workplace bullies often operate within the established rules and policies of their organization and their society. In the majority of cases, bullying in the workplace is reported as having been by someone who has authority over their victim. However, bullies can also be peers, and occasionally subordinates. Research has also investigated the impact of the larger organizational context on bullying as well as the group-level processes that impact on the incidence and maintenance of bullying behaviour. Bullying can be covert or overt. It may be missed by superiors; it may be known by many throughout the organization. Negative effects are not limited to the targeted individuals, and may lead to a decline in employee morale and a change in organizational culture. It can also take place as overbearing supervision, constant criticism, and they may work at hospice\n\nThe first known documented use of \"workplace bullying\" is in 1992 in a book by Andrea Adams called \"Bullying at Work: How to Confront and Overcome It\".\n\nWhile there is no universally accepted formal definition of workplace bullying, several researchers have endeavoured to define it:\n\nBecause it can occur in a variety of contexts and forms, it is also useful to define workplace bullying by the key features that these behaviours possess. Bullying is characterized by:\n\nThis distinguishes bullying from isolated behaviours and other forms of job stress and allows the term workplace bullying to be applied in various contexts and to behaviours that meet these characteristics. Many observers agree that bullying is often a repetitive behaviour. However, some experts who have dealt with a great many people who report abuse also categorize some once-only events as bullying, for example with cases where there appear to be severe sequelae. Expanding the common understanding of bullying to include single, severe episodes also parallels the legal definitions of sexual harassment in the US.\n\nAccording to Pamela Lutgin-Sandvik, the lack of unifying language to name the phenomenon of workplace bullying is a problem because without a unifying term or phrase, individuals have difficulty naming their experiences of abuse, and therefore have trouble pursuing justice against the bully. Unlike sexual harassment, which named a specific problem and is now recognized in law of many countries (including U.S.), workplace bullying is still being established as a relevant social problem and is in need of a specific vernacular.\n\nEuphemisms intended to trivialize bullying and its impact on bullied people include: incivility, disrespect, difficult people, personality conflict, negative conduct, and ill treatment. Bullied people are labelled as insubordinate when they resist the bullying treatment.\n\nThere is no exact definition for bullying behaviours in workplace, which is why different terms and definitions are common. For example, mobbing is a commonly used term in France and Germany, where it refers to a \"mob\" of bullies, rather than a single bully; this phenomenon is not often seen in other countries. In the United States, aggression and emotional abuse are frequently used terms, whereas harassment is the term preferred in Finland. Workplace bullying is primarily used in Australia, UK, and Northern Europe.\n\nBosses are the most common bullies. In fact, approximately 72% of bullies outrank their victims. Statistics from the 2007 WBI-Zogby survey show that 13% of U.S. employees report being bullied currently, 24% say they have been bullied in the past and an additional 12% say they have witnessed workplace bullying. Nearly half of all American workers (49%) report that they have been affected by workplace bullying, either being a target themselves or having witnessed abusive behaviour against a co-worker.\n\nAlthough socioeconomic factors may play a role in the abuse, researchers from the Project for Wellness and Work-Life suggest that \"workplace bullying, by definition, is not explicitly connected to demographic markers such as sex and ethnicity\". Because one in ten employees experiences workplace bullying, the prevalence of this issue is cause for great concern, even as initial data about this issue are reviewed.\n\nAccording to the 2010 National Health Interview Survey Occupational Health Supplement (NHIS-OHS), the national prevalence rate for workers reporting having been threatened, bullied, or harassed by anyone on the job was 8%.\n\nIn 2008, Dr. Judy Fisher-Blando wrote a doctoral research dissertation on \"Aggressive behaviour: Workplace Bullying and Its Effect on Job Satisfaction and Productivity\". The scientific study determined that almost 75% of employees surveyed had been affected by workplace bullying, whether as a target or a witness. Further research showed the types of bullying behaviour, and organizational support.\n\nIn terms of gender, the Workplace Bullying Institute (2007) states that women appear to be at greater risk of becoming a bullying target, as 57% of those who reported being targeted for abuse were women. Men are more likely to participate in aggressive bullying behaviour (60%), however when the bully is a woman her target is more likely to be a woman as well (71%).\n\nIn the research of Samnani and Singh (2012), it concludes the findings from previous 20 years' literature and claims that in terms of the gender factor, inconsistent findings could not support the differences across gender.\n\nIn a study done by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, the NHIS-OHS confirms the previous finding, as higher prevalence rates for being threatened, bullied, or harassed were identified for women (9%) compared with men (7%).\n\nRace also may play a role in the experience of workplace bullying. According to the Workplace Bullying Institute (2007), the comparison of reported combined bullying (current + ever bullied) prevalence percentages reveals the pattern from most to least:\n\nThe reported rates of witnessing bullying were:\n\nThe percentages of those reporting that they have neither experienced nor witnessed mistreatment were:\n\nResearch psychologist Tony Buon published one of the first reviews of bullying in China in the prestigious Journal PKU Business Review in 2005.\n\nHigher prevalence rates for experiencing a hostile work environment were identified for divorced or separated workers compared to married workers, widowed workers, and never married workers.\n\nHigher prevalence rates for experiencing a hostile work environment were identified for workers with some college education or workers with high school diploma or GED, compared to workers with less than a high school education.\n\nLower prevalence rates for experiencing a hostile work environment were identified for workers aged 65 and older compared to workers in other age groups.\n\nWith respect to age, conflicting findings have been reported. A study by Einarsen and Skogstad (1996) indicates older employees tend to be more likely to be bullied than younger ones.\n\nAmong industry groups, workers with higher prevalence rates of a hostile work environment, compared to all adults employed at some time in a 12-month period leading up to a survey in 2010 (8%), were in public administration (16%) and retail trade industries (10%). Lower prevalence rates of a hostile work environment were reported among those working in construction (5%); finance and insurance (5%); manufacturing (5%); and professional, scientific, and technical services industries (6%).\n\nFor occupational groups, workers in protective service reported a higher prevalence rate (25%) of hostile work environments compared to the prevalence rate for all adults employed at some time in the past 12 months. Workers in community and social service occupations also experienced a relatively high rate (16%). Lower prevalence rates were observed among architecture and engineering (4%), computer and mathematical (4%), business and financial operations (5%), and construction and extraction (5%) occupations.\n\nResearchers Caitlin Buon and Tony Buon have suggested that attempts to profile ‘the bully’ have been damaging They state that the \"bully\" profile is that ‘the bully’ is always aware of what they are doing, deliberately sets out to harm their ‘victims’, targets a particular individual or type of person and has some kind of underlying personality flaw, insecurity or disorder. But this is unproven and lacks evidence. The researchers suggest referring to workplace bullying as generic harassment along with other forms of non-specific harassment and this would enable employees to use less emotionally charged language and start a dialogue about their experiences rather than being repelled by the spectre of being labelled as a pathological predator or having to define their experiences as the victims of such a person. Tony Buon and Caitlin Buon also suggest that the perception and profile of the workplace bully is not facilitating interventions with the problem. They suggest that to make significant progress and achieve behaviour change over the long term then, organisations and individuals need to embrace the notion that everyone must all potentially house ‘the bully’ within them and their organisations. It exists in workplace cultures, belief systems, interactions and emotional competencies and cannot be transformed if externalization and demonization continue the problem by profiling ‘the bully’ rather than talking about behaviours and interpersonal interactions.\n\nBased on research by H. Hoel and C.L. Cooper, most the perpetrators are supervisors. The second most common group is peers, followed by subordinates and customers. The three main relationships among the participants in workplace bullying: \n\nBullying may also occur between an organization and its employees.\n\nBullying behaviour by supervisors toward subordinates typically manifests as an abuse of power by the supervisor in the workplace. Bullying behaviours by supervisors may be associated with a culture of bullying and the management style of the supervisors. An authoritative management style, specifically, often includes bullying behaviours, which can make subordinates fearful and allow supervisors to bolster their authority over others.\n\nOn the other hand, some researchers suggest that bullying behaviours can be a positive force for performance in the workplace. Workplace bullying may contribute to organizational power and control.\n\nHowever, if an organization wishes to discourage bullying in the workplace, strategies and policies must be put into place to dissuade and counter bullying behavior. Lack of monitoring or of punishment/corrective action will result in an organizational culture that supports/tolerates bullying.\n\nIn addition to supervisor – subordinate bullying, bullying behaviours also occur between colleagues. Peers can be either the target or perpetrator. If workplace bullying happens among the co-workers, witnesses will typically choose sides, either with the target or the perpetrator. Perpetrators usually \"win\" since witnesses do not want to be the next target. This outcome encourages perpetrators to continue their bullying behaviour. In addition, the sense of the injustice experienced by a target might lead that person to become another perpetrator who bullies other colleagues who have less power than they do, thereby proliferating bullying in the organization.\n\nMaarit Varitia, a workplace bullying researcher, found that 20% of interviewees who experienced workplace bullying attributed their being targeted to their differences from others.\n\nThe third relationship in the workplace is between employees and customers. Although less frequent, such cases play a significant role in the efficiency of the organization. Overly stressed or distressed employees may be less able to perform optimally and can impact the quality of service overall.\n\nThe fourth relationship in the workplace is between the organization or system and its employees. An article by Andreas Liefooghe (2012) notes that many employees describe their employer as a \"bully.\"\n\nThese cases, the issue is not simply an organizational culture or environmental factors facilitating bullying, but bullying-like behaviour by an employer against an employee. Tremendous power imbalances between an organization and its employees enables the employer to \"legitimately exercise\" power (e.g., by monitoring and controlling employees) in a manner consistent with bullying.\n\nAlthough the terminology of bullying traditionally implies an interpersonal relationship between the perpetrator and target, organizations' or other collectives' actions can constitute bullying both by definition and in their impacts on targets. However, while defining bullying as an interpersonal phenomenon is considered legitimate, classifying incidences of employer exploitation, retaliation, or other abuses of power against an employee as a form of bullying is often not taken as seriously.\n\nBullying is seen to be prevalent in organizations where employees and managers feel that\nthey have the support, or at least the implicit blessing of senior managers to carry on their abusive\nand bullying behaviour. Furthermore, new managers will quickly come to view this form of behaviour as\nacceptable and normal if they see others get away with it and are even rewarded for it.\n\nWhen bullying happens at the highest levels, the effects may be far reaching. People may be bullied irrespective of their organizational status or rank, including senior managers, which indicates the possibility of a negative domino effect, where bullying may cascade downwards, as the targeted supervisors might offload their own aggression onto their subordinates. In such situations, a bullying scenario in the boardroom may actually threaten the productivity of the entire organisation.\n\nResearch investigating the acceptability of the bullying behaviour across different cultures (e.g.g Power et al., 2013) clearly shows that culture matters here. One's culture affects the perception of the acceptable behaviour. \nOne's national background also influences the prevalence of workplace bullying (Harvey et al., 2009; Hoel et al., 1999; Lutgen-Sandvik et al., 2007).\n\nHumane orientation is negatively associated with the acceptability of bullying for WRB (Work related bullying).\nPerformance orientation is positively associated with the acceptance of bullying. Future orientation is negatively associated with the acceptability of bullying. A culture of femininity suggests that individuals who live and work in this kind of culture tend to value interpersonal relationships to a greater degree.\n\nThree broad dimensions have been mentioned in relation to workplace bullying: power distance; masculinity versus femininity; and individualism versus collectivism (Lutgen-Sandvik et al., 2007).\n\nIn Confucian Asia, which has a higher performance orientation than Latin America and Sub-Saharan Africa, bullying may be seen as an acceptable price to pay for performance. The value Latin America holds for personal connections with employees and the higher humane orientation of Sub-Saharan Africa may help to explain their distaste for bullying. A culture of individualism in the US implies competition, which may increase the likelihood of workplace bullying situations.\n\nAshforth discussed potentially destructive sides of leadership and identified what he referred to as petty tyrants, i.e., leaders who exercise a tyrannical style of management, resulting in a climate of fear in the workplace. Partial or intermittent negative reinforcement can create an effective climate of fear and doubt. When employees get the sense that bullies \"get away with it,\" a climate of fear may be the result. Several studies have confirmed a relationship between bullying, on the one hand, and an autocratic leadership and an authoritarian way of settling conflicts or dealing with disagreements, on the other. An authoritarian style of leadership may create a climate of fear, where there is little or no room for dialogue and where complaining may be considered futile.\n\nIn a study of public-sector union members, approximately one in five workers reported having considered leaving the workplace as a result of witnessing bullying taking place. Rayner explained these figures by pointing to the presence of a climate of fear in which employees considered reporting to be unsafe, where bullies had \"got away with it\" previously despite management knowing of the presence of bullying.\n\nThe workplace bully is often expert at knowing how to work the system. They can spout all the current management buzzwords about supportive management but basically use it as a cover. By keeping their abusive behaviour hidden, any charges made by individuals about his or her bullying will always come down to your word against his. They may have a \"kiss up kick down\" personality, wherein they are always highly cooperative, respectful, and caring when talking to upper management but the opposite when it comes to their relationship with those whom they supervise. Bullies tend to ingratiate themselves to their bosses while intimidating subordinates. They may be socially popular with others in management, including those who will determine\ntheir fate. Often, a workplace bully will have mastered \"kiss up kick down\" tactics that hide their abusive side from superiors who review their performance.\n\nAs a consequence of this \"kiss up kick down\" strategy: \n\nThe most typical reactions to workplace bullying are to do with the survival instinct – \"fight or flight\" – and\nthese are probably a victim's healthier responses to bullying. Flight is a legitimate and valid response to bullying. It is very common, especially in organizations in which upper management cannot or will not deal with the bullying. In hard economic times, however, flight may not be an option, and fighting may be the only choice.\n\nFighting the bullying can require near heroic action, especially if the bullying targets just one or two individuals. It can also be a difficult challenge. There are some times when confrontation is called for. First, there is always a chance that the bully boss is labouring under the impression that this is the way to get things done and does not recognize the havoc being wrought on subordinates.\n\nWith some variations, the following typology of workplace bullying behaviours has been adopted by a number of academic researchers. The typology uses five different categories.\n\n\nResearch by the Workplace Bullying Institute, suggests that the following are the 25 most common workplace bullying tactics:\n\nAccording to Bassman, common abusive workplace behaviours are:\n\nAccording to Hoel and Cooper, common abusive workplace behaviours are:\nAbusive cyberbullying in the workplace can have serious socioeconomic and psychological consequences on the victim. Workplace cyberbullying can lead to sick leave due to depression which in turn can lead to loss of profits for the organisation.\n\nSeveral aspects of academia, such as the generally decentralized nature of academic institutions and the particular recruitment and career procedures, lend themselves to the practice of bullying and discourage its reporting and mitigation.\n\nBullying has been identified as prominent in blue collar jobs including on the oil rigs, and in mechanical areas and machine shops, warehouses and factories. It is thought that intimidation and fear of retribution cause decreased incident reports, which, in the socioeconomic and cultural milieu of such industries, would likely lead to a vicious circle. This is often used in combination with manipulation and coercion of facts to gain favour among higher ranking administrators.\n\nA culture of bullying is common in information technology (IT), leading to high sickness rates, low morale, poor productivity and high staff turnover. Deadline-driven project work and stressed-out managers take their toll on IT workers.\n\nBullying in the medical profession is common, particularly of student or trainee doctors. It is thought that this is at least in part an outcome of conservative traditional hierarchical structures and teaching methods in the medical profession which may result in a bullying cycle.\n\nBullying has been identified as being particularly prevalent in the nursing profession although the reasons are not clear. It is thought that relational aggression (psychological aspects of bullying such as gossiping and intimidation) are relevant. Relational aggression has been studied amongst girls but not so much amongst adult women.\n\nSchool teachers are commonly the subject of bullying but they are also sometimes the originators of bullying within a school environment.\n\nBullying in the legal profession is believed to be more common than in some other professions. It is believed that its adversarial, hierarchical tradition contributes towards this. Women, trainees and solicitors who have been qualified for five years or less are more impacted, as are ethnic minority lawyers and lesbian, gay and bisexual lawyers.\n\nBullying exists to varying degrees in the military of some countries, often involving various forms of hazing or abuse by higher members of the military hierarchy.\n\nBullying can be common in volunteering settings. For example, one study found bullying to be the most significant factor of complaints amongst volunteers \n. Volunteers often do not have access to protections available to paid employees, so while laws may indicate that bullying is a violation of rights, volunteers may have no means to address it.\n\nTim Field suggested that workplace bullying takes these forms:\n\nAdult bullying can come in an assortment of forms. There are about five distinctive types of adult bullies. A narcissistic bully is described as a self-centred person whose egotism is frail and possesses the need to put others down. An impulsive bully is someone who acts on bullying based on stress or being upset at the moment. A physical bully uses physical injury and the threat of harm to abuse their victims, while a verbal bully uses demeaning and cynicism to debase their victims. Lastly, a secondary adult bully is portrayed as a person that did not start the initial bullying but participates in afterwards to avoid being bullied themselves (\"Adult Bullying\"). \n\nWorkplace bullying is reported to be far more prevalent than perhaps commonly thought. For some reason, workplace bullying seems to be particularly widespread in healthcare organizations; 80% of nurses report experiencing workplace bullying. Similar to the school environment for children, the work environment typically places groups of adult peers together in a shared space on a regular basis. In such a situation, social interactions and relationships are of great importance to the function of the organizational structure and in pursuing goals. The emotional consequences of bullying put an organization at risk of losing victimized employees. Bullying also contributes to a negative work environment, is not conducive to necessary cooperation and can lessen productivity at various levels. Bullying in the workplace is associated with negative responses to stress. The ability to manage emotions, especially emotional stress, seems to be a consistently important factor in different types of bullying. The workplace in general can be a stressful environment, so a negative way of coping with stress or an inability to do so can be particularly damning. Workplace bullies may have high social intelligence and low emotional intelligence (EI). In this context, bullies tend to rank high on the social ladder and are adept at influencing others. The combination of high social intelligence and low empathy is conducive to manipulative behaviour, such that Hutchinson (2013) describes workplace bullying to be. In working groups where employees have low EI, workers can be persuaded to engage in unethical behaviour. With the bullies' persuasion, the work group is socialized in a way that rationalizes the behaviour, and makes the group tolerant or supportive of the bullying. Hutchinson & Hurley (2013) make the case that EI and leadership skills are both necessary to bullying intervention in the workplace, and illustrates the relationship between EI, leadership and reductions in bullying. EI and ethical behaviour among other members of the work team have been shown to have a significant impact on ethical behaviour of nursing teams. Higher EI is linked to improvements in the work environment and is an important moderator between conflict and reactions to conflict in the workplace. The self-awareness and self-management dimensions of EI have both been illustrated to have strong positive correlations with effective leadership and the specific leadership ability to build healthy work environments and work culture.\n\nAbusive supervision overlaps with workplace bullying in the workplace context. Research suggests that 75% of workplace bullying incidents are perpetrated by hierarchically superior agents. Abusive supervision differs from related constructs such as supervisor bullying and undermining in that it does not describe the intentions or objectives of the supervisor.\n\nA power and control model has been developed for the workplace, divided into the following categories:\n\nWorkplace mobbing overlaps with workplace bullying. The concept originated from the study of animal behaviour. It concentrates on bullying by a group.\n\nWorkplace bullying overlaps to some degree with workplace incivility but tends to encompass more intense and typically repeated acts of disregard and rudeness. Negative spirals of increasing incivility between organizational members can result in bullying, but isolated acts of incivility are not conceptually bullying despite the apparent similarity in their form and content. In case of bullying, the intent of harm is less ambiguous, an unequal balance of power (both formal and informal) is more salient, and the target of bullying feels threatened, vulnerable and unable to defend himself or herself against negative recurring actions.\n\nIn 2005, psychologists Belinda Board and Katarina Fritzon at the University of Surrey, UK, interviewed and gave personality tests to high-level British executives and compared their profiles with those of criminal psychiatric patients at Broadmoor Hospital in the UK. They found that three out of eleven personality disorders were actually more common in executives than in the disturbed criminals. They were:\n\nThey described these business people as successful psychopaths and the criminals as unsuccessful psychopaths.\n\nAccording to leading leadership academic Manfred F.R. Kets de Vries, it seems almost inevitable these days that there will be some personality disorders in a senior management team.\n\nIndustrial/organizational psychology research has also examined the types of bullying that exist among business professionals and the prevalence of this form of bullying in the workplace as well as ways to measure bullying empirically.\n\nNarcissism, lack of self-regulation, lack of remorse and lack of conscience have been identified as traits displayed by bullies. These traits are shared with psychopaths, indicating that there is some theoretical\ncross-over between bullies and psychopaths. Bullying is used by corporate psychopaths as a tactic to humiliate subordinates. Bullying is also used as a tactic to scare, confuse and disorient those who may be a threat to the activities of the corporate psychopath Using meta data analysis on hundreds of UK research papers, Boddy concluded that 36% of bullying incidents were caused by the presence of corporate psychopaths. According to Boddy there are two types of bullying:\n\nA corporate psychopath uses instrumental bullying to further their goals of promotion and power as the result of causing confusion and divide and rule.\n\nPeople with high scores on a psychopathy rating scale are more likely to engage in bullying, crime and drug use than other people. Hare and Babiak noted that about 29% of corporate psychopaths are also bullies. Other research has also shown that people with high scores on a psychopathy rating scale were more likely to engage in bullying, again indicating that psychopaths tend to be bullies in the workplace.\n\nA workplace bully or abuser will often have issues with social functioning. These types of people often have psychopathic traits that are difficult to identify in the hiring and promotion process. These individuals often lack anger management skills and have a distorted sense of reality. Consequently, when confronted with the accusation of abuse, the abuser is not aware that any harm was done.\n\nIn 2007, researchers Catherine Mattice and Brian Spitzberg at San Diego State University, USA, found that narcissism revealed a positive relationship with bullying. Narcissists were found to prefer indirect bullying tactics (such as withholding information that affects others' performance, ignoring others, spreading gossip, constantly reminding others of mistakes, ordering others to do work below their competence level, and excessively monitoring others' work) rather than direct tactics (such as making threats, shouting, persistently criticizing, or making false allegations). The research also revealed that narcissists are highly motivated to bully, and that to some extent, they are left with feelings of satisfaction after a bullying incident occurs.\n\nAccording to Namie, Machiavellians manipulate and exploit others to advance their perceived personal agendas but he emphasizes that they are not mentally ill. They do not have a personality disorder, schizophrenia and neither are they psychopaths. In his view, Machiavellianism represents the core of workplace bullying.\n\nAccording to Gary and Ruth Namie, as well as Tracy, et al., workplace bullying can harm the health of the targets of bullying. Organizations are beginning to take note of workplace bullying because of the costs to the organization in terms of the health of their employees.\n\nAccording to scholars at The Project for Wellness and Work-Life at Arizona State University, \"workplace bullying is linked to a host of physical, psychological, organizational, and social costs.\" Stress is the most predominant health effect associated with bullying in the workplace. Research indicates that workplace stress has significant negative effects that are correlated to poor mental health and poor physical health, resulting in an increase in the use of \"sick days\" or time off from work (Farrell & Geist-Martin, 2005).\n\nThe negative effects of bullying are so severe that posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and even suicide are not uncommon. Tehrani found that one in 10 targets experience PTSD, and that 44% of her respondents experienced PTSD similar to that of battered women and victims of child abuse. Matthiesen and Einarsen found that up to 77% of targets experience PTSD.\n\nIn addition, co-workers who witness workplace bullying can also have negative effects, such as fear, stress, and emotional exhaustion. Those who witness repetitive workplace abuse often choose to leave the place of employment where the abuse took place. Workplace bullying can also hinder the organizational dynamics such as group cohesion, peer communication, and overall performance.\n\nAccording to the 2012 survey conducted by Workplace Bullying Institute (516 respondents), Anticipation of next negative event is the most common psychological symptom of workplace bullying reported by 80%. Panic attacks afflict 52%. Half (49%) of targets reported being diagnosed with clinical depression. Sleep disruption, loss of concentration, mood swings, and pervasive sadness and insomnia were more common (ranging from 77% to 50%). Nearly three-quarters (71%) of targets sought treatment from a physician. Over half (63%) saw a mental health professional for their work-related symptoms. Respondents reported other symptoms that can be exacerbated by stress: migraine headaches (48%), irritable bowel disorder (37%), chronic fatigue syndrome (33%) and sexual dysfunction (27%).\n\nSeveral studies have attempted to quantify the cost of bullying to an organization.\n\nResearch by Dr. Dan Dana has shown organizations suffer a large financial cost by not accurately managing conflict and bullying type behaviours. He has developed a tool to assist with calculating the cost of conflict. In addition, researcher Tamara Parris discusses how employers need to be more attentive in managing various discordant behaviours in the workplace, such as, bullying, as it not only creates a financial cost to the organization, but also erodes the company's human resources assets.\n\nWorkplace bullying is known in some Asian countries as:\n\n\n\nWorkplace depression can occur in many companies of various size and profession, and can have negative effects on positive profit growth (McTernan, Dollard & LaMontagne, 2013). Stress factors that are unique to one's working environment, such as bullying from co-workers or superiors and poor social support for high pressure occupations, can build over time and create an inefficient work behavior in a depressed individual (Evan-Lack & Knapp, 2014). In addition, inadequate or negative communication techniques can further drive an employee towards feeling of being disconnected from the company's mission and goals (Hidzir, et al., 2017). One way that companies can combat the destructive consequences associated with employee depression is to offer more support for counseling and consider bringing in experts to educate staff on the consequences of bullying. Ignoring the problem of depression and decreased workplace performance is creating an unsustainable path towards intergroup conflict and lasting feelings of disillusionment (Fischer, et al., 2014). \nReferences:\nEvans-Lacko, S., & Knapp, M. (2014). Importance of Social and Cultural Factors for Attitudes, Disclosure and Time off Work for Depression: Findings from a Seven Country European Study on Depression in the Workplace. Plos ONE, 9(3), 1-10. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0091053, referenced in Week 2.\nFischer, S., Wiemer, A., Diedrich, L., Moock, J., & Rössler, W. (2014). Hell Is Other People? Gender and Interactions with Strangers in the Workplace Influence a Person's Risk of Depression. Plos ONE, 9(7), 1-9. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0103501, references in Week 3.\nHidzir, N. '., Jaafar, M., Jalali, A., & Dahalan, N. (2017). An Exploratory Study on the Relationship between the Personal Factors of the Perpetrator and Workplace Bullying. Jurnal Pengurusan, 49105-121.\nMcTernan, W. P., Dollard, M. F., & LaMontagne, A. D. (2013). Depression in the workplace: An economic cost analysis of depression-related productivity loss attributable to job strain and bullying. Work & Stress, 27(4), 321-338. doi:10.1080/02678373.2013.846948, referenced in Week 2.\n"}
