{"id": "14452587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14452587", "title": "Account manager", "text": "Account manager\n\nAn account manager is a person who works for a company and is responsible for the management of sales and relationships with particular customers. An account manager maintains the company's existing relationships with a client or group of clients, so that they will continue using the company for business. The account manager does not manage the daily running of the account itself. They manage the relationship with the client of the account(s) they are assigned to. Generally, a client will remain with one account manager throughout the duration of hiring the company. Account managers serve as the interface between the customer service and the sales team in a company. They are assigned a company's existing client accounts. The purpose of being assigned particular clients is to create long term relationships with the portfolio of assigned clients. The account manager serves to understand the customer's demands, plan how to meet these demands, and generate sales for the company as a result.\n\nKey accounts provide the most business because they contain a small number of clients which contribute a large portion of the company's sales. According to research, sales from a company's key accounts have increased from 23% in 1975 to 60% currently.\n\nThe responsibilities of an account manager can vary depending on the industry they work in, size of the company and nature of the business. Each customer account can vary in demands and an account manager may work with brand managers for one account and a media department for another. Account managers usually report directly to the account director or agency director of the activity and status of accounts and transactions. An account manager may also manage a single account or a variety of accounts depending on the requirement of the company. Although the responsibility can vary between companies and between accounts, there are a shared set of common responsibilities which are as follows:\n\n\nThere are situations in which an account manager, for example in advertising firms, is responsible for more than one account and therefore looks after multiple clients. When account locations do not overlap the account manager can be placed at the divisional, district, or territory level. When a sales team has a senior sales manager, the account manager coordinates sales accounts from other departments or specialties. In this scenario, the sales team will work under the direct supervision of influencers and deciders instead of with a buyer.\n\n\nGlobal account managers and national account managers may work together in a hierarchical or matrix structure. The trend is to move responsibility for the major key accounts to the global level.\n\nKey account manager is assigned to a company headquarters to oversee the account team assigned to a particular account. Key account management includes sales but also includes planning and managing the full relationship between a business and its most important customers. An account manager who works in this role will engage in a variety of tasks including project management, coordination, strategic planning, relationship management, negotiation, leadership and innovative development of opportunities, and keeping record of transaction of sale and purchase goods. The tasks may include working with product design and application, logistics, sales support, and marketing.\n\nThe basic assumption for a key account management model is the correct classification of the key accounts. A basic model often used in the period of 1950-1970 was the classification model of Webster. This model has been adapted by Milman and Wilson into a two-dimensional model and was paramount in the period of 1970-1990. Bensaou has tested this model empirically by his research of carmakers in the United States and Japan and made revisions. De Blick synthesized the adaptations into the 4S-model, a key account classification model. By the late 1990s, key account management spread to most B2B (business-to-business) models.\n\nAccount managers can work for small or large companies either corporate, financial, retail, or government for instance. Any company with a specific clients they conduct business with, can employ an account manager. Typical employers can be: \n\nAccount managers usually work in an office setting and can work more than 40 hours weekly. Travel is usually included in the job description. National or global account managers will very likely experience extra travel.\n\nAlthough personality and an aptitude for sales is key, a degree in business, marketing, or related field is typically required and depending on the nature of the account, a background in marketing or media studies may be preferred. Due to each company having different requirements, it is important to obtain information from each potential company of employment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32797209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32797209", "title": "BRFplus", "text": "BRFplus\n\nBRFplus (Business Rule Framework plus) is a business rule management system (BRMS) offered by SAP AG. BRFplus is part of the SAP NetWeaver ABAP stack. Therefore, all SAP applications that are based on SAP NetWeaver can access BRFplus within the boundaries of an SAP system. However, it is also possible to generate web services so that BRFplus rules can also be offered as a service in a SOA landscape, regardless of the software platform used by the service consumers.\n\nBRFplus development started as a supporting tool that was part of SAP Business ByDesign, an ERP solution targeted at small and medium size companies. By that time, the tool was called “Formula and Derivation Tool” (FDT). Later on, it was decided to maintain BRFplus on those codelines that serve as the basis for SAP Business Suite. With that, business rules that have been created for Business ByDesign can easily be taken over in a full-size SAP system where they are ready for use without any changes.\n\nBRFplus offers a unified modeling and runtime environment for business rules that addresses both technical users (programmers, system administrators) as well as business users who take care of operational business processes (like procurement, bidding, tax form validation, etc.). The different requirements and usage scenarios of the different target groups can be covered with the help of the SAP authorization system and a user interface that can be individually customized.\n\nBeing integrated into SAP NetWeaver, BRFplus-based applications can look at, and model, business rules from a strictly business-oriented perspective, rather than starting with the underlying technical artifacts. This is because the integration allows for direct access to the business objects available in the SAP dictionary (like customer , supplier, material, bill, etc.).\n\nIn addition to the predefined expression types (decision table, decision tree, formula, database access, loops, etc.) and actions (sending e-mails, triggering a workflow, etc.), BRFplus can be extended by custom expression types. Also, direct calls of function modules as well as ABAP OO class methods are supported so that the entire range of the ABAP programming language is available for solving business tasks.\n\nBRFplus comes with an optional versioning mechanism. Versioning can be switched on and off for individual objects as well as for entire applications. Versioned business rules are needed in certain use cases for legal reasons, but they also allow for simulating the system behavior as it would have been at a particular point in time.\n\nOnce the rule objects are in a consistent state and active, the system automatically generates ABAP OO classes that encapsulate the functional scope of the underlying rule object. This is done on an on-demand base and speeds up processing.\n\nThe execution of functions as well as of single expressions can be simulated. The processing log of the simulation is useful for checking the implementation and for investigating problems.\n\nBRFplus applications can be exported and imported as an XML file. This is an easy way of creating a data backup. XML files can also be used for deploying rule applications throughout the company.\n\nThe application object serves as a container for all the BRFplus objects that have been assembled to solve a particular business task. It is possible to define certain default settings on application level that are inherited by all objects that are created in the scope of that application.\n\nA function is used to connect a business application with the rule processing framework of BRFplus. The calling business application passes input values to the function which are then processed by the expressions and rulesets that are associated with the called function. The calculated result is then returned to the calling business application.\n\n\nA ruleset is a container for an arbitrary number of rule objects which in turn carry out the necessary calculations with the help of assigned expressions and actions. Instead of assigning an expression to a function, it is also possible to assign any number of rulesets to a function. When the function is called, all assigned rulesets are subsequently processed.\n\nBRFplus supports elementary data objects (text, number, boolean, time point, amount, quantity) as well as structures and tables. Structures can be nested. For all types of data objects it is possible to reference data objects that reside in the data dictionary of the backend system. With that, a BRFplus data object does not only inherit the type definition of the referenced object but can also access associated data like domain value lists or object documentation.\n\nWith catalogs, it is possible to define business-specific subsets of the rule objects that reside in the system. This is helpful for hiding the complexity of a rule system, thus improving usability.\n\nObject filters are used by system administrators to ensure that for selected users, only a predefined subset of object types is visible. This is useful to enforce access rights as well as modeling policies.\n\nBRFplus is positioned as the successor product of an older business rule solution known as BRF (Business Rule Framework). For a longer transition phase, both solutions exist in parallel. However, an increasing number of SAP applications that used to be based on BRF are constantly migrating to BRFplus.\n\nWhile BRFplus supports business rules for applications based on the SAP NetWeaver ABAP stack, SAP is offering another product named SAP NetWeaver Business Rules Management (BRM). BRM supports business rule modeling for the SAP NetWeaver Java stack. Both products do not compete. They are available in parallel and can be used in a collaborative approach to deal with use cases where both technology stacks are used in parallel. BRFplus comes with a special expression type that helps bridging the gap between the two different technologies.\n\nBRFplus has been delivered to the public with SAP NetWeaver 7.0 Enhancement Package 1 for the first time. Being part of SAP NetWeaver, the usage of BRFplus is covered by the \"SAP NetWeaver Foundation for Third Party Applications\" license, with no additional costs.\n\nCarsten Ziegler, Thomas Albrecht: BRFplus – Business Rule Management for ABAP Applications. Galileo Press 2011. \n\n"}
{"id": "43330191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43330191", "title": "Bill of IT", "text": "Bill of IT\n\nBill of IT is an exhaustive list of IT assets and services owned by a company. The bill displays a breakdown of all the IT assets and services in relation to various items.The bill is often used by companies as a chargeback and showback tool because it shows the relation between specific service/asset and employee, cost center, department, location, line of business, etc. It allows companies to see what they own and how their resources are allocated in the organizations. Most bills of IT show the following element (among other details):\n\n\nUltimately, the goal of a bill of IT is to clarify IT investments in an organization by presenting a detailed view of IT expenses.\n"}
{"id": "38728989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38728989", "title": "Board of Investment (Mauritius)", "text": "Board of Investment (Mauritius)\n\nThe Board of Investment (BOI) is the national investment promotion agency of the Government of Mauritius with the mandate to promote and facilitate investment in the country. It is the first point of contact for investors exploring business opportunities in Mauritius and the region. BOI also assists investors in the growth, nurturing and diversification of their business.\n\nWith a view to facilitating the implementation of investment projects and, more importantly, to continuously improve the investment and business climate, BOI works in close collaboration with Government bodies, institutions and private sector companies. Mauritius capitalized on the sale of strategic coastal land to foreigners through the Property Development Scheme programmes of the Board of Investment.\n\nBOI has an important role of policy advocacy to continuously improve the competitiveness of Mauritius.\n\nThe Board of Investment accompanies investors looking at opportunities in Africa.\n\nThe Board of Investment (BOI) has been awarded the prestigious ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Certification on 3 December 2013.\n"}
{"id": "2392115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2392115", "title": "Business communication", "text": "Business communication\n\nBusiness communication is information sharing between people within and outside an organization that is performed for the commercial benefit of the organization. It can also be defined as relaying of information within a business by its people.\n\nBusiness communication (or simply \"communication,\" in a business context) encompasses topics such as marketing, brand management, customer relations, consumer behavior, advertising, public relations, corporate communication, community engagement, reputation management, interpersonal communication, employee engagement, and event management. It is closely related to the fields of professional communication and technical communication.\n\nMedia channels for business communication include the Internet, print media, radio, television, ambient media, and word of mouth.\n\nBusiness communication can also be said to be the way employees, management and administration communicate in order to reach to their organizational goals.\n\nBusiness communication is a common topic included in the curricular of Undergraduate and Master's degree programs at many colleges and universities.\n\nMethods of business communication include: \n\n"}
{"id": "6501451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501451", "title": "Business engineering", "text": "Business engineering\n\nBusiness engineering (BE) is the development and implementation of business solutions, from business model to business processes and organizational structure to information systems and information technology (cf.).\n\nBusiness engineering focuses on developing innovative business solutions that take a sociotechnical systems (STS) approach. The STS approach addresses an enterprise as a total system in the same manner as an airplane system or an industrial facility, since they possess a similar level of complexity.\n\nBusiness engineering combines knowledge in the fields of business administration, Industrial Engineering, as well as information technology and connects it to all aspects of transformation, from means of presentation to process models to cultural and political considerations (cf. Baumöl/Jung).\n\nBusiness engineering focuses on challenges arising from the transformation of the industrial society into an information society (cf. Winter), that is the digitization of enterprises, economy, administration and society. Through the ongoing consumerization digital services for individuals have also become a crucial part of research (cf. Hess/Legner). Because of the major importance of information technology, business engineering is often held to be a subfield of Business Informatics, although it is also sometimes regarded as a form of Organization Development for its emphasis on Change Management.\n\nEngineering Management is a very close discipline which overlaps significantly with Business Engineering; the main differences are that Industrial Engineering focuses primarily on the goods sector (less on services), on technical systems and the interface between those systems as well as the users from a production point of view.\n\nÖsterle/Blessing characterize business engineering as follows:\n\n\nAt the Business Engineering Forum in St. Gallen, experts from science and business annually discuss new developments within the discipline.\n\nThe ARIS concept (cf. Scheer) distinguishes between views and levels of description. The views are the organizational, data, performance, functional and control view of processes. For every description view there are three distinct levels of description. These are the technical concept, the data processing concept and the implementation level.\nThrough this framework, specific methods can be used to describe individual elements of the model. Those methods help depict and improve business processes, from fundamental business questions to the implementation on the IT level.\n\nThe St. Gallen approach to Business Engineering comprises fundamentals and methods for different kinds of transformation projects. It distinguishes between the design level strategies, organization and information systems within the transformation process and, thus, reduces the complexity of the transformation.\n\n\nThe St. Gallen approach to Business Engineering has already been applied in more than 1.000 consultancy projects (S&T 2008). Moreover, it receives support from renowned software tools such as the ARIS toolset (Scheer 2001, S. 18), ADOben (Aier et al. 2008) or Semtalk.\n\nThe (cf. Ferstl/Sinz) provides a framework for the conceptual modeling of system types. The modeling concept differentiates three levels of such systems: The strategic business plan; the operational business process models which focus on process types; and the specifications for implementing application systems. These levels can also be regarded as constituting perspectives on the system. They correspond to the external, internal, and resource perspectives. Subsequently, the levels of the model undergo a further conceptual division according to the organizational architecture, the process model, the principles of coordination or the object system.\n\nThe Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF) (cf. Weinberger) presents a structure for organizational architectures which offers a holistic approach to designing, planning, implementing and maintaining information architectures and, thus, covers an important section, albeit not the entire scope, of BE. \nWhen applying TOGAF, the enterprise architecture is usually modeled in the three domains: business architecture, information systems architecture (consisting of application architecture and data architecture), and technology architecture.\n\nVan Meel and Sol (1996) define business engineering as an „integral design of organizational architectures and information systems\". Dynamic modeling as well as simulation constitute the key components of their approach.\n\nWith a specific focus on the demands of small business, The3rdgears' Business Engineering system has proven to be effective and relatively easy to implement for small to medium-sized businesses. Unique in that it involves the use of a specialised customisable software platform that integrates key business structures and operational performance processes. While The3rdgear system encapsulates the key areas of Strategy, Business Process, Technology and People, it has been proven to provide unusually consistent, predictable outcomes for small businesses due to the SME specific design of its improvement processes and software applications. This, combined with its ease of use for business owners and managers has made The3rdgear model popular within the SME marktet place.\n\nThere has been another notion and approach put forth since 2005 by the Institute of Business Engineers (IBE) while sharing the common vision and advocacy of multi-disciplinary and holistic business view, and targeting the addressed issues in business practice and education.\n\nThe IBE put forth some principles and framework addressing the modeling of the business in a holistic, concise and structural manner. The model abstracts distinct, clearly defined key elements, processes, functions and relations from the complex, vague and loosely coupled business concepts. With the emphasis of holistic and integrative system view, it helps structurally and concisely capture a specific circumstance of business in four tiers, which are in turn composed of smaller constituents, for strategic planning and implementation:\n\n\nFurthermore, to a certain extent, this model is claimed to provide a generic framework for filling the gap of other business engineering approaches in specifying business circumstances, serving as one of key pieces of puzzle in the full picture of business engineering.\n\nIn France, Télécom École de Management (or Telecom Business School) offers a master's degree in International Business Engineering that contains business administration, marketing, economics, finances, and IT.\n\nIn Belgium, there are numerous institutions offering bachelor and master programs in business engineering, among them the Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management (Université Libre de Bruxelles and Vrije Universiteit Brussel), the ICHEC Brussels Management School, the Louvain School of Management (Université catholique de Louvain, Université de Namur), the HEC Management School - University of Liège, the KU Leuven, the Ghent University, the University of Antwerp and the University of Hasselt. The programs contain both management methodology, business administration, economics, mathematics, and technical elements and computer science.\n\nIn Finland, the University of Oulu offers a diploma program in Business Engineering for which a master's degree in Engineering is required.\n\nIn Mexico, there are two main colleges that offers a professional Business Engineering program Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education (ITESM) seek the following competencies:\n\nIn the other hand the Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM) program contains business administration, mathematics, marketing, economics, finances, and IT and computer science. Students focus in entrepreneurship and business consulting.\n\nIn Germany, the Steinbeis University offers a master’s program in Business Engineering. The contents of the degree course held in English include, similar to Belgium, management methodologies as well as fundamentals of business administration and economics. As in Finland, an academic degree in Engineering is required in order to be eligible for admission.\n\nIn Switzerland, professionals can receive the degree of Executive MBA in Business Engineering at the University of St. Gallen or at the PHW Hochschule Wirtschaft Bern. The program at the University of St. Gallen lasts 18 months and includes two modules in the USA (Santa Clara University) and China (Shanghai Jiao Tong University) where students learn about the local dynamics, culture and differences in management methods compared to Europe. The program’s main focus lies on providing practical knowledge in the areas of business strategy/business model, business processes/organizational structure, information systems/information technology, and the political and cultural dimensions of economic activity. The systematic exchange of experience among the students complements the educational concept. At the end of the program, the newly received Business Engineers are qualified to actively and holistically transform their businesses and take over executive positions within their organizations. To be eligible for admission, professionals must have an academic degree and about 5 years of work experience.\nThe program at the PHW Hochschule Wirtschaft Bern can be completed in 4 semesters and focuses on strategies of internationalization, technology management, business models and value added concepts, information management and systems, value-centered corporate governance and turnaround management.\n\nThe University of Chile offers a master’s program in Business Engineering (M. Sc.) since 2003. As in Germany and Belgium the program combines management theory, business administration, finance, economics, science and technology. The program consists of a theoretical as well as a practical part during which the students develop a project for an organization in the private or public sector. The program is designed to be completed in four semesters. Hundreds of projects have been developed since 2003, producing a validation of the proposed approach to design and a generation of knowledge that has been formalized and applied in new projects. Graduates are awarded with the academic degree \"Master of Science in Business Engineering\" (MBE) after taking the courses of the program and successfully completing their projects.\n\nThe University of the Pacific offers an academic degree in business engineering since 2008. The students deepen their knowledge in the three areas of Process Engineering, Project Engineering and Information Technology Engineering while additionally being able to choose from a wide variety of subjects to complement their studies, e.g. mathematics, physics, informatics, economics, philosophy, sociology etc.\n\nThe Escuela Superior de Economia y Negocios (ESEN) initiated a business engineering program for professionals in 2009 which focuses on the systems perspective, the modeling and analysis of complex relationships between resources, employees and information, as well as the integration of engineering expertise with a quantitative and qualitative business understanding. The program combines elements of different disciplines, e.g. business administration, economics, management, innovation and information technology. The career has a duration of 5 years with the possibility that in the third cycle of the 4th year, the student can study in Germany, Chile, United States and Mexico as long as your CUM is up 8.0.\n\nThe Ateneo de Naga University offers a bachelor program in business administration (B. Sc.) with the possibility to specialize in business engineering. The four-year program aims at training young technology-based founders and students who want to pursue a career in technology-related industries. Practice-oriented projects encourage the creativity and innovative energy needed to conceptualize and implement products and ideas while advancing the socio-economic development of the Bicol region at the same time. Moreover, the university maintains close relations to entrepreneurs and businessmen in order to enable the students to learn from \"best practices\".\n\nThe National University of Engineering in Nicaragua (UNI) offers the career \"System Engineer\" since the 90's, it focuses on the administrative field, organization, human resources management, production costs control, service marketing, project formulation and follow-up as well as other disciplines with the main objective of doing a correct and successful financial control at the private enterprise; it also gives the students the main skills and knowledge on informatics, design, data base management and information modeling to use the technology as a tool to solve problems at the companies and for the society. The career has a duration of 5 years with different completing options to get the degree of \"System Engineer\" or \"Ingeniero(a) en Sistemas\".\n\nThe Institute of Business Engineers (IBE) has been offering executive education programs on Business Engineering in Hong Kong SAR and China since 2008. This course is designed to establish a holistic and integrative business mindset for senior executives and to build up their reasoning logics with key business components for judging and decision making in the business environment. The Business Engineering course has also been offered as a major elective course to the non-business undergraduate programs of Sun Yat-San University and as an elective course to the MBA program of South China Normal University of GuangDong province from 2007 to 2008. Recently, the course “From CPA to CPA Plus” crafted under the principles of the Business Engineering of IBE has been offered for building up the systematic business mindset of the accounting professionals of HKICPA (Hong Kong Institute of Certified Professional Accountants) since 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29372362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29372362", "title": "Business relations", "text": "Business relations\n\nBusiness relations are connections between stakeholders in the process of businesses, such as employer–employee relationships, managers as well as outsourced business partners. The association of businesses began relationships which have been constructed through communication channels such as the likes of telephones, personal contacts, and e-mails. These types of contacts are maintained and deepened through similar channels in internal businesses and organizations.\n\nWithin the business of this era, the aim of many businesses whether small or internationally established is to develop a target to motivate all types of employees to form a professional relationship with one-another which will have many benefits to the business which will strongly lead to success. Furthermore, external business relationships are essential to any organization as it will improve the companies image, develop brand loyalty, and improve sales.\n\nThere are many different forms through which business relations are maintained. Primarily, these relations as stated previously, constructed through communication channels however face-to-face interactions and the social media are seen to be the most effective allowing people to form stronger ties. There have been many research studies suggesting that multiple modes of communication are important to build strong business relationships. Face-to-face interactions are typically the most effective due to the in-person communication aspect, as it allows people to form stronger ties. The more communication and interaction there is between two entities, the stronger the business relationship builds.\n\nMore specifically, internal business relations are important to maintain, as loyal employees can benefit the business by increasing profits. Moreover, loyal employees allow better relationships to be established with key suppliers and distributors and the business will be able to retain its customer satisfaction which will influence the service quality. Commitments of employees is therefore highly recommended for further positive influence on the business.\n\nBusiness relations are important both externally and internally. Research has shown that \"trust\" is one of the most critical factors to develop and enhance effective long-term relations. Whether its with other business networks, individuals in a partnered firm or employees within the organization; who with a strong positive relationship can increase one or more of the following; long-term stock market, employment rate, productivity, overall performance and other measures as stated, with companies that are more aware and engaged with CSR matters, leading to a better performance level. Moreover, researchers of organizational behavior stress about organizational effectiveness being linked with employee's attribution. Therefore, creating an environment with employee satisfaction will hinder and solve such disagreements and arguments between one employee to another and the data will significantly preferable.\n\nMoreover, as the business environment is constantly changing, it is causing firms to address new entrepreneurial innovative ideas that could out-stand them from the competition. Trust plays an important role in this as with developed business relations it allows one to react and initiate such innovative ideas to the business more effectively. There are two different types of trust that exists between business relations that affect one another, firstly \" interpersonal\" which refers to the individuals trust in one organization on other in the partnered organization. Secondly \" inter organizational \" which refers to members from the organization having a collective orientation or culture of trust towards a partner in a different organization.\n\nWith loyalty established internally in the organization and the employer aims and directs constant communication, the employer will form a strong relationship and bond between the employees and organizations; allowing them to feel more attached and sense commitment. This will result in a more motivated group of employees that will deliver high-quality services which is one of the key characteristics of \"social exchange\". Delivering high quality services is essential as it allows organizations to gain customer satisfaction which gives a positive impact on the firm as customer satisfaction boosts customer loyalty and future behaviors. Customers become less concerned and sensitive towards prices as by being satisfied they tend to pay and tolerate such an increase in prices which in the long-term establishes a positive reputation as well as increasing the economic performance of the firm. Therefore, loyalty is essential in order to gain a strong employee relationship which can link to having a better customer loyalty, with time resulting in a more organized business that has a good flow of communication both internally and externally.\n\nCommunication contact plays an important role in re-shaping the internal and external management in the organization. Communication cooperation internally can encourage \" processes, strategies, activities, policies and programs\" to be developed which enforce information and communication systems. This will have an effect on external relations which is considered to be rather important. Furthermore, establishing good communications at the beginning of the business between the employees, will provide the business with a positive reputation in the industry towards its rivalries and competitors in the market. Therefore, this could be constructed though the use of effective training programs and measurement systems.\n\nFocusing on the internal aspect of communications, will allow external networks to trust the business by having the right perspective on the processes which may occur. This is due to the fact that communication is vital to sustain, especially when partnering with another company; whether its through merging or just joining a particular project. Therefore, the ability of associating with the right businesses is relevant in order to keep the company more innovative; as networks allow for \" an effective transfer of information\". In addition, by gaining connections through networks; it can provide employee's, managers or owners to develop personal networks that can benefit oneself in the long term whether its towards a new entrepreneurial business plan, a project or even an incident that may occur within the business. An example is an entrepreneurial designer who used his personal connections in the industry to seek a potential supplier in China to continue developing his new business plan. This emphasizes on why obtaining and sustaining relations is beneficial for a business. Moreover, communication links with relationship marketing perfectly as both focus towards activities directed as establishing, developing and maintaining successful exchanges with customers and other constituents. (Morgan and Hunt 1994).\n\nOn the other hand, even though communication is a key concept to any business. Organizations should not fully depend on establishing only a few relations and shutting down others that may be beneficial, due to the fact that networking and developing relationships should not have limits. Engaging with new businesses frequently can provide positive change within the business by introducing new concepts and innovative ideas that keep up with the changes that take place in the industry regularly. Thus, businesses should accept some new organizations as well as keep close to old ones in order to sustain its position in the industry and adapt to the changes that take place.\n\nTo further extend, there are multiple ways of communicating within a business to improve relations whether its through technology, discussions in the office or through annual reports. More specifically, organizations are recommending the use of technological devices such a videoconferencing and teleconferencing which allows individuals to not be present at the same place but still be able to interact with one another, similarly the use of laptops and such. Owners and managers consequently highlight the importance of communication in the business, especially in large organizations as there are longer layers in the hierarchy as well as more commitment.\n\n'\"The effect of Social Media on business relationships'\"\n\nNowadays, Social Media plays an important role in establishing relationships. It is reported that there is 1.5 billion social media users globally, with at least 70% of companies using some form of social media (McKinsey Global Institute). Many connections can be constructed through organizations such as “ LinkedIn” where one can form new relations that can be beneficial in the longterm and contacts are usually made between individuals from different businesses. Moreover, the millennial generation more specifically are actively involved with social media on a daily basis and with the continuous change that is occurring in the industry, social media is essential for improving business performance and helping firms achieve a competitive advantage. In addition, (Cross and Katzenbach 2012 ) found that 90% of the information used for decision making came from informal networks rather than formal reports.\n\nBusiness relations within a small organization differs from the regular as it is a mix of both formal and informal management. However, this depends on the internal management and more specifically the owners/managers own personal preferences. Even though this style of management is seen to be less flexible, it is more beneficial towards expanding in size and profitability. Many believe that with owners/managers, having both a formal and informal approach operations will occur more efficiently; resulting with a better positive outcome causing growth, an increase in profitability and a positive reputation between other competitors in the market, which is what every small business intends to achieve. In addition, small business control more than half of the market but many are seen to fail due to poor planning and inefficient external business relations.\n\nSmall businesses external relations are essential for success, an external relationship is defined as \" a commercially oriented connected between a small business and other two organizations\". The most known types are alliances and networks, a relationship based on mutual interests and benefits as well as forming relationships within different organizations together into one. An example of forming an external relationship based on networking is engaging with a foreign organization, to increase financial gain and market share within the industry.This emphasizes the importance of forming external relationships, as this can push the business into having a more effective; higher position in the market, ahead of its competitors with greater brand awareness and recognition. Small businesses have a difficult time building good business relations as business relations is connected with such marketing performances and the need of having a good starting profit, time, planning and marketing expertise, therefore establishing strong external social ties from different organizations can strengthen the overall performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "17063370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17063370", "title": "Business war games", "text": "Business war games\n\nBusiness war gaming (Corporate war gaming) or business wargaming is an adaptation of the art of simulating moves and counter-moves in a commercial setting. Unlike military war games, or fantasy war games which can be set hundreds of years in the past, business war games are usually set in the present and are a relatively recent development, but they are growing rapidly.\n\nThe rationale for running a business war game is that it is a tool of particular value when the competitive environment is undergoing a process of change, as it allows decision makers to consider proactively how different players can react to the change, and to each other. The benefit of teams role playing competitors and developing more robust strategies is especially notable, and can be inferred from a quote such as the one below from Richard Clark, CEO of Merck and Co., who in an interview to USA Today said: \"I am a strong believer in if you’re going to develop a vision or a strategic plan for the future of a company that you have to engage the organization in doing that…it can’t be just the CEO or top 10 executives sitting in a sterile conference room.\"\".\n\nAt the Paul Merage School Of Business at University of California, Irvine the final exam for the competitive intelligence class is a war game in which the students role play various companies to try to win in the marketplace. Each year student teams have developed strategies - some of which have actually happened in the market place indicating that a war game is a very powerful predictive tool for businesss when planned properly.\n\nCurrently there are three schools of thought about business war game, depending on the underlying philosophy of their creators: \"Business is War\" war games, \"Business is a Game\" war games, and \"Business is Business\" war games. The three types have accordingly, different strengths and weaknesses, and are useful for different applications throughout business.\n\nSometimes abbreviated as 'BIW' war games, 'Business is War' games are a direct adaptation from the military war games, and envision competitors as the \"enemy\" and the goal as \"victory\" in a market \"battle\". These games are based on mathematical modeling of contestable markets, including chaos theory, random variable generation (Monte Carlo simulations), and econometric modeling of demand and supply conditions. Participants’ generated moves are fed into computer program which generates optimal solutions in the mathematical space. Not surprisingly these games come with a high price tag, and are advocated by large consulting firms which tend to work with the US military establishment.\n\n'BIG' war games regard business transactions as a game between participants with potentially conflicting goals. BIG advocates apply game theory, a branch of mathematics to business situations with the goal of finding an equilibrium, or \"stable\" solution (so called Nash equilibrium) whereby no one can further improve on the outcome. The solution can be computed over a large space of all possible (hypothetical) moves of the players. A leading proponent of this type of war games is Niall Fraser, a game theorist and the founder of a consultancy called Open Options. A variant on BIG is computer simulations’ games using simultaneous equations to solve for demand and supply equilibrium (not a game theory solution). Participants input numerical values for decisions on a wide range of business investments (in production, sales force, advertising, etc.), and receive a computer output of the equilibrium results.\n\nAlso referred to as 'BIB' regard business as neither a war nor a game. The goals and tactics of war are incompatible with business goals; competitors do not aim to defeat each other but to satisfy customers’ preferences better than others. Government precludes total victories and cooperation is as prevalent as competition. Similarly, BIB criticizes \"Business is Game\" thinking on the ground that hypothetical or generic moves are irrelevant or trivial, stable solutions are not a substitute for specific, real life practical and innovative strategies for management, and computer/mathematical simulations do not approach the complexity of competitive dynamics in real markets. Instead, BIB advocates using state-of-the-art competitor analysis techniques and real life competitive intelligence to generate an in-depth profiling of competitors through role playing. The goal of BIB is predicting most likely moves by most significant competitors or other third parties (customers, regulators) so that strategy can be pressure–tested in the most realistic setting. The creator of BIB games is Benjamin Gilad. A variation combines BIB war gaming with computer simulations. This approach, used by Mark Chussil, founder of Advanced Competitive Strategies, uses simulations to estimate the likely outcomes from moves made by a business, its competitors, and other relevant actors, across multiple scenarios. This approach allows for both competitive dynamics and quantitative analysis, at the cost of additional time to set up the war game.\n\nIn contrast to the often larger “Business is War”, “Business is a Game” and “Business is Business” war games, which all primarily deal with market level issues, Negotiation War Games are smaller in scope and only deal with business related negotiations. Even though the US military have long referred to the practice of ”War Gaming a negotiation”, the term ”Negotiation War Game” was first coined by Soren Malmborg in 2010.\n\nA \"NWG\" is a Business War Game conducted at negotiation level. I.e. A structured framework for conducting a preparatory Negotiation Simulation on a specific, upcoming negotiation.\n\nA Negotiation War Game is most often divided into three steps:\n1/ Gather Intelligence\n2/ Simulate Upcoming Negotiation\n3/ Debrief and calibrate negotiation strategy.\n\nBy adding Competitive Intelligence to the simulation, Negotiation War Gaming differentiates itself from normal mock negotiations and other training exercises. The act of gathering and including Competitive Intelligence on the forthcoming negotiation and its parties, lets participants in the Negotiation War Game gain an in-depth understanding of the negotiation itself and the negotiation parties.\n\nThe purpose of doing a Negotiation War Game is threefold; \n1/ Predicting your opponents' next move \n2/ Revealing opportunities, threats and issues \n3/ Developing and testing a calibrated negotiation strategy. \n\nEven though software applications can play an important role in the facilitation of a Role-Play Negotiation War Game, the method is inherently focused on role-play simulation. War Games can be used to prepare for virtually all two or three party negotiations. By gathering Competitive Intelligence on the actual negotiation (as well as the individuals involved) an accurate simulation can be created. A client’s employees will then become involved in the actual War Game by acting partly as the company itself, partly as the other negotiating party. Through a series of structured simulations, a tailor-made strategy can then be developed and calibrated.\n\nRole-Play Negotiation War Games are especially effective when preparing for Sales- and Procurement negotiations. Through more than 30 years of business usage and scientific research, the method has been shown to generate significantly better negotiation outcomes compared to other popular methods. (Please see Application section below for references).In 2010, 64,7% of young US Sales-Managers Role-Played their upcoming negotiations, making \"Pure Role-Play\" Negotiation War Gaming one of the most used negotiation preparation techniques in North America. \nA leading proponent and provider of these types of War Games is Outcome Simulations ApS led by Soren Malmborg. As of 2013, Outcome's Negotiation War Gaming method is taught in MBA courses on negotiation at Columbia Business School and NYU Stern School of Business.\n\nGiven the high budget requirements and long preparations time, BIW games are more appropriate for big companies' big decisions and large budgets, such as corporate games, involving top executives with considerable staff and consultant support. Corporate games are played over major portfolio decisions such as diversification and/or divestiture moves of the parent company (i.e., which acquisitions to go for, which business to get rid of), and over longer term horizons. BIW games are less appropriate for business units, or \"business\" strategy decisions, as their high price tag and extensive time required from top executives are no match for small scale games with more tailored application and flexible format. To fully understand the difference between corporate games played over corporate strategy (portfolio management) and business games played over business strategy (competitive strategy), read Michael Porter’s articles.\n\nGame theory and computer simulation games are appropriate for planning and decision support in industries in relatively stable state, known distributions of outcomes, and predictable competitors, as they are best suited for finding equilibrium solutions among a relatively large set of known variables (payoffs and moves). On the other hand, BIG games are handicapped in rapidly changing industries, markets where surprise moves by new players is a possibility, situations requiring innovative and creative approaches, and in decisions calling for specific practical ideas rather than more generic moves (such as raise, stay or lower prices by x%). Decision makers looking at war gaming should also be minded of game theory’s own lack of empirical support, as people seem to irrationally follow behaviors that do not result in their best outcome.\n\nBusiness war games employing role-playing and competitor analytical techniques are most beneficial in business strategy at the business unit, market, brands, product and project levels. BIB games have been applied with great success to new product launches, offensive and defensive moves against specific competitors (whose response is analyzed using the advanced competitor analysis techniques), in organizational development’s (training the next generation executive cadre) \"competitive landscape\" games, and in brand revival and new market entry situations. According to participants, BIB games provide touch reality-based challenge to strategies and plans that helps companies cope with uncertainty. They are less useful in conglomerate strategy as they apply to business strategy and not across unrelated industries. BIB are also more culture sensitive, and should be applied with caution in cultures where honest discussion of blindspots is less than appreciated. The methodological superiority of BIB games over other techniques received strong empirical support from a meta study on the effectivenes of predictions of competitive outcomes using \"role playing\".\n\n\"Pure Role-Play\" Negotiation War Games have shown to generate significantly better predictions of negotiation outcomes compared to other popular methods. \"Pure Role-Play\" Negotiation War Games have also been shown to ensure significantly lower prices in procurement negotiations, and greater writedowns in auditor vs. client negotiations concerning obsolete inventory. \"Pure Role-Play\" War Games have been used extensively in business negotiations. \"Pure Role-Play\" War Games are furthermore often used in politics. Negotiation War Gaming was used to prepare President Ronald Reagan for his negotiations with Gorbachev in Reykevik and Geneva in 1985 and 1986. Presidential candidate John Kerry used a Negotiation War Game to prepare for his first TV-duel with George W. Bush in 2002. Both President Barack Obama and Mitt Romney used the method prior to the 2012 presidential TV-duels. The NTC (National Training Center, Fort Irwin. Ca.) recommend that all U.S. and Canadian Army officers be trained in the method before deployment.\n\nBoard games can be used for business war games. In this case, they are war games for civilians applied with a marketing warfare analogy to a market situation. In this case, these authors talk about creative competitive intelligence.\n\nTo some, the war metaphor implicit in \"business war game\" is an accurate or useful depiction of business and competitive strategy. Others find the war metaphor potentially counterproductive. Some companies play up the war metaphor simply to encourage out-of-the-box thinking while others downplay it with terms such as \"strategy game.\"\n"}
{"id": "7497955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7497955", "title": "Chief privacy officer", "text": "Chief privacy officer\n\nThe chief privacy officer (CPO) is a senior level executive within a United States-based business or organization. \"Consumer concerns over the use of personal information, including medical data and financial information along with laws and regulations\", is one of the key reasons that the CPO role exists, as this was introduced to help keep personal information safe.\n\nThere is legislation in different sectors concerning the use of personal information. For example, in medical industry, the protection of patient medical records (e.g. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA). Another example is in the finance sector with the safeguarding of consumer financial and banking transactions (e.g. The Fair Credit Reporting Act and its Disposal Rule, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and its Safeguards Rule and Financial Privacy Rule).\n\nIn the United States, the position of chief information officer was first established at Acxiom Corporation in 1991 with the appointment of Jennifer Barrett as CPO, with the second appointment of CPO at the Internet advertising firm AllAdvantage in August 1999, when it appointed privacy lawyer Ray Everett-Church to the newly created position, starting a trend that quickly spread among major corporations, both offline and online. The role of the Chief Privacy Officer was solidified within the U.S. corporate world in November 2000 with the naming of Harriet Pearson as Chief Privacy Officer for IBM Corporation. That event prompted one influential analyst to declare, \"the chief privacy officer is a trend whose time has come.\" \n\nBy 2001, the non-profit research organization Privacy and American Business reported that a significant number of Fortune 500 firms had appointed senior executives with the title or role of Chief Privacy Officer. The growth of the Chief Privacy Officer trend was further fueled by the European Union's passage in the late 1990s of data privacy laws and regulations that included a requirement for all corporations to have an individual designated to be accountable for privacy compliance.\n\nBy 2002, the position of Chief Privacy Officer and similar privacy-related management positions were sufficiently widespread to support the creation of professional societies and trade associations to promote training and certification programs. In 2002 the largest of these organizations, the Privacy Officers Association and the Association of Corporate Privacy Officers, merged to form the International Association of Privacy Officers, which was later renamed the International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP). The IAPP holds several conferences and training seminars each year around the world, hosting association members from major global corporations and government agencies, with executives seeking certification programs in privacy management practices.\n\nSome of the key responsibilities that a CPO has to have are: being able to use business strategies and procedures and apply it to the business, being able to organize plans and lastly looking at privacy program reviews by checking and analyzing the information to ensure it is correct. They are also responsible for making sure data is secure from unauthorized users and making. They would also have to help to improve systems for auditing and monitoring, to therefore resolve any privacy issues.\n\nAs a CPO is responsible for all the privacy of the data in an organization, one major part of their job is to avoid data breaches, especially if the organization is a large corporation. However some major companies have been hacked and have data breaches.\n\nThese include:\n\nData breaches are commonly high-profile events and not only the reputation of the CPO will be affected but also the company's reputation, impacting consumer confidence.\n\nOne key quality a CPO will need to have is being good at communicating, because poor communication could lead to a leakage of data which the CPO would be accountable for. Another quality a CPO should have is staying aware of any new developments and risks in the field.\n\nThere are some major benefits to having a CPO in your organization. The first would be that they help to keep data secure, so this ensures that security of data is not compromised. Another benefit is that they help develop policies which is why \"\"30% of CPOs are attorneys\" and \"15% are in the information security department\"\". Therefore, this means that CPO can legally help to ensure that the data stays secure. In terms of what industries a CPO can be beneficial, a CPO would be favorable in almost every sector. For example, the finance sector is perhaps one of the main areas where you are dealing with consumer information. It's not just the finance sector, basically anywhere you have and store customers information, a CPO would be a good idea as they will help to ensure that customers data is safe.\n\nThere are also some drawbacks to having a CPO in your organization, the first being cost. According to payscale.com the average salary for a CPO in the United States is over 6 figures, roughly about $107,000 per year. Another drawback to having a CPO in your business would be that some may argue that it's just too much power for one person to have, especially if they are dealing with personal information.\n\n\nhttp://www.ehcca.com/presentations/HIPAA/saunders-mon.pdf\n"}
{"id": "32717006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32717006", "title": "ClearCheckbook.com", "text": "ClearCheckbook.com\n\nClearCheckbook.com is a freemium, web-based personal money management tool created by Brandon O'Brien.\n\nClearCheckbook was originally conceived as a way to reconcile bank account transactions with \"actual\" spending (a process called \"jiving\" in ClearCheckbook lingo). Since its launch in May 2006, the application has undergone three major revisions and now allows users to track bills, setup reminders and recurring transactions, create spending reports, set budgets and more. According to the reports, It is said that ClearCheckbook manages two million transactions for over 17,800 active users.\n\n"}
{"id": "18958074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18958074", "title": "Closure (business)", "text": "Closure (business)\n\nClosure is the term used to refer to the actions necessary when it is no longer necessary or possible for a business or other organization to continue to operate. Closure may be the result of a bankruptcy, where the organization lacks sufficient funds to continue operations, as a result of the proprietor of the business dying, as a result of a business being purchased by another organization (or a competitor) and shut down as superfluous, or because it is the non-surviving entity in a corporate merger. A closure may occur because the purpose for which the organization was created is no longer necessary.\n\nWhile a closure is typically of a business or a non-profit organization, any entity which is created by human beings can be subject to a closure, from a single church to a whole religion, up to and including an entire country if, for some reason, it ceases to exist.\n\nClosures are of two types, voluntary or involuntary. Voluntary closures of organizations are much rarer than involuntary ones, as, in the absence of some change making operations impossible or unnecessary, most operations will continue until something happens that causes a change requiring this situation.\n\nThe most common form of voluntary closure would be when those involved in an organization such as a social club, a band, or other non-profit organization decide to cease operating. Once the organization has paid any outstanding debts and completed any pending operations, closure may simply mean that the organization ceases to exist.\n\nIf an organization has debts that cannot be paid, it may be necessary to perform a liquidation of its assets. If there is anything left after the assets are converted to cash, in the case of a for-profit organization, the remainder is distributed to the stockholders; in the case of a non-profit, by law any remaining assets must be distributed to another non-profit.\n\nIf an organization has more debts than assets, it may have to declare bankruptcy. If the organization is viable, it may reorganizes itself as a result of the bankruptcy and continue operations. If it is not viable for the business to continue operating, then a closure occurs through a bankruptcy liquidation: its assets are liquidated, the creditors are paid from whatever assets could be liquidated, and the business ceases operations.\n\nPossibly the largest \"closure\" in history (but more closely analogous to a demerger) was the split of the Soviet Union into its constituent countries. In comparison, the end of East Germany can be considered a merger rather than a closure as West Germany assumed all of the assets and liabilities of East Germany. The end of the Soviet Union was the equivalent of a closure through a bankruptcy liquidation, because while Russia assumed most of the assets and responsibilities of the former Soviet Union, it did not assume all of them. There have been issues over who is responsible for unpaid parking tickets accumulated by motor vehicles operated on behalf of diplomatic missions operated by the former Soviet Union in other countries, as Russia claims it is not responsible for them.\n\nSeveral major business closures include the bankruptcy of the Penn Central railroad, the Enron scandals, and MCI Worldcom's bankruptcy and eventual merger into Verizon.\n"}
{"id": "20028070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20028070", "title": "Collaborative leadership", "text": "Collaborative leadership\n\nCollaborative leadership is a management practice which is focused on leadership skills across functional and organizational boundaries.\n\nThe phrase collaborative leadership first appeared in the mid-1990s in response to the twin trends of growth in strategic alliances between private corporations, and the formation of long-term public private partnership contracts to rebuild public infrastructure.\n\nKurt Lewin was first to apply cooperative system in scientific method in 1947 about individual nutrition in the United States.\n\nIn her 1994 \"Harvard Business Review\" article \"Collaborative Advantage\", Rosabeth Moss Kanter addressed leaders who recognize that critical business relationships exist \"that cannot be controlled by formal systems but require (a) dense web of interpersonal connections\". In their book published that same year, Chrislip and Larson looked at the attributes of great civic leaders in communities across the US and found some similar attributes. \"Collaboration needs a different kind of leadership; it needs leaders who can safeguard the process, facilitate interaction and patiently deal with high levels of frustration\" \n\nIn 2013, \"Harvard Business Review\" authors Nick Lovegrove and Matthew Thomas (co-founders of The InterSector Project), explore the complex relationship between the business, government and social sectors as it relates to said sectors role in addressing society's most pressing challenges; issues such as managing resource constraints, controlling health care costs, training the twenty-first-century workforce, developing and implementing smart-grid and intelligent-urbanization technologies, and stabilizing financial systems to foster sustainable economic growth. Their research suggests that the future of collaborative leadership depends on the ability of leaders to engage and collaborate with the business, government and social sectors (see below for the distinguishing characteristics of such leaders).\n\nHank Rubin author and founder of the Institute for Collaborative Leadership has written \"A collaboration is a purposeful relationship in which all parties strategically choose to cooperate in order to accomplish a shared outcome.\" In his book \"Collaborative Leadership: Developing Effective Partnerships for Communities and Schools,\" Rubin asks \"Who is a collaborative leader?\" and answers \"You are a collaborative leader once you have accepted responsibility for building - or helping to ensure the success of - a heterogeneous team to accomplish a shared purpose . Your tools are (1) the purposeful exercise of your behavior, communication, and organizational resources in order to affect the perspective, beliefs, and behaviors of another person (generally a collaborative partner) to influence that person's relationship with you and your collaborative enterprise and (2) the structure and climate of an environment that supports the collaborative relationship.\"\n\nRubin and Brock distinguish collaborative leadership from collective impact, defining the latter as \"...(beginning) when we, as a community, agree to a set of shared outcomes and then, individually, return to our home organizations and work with our staffs, boards, and volunteers to figure out what we - individually and organizationally - can best do to achieve those shared goals.\" Collaborative leadership is how we align and integrate across organizations.\n\nDavid Archer and Alex Cameron, in their 2008 book \"Collaborative Leadership: How to succeed in an interconnected world\", identify the basic objective of the collaborative leader as the delivery of results across boundaries between different organisations. They say \"Getting value from difference is at the heart of the collaborative leader's task... they have to learn to share control, and to trust a partner to deliver, even though that partner may operate very differently from themselves.\"\n\nProviding further exploration, in his 2015 book \"Enabling Collaboration – Achieving Success Through Strategic Alliances and Partnerships\" , Martin Echavarria argues that Collaborative Leadership is the result of individual collaborative leadership capability, as well as group leadership. In this respect, he argues that individuals can support and contribute to collaboration and do so from a leadership point of view; but at the group level, where collaboration can be behaviorally experienced. Echavarria cites the work of Enrique Pichon-Rivière, who developed the Operative Group method for working with groups, Wilfred Bion an influential British psychoanalyst, Kurt Lewin and others and describes the Operative Partnership Methodology for coaching teams to collaborate (an issue which is addressed vis-a-vis strategic alliances in said publication.\n\nThere have been a number of research projects and reviews of key lessons learned for collaborative leaders.\n\nNick Lovegrove and Matthew Thomas, writing for the \"Harvard Business Review\", interviewed over 100 leaders who possess a demonstrated ability to engage and collaborate across the business, government and social sectors. The authors identified six major, distinguishing characteristics:\n\n\nMadeline Carter, writing for the Center for Effective Public Policy as part of a research project funded by the United States Department of Justice and State Justice Institute, defines five qualities of a collaborative leader:\n\n\nArcher and Cameron list ten key lessons for successful collaborative leaders:\n\n\nRod Newing writing in a \"Financial Times\" supplement special report says \"If a collaboration is to be effective, each party must recognise and respect the different culture of the other\". And traditional development paths don't prepare leaders well for this \"traditional management development, is based on giving potential managers a team of people and a set of resources to control – and success is rewarded with more people and more resources to control. By contrast, collaboration requires managers to achieve success through people and resources outside their control and for this they have had no preparation\".\n\nSteven Wilson mentions in “Collaborative leadership: it’s good to talk,” four major key leadership traits that all highly collaborative leaders share:\nChantale Mailhot, Stephanie Gagnon, Anne Langley and Louis-Felix Binitte did a research project to examine the qualities of distributing leadership and the effects diversity has on groups. They found that \"coupling of leaders and objects helped to maintain the worldview of the different groups involved at different levels in the research project, while directing them towards project objectives\". In retrospect, the differences of each individual increases innovation due to the variety of minds at work. With everyone having their own qualities and prior experiences, the integration between them in a leadership role contributes to the overall experience. In this study, the case was made that collaborative leadership has many benefits and is more practical than just one person solely having the role as the leader.\n\nThe best thing a collaborative leader can do is to lead by example. They have to ‘walk the talk’, and be seen to model the right behaviors. Leaders must show a willingness take risks, continually question their own ideas, and reward others for their clear communication and valuable insights.\n\nThe need for collaborative leadership is being recognised in more and more areas;\nAn Ipsos MORI research report published in 2007 found that relationship management and collaborative leadership were the top two qualities or capabilities that Directors of organisations involved in large business partnerships would have liked to have had more access to when setting up or running a partnership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18465305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18465305", "title": "Concern (business)", "text": "Concern (business)\n\nA concern () is a type of business group common in Europe, particularly in Germany. It results from the merger of several legally independent companies into a single economic entity under unified management.\n\nA concern consists of a controlling enterprise and one or more controlled enterprises. The relationship between the controlling and controlled enterprises is based on the actual commercial and management relationships, unlike parent and subsidiary companies which are related by share ownership and voting rights.\n\nOutside of professionals, the term \"Group\", also mistakenly \"within the meaning of large companies\" – regardless of its corporate structure – is understood.\n\nThe Group concept is one of anti-trust relevance: the so-called Group privilege, the privilege of the consolidated Group companies involved, means that in itself, prohibition included practices did not violate German or European Commission (EC) anti-trust law. On the other hand, the Group concept in Banking Act in the formation of borrower unit and particularly of the large credit limits of paramount importance.\n\nThe 1965 \"Aktiengesetz\", literally \"stock law\", but commonly known in English as the German Stock Corporation Act, defines a concern as: \"one dominant and one or more dependent companies, together under the unified leadership of the ruling company\".\n\nThe \"Aktiengesetz\" applies only to any \"Aktiengesellschaften\" (AG; literally \"stock company\"; singular \"Aktiengesellschaft\"), which are analogous to public companies in the English-speaking world. An \"Aktiengesellschaft\" differs from a \"Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung\" (GmbH), which is analogous to limited liability companies in other countries. A GmbH is regulated under the \"Gesetz betreffend die Gesellschaften mit beschränkter Haftung\" of 1892 (GmbH-Gesetz; literally \"law concerning companies with limited liability\").\n\nThree different kinds of concern are identified under \"Aktiengesetz\": the contractual concern, the factual concern, and the flat concern.\n\nIn this form of concern, the controlling enterprise and controlled enterprise enter into a control agreement – wherein the controlling enterprise can obtain management powers over the controlled enterprise, sometimes amounting to complete control – and/or a profit transfer agreement. These powers may be used in a way that is detrimental to the subsidiary, provided that they are in the interests of the concern and do not damage the legal separateness of the subsidiary.\n\nIn return, the controlling enterprise is liable to compensate the controlled enterprise for all deficits of the controlled enterprise during the term of the agreement.\n\nIn this form of concern, the controlling enterprise exerts a controlling influence on the controlled enterprise, but there is no formal control or profit transfer agreement. If one company owns a majority in another company, then the first company is deemed to exert a controlling influence. The parent company is then liable for any damage which results from the interference of the parent company in the subsidiary, which is judged on a case-by-case basis. This kind of concern is more difficult to establish and so is more common.\n\nIn this version, there is no parent company, instead a number of legally separate companies are subject to common direction.\n\nTo apply the law of concern to concerns involving German limited liability companies, the German courts have created the qualified de facto concern, beginning in the 1970s. This form of concern applies only in parent subsidiary relationships. If the parent is shown to have a long-standing and pervasive control over the affairs of the subsidiary, then there is a presumption that the parent was not acting in the best interests of the subsidiary. If the parent is unable to displace this presumption, then the parent is liable for all the obligations of the subsidiary.\n\nThis type of concern was limited by the German Federal Supreme Court in 2002 to only apply where the control is such that the subsidiary will inevitably collapse or become insolvent, on the basis that the parent has abused the separate legal personality of the subsidiary.\n\n\"(inorganic groups)\"\nThe conglomerate consists of enterprises in different businesses. Unlike the concern, the companies in a conglomerate have limited business relationships with each other.\n\nThe result of the merger often emerging political power of (wholesale) companies has been criticised for their formation. The critics can be divided into three groups:\nSince the emergence of New Social Movements, corporations have also become the focus of movements such as the Environmental movement and the Anti-globalization movement (see Black Book brand companies).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2886264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886264", "title": "Core business", "text": "Core business\n\nThe core business of an organization is an idealized construct intended to express that organization's \"main\" or \"essential\" activity. \n\nThe corporate trend in the mid-20th Century, of acquiring new enterprises and forming conglomerates, enabled corporations to reduce costs funds and similar investment vehicles, and sometimes the following of a popular trend among corporate management seeking to appeal to current and impress investors.\n\nCore business process means that a business's success depends not only on how well each department performs its work, but also on how well the company manages to coordinate departmental activities to conduct the core business process, which is;\n\n1. The market-sensing process\nMeaning all activities in gathering marketing intelligence and acting on the information.\n\n2. The new-offering realization process\nCovering all activities in research, development and launching new quality offerings quickly and within budget.\n\n3. The customer acquisition process\nall the activities defining the target market and prospecting for new customers\n\n4. The customer relationship management process\nall the activities covering building deeper understanding, relationships and offerings to individual customers.\n\n5. The fulfillment management process\nall the activities in receiving and approving orders, shipping out on time and collecting payment.\n\nTo be successful, a business needs to look for competitive advantages beyond its own operations. The business needs to look at the competitiveness value chain of suppliers, distributors and customers. Many companies today have partnered with specific suppliers and distributors to create a superior value delivery network.\n\nKotler & Keller, Marketing management, 2009, p76\n\nCore competency\n"}
{"id": "5420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5420", "title": "Cross ownership", "text": "Cross ownership\n\nCross ownership is a method of reinforcing business relationships by owning stock in the companies with which a given company does business. Heavy cross ownership is referred to as circular ownership.\n\nIn the US, \"cross ownership\" also refers to a type of investment in different mass-media properties in one market.\n\nSome countries where cross ownership of shares is a major part of the business culture are:\n\nPositives of cross ownership:\n\nCross ownership of shares is criticized for:\n\nA major factor in perpetuating cross ownership of shares is a high capital gains tax rate. A company has less incentive to sell cross owned shares if taxes are high because of the immediate reduction in the value of the assets.\n\nFor example, a company owns $1000 of stock in another company that was originally purchased for $200. If the capital gains tax rate is 25% (like Germany) and the company sells the stock,\nthe company has $800 which is 20 percent less than before it sold the stock.\n\nLong term cross ownership of shares combined with a high capital tax rate greatly increases periods of asset deflation both in time and in severity.\n\nCross ownership also refers to a type of media ownership in which one type of communications (say a newspaper) owns or is the sister company of another type of medium (such as a radio or TV station). One example is \"The New York Times\" 's former ownership of WQXR Radio and the \"Chicago Tribune\"'s similar relationship with WGN Radio (WGN-AM) and Television (WGN-TV).\n\nThe Federal Communications Commission generally does not allow cross ownership, to keep from one license holder having too much local media ownership, unless the license holder obtains a waiver, such as News Corporation and the Tribune Company have in New York.\n\nThe mid-1970s cross-ownership guidelines grandfathered already-existing crossownerships, such as \"Tribune\"-WGN, \"New York Times\"-WQXR and the \"New York Daily News\" ownership of WPIX Television and Radio.\n"}
{"id": "2469264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2469264", "title": "Director of communications", "text": "Director of communications\n\nDirector of communications is a position in both the private and public sectors. A director of communications is responsible for managing and directing an organization's internal and external communications. Directors of communications supervise public relations staff, create communication strategies, and may serve as the key spokesperson and media contact for the organization.\n\nA director of communications may also be called a public relations manager, communications director, or press secretary.\n\nThe director of communications usually reports directly to a CXO, including a chief communications officer (CCO) or chief executive officer (CEO) of a company or organization.\n\nIn an organization, the director of communications directs the Communications Department, sometimes called a Public Affairs Department. The director of communications may be assisted by a deputy director, clerical staff, and communications specialists and public affairs officers.\n\nIn United States politics, a director of communications is usually a senior aide to the President of the United States (White House Communications Director), a member of the House of Representatives, a senator, a judge, a candidate for political office, a Cabinet secretary, or a government department.\n\nIn Canada and the United Kingdom, a director of communications is a senior aide to members of Parliament, members of the House of Lords, the prime minister, Cabinet ministers, and government departments. The post of director of communications to the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is Robbie Gibb; the director of communications to the Prime Minister of Canada is Jason MacDonald.\n\nIn Australia, the director of communications is a senior adviser to the Prime Minister. They manage the Prime Minister's communications office including Press Secretaries and Speechwriting staff. The current director for the Turnbull Government is Mitch Fifield.\n\nIn Nigeria the director of communications or special adviser on communications is a senior aide to the president, vice president, and senior members of the National Assembly.\n\nIn the Council of Europe, the director of communication plays a key role in the organization, directly supporting the work of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.\n"}
{"id": "54450987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54450987", "title": "Disagree and commit", "text": "Disagree and commit\n\nDisagree and commit is a management principle which states that individuals are allowed to disagree while a decision is being made, but that once a decision has been made, everybody must commit to it. The principle can also be understood as a statement about \"when\" it is useful to have conflict and disagreement, with the principle saying disagreement is useful in early states of decision-making while harmful after a decision has been made. Disagree and commit is a method of avoiding the consensus trap, in which the lack of consensus leads to inaction.\n\nScott McNealy used the phrase as early as sometime between 1983 and 1991, as part of the line \"Agree and commit, disagree and commit, or get out of the way\".\n\nThe concept has also been attributed to Andrew Grove at Intel.\n\nAmazon added \"Have a Backbone; Disagree and Commit\" as one of its leadership principles sometime in 2010–2011. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos mentioned the term in his \"2016 Letter to Shareholders\".\n\n\nNoted difficulties of applying \"disagree and commit\" are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "299610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299610", "title": "Due diligence", "text": "Due diligence\n\nDue diligence is an investigation of a business or person prior to signing a contract, or an act with a certain standard of care.\n\nIt can be a legal obligation, but the term will more commonly apply to voluntary investigations. A common example of due diligence in various industries is the process through which a potential acquirer evaluates a target company or its assets for an acquisition. The theory behind due diligence holds that performing this type of investigation contributes significantly to informed decision making by enhancing the amount and quality of information available to decision makers and by ensuring that this information is systematically used to deliberate in a reflexive manner on the decision at hand and all its costs, benefits, and risks.\n\nThe term “due diligence” means \"required carefulness\" or \"reasonable care\" in general usage, and has been used in this sense since at least the mid-fifteenth century. It became a specialized legal term and later a common business term due to the United States’ Securities Act of 1933, where the process is called \"reasonable investigation\" (section 11b3). This Act included a defense at Section 11, referred to later in legal usage as the “due diligence” defense, which could be used by broker-dealers when accused of inadequate disclosure to investors of material information with respect to the purchase of securities. In legal and business use, the term was soon used for the process itself instead of how it was to be performed, so that the original expressions such as \"exercise due diligence in investigating\" and \"investigation carried out with due diligence\" were soon shortened to \"due diligence investigation\" and finally \"due diligence\".\n\nAs long as broker-dealers exercised “due diligence” (required carefulness) in their investigation into the company whose equity they were selling and as long as they disclosed to the investor what they found, they would not be held liable for non-disclosure of information that was not discovered in the process of that investigation.\n\nThe broker-dealer community quickly institutionalized, as a standard practice, the conducting of due diligence investigations of any stock offerings in which they involved themselves. Originally the term was limited to public offerings of equity investments, but over time it has come to be associated with investigations of private mergers and acquisitions as well.\n\nDue diligence takes different forms depending on its purpose:\n\nThe due diligence process (framework) can be divided into nine distinct areas:\n\nIt is essential that the concepts of valuations (shareholder value analysis) be linked into a due diligence process. This is in order to reduce the number of failed mergers and acquisitions.\n\nIn this regard, two new audit areas have been incorporated into the Due Diligence framework:\n\nThe relevant areas of concern may include the financial, legal, labor, tax, IT, environment and market/commercial situation of the company. Other areas include intellectual property, real and personal property, insurance and liability coverage, debt instrument review, employee benefits (including the Affordable Care Act) and labor matters, immigration, and international transactions. Areas of focus in due diligence continue to develop with cybersecurity emerging as an area of concern for business acquirers. Due diligence findings impact a number of aspects of the transaction including the purchase price, the representations and warranties negotiated in the transaction agreement, and the indemnification provided by the sellers.\n\nDue Diligence has emerged as a separate profession for accounting and auditing experts.\n\nWith the number and size of penalties increasing, the United States' Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) has caused many U.S. institutions to look into how they evaluate all of their relationships overseas. The lack of a due diligence of a company’s agents, vendors, and suppliers, as well as merger and acquisition partners in foreign countries could lead to doing business with an organization linked to a foreign official or state owned enterprises and their executives. This link could be perceived as leading to the bribing of the foreign officials and as a result lead to noncompliance with the FCPA. Due diligence in regard to FCPA compliance is required in two aspects:\n\n\nIn the M&A context, buyers can use the due diligence phase to integrate a target into their internal FCPA controls, focusing initial efforts on necessary revisions to the target's business activities with a high-risk of corruption.\n\nWhile financial institutions are among the most aggressive in defining FCPA best practices, manufacturing, retailing and energy industries are highly active in managing FCPA compliance programs.\n\nPassed on May 25, 2011, the OECD member countries agreed to revise their guidelines promoting tougher standards of corporate behavior, including human rights. As part of this new definition, they utilized a new aspect of due diligence that requires a corporation to investigate third party partners for potential abuse of human rights.\n\nIn the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises document, it is stated that all members will “Seek ways to prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts that are directly linked to their business operations, products or services by a business relationship, even if they do not contribute to those impacts”.\n\nThe term was originally put forth by UN Special Representative for Human Rights and Business John Ruggie, who uses it as an umbrella to cover the steps and processes by which a company understands, monitors and mitigates its human rights impacts. Human Rights Impact Assessment is a component of this.\n\nThe UN formalized guidelines for Human Rights Due Diligence on June 16 with the endorsement of Ruggie’s Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights.\n\nDue diligence in civil procedure is the idea that reasonable investigation is necessary before certain kinds of relief are requested.\n\nFor example, duly diligent efforts to locate and/or serve a party with civil process is frequently a requirement for a party seeking to use means other than personal service to obtain jurisdiction over a party. Similarly, in areas of the law such as bankruptcy, an attorney representing someone filing a bankruptcy petition must engage in due diligence to determine that the representations made in the bankruptcy petition are factually accurate. Due diligence is also generally prerequisite to a request for relief in states where civil litigants are permitted to conduct pre-litigation discovery of facts necessary to determine whether or not a party has a factual basis for a cause of action.\n\nIn civil actions seeking a foreclosure or seizure of property, a party requesting this relief is frequently required to engage in due diligence to determine who may claim an interest in the property by reviewing public records concerning the property and sometimes by a physical inspection of the property that would reveal a possible interest in the property of a tenant or other person.\n\nDue diligence is also a concept found in the civil litigation concept of a statute of limitations. Frequently, a statute of limitations begins to run against a plaintiff when that plaintiff knew or should have known had that plaintiff investigated the matter with due diligence that the plaintiff had a claim against a defendant. In this context, the term “due diligence” determines the scope of a party’s constructive knowledge, upon receiving notice of facts sufficient to constitute “inquiry notice” that alerts a would-be plaintiff that further investigation might reveal a cause of action.\n\nIn criminal law, due diligence is the only available defense to a crime that is one of strict liability (i.e., a crime that only requires an actus reus and no mens rea). Once the criminal offence is proven, the defendant must prove on balance that they did everything possible to prevent the act from happening. It is not enough that they took the normal standard of care in their industry – they must show that they took every reasonable precaution.\n\nDue diligence is also used in criminal law to describe the scope of the duty of a prosecutor, to take efforts to turn over potentially exculpatory evidence, to (accused) criminal defendants.\n\nIn criminal law, “due diligence” also identifies the standard a prosecuting entity must satisfy in pursuing an action against a defendant, especially with regard to the provision of the Federal and State Constitutional and statutory right to a speedy trial or to have a warrant or detainer served in an action. In cases where a defendant is in any type of custodial situation where their freedom is constrained, it is solely the prosecuting entities duty to ensure the provision of such rights and present the citizen before the court with jurisdiction. This also applies where the respective judicial system and/or prosecuting entity has current address or contact information on the named party and said party has made no attempt to evade notice of the prosecution of the action.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"proper use of a due diligence system\" may be used as a defence against a charge of breach of regulations e.g. under the Timber and Timber Products (Placing on the Market) Regulations 2013 and the Environmental Protection (Microbeads) (England) Regulations 2017, businesses may be able to defend a charge of non-compliance with regulations if they can show that they have undertaken supplier due diligence to a necessary standard.\n"}
{"id": "52753112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52753112", "title": "Ecoleasing", "text": "Ecoleasing\n\nEcoleasing is a system in which goods (mainly from the technical cycle, i.e. appliances, ...) are rented to a client for a certain period of time after which he returns the goods so the company that made it can recycle the materials.\n\nThe term ecoleasing has been used by William McDonough and Michael Braungart in their book Cradle_to_Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things. It is used to distinct itself from regular leasing in that:\n\n\nEcoleasing can for instance be done with TV's. Instead of the consumer purchasing the TV, by ecoleasing it, he is entitled to say 10 000 service hours. After this, he can send the TV back to the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "6066671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6066671", "title": "Ensure", "text": "Ensure\n\nEnsure is the brand name of nutritional supplements and meal replacements manufactured by Abbott Laboratories. \n\nA 237-ml (8-fl oz) bottle of Ensure Original contains 220 calories, six grams of fat, 15 grams of sugar, and nine grams of protein. The top six ingredients are water, corn maltodextrin, sugar, milk protein concentrate, canola oil, and soy protein isolate.\n\nIn 1903, Harry C. Moores and Stanley M. Ross launched the \"Moores & Ross Milk Company\", which specialized in bottling milk for home delivery for the first few years. By 1964, however, the company merged with Abbott Laboratories. A drink called Ensure was first marketed by Ross Laboratories in 1973.\n\nIn the 1990s, Ensure and other nutritional drink products like Mead Johnson's Sustacal and Nestlé's Boost and Resource brands were fiercely competing to capture market share among healthy adults. In 1996, Ensure had sales of about $300 million and accounted for 80% of protein supplement sales; Abbott spent $45.4 million to advertise Ensure during the first nine months of 1996, around 70% more than it spent during the same period of 1995.\n\nIn 1995, the Center for Science in the Public Interest said that ads for Ensure were \"the most misleading food ad\" of that year. In 1997, Abbott settled charges from the Federal Trade Commission that it was falsely marketing Ensure as having a similar amount of vitamins as multivitamin supplements, as being recommended by doctors more than any other nutritional supplement, and as being recommended by doctors as a way to stay healthy and active for people who were otherwise healthy.\n\nWhen Abbott split off its pharmaceuticals division, Abbvie, in 2013, the Ensure product line remained with Abbott with the other nutritional products. \n\nAs of 2016, variants of Ensure included:\n\n\nAs of 2016, Ensure Complete had been discontinued.\n\nEnsure has been used in the force feeding of hunger-striking prisoners at the United States' Guantanamo Bay detention camps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22460781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22460781", "title": "European Council for Business Education", "text": "European Council for Business Education\n\nThe European Council for Business Education (ECBE) was founded in 1991 as an independent, not-for-profit organisation headquartered in Belgium. The aim of ECBE is to accredit schools of business from across Europe to ensure excellence in business education and teaching. ECBE's accreditation process is based upon self and peer evaluation, aimed to ensure the continual improvement of educational quality. ECBE is overseen by a Board of Directors elected from the accredited members. A separate Board of Commissioners, independent of the Board of Directors are selected to oversee the application of procedures and the awarding of accreditation. ECBE is a registered affiliate of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ENQA). and Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) International Quality Group (IQG) \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "526222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526222", "title": "European Patent Convention", "text": "European Patent Convention\n\nThe European Patent Convention (EPC), also known as the Convention on the Grant of European Patents of 5 October 1973, is a multilateral treaty instituting the European Patent Organisation and providing an autonomous legal system according to which European patents are granted. The term \"European patent\" is used to refer to patents granted under the European Patent Convention. However, a European patent is not a unitary right, but a group of essentially independent nationally-enforceable, nationally-revocable patents, subject to central revocation or narrowing as a group pursuant to two types of unified, post-grant procedures: a time-limited opposition procedure, which can be initiated by any person except the patent proprietor, and limitation and revocation procedures, which can be initiated by the patent proprietor only.\n\nThe EPC provides a legal framework for the granting of European patents, via a single, harmonised procedure before the European Patent Office. A single patent application, in one language, may be filed at the European Patent Office in Munich, at its branch in The Hague, at its sub-office in Berlin, or at a national patent office of a Contracting State, if the national law of the State so permits.\n\nBefore 1978, two important problems when seeking to obtain patent protection in Europe in a number of countries were first the need to file a separate patent application in each country, with a subsequent distinct grant procedure in each country, and secondly the need to translate the text of the application into a number of different languages. Different languages are indeed utilised across the European countries and there is substantial expense in preparing translations into each of those languages. While the European Patent Convention does not totally overcome the need for translations (since a translation may be required after grant to validate a patent in a given EPC Contracting State), it does centralise the prosecution in one language and defers the cost of translations until the time of grant.\n\nIn September 1949, French Senator Henri Longchambon proposed to the Council of Europe the creation of a European Patent Office. His proposal, known as the \"Longchambon plan\", marked the beginning of the work on a European patent law aimed at a \"European patent\". His plan was however not found to be practicable by the Council's Committee of Experts in patent matters. The meetings of the Committee nevertheless led to two Conventions, one on the formalities required for patent applications (1953) and one on the international classification of patent (1954). The Council's Committee then carried on its work on substantive patent law, resulting in the signature of the Strasbourg Patent Convention in 1963.\n\nIn 1973, the \"Munich Diplomatic Conference for the setting up of a European System for the Grant of Patents\" took place and the Convention was then signed in Munich (the Convention is sometimes known as the \"Munich Convention\"). The signature of the Convention was the accomplishment of a decade-long discussion during which Kurt Haertel, considered by many as the father of the European Patent Organisation, and François Savignon played a decisive role.\n\nThe Convention entered into force on 7 October 1977 for the following first countries: Belgium, Germany (then West Germany), France, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Switzerland and United Kingdom, and on 1 May 1978 for Sweden. However, the first patent applications were filed on 1 June 1978 (date fixed by the Administrative Council which held its first meeting on 19 October 1977). Subsequently, other countries have joined the EPC.\n\nThe EPC is separate from the European Union (EU), and its membership is different; Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Turkey, Monaco, Iceland, Norway, the Republic of Macedonia, San Marino, Albania and Serbia are members of the EPO but are not members of the EU. The Convention is, as of January 2015, in force in 38 countries. Serbia became the 38th state on 1 October 2010.\n\nA diplomatic conference was held in November 2000 in Munich to revise the Convention, amongst other things to integrate in the EPC new developments in international law and to add a level of judicial review of the Boards of Appeal decisions. The revised text, informally called the EPC 2000, entered into force on 13 December 2007.\n\nThroughout the history of the EPC, some non-contracting States have concluded cooperation agreements with the European Patent Organisation, known as extension or validation agreements. These states then became \"extension states\" or \"validation states\", which means that European patents granted by the EPO may be extended to those countries through the payment of additional fees and completion of certain formalities. Such cooperation agreements are concluded by the President of the European Patent Office on behalf of the European Patent Organisation pursuant to , are not based on a \"direct application of the EPC but solely on national law modelled on the EPC\", and exist to assist with the establishment of national property rights in these states. As is the case in EPO contracting states, the rights conferred to European patents validated/extended to these states are the same as national patents in those states. However, the extension of a European patent or patent application to these states is \"not subject to the jurisdiction of the [EPO] boards of appeal.\"\n\nAs of January 2015, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro have extension agreements with the EPO so that, in effect, these states can be designated in a European patent application. Several other \"extension states\" have since become states parties to the EPC. Furthermore, so-called \"validation agreements\" with Morocco, Moldova, Tunisia, and Cambodia are also in effect since 1 March 2015, 1 November 2015, 1 December 2017, and 1 March 2018, respectively.\n\nThe European Patent Convention is \"a special agreement within the meaning of Article 19 of the Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, signed in Paris on 20 March 1883 and last revised on 14 July 1967, and a regional patent treaty within the meaning of Article 45, paragraph 1, of the Patent Cooperation Treaty of 19 June 1970.\" The European Patent Convention currently does not lead to the grant of centrally enforceable patents in all 38 countries, although the European Union patent would allow for unitary effect: centrally enforceability throughout 24 of the 27 countries of the European Union.\n\nThe content of the Convention includes several texts in addition to the main 178 articles. These additional texts, which are integral parts of the Convention, are:\n\nOne of the most important articles of the Convention, , entitled \"Patentable inventions\", states:\nThis article constitutes the \"fundamental provision of the EPC which governs the patentability of inventions\".<ref name=\"T 154/04-r6\"> Decision T 154/04 of 15 November 2006, Reasons 6, to be published at the Official Journal of the European Patent Office.</ref>\n\nHowever, the EPC provides further indications on what is patentable. There are exclusions under Article 52(2) and (3) EPC and exclusions under Article 53 EPC.\n\nFirst, discoveries, scientific theories, mathematical methods, aesthetic creations, schemes, rules and methods for performing mental acts, playing games or doing business, programs for computers and presentations of information are not regarded as inventions and are excluded from patentability only to the extent that the invention relates to those areas \"as such\". This is \"a negative, non-exhaustive list of what should not be regarded as an invention within the meaning of Article 52(1) EPC.\" \"(For further information, see also: Software patents under the EPC).\"\n\nThe second set of exclusions, or exceptions, include\n\nThe Convention also includes provisions setting out filing requirements of European applications, the procedure up to grant, the opposition procedure and other aspects relating to the prosecution of patent applications under the Convention.\n\nEuropean patent applications may be filed in any language, but they are prosecuted only in one of the three official languages of the EPO – English, French and German. If an application is filed in a language other than an official language, a translation must be filed into one of the three official languages, within two months from the date of filing. The official language of filing (or of the translation) is adopted as the \"language of proceedings\" and is used by the EPO for communications.\n\nEuropean patent applications are prosecuted in a similar fashion to most patent systems – the invention is searched and published, and subsequently examined for compliance with the requirements of the EPC.\n\nDuring the prosecution phase, a European patent is a single regional proceeding, and \"the grant of a European patent may be requested for one or more of the Contracting States.\" An applicant for a European patent designates those Contracting States in which protection for the invention is desired, and the designations need to be \"confirmed\" later during the procedure through the payment of designation fees. Once granted by the EPO, a European patent comes into existence effectively as a group of national patents in each of the designated Contracting States.\n\nThere are only two types of centrally executed procedures after grant, the opposition procedure and the limitation and revocation procedures. The opposition procedure, governed by the EPC, allows third parties to file an opposition against a European patent within 9 months of the date of grant of that patent. It is a quasi-judicial process, subject to appeal, which can lead to maintenance, maintenance in amended form or revocation of a European patent. Simultaneously to the opposition, a European patent may be the subject of litigation at a national level (for example an infringement dispute). National courts may suspend such infringement proceedings pending outcome of the opposition proceedings to avoid proceedings running in parallel and the uncertainties that may arise from that.\n\nIn contrast to the unified, regional character of a European patent application, the granted European patent does not comprise, in effect, any such unitary character, except for the opposition procedure. In other words, one European patent in one Contracting State is effectively independent of the same European patent in each other Contracting State, except for the opposition procedure.\n\nA European patent confers rights on its proprietor, in each Contracting State in respect of which it is granted, from the date of publication of the mention of its grant in the European Patent Bulletin. That is also the date of publication of the B1 document, i.e. the European patent specification. This means that the European patent is granted and confers rights in all its designated Contracting States at the date of mention of the grant, whether or not a prescribed translation is filed with a national patent office later on (though the right may later be deemed never to have existed in any particular State if a translation is not subsequently filed in time, as described below).\n\nA translation of a granted European patent must be filed in some EPC Contracting States to avoid loss of right. Namely, in the Contracting States which have \"prescribe[d] that if the text, in which the European Patent Office intends to grant a European patent (...) is not drawn up in one of its official languages, the applicant for or proprietor of the patent shall supply to its central industrial property office a translation of this text in one of its official languages at his option or, where that State has prescribed the use of one specific official language, in that language\". The European patent is \"void ab initio\" in a designated Contracting State where the required translation (if required) is not filed within the prescribed time limit after grant. In other Contracting States, no translation needs to be filed, for example in Ireland if the European patent is in English. In those Contracting States where the London Agreement is in force the requirement to file a translation of the European patent has been entirely or partially waived. If a translation is required, a fee covering the publication of said translation may be due as well.\n\nAlmost all attributes of a European patent in a Contracting State, i.e. ownership, validity, and infringement, are determined independently under respective national law, except for the opposition procedure, limitation procedure, and revocation procedure as discussed above. Though the EPC imposes some common limits, the EPC expressly adopts national law for interpretation of all substantive attributes of a European patent in a Contracting State, with a few exceptions. Thus, almost all post-grant proceedings – including renewal, revocation proceedings (when initiated by somebody else than the proprietor), and infringement enforcement are determined under national law.\n\nEPO Boards of Appeal decisions are not precedential at all upon national courts, which have exclusive jurisdiction on validity and infringement after a European patent has been granted (except during the 9-month opposition period, which can only relate to validity). However, national courts will tend to take note, and may find 'persuasive', decisions of the EPO Boards, though they can disagree with them.\n\nInfringement is remitted almost entirely to national law and to national courts. In one of its very few substantive interventions into national law, the EPC requires that national courts must consider the \"direct product of a patented process\" to be an infringement. The \"extent of the protection\" conferred by a European patent is determined primarily by reference to the claims of the European patent (rather than by the disclosure of the specification and drawings, as in some older patent systems), though the description and drawings are to be used as interpretive aids in determining the meaning of the claims. A \"Protocol on the Interpretation of Article 69 EPC\" provides further guidance, that claims are to be construed using a \"fair\" middle position, neither \"strict, literal\" nor as mere guidelines to considering the description and drawings, though of course even the protocol is subject to national interpretation. The authentic text of a European patent application and of a European patent are the documents in the language of the proceedings.\n\nAll other substantive rights attached to a European patent in a Contracting State, such as what acts constitute infringement (indirect and divided infringement, infringement by equivalents, extraterritorial infringement, infringement outside the term of the patent with economic effect during the term of the patent, infringement of product claims by processes for making or using, exports, assembly of parts into an infringing whole, etc.), the effect of prosecution history on interpretation of the claims, remedies for infringement or bad faith enforcement (injunction, damages, attorney fees, other civil penalties for wilful infringement, etc.), equitable defences, coexistence of an EP national daughter and a national patent for identical subject matter, ownership and assignment, extensions to patent term for regulatory approval, etc., are expressly remitted to national law.\n\nFor a period in the late-1990s, national courts issued cross-border injunctions covering all EP jurisdictions, but this has been limited by the European Court of Justice. In two cases in July 2006 interpreting Articles 6.1 and 16.4 of the Brussels Convention, the European Court of Justice held that European patents are national rights that must be enforced nationally, that it was \"unavoidable\" that infringements of the same European patent have to be litigated in each relevant national court, even if the lawsuit is against the same group of companies, and that cross-border injunctions are not available.\n\nValidity is also remitted largely to national law and national courts. limits the application of national law to only the following grounds of invalidity, and specifies that the standards for each ground are those of national law:\n\n\nA national court may partially invalidate a European patent in a Contracting State, e.g., by revoking only some claims, or by permitting amendment to the claims, the description or the drawings, as allowed by national law.\n\nA European patent is also non-unitary in that it may be revoked in one Contracting State while maintained in another. However, a national court in one Contracting State may not revoke a European patent in another Contracting State.\n\nThe EPC requires all jurisdictions to give a European patent a term of 20 years from the filing date, the filing date being the actual date of filing an application for a European patent or the date of filing of an international application under the PCT designating the EPO. The filing date is not necessarily the priority date, which can be up to one year earlier. The term of a granted European patent may be extended under national law if national law provides term extension to compensate for pre-marketing regulatory approval. For EEA member states this is by means of a supplementary protection certificate.\n\nA European patent application may result from the filing of an international application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), i.e. the filing of a PCT application, and then the entry into \"European regional phase\", i.e. the transition from the international to the European procedural stages. The European patent application is therefore said to be a \"Euro-PCT application\" and the EPO is said to act as a designated or elected Office. In case of conflict between the provisions of the EPC and those of the PCT, the provisions of the PCT and its Regulations prevail over those of the EPC.\n\nTwelve EPC Contracting States, namely Belgium, Cyprus, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Monaco, the Netherlands and Slovenia have \"closed their national route\". This means that it is no longer possible to obtain a national patent protection through the international (PCT) phase without entering into the regional European phase and obtaining a European patent. Lithuania closed its \"national route\" most recently, on 4 September 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21918990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21918990", "title": "Everywoman", "text": "Everywoman\n\neverywoman is a membership organisation that champions the advancement of women in business to close the gender pay gap. It provides personal development resources, leadership training, events, award programmes, networking opportunities and inspiration for women in business and female entrepreneurs.\n\neverywoman believes that getting greater representation of women across all business areas will drive better, more profitable businesses, creating wider benefits for both women and men in the workplace.\n\nThey work closely with government, opinion formers and business support organisations, and are supported by leading corporate partners including NatWest & Specsavers.\n\nIn November 2010 everywoman launched the Modern Muse project, designed to engage the next generation of female business leaders and entrepreneurs by showcasing women of today in all walks of business life. Modern Muse's goal is to reach out to one million young women and girls to inspire them to look at business careers and entrepreneurship as a way to achieve their dreams.\n\nIt was founded in September 1999 by friends Karen Gill and Maxine Benson, after they felt frustrated with the lack of resources available for women in business in the UK. Karen Gill and Maxine Benson were awarded MBEs in the New Year's Honours 2009 for their services to women's enterprise. They are regularly called on for comment in the media on issues relating to small business and enterprise.\n\neverywomanNetwork - This online network is for women who want to advance their careers and develop themselves. Online resources, expert advice, monthly workbooks, real-life experiences and live webinars to support career development are just a few of the benefits.\n\neverywomanClub - Where senior level women in organisations and successful entrepreneurs at the helm of large businesses connect, shape business and influence change for all women in business. Peer to peer networking and profile raising initiatives are just a few of the benefits.\n\nNatWest everywoman awards\neverywoman's flagship awards programme, the NatWest everywoman awards, launched in 2003 recognises the achievements of women business owners, and in the past has rewarded high-profile women such as Elle Macpherson, Alexandra Taylor, Dame Stella Rimington and Dame Mary Perkins, founder of Specsavers.\n\nFDM everywoman in Technology Awards were launched to demonstrate this profession holds a wealth of career opportunities for women and they will shine the spotlight on women who are enjoying successful careers.\n\nFTA everywoman in Transport & Logistics Awards\nLaunched in 2008, the awards are breaking down stereotypes and creating industry role models in a traditionally a male dominated industry.\n\nSpecsavers everywoman in Retail Ambassadors Programme\nseek to identify the dynamic female talent working at the top of the retail industry and showcase the broad range of career opportunities that retail can offer women, beyond the shop floor.\n\nSector specific Leadership Academies feature personal development masterclasses, motivation and inspirational speeches by key figures and experts.\n\n"}
{"id": "31849967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31849967", "title": "Expander System Sweden AB", "text": "Expander System Sweden AB\n\nExpander System Sweden AB is a Swedish company that designs, manufactures, and sells a pivot-pin system for commercial heavy machinery and equipment. Their headquarters is in Åtvidaberg, Sweden. It was founded in 1986 by Everth and Roger Svensson. The Expander Group includes two subsidiaries, Expander Americas Inc, in the United States, and Expander Deutschland GmbH, in Germany.\n\nThe expander system consists of patented products that are intended to take the place of conventional pivot pins in heavy machinery and equipment. Conventional pivot pins may wear in a way that requires a costly repair process for pivot lug holes, called line boring. The expander system uses expansion sleeves that can eliminate this wear problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2978014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978014", "title": "Extended Enterprise Modeling Language", "text": "Extended Enterprise Modeling Language\n\nExtended Enterprise Modeling Language (EEML) in software engineering is a modelling language used for Enterprise modelling across a number of layers.\n\nExtended Enterprise Modeling Language (EEML) is a modelling language which combines structural modelling, business process modelling, goal modelling with goal hierarchies and resource modelling. It was intended to bridge the gap between goal modelling and other modelling approaches. According to Johannesson and Söderström (2008) \"the process logic in EEML is mainly expressed through nested structures of tasks and decision points. The sequencing of tasks is expressed by the flow relation between decision points. Each task has an input port and the output port being decision points for modeling process logic\".\n\nEEML was designed as a simple language, making it easy to update models. In addition to capturing tasks and their interdependencies, models show which roles perform each task, and the tools, services and information they apply.\n\nExtended Enterprise Modeling Language (EEML) is from the late 1990s, developed in the EU project EXTERNAL as extension of the Action Port Model (APM) by S. Carlsen (1998). The EXTERNAL project aimed to \"facilitate inter-organisational cooperation in knowledge intensive industries. The project worked on the hypothesis that interactive process models form a suitable framework for tools and methodologies for dynamically networked organisations. In the project EEML (Extended Enterprise Modelling Language) was first constructed as a common metamodel, designed to enable syntactic and semantic interoperability\".\n\nIt was further developed in the EU projects Unified Enterprise Modelling Language (UEML) from 2002 to 2003 and the ongoing ATHENA project.\n\nThe objectives of the UEML Working group were to \"define, to validate and to disseminate a set of core language constructs to support a Unified Language for Enterprise Modelling, named UEML, to serve as a basis for interoperability within a smart organisation or a network of enterprises\".\n\nThe EEML-language is divided into 4 sub-languages, with well-defined links across these languages:\nProcess modelling in EEML, according to Krogstie (2006) \"supports the modeling of process logic which is mainly expressed through nested structures of tasks and decision points. The sequencing of the tasks is expressed by the flow relation between decision points. Each task has minimum an input port and an output port being decision points for modeling process logic, Resource roles are used to connect resources of various kinds (persons, organisations, information, material objects, software tools and manual tools) to the tasks. In addition, data modeling (using UML class diagrams), goal modeling and competency modeling (skill requirements and skills possessed) can be integrated with the process models\".\n\nEEML has four layers of interest:\n\nThese tasks are tied together through another layer called Manage Task Knowledge which allows to achieve a global interaction through the different layers by performing a real consistency between them. According to EEML 2005 Guide, this Manage Task Knowledge can be defined as the collection of processes necessary for innovation, dissemination, and exploitation of knowledge in a co-operating ensemble where interact knowledge seekers and knowledge sources by the means of a shared knowledge base.\n\nGoal modelling is one of the four EEML modelling domains age. A goal expresses the wanted (or unwanted) state of affairs (either current or future) in a certain context. Example of the goal model is depicted below. It shows goals and relationships between them. It is possible to model advanced goal-relationships in EEML by using goal connectors. A goal connector is used when one need to link several goals.\n\nIn goal modelling to fulfil Goal1, one must achieve to other goals: both Goal2 and Goal3 (goal-connector with “and” as the logical relation going out). If Goal2 and Goal3 are two different ways of achieving Goal1, then it should be “xor” logical relationship. It can be an opposite situation when both Goal2 and Goal3 need to be fulfilled and to achieve them one must fulfil Goal1. In this case Goal2 and Goal3 are linked to goal connector and this goal connector has a link to Goal1 with ”and”-logical relationship.\n\nThe table indicates different types of connecting relationships in EEML goal modelling. Goal model can also be interlinked with a process model.\n\nWe can describe process model as models that comprise a set of activities and an activity can be decomposed into sub-activities. These activities have relationship amongst themselves. A goal describes the expected state of operation in a business enterprise and it can be linked to whole process model or to a process model fragment with each level activity in a process model can be considered as a goal.\n\nGoals are related in a hierarchical format where you find some goals are dependent on other sub goals for them to be complete which means all the sub goals must be achieved for the main goal to be achieved. There is other goals where only one of the goals need to be fulfilled for the main goal to be achieved. In goal modelling, there is use of deontic operator which falls in between the context and achieved state. Goals apply to tasks, milestones, resource roles and resources as well and can be considered as action rule for at task. EEML rules were also possible to although the goal modelling requires much more consultation in finding the connections between rules on the different levels. Goal-oriented analysis focuses on the description and evaluation of alternatives and their relationship to the organisational objectives.\n\nResources have specific roles during the execution of various processes in an organisation. The following icons represent the various resources required in modelling.\n\nThe relations of these resources can be of different types:\n\nFrom a general point of view, EEML can be used like any other modelling languages in numerous cases. However we can highlight the virtual enterprise example, which can be considered as a direct field of application for EEML with regard to Extended Enterprise planning, operation, and management.\n\nEEML can help organisations meet these challenges by modelling all the manufacturing and logistics processes in the extended enterprise. This model allows capturing a rich set of relationships between the organisation, people, processes and resources of the virtual enterprise. It also aims at making people understand, communicate, develop and cultivate solutions to business problems\n\nAccording to J. Krogstie (2008), enterprise models can be created to serve various purposes which include:\n\n\nEEML enables Extended Enterprises to build up their operation based on standard processes through allowing modelling of all actors, processes and tasks in the Extended Enterprise and thereby have clear description of the Extended Enterprise. Finally, models developed will be used to measure and evaluate the Extended Enterprise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36051866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36051866", "title": "Global Network for Advanced Management", "text": "Global Network for Advanced Management\n\nThe Global Network for Advanced Management is a collaboration of graduate schools of business that seeks to foster intellectual ties among business schools, students and deans from both economically strong regions and those on the horizon of economic development. It was founded by a consortium of 21 schools and launched on April 27, 2012. The Global Network has since expanded to include 30 member schools.\n\nThe Global Network for Advanced Management was founded on the premise that enterprises need leaders who understand how markets and organizations work in increasingly diverse and complex contexts. The network provides an organizational structure to facilitates connections among faculty, students, and alumni from diverse regions, cultures, and economies in different phases of development. Chief goals are the exchange of ideas, collaboration on data collection, and the promotion of research in areas of interest to global commerce. Member schools share course materials, including case studies that incorporate specialized regional expertise.\n\nThe Global Network is a platform for innovation, hosting programs that include Global Network Weeks, which give students at network schools the opportunity to travel to another Network school for a one-week intensive mini-course that takes advantage of localized expertise; Global Network Courses, online graduate-level business courses that connect students at member schools in group project work; and Global Network cases, teaching materials that examine business challenges from the points of view of at least two Global Network regions.\n\nIn January 2014, the Global Network hosted two sessions at \"Business + Society: Leadership in an Increasingly Complex World,\" a conference at the Yale School of Management. Deans and directors from nine Global Network schools discussed the skills they believed critical to leaders with moderator Margaret Warner in a panel entitled \"Preparing Leaders for a Flatter World.\" Faculty, deans, and students from three network schools participated in \"Bank of Ireland: A Raw Case Study\" with American investor Wilbur Ross.\n\nThe network includes graduate management schools on six continents, with members in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40191928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40191928", "title": "Greater Reading Expo Center", "text": "Greater Reading Expo Center\n\nThe Greater Reading Expo Center was an exhibition center located just north of Reading, Pennsylvania and access from the Warren Street Bypass (Route 12.) It had 30 meeting rooms, two food courts, and a total area of over 270,000 square feet on one floor. The expo center opened in 2006 and closed in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "230405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230405", "title": "Hamburger University", "text": "Hamburger University\n\nHamburger University is a training facility of McDonald's, located in Oak Brook, Illinois, a western suburb of Chicago. This corporate university was designed to instruct personnel employed by McDonald's in the various aspects of restaurant management. More than 80,000 restaurant managers, mid-managers and owner/operators have \"graduated\" from this facility.\n\nSince its establishment, Hamburger University has been situated on an campus. Restaurant employees receive approximately 32 hours of training in their first month with McDonald's and more than 5,000 students attend Hamburger University each year. Founder Ray Kroc oversaw lessons at its beginning.\n\nIn 2016 McDonald's Corporation announced it would move its U.S. and world headquarters including Hamburger University from its long time home in Oak Brook to a newly built complex on property which formerly housed Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Studios in Chicago. Starting in 2017 McDonald's put up for sale or sold most of its Oak Brook campus.\n\nHamburger University was satirized in the 1986 comedy, \"Hamburger... The Motion Picture\". It was also spoofed by McDonald's itself in a commercial with Ronald McDonald in which several animatronic hamburgers were shown graduating from school.\n"}
{"id": "1548943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548943", "title": "Limited partnership", "text": "Limited partnership\n\nA limited partnership (LP) is a form of partnership similar to a general partnership except that while a general partnership must have at least two general partners (GPs), a limited partnership must have at least one GP and at least one limited partner.\n\nThe GPs are, in all major respects, in the same legal position as partners in a conventional firm: they have management control, share the right to use partnership property, share the profits of the firm in predefined proportions, and have joint and several liability for the debts of the partnership.\n\nAs in a general partnership, the GPs have actual authority, as agents of the firm, to bind the partnership in contracts with third parties that are in the ordinary course of the partnership's business. As with a general partnership, \"an act of a general partner which is not apparently for carrying on in the ordinary course the limited partnership's activities or activities of the kind carried on by the limited partnership binds the limited partnership only if the act was actually authorized by all the other partners.\"\n\nLike shareholders in a corporation, limited partners have limited liability. This means that the limited partners have no management authority, and (unless they obligate themselves by a separate contract such as a guarantee) are not liable for the debts of the partnership. The limited partnership provides the limited partners a return on their investment (similar to a dividend), the nature and extent of which is usually defined in the partnership agreement. General Partners thus bear more economic risk than do limited partners, and in cases of financial loss, the GPs will be the ones which are personally liable.\n\nLimited partners are subject to the same alter-ego piercing theories as corporate shareholders. However, it is more difficult to pierce the limited partnership veil because limited partnerships do not have many formalities to maintain. So long as the partnership and the members do not co-mingle funds, it would be difficult to pierce the veil.\n\nPartnership interests (including the interests of limited partners) are afforded a significant level of protection through the charging order mechanism. The charging order limits the creditor of a debtor-partner or a debtor-member to the debtor’s share of distributions, without conferring on the creditor any voting or management rights.\n\nWhen the partnership is being constituted, or the composition of the firm is changing, limited partnerships are generally required to file documents with the relevant state registration office. Limited partners must explicitly disclose their status when dealing with other parties, so that such parties are on notice that the individual negotiating with them carries limited liability. It is customary that the documentation and electronic materials issued to the public by the firm will carry a clear statement identifying the legal nature of the firm and listing the partners separately as general and limited. Hence, unlike the GPs, the limited partners do not have inherent agency authority to bind the firm unless they are subsequently \"held out\" as agents (and so create an agency by estoppel); or acts of ratification by the firm create ostensible authority.\n\nLimited partnerships are distinct from limited liability partnerships, in which all partners have limited liability. In some jurisdictions, the limited liability of the limited partners is contingent on their not participating in management.\n\nThe \"societates publicanorum\", which arose in Rome in the third century BC, may have arguably been the earliest form of limited partnership. During the heyday of the Roman Empire, they were roughly equivalent to today's corporations. Some had many investors, and interests were publicly tradable. However, they required at least one (and often several) partners with unlimited liability.\n\nAccording to Jairus Banaji, the \"Qirad\" and \"Mudaraba\" institutions in Islamic law and economic jurisprudence were similar to the modern limited partnership. In medieval Italy, a business organization known as the \"commenda\" appeared in the 10th century that was generally used for financing maritime trade. In a commenda, the traveling trader of the ship had limited liability, and was not held responsible if money was lost as long as the trader had not violated the rules of the contract. In contrast, his investment partners on land had unlimited liability and were exposed to risk. A \"commenda\" was not a common form for a long-term business venture as most long-term businesses were still expected to be secured against the assets of their individual proprietors. As an institution, the commenda is very similar to the qirad but whether the qirad transformed into the commenda, or the two institutions evolved independently cannot be stated with certainty.\n\nColbert's Ordinance (1673) and the Napoleonic Code (1807) reinforced the limited partnership concept in European law. In the United States, limited partnerships became widely available in the early 19th century, although a number of legal restrictions at the time made them unpopular for business ventures. Britain enacted its first limited partnership statute in 1907.\n\nIn the United States, the limited partnership organization is most common among film production companies and real estate investment projects, or in types of businesses that focus on a single or limited-term project. They are also useful in \"labor-capital\" partnerships, where one or more financial backers prefer to contribute money or resources while the other partner performs the actual work. In such situations, liability is the driving concern behind the choice of limited partnership status. The limited partnership is also attractive to firms wishing to provide shares to many individuals without the additional tax liability of a corporation. Private equity companies almost exclusively use a combination of general and limited partners for their investment funds. Well-known limited partnerships include Enterprise Products and Blackstone Group (both of which are public companies), and Bloomberg L.P. (a private company).\n\nBefore 2001, the limited liability enjoyed by limited partners was contingent upon their refraining from taking any active role in the management of the firm. However, Section 303 of the Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (if adopted by a state legislature) eliminates the so-called \"control rule\" with respect to personal liability for entity obligations and brings limited partners into parity with LLC members, LLP partners and corporate shareholders.\n\nThe 2001 amendments to the Uniform Limited Partnership Act (to the extent the amendments are adopted by state legislature) also permitted limited partnerships to become Limited Liability Limited Partnerships in states that adopt the change. Under this form, debts of a limited liability limited partnership are solely the responsibility of the partnership, thereby removing general-partner liability for partnership obligations. This change was made in response to the common practice of naming a limited-liability entity as a 1% general partner that controlled the limited partnership and organizing the managers as limited partners. This practice granted a general partner de facto limited liability under the partnership structure.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, limited partnerships are governed by the Limited Partnerships Act 1907. The UK Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (now the Department for Business Innovation and Skills) consulted in 2008 on proposals to modify and merge the Act with the Partnership Act 1890, but the proposals did not go ahead, and the 1907 Act remains the governing Act.\n\nEnglish law and Scottish law are distinct on partnerships. In English law, limited partnerships are not legally separate entities: the partners are jointly and severally liable and any lawsuits filed are filed against the partners by name. There has been discussion over whether limited partnerships operating under English law should be made separate legal entities in the same way as limited liability partnerships are. The Law Commission report on partnership law LC283 suggested that creation of separate legal personality should be left as an option for the partners to decide upon when a partnership is formed. There were concerns that automatically making partnerships separate legal entities would restrict their ability to trade in some European countries and also expose them to different tax regimes than expected.\n\nJapanese law has historically provided for two business forms similar to limited partnerships:\n\nIn 1999, the Diet of Japan passed legislation enabling the formation of . These are very similar to Anglo-American limited partnerships, in that they adopt most provisions of general partnership law but provide for limited liability for certain partners. Profits of an investment limited partnership pass through to all partners proportional to their investment share. For tax purposes, profits and losses will only pass through to the general partner(s) while the partnership has negative equity (i.e. liabilities exceeding assets); however, profits and losses while the partnership has positive equity are shared equally.\n\nIn New Zealand, Limited Partnerships are a form of partnership involving General Partners, (who are liable for all the debts and liabilities of the partnership) and Limited Partners (who are liable to the extent of their capital contribution to the partnership). The Limited Partnerships Act 2008 replaces Special Partnerships that exist under Part 2 of the Partnership Act 1908. Special partnerships are considered obsolete as they do not provide the appropriate structure preferred by foreign venture capital investors.\n\nFeatures of Limited Partnerships include:\n\nThe registers of Limited Partnerships and Overseas Limited Partnerships are administered by the New Zealand Companies Office. Registration, maintenance and annual return filing for Limited Partnerships and Overseas Limited Partnerships are conducted through manual forms.\n\nKommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – abbreviated KGaA – is a German corporate designation standing for 'partnership limited by shares', a form of corporate organization roughly equivalent to a master limited partnership. A Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien has two types of participators. It has at least one partner with unlimited liability (Komplementär). It is in that sense a private company. Komplementärs are natural persons or legal persons. If the Komplementär is a corporation with limited liability then the type of the company has to be named as \"UG (haftungsbeschränkt) & Co. KGaA\", \"GmbH & Co. KGaA\", \"AG & Co. KGaA\" or \"SE & Co. KGaA\". Under consideration of the aspects of European freedom of establishment it is also possible that corporations established under foreign law can become Komplementärs of a KGaA forming companies like \"Limited & Co. KGaA\".\n\nThe investment of the partners with limited liability (Kommanditisten) is the stock of the company (Grundkapital) and divided into shares. A KGaA is in that aspect comparable with a German Aktiengesellschaft.\n\nThe investment of all partners is the corporate's total capital (Gesamtkapital). The KGaA is a traditional type of very large family businesses (that are partly publicly traded) in Germany; the consumer products giant Henkel and pharmaceutical company Merck are prominent examples. In case of Merck, besides the owning family Merck also the members of the executive board are fully and privately liable for the company (including a period after withdrawal). Also the German football club Borussia Dortmund uses this corporate organization for its professional football team.\n\nA kommanditselskab (abbreviated K/S) is the Danish equivalent of the limited partnership. The owners are divided into general partners (komplementarer in Danish) and limited partners (kommanditister in Danish). Often the only general partner of a K/S is an Anpartsselskab with the least possible capital, thus reducing the liability of the K/S to the capital of the Anpartsselskab.\n\n"}
{"id": "6047249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6047249", "title": "Management fad", "text": "Management fad\n\nManagement fad is a term used to characterize a change in philosophy or operations implemented by a business or institution.\n\nThe term is subjective and tends to be used in a pejorative sense, as it implies that such a change is being implemented (often by management on its employees, with little or no input from them) solely because it is (at the time) \"popular\" within managerial circles, and not necessarily due to any real need for organizational change. The term further implies that once the underlying philosophy is no longer \"popular\", it will be replaced by the newest \"popular\" idea, in the same manner and for the same reason as the previous idea.\n\nSeveral authors have argued that new management ideas should be subject to greater critical analysis, and for the need for greater conceptual awareness of new ideas by managers. Authors Leonard J. Ponzi and Michael Koenig believe that a key determinant of whether any management idea is a \"management fad\" is the number and timing of published articles on the idea. In their research, Ponzi and Koenig argue that once an idea has been discussed for around 3–5 years, if after this time the number of articles on the idea in a given year decreases significantly (similar to the right-hand side of a bell curve), then the idea is most likely a \"management fad\".\n\nManagement fads are often characterized by the following:\n\nThe following management theories and practices appeared on a list of management fashions and fads compiled by Adrian Furnham, who arranged them in rough chronological order by their date of appearance, 1950s to 1990s:\n\n\nOther theories and practices which observers have tagged as fads include:\n\n\n\n\nFor a critique of the practice of branding new management ideas as fads, see\n\n\nFor a listicle see:\n"}
{"id": "2314743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314743", "title": "Meeting and convention planner", "text": "Meeting and convention planner\n\nA meeting and convention planner supervises and coordinates the strategic, operational and logistical activities necessary for the production of events. The planner can be employed or hired ad hoc by corporations, associations, governments, and other organizations.\n\n\nPlanners can, but need not, be certified or hold designations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41102584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41102584", "title": "Moka5", "text": "Moka5\n\nMoka5 (also called MokaFive) was a desktop virtualization company founded in 2005. It ceased operation in 2015 after an apparent bankruptcy. The company’s software began as a lab experiment at Stanford University and founders include professors Monica S. Lam and John Whaley. It was based out of Redwood City, California and its final CEO was Dave Robbins.\n\nMoka5 provided end-to-end desktop management solutions including client virtualization, central management, and layering solutions. Using the Moka5 Suite, users can run a virtual desktop from consumer devices including tablet computers smartphones. Moka5 offered secure cloud storage for virtual desktops and lets users access multiple computing platforms and operating systems across devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "288396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288396", "title": "Order (business)", "text": "Order (business)\n\nIn business or commerce, an order is a stated intention, either spoken or written, to engage in a commercial transaction for specific products or services. From a buyer's point of view it expresses the intention to buy and is called a purchase order. From a seller's point of view it expresses the intention to sell and is referred to as a sales order. When the purchase order of the buyer and the sales order of the seller agree, the orders become a contract between the buyer and seller.\n\nWithin an organization, the term order may be used to refer to a work order for manufacturing, a preventive maintenance order, or an order to make repairs to a facility.\n\nIn many businesses, orders are used to collect and report costs and revenues according to well-defined purposes. Then it is possible to show for what purposes costs have been incurred.\n\nBusinesses such as retail stores, restaurants and filling stations conduct business with their customers by accepting orders that are spoken or implied by the buyer's actions. Taking a shopping cart of merchandise to a check-out counter is an implied intent to buy the merchandise. Placing a take-out or eat-in order at a restaurant is a spoken purchase order. Putting gasoline in one's tank at a filling station is an implied order. The seller usually expects immediate payment by cash, check or credit card for these purchases, and the seller provides the buyer with a receipt for the payment. In legal terms, this form of business order is an \"implied in fact contract\".\n\nIn commerce, various business documents are used to record the negotiation of an agreement to buy and sell, record the agreement itself, and record compliance with the agreement and closure of the contract. An agreement to buy and sell is a form of contract.\n\nThere are five basic requirements for a contract to exist between two parties: agreement, voluntary, consideration, capacity, and legality. A sixth requirement of \"in writing\" sometimes applies.\n\nThe main concern for commercial orders is that there must be agreement (offer and acceptance) for the order to be a contract. Prior to this, businesses often record the details of negotiations by using a request for quotation, request for bid, sales quotation, or sales bid. Quotations are non-binding and part of the negotiation process. A request for bid can be binding or non-binding, depending on the terms of the bid.\n\nOnce an agreement or contract is in place, businesses record these as confirmed purchase orders and confirmed sales orders.\n\nIn the US, Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code covers commercial contracts, and section 2-103 gives definitions of terms under this code. Section 2-106 describes the difference between a present sale (recorded as a sales order) and a sale (recorded as a transfer of title to the buyer).\n\n(1) In this Article unless the context otherwise requires \"contract\" and \"agreement\" are limited to those relating to the present or future sale of goods. \"Contract for sale\" includes both a present sale of goods and a contract to sell goods at a future time. A \"sale\" consists in the passing of title from the seller to the buyer for a price (Section 2-401). A \"present sale\" means a sale which is accomplished by the making of the contract.\n\nIn their \"Advance Monthly Sales for Retail Trade and Food Services\", the US Census Bureau publishes estimates of US retail and food services sales. These \"sales\" are orders that have been filled; payment has been made or is an account receivable.\nIn their \"Preliminary Report on Manufacturers' Shipments, Inventories and Orders\", the US Census Bureau publishes statistics for \"new orders\", shipments, \"unfilled orders\" and inventories for manufactured durable goods. This gives an indication whether trade is increasing or decreasing for manufactured durable goods in the US.\n\n"}
{"id": "28192984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28192984", "title": "Partner relationship management", "text": "Partner relationship management\n\nPartner relationship management (PRM) is a system of methodologies, strategies, software, and web-based capabilities that help a vendor to manage partner relationships. The general purpose of PRM is to enable vendors to better manage their partners through the introduction of reliable systems, processes and procedures for interacting with them. Web-based PRM systems typically include a Content Management System, a partner and customer contact database, and the notion of a partner portal which allows partners to log in and interact with a vendor's sales opportunity database and obtain product, pricing, and training information. There are a number of solution providers who offer PRM software companies who rely heavily on a PRM solution to stay relevant in their respective industries.\n\nVendors who implement a PRM solution are typically motivated by a need to reduce the financial overhead and establish new partnerships to drive channel revenue and scale. Partners may also be integrators or managed service providers. Unlike CRM systems, which are tailored toward getting an end customer to purchase from you, a PRM system is focused on getting a partner to sell on your behalf. As a result, they commonly offer web-based self-service tools, information, and resources to partner resellers. Tools often include:\n\nGartner reports that PRM solutions have mainly been adopted by companies in the hardware technology, software technology, telecommunication, and manufacturing industries.\n\nThe PRM application market has expanded significantly in the last 10 years, with vendors offering improved end-to-end and point solutions for the management of channel sales partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "7328483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7328483", "title": "Path analysis (computing)", "text": "Path analysis (computing)\n\nPath analysis, is the analysis of a path, which is a portrayal of a chain of consecutive events that a given user or cohort performs during a set period of time while using a website, online game, or eCommerce platform. As a subset of behavioral analytics, path analysis is a way to understand user behavior in order to gain actionable insights into the data. Path analysis provides a visual portrayal of every event a user or cohort performs as part of a path during a set period of time.\n\nWhile it is possible to track a user’s path through the site, and even show that path as a visual representation, the real question is how to gain these actionable insights. If path analysis simply outputs a \"pretty\" graph, while it may look nice, it does not provide anything concrete to act upon.\n\nIn order to get the most out of path analysis the first step would be to determine what needs to be analyzed and what are the goals of the analysis. A company might be trying to figure out why their site is running slow, are certain types of users interested in certain pages or products, or if their user interface is set up in a logical way.\n\nNow that the goal has been set there are a few ways of performing the analysis. If a large percentage of a certain cohort, people between the ages of 18-25, logs into an online game, creates a profile and then spends the next 10 minutes wandering around the menu page, then it may be that the user interface is not logical. By seeing this group of users following the path that they did a developer will be able to analyze the data and realize that after creating a profile, the “play game” button does not appear. Thus, path analysis was able to provide actionable data for the company to act on and fix an error.\n\nIn eCommerce, path analysis can help customize a shopping experience to each user. By looking at what products other customers in a certain cohort looked at before buying one, a company can suggest “items you may also like” to the next customer and increase the chances of them making a purchase. Also, path analysis can help solve performance issues on a platform. For example, a company looks at a path and realizes that their site freezes up after a certain combinations of events. By analyzing the path and the progression of events that led to the error, the company can pinpoint the error and fix it.\n\nHistorically path analysis fell under the broad category of website analytics, and related only to the analysis of paths through websites. Path analysis in website analytics is a process of determining a sequence of pages visited in a visitor session prior to some desired event, such as the visitor purchasing an item or requesting a newsletter. The precise order of pages visited may or may not be important and may or may not be specified. In practice, this analysis is done in aggregate, ranking the paths (sequences of pages) visited prior to the desired event, by descending frequency of use. The idea is to determine what features of the website encourage the desired result. \"Fallout analysis,\" a subset of path analysis, looks at \"black holes\" on the site, or paths that lead to a dead end most frequently, paths or features that confuse or lose potential customers.\n\nWith the advent of big data along with web-based applications, online games, and eCommerce platforms, path analysis has come to include much more than just web path analysis. Understanding how users move through an app, game, or other web platform are all part of modern-day path analysis.\n\nIn the real world when you visit a shop the shelves and products are not placed in a random order. The shop owner carefully analyzes the visitors and path they walk through the shop, especially when they are selecting or buying products. Next the shop owner will reorder the shelves and products to optimize sales by putting everything in the most logical order for the visitors. In a supermarket this will typically result in the wine shelf next to a variety of cookies, chips, nuts, etc. Simply because people drink wine and eat nuts with it.\n\nIn most web sites there is a same logic that can be applied. Visitors who have questions about a product will go to the product information or support section of a web site. From there they make a logical step to the frequently asked questions page if they have a specific question. A web site owner also wants to analyze visitor behavior. For example, if a web site offers products for sale, the owner wants to convert as many visitors to a completed purchase. If there is a sign-up form with multiple pages, web site owners want to guide visitors to the final sign-up page.\n\nPath analysis answers typical questions like: \n\"Where do most visitors go after they enter my home page?\"\n\"Is there a strong visitor relation between product A and product B on my web site?\". \nQuestions that can't be answered by page hits and unique visitors statistics.\n\nGoogle Analytics provides a path function with funnels and goals. A predetermined path of web site pages is specified and every visitor walking the path is a goal. This approach is very helpful when analyzing how many visitors reach a certain destination page, called an end point analysis.\n\nThe paths visitors walk in a web site can lead to an endless number of unique paths. As a result, there is no point in analyzing each path, but to look for the strongest paths. These strongest paths are typically shown in a graphical map or in text like: Page A --> Page B --> Page D --> Exit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3883649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883649", "title": "Perfection (law)", "text": "Perfection (law)\n\nIn law, perfection relates to the additional steps required to be taken in relation to a security interest in order to make it effective against third parties or to retain its effectiveness in the event of default by the grantor of the security interest. Generally speaking, once a security interest is effectively created, it gives certain rights to the holder of the security and imposes duties on the party who grants that security. However, in many legal systems, additional steps --- perfection of the security interest --- are required to enforce the security against third parties such as a liquidator.\n\nAs a legal concept, perfection must be distinguished from:\n\nThe same rule --- the common law rule in \"Dearle v Hall\", for instance --- may govern both perfection against third parties (e.g., subsequent security holders) and prioritization of competing security interests.\n\nIn most legal systems, the need for perfection arises only in relation to security interests that are proprietary in nature (such as a mortgage or equitable charge). Other arrangements which constitute security in the loose sense of the word --- for instance, title retention arrangements, hire purchase, and leasing transactions --- need not in general be perfected in the legal sense.\n\nIn India, Section 125 of the Companies Act, 1956 provides that certain charges shall be void against liquidator or creditors unless registered. Thus,if a charge is not registered with Registrar of Companies, and company happens to go for liquidation, even secured creditor shall be treated as unsecured.\n\nThere are three principal modes by which a security interest may be perfected (which method of perfection is applicable depends upon the nature of the security interest and the laws of the relevant country).\n\n\nSome security interests can be perfected only by the actual possession of the asset. For example, under a common-law pledge (or pawn), the right to enforce the sale of the asset is contingent upon the possession of that asset: an agreement that leaves the debtor in possession of the pledged collateral does not give rise to an enforceable security interest.\n\nIn certain cases, the possession does not need to be \"actual\" possession, but may be \"constructive\" possession. For example, possession of a document of title will often suffice where it is not possible to possess the goods. In many legal systems, there may also be constructive possession by attornment.\n\nThe law relating to perfection of security interests by taking of possession can sometimes be confused with the law relating to the granting of security interests, which provides that the deposit of certain assets (usually documents of title) can amount to an equitable mortgage of the goods.\n\nCertain security interests may be perfected by some kind of registration or filing. Although the terms are used interchangeably, it is more accurate to speak of registration as the lodgment of particulars, and filing as the lodgment of the security instrument itself.\n\nGenerally systems of registration divide into two types:\nEach has its own advantages and disadvantages.\n\nRegistration against a particular asset only tends to be practical where the assets are of a nature and substance that makes it feasible to have a register for recording security interests against them. Most countries have systems for the registration of security relating to land, aircraft, ships and intellectual property rights. The advantage of a register relating to the asset is that if the debtor wishes to provide an asset as collateral, the proposed lender can swiftly check definitively whether the asset is encumbered or not. Nevertheless, specialist registers in some jurisdictions cannot always be considered \"a one-stop source of information\".\n\nRegistration against a debtor tends to operate by way of requiring the registration of certain security interests by the debtor. The advantage is that a lender can quickly see which assets of the debtor are encumbered and which are not. However, because many registration systems do not require all types of security interest to be registered gaps can remain. Also, systems which register security against the debtor do not act as a check that the debtor actually has title to any of the relevant assets, merely that he has not created any security interest over them.\n\nHowever, the position is complicated by the fact that many legal systems employ both, interchangeably. A security interest granted by a debtor over a particular asset in any given country may need to be registered against the debtor, against the asset, both or neither.\n\nIn some legal systems, perfection of a security interest requires notice to be given to a relevant third party. This most commonly arises in relation to security over a debt or other \"chose in action\", notice being required to be given to the party owing the debt or holding the fund. Under English law, an often cited example is the well-known rule in \"Dearle v Hall\". Under the rule if A is owed money by X, and then A grants an equitable charge over that debt to B, and then grants a second equitable charge over the same debt to C, then the ability to enforce the charge by either B or C against the money in X's hands is dependent upon the giving of notice to X. The controversy in the rule relates to the fact that it is also a rule of \"priority\", meaning that (if their rights are otherwise equal) the first one to give notice to X has the prior claim, irrespective of the order in which the equitable charges were granted.\n\nSimilarly, in many common law legal systems, where there is an assignment of a debt, the assignee cannot enforce the rights of the assigning creditor against the debtor unless notice of the assignment has been given, and until notice of the assignment has been given, the debtor can still discharge the debt by paying the money to the creditor, notwithstanding the assignment.\n\n"}
{"id": "6903579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6903579", "title": "Performance supervision system", "text": "Performance supervision system\n\nA performance supervision system (PSS) is a software system used to improve the performance of a process plant. Typical process plants include oil refineries, paper mills, and chemical plants.\n\nThe PSS gathers real-time data from the process control system, typically a distributed control system. Using this data, the PSS can calculate performance metrics for process equipment, controls, and operations.\n"}
{"id": "40811786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40811786", "title": "President (corporate title)", "text": "President (corporate title)\n\nThe President is a leader of an organization, company, community, club, trade union, university or other group. The relationship between the president and the Chief Executive Officer varies, depending on the structure of the specific organization. In a similar vein to the Chief Operating Officer, the title of corporate President as a separate position (as opposed to being combined with a \"C-Suite\" designation, such as \"President and Chief Executive Officer\" or \"President and Chief Operating Officer\") is also loosely defined; the President is usually the legally recognized highest rank of corporate officer, ranking above the various Vice Presidents (including Senior Vice President and Executive Vice President), but on its own generally considered subordinate, in practice, to the CEO. The powers of the president vary widely across organizations and such powers come from specific authorization in the bylaws (e.g. the president can make an \"executive decision\" only if the bylaws allow for it).\n\nOriginally, the term \"president\" was used to designate someone who presided over a meeting, and was used in the same way that \"foreman\" or \"overseer\" is used now (the term is still used in that sense today). It has now also come to mean \"chief officer\" in terms of administrative or executive duties.\n\nIn addition to the administrative or executive duties in organizations, the president has the duties of presiding over meetings. Such duties at meetings include:\nWhile presiding, the president should remain impartial and not interrupt a speaker if the speaker has the floor and is following the rules of the group. In committees or small boards, the president votes along with the other members. However, in assemblies or larger boards, the president should vote only when it can affect the result. At a meeting, the president only has one vote (i.e. the president cannot vote twice and cannot override the decision of the group unless the organization has specifically given the president such authority).\n\nThe powers of the president vary widely across organizations. In some organizations the president has the authority to hire staff and make financial decisions, while in others the president only makes recommendations to a board of directors, and still others the president has no executive powers and is mainly a spokesman for the organization. The amount of power given to the president depends on the type of organization, its structure, and the rules it has created for itself.\n\nIf the president exceeds the given authority, engages in misconduct, or fails to perform the duties, the president may face disciplinary procedures. Such procedures may include censure, suspension, or removal from office. The rules of the particular organization would provide details on who can perform these disciplinary procedures and the extent that they can be done. Usually, whoever appointed or elected the president has the power to discipline this officer.\n\nSome organizations may have a position of President-Elect in addition to the position of President. Generally the membership of the organization elects a President-Elect and when the term of the President-Elect is complete, that person automatically becomes President.\n\nSome organizations may have a position of Immediate Past President in addition to the position of President. In those organizations, when the term of the President is complete, that person automatically fills the position of Immediate Past President. The organization can have such a position only if the bylaws provide it. The duties of such a position would also have to be provided in the bylaws.\n\n"}
{"id": "1465149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1465149", "title": "Professional conference organiser", "text": "Professional conference organiser\n\nA professional conference organiser, professional congress organiser (PCO) or conference company is a company which specialises in the organisation and management of congresses, conferences, seminars and similar events.\n\nPCOs can typically work as consultants for academic and professional associations. They usually provide full service management for conferences including conference design, abstract management software, program development, registration, site and venue selection and booking, audiovisuals, IT support, logistics, leisure management, marketing, printing and web services, sourcing speakers, funding, sponsorship and exhibitor sales, financial management and budget control.\n\nOther companies offer related services including travel agents and public relations companies. They tend to focus on limited areas such as destination management.\n\nRecent surveys of UK conference venues have found that a third of conference bookings were made by PCOs or venue-finding agencies. In 2006 UK-based conferences generated £7.6 billion in direct sales giving PCOs a central role in some £2.5 billion of revenue generation. The UK is ranked second behind the US for global market share of conferences. Thus, although there is no one source of global statistics for the conference market it appears that PCOs play a central role in several billion dollars' worth of revenue generation worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1033971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033971", "title": "Profit impact of marketing strategy", "text": "Profit impact of marketing strategy\n\nThe profit impact of market strategy (PIMS) database \"yields solid evidence in support of both common sense and counter-intuitive principles for gaining and sustaining competitive advantage\": Tom Peters and Nancy Austin. It was developed with the intention of providing empirical evidence of which business strategies lead to success, across different industries. Data from the study is used to craft strategies in strategic management and marketing strategy. The study identified several strategic variables that typically influence profitability. Some of the most important strategic variables studied were market share, product quality, investment intensity, and service quality, (all of which were found to be highly correlated with profitability).\n\nAccording to Lancaster, Massingham and Ashford (\"Essentials of Marketing\", 4th edition, McGraw Hill), PIMS seeks to address three basic questions:\n\n\nDibb, Simkin, Pride and Ferrell (Marketing Concepts and Strategies, 4th European edition, Houghton Mifflin) cite six principal areas of information that PIMS holds on each business:\n\n\nThe PIMS project was started by Sidney Schoeffler working at General Electric in the 1960s, managed by the Marketing Science Institute in the early 1970s, and has been administered by the American Strategic Planning Institute since 1975.\n\nIt was initiated by senior managers at GE who wanted to know why some of their business units were more profitable than the others. With the help of Sidney Schoeffler they set up a research project in which each of their strategic business units reported their performance on dozens of variables. This was then expanded to outside companies in the early 1970s.\n\nThe initial survey, between 1970 and 1983, involved 2,600 strategic business units (SBU), from 200 companies. Today 12,500 observations exist for 4162 SBU's; PIMS is managed by PIMS Associates in London. Each SBU give information on the market within which they operated, the products they had brought to market and the efficacy of the strategies they had implemented.\n\nThe PIMS project analysed the data they had gathered to identify the options, problems, resources and opportunities faced by each SBU. Based on the spread of each business across different industries, it was hoped that the data could be drawn upon to provide other business, in the same industry, with empirical evidence of which strategies lead to increased profitability. The database continues to be updated and drawn upon by academics and companies today.\n\nThe original PIMS data survey led the PIMS project to identify 37 variables which account for the majority of business success. Two leading marketing texts differ slightly on which variables are the most important, with Dibb, Simkin, Pride and Ferrell (p676) identifying:\n\n\nand Lanacaster, Massingham and Ashford (p535) citing:\n\n\nWhile many of these seem obvious, PIMS has the advantage of providing empirical data that define quantitative relationships and back what some may consider to be common-sense.\n\nPIMS evaluated businesses' market position and suggest possible strategies, based on the data gathered from participating companies. Businesses wishing to use the service provide detailed information, including details of their:\n\n\nIn return, PIMS provides four reports, described by Lancaster, Massingham and Ashford as:\n\n1. A 'Par' report - showing the ROI and cash flows that are 'normal' for this type of business, given its market, competition, technology, and cost structure. \n\n2. A 'Strategy Analysis' report, which computes the predicted consequences of each of several alternative strategic actions, judged by information in similar businesses making similar moves, from a similar starting-point and in a similar business environment.\n\n3. A 'Report on Look-Alikes' (ROLA), which aimed at predicting the best combination of strategies for that particular company, by analyzing strategically similar business more closely.\n\n4. An 'Optimum Strategy' report, which is aimed at predicting the best combination of strategies for that particular company, again based on the experiences of other businesses in 'similar' circumstances.\n\nClearly, it could be argued that a database operating on information gathered in the period 1970 - 1983 is outdated. However data continues to be collected from participating companies and PIMS argues that it provides a unique source of time-series data, the conclusions from which have proven to be very stable over time.\n\nIt has also been suggested that PIMS is too heavily biased towards traditional, metal-bashing industries, such as car manufacturing; perhaps not surprising, considering the era in which the majority of the surveys were carried out. In reality, as of 2006, the 3,800+ businesses contained within the database includes data from the consumer, industrial and service sectors.\n\nIt is also heavily weighted towards large companies, at the expense of small entrepreneurial firms. This resulted from the data collection method used. Generally only larger firms are prepared to pay the consulting fee, provide the survey data, and in return have access to the database in which they can compare their business with other large businesses or SBUs. Mintzberg (1998) claims that because the database is dominated by large established firms, it is more suitable as a technique for assessing the state of \"being there rather than getting there\". (page 99) This criticism is very important because if one is trying to get \"average\" results across industries to give us the \"laws of the marketplace\", a dubious enterprise as it is, the sampling strategy is important if one wants to obtain results that are representative.\n\nThe most important criticism leveled at PIMS is the fact that causation implies correlation but correlation does not imply causation. One of the most important \"findings\" of the PIMS program was to find a statistically significant relationship between profitability and market share (see Buzzell and Gale (1987)). The empirical work conducted by PIMS suggested that high market share yielded high profitability, but this correlation cannot be considered a \"true\" causal relationship because of the fact that correlation does not imply causation. In the multivariate correlation analysis, high market share was associated with high profits, but high profits could have been associated with high market share, or a third factor common to both could have caused the correlation. Many analysts believe that it is possible to use a statistical causality test to determine causation, but if the whole problem is that correlation is insufficient to determine causation in the first place, then how can using another correlation, which is what is used in the tests, determine causation.\n\nAnother important criticism of PIMS is that it does not take into account heterogeneity in the data set. The presumption of PIMS analysis is that the same \"laws of the marketplace\" apply to all industries. However, the statistical assumptions employed in the econometric analysis make the assumption that all cross-sectional observations come from one statistical distribution that is the same for all cross-sectional observations. This tends to be the Achilles heel of virtually all cross-sectional analyses. If this homogeneous assumption is false, then cross-sectional observations are being drawn from different populations. While one can use estimation techniques such as fixed-effects to control for different population means, co-variances can also differ across populations (meaning behavior differs across populations) and the only way one can control for this aspect is to run regressions on each population separately. This means that the \"laws of the marketplace\" differ across populations, directly contradicting one of the main presumptions of using the PIMS data base for analysis.\n\nTellis and Golder (1996) claim that PIMS defines markets too narrowly. Respondents described their market very narrowly to give the appearance of high market share. They believe that this self reporting bias makes the conclusions suspect. They are also concerned that no defunct companies were included, leading to \"survivor bias\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4561754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561754", "title": "Resource-based view", "text": "Resource-based view\n\nThe resource-based view (RBV) is a managerial framework used to determine the strategic resources with the potential to deliver comparative advantage to a firm. These resources can be exploited by the firm in order to achieve sustainable competitive advantage.\n\nBarney's 1991 article \"Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage\" is widely cited as a pivotal work in the emergence of the resource-based view. However, some scholars argue that there was evidence for a fragmentary resource-based theory from the 1930s. RBV proposes that firms are heterogeneous because they possess heterogeneous resources, meaning firms can have different strategies because they have different resource mixes.\n\nThe RBV focuses managerial attention on the firm's internal resources in an effort to identify those assets, capabilities and competencies with the potential to deliver superior competitive advantages.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the \"resource-based view\" (also known as the \"resource-advantage theory\") of the firm became the dominant paradigm in strategic planning. RBV can be seen as a reaction against the positioning school and its somewhat prescriptive approach which focused managerial attention on external considerations, notably industry structure. The so-called positioning school had dominated the discipline throughout the 1980s. In contrast, the emergent resource-based view argued that the source of sustainable advantage derives from doing things in a superior manner; by developing superior capabilities and resources. Jay Barney's article, \"Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage\" (1991), is seen as pivotal in the emergence of the resource-based view. \n\nA number of scholars point out that a fragmentary resource-based perspective was evident from the 1930s, noting that Barney was heavily influenced by Wernerfelt's earlier work which introduced the idea of resource position barriers being roughly analogous to entry barriers in the positioning school. Other scholars suggest that the resource-based view represents a new paradigm, albeit with roots in \"Ricardian and Penrosian economic theories according to which firms can earn sustainable supranormal returns if, and only if, they have superior resources and those resources are protected by some form of isolating mechanism precluding their diffusion throughout the industry.\" While its exact influence is debated, Edith Penrose's 1959 book \"The Theory of the Growth of the Firm\" is held by two scholars of strategy to state many concepts that would later influence the modern, resource-based theory of the firm.\n\nThe RBV is an interdisciplinary approach that represents a substantial shift in thinking. The resource-based view is interdisciplinary in that it was developed within the disciplines of economics, ethics, law, management, marketing, supply chain management and general business. \n\nRBV focuses attention on an organisation's internal resources as a means of organising processes and obtaining a competitive advantage. Barney stated that for resources to hold potential as sources of sustainable competitive advantage, they should be valuable, rare, imperfectly imitable and not substitutable (now generally known as \"VRIN\" criteria). The resource-based view suggests that organisations must develop unique, firm-specific core competencies that will allow them to outperform competitors by doing things differently.\n\nAlthough the literature presents many different ideas around the concept of the resource-advantage perspective, at its heart, the common theme is that the firm's resources are financial, legal, human, organisational, informational and relational; resources are heterogeneous and imperfectly mobile and that management's key task is to understand and organise resources for sustainable competitive advantage. Key theorists who have contributed to the development of a coherent body of literature include Jay B. Barney, George S. Day, Gary Hamel, Shelby D. Hunt, G. Hooley and C.K. Prahalad.\n\nAchieving a sustainable competitive advantage lies at the heart of much of the literature in both strategic management and strategic marketing. The resource-based view offers strategists a means of evaluating potential factors that can be deployed to confer a competitive edge. A key insight arising from the resource-based view is that not all resources are of equal importance, nor possess the potential to become a source of sustainable competitive advantage. The sustainability of any competitive advantage depends on the extent to which resources can be imitated or substituted. Barney and others point out that understanding the causal relationship between the sources of advantage and successful strategies can be very difficult in practice. Thus, a great deal of managerial effort must be invested in identifying, understanding and classifying core competencies. In addition, management must invest in organisational learning to develop, nurture and maintain key resources and competencies.\n\nIn the resource-based view, strategists select the strategy or competitive position that best exploits the internal resources and capabilities relative to external opportunities. Given that strategic resources represent a complex network of inter-related assets and capabilities, organisations can adopt many possible competitive positions. Although scholars debate the precise categories of competitive positions that are used, there is general agreement, within the literature, that the resource-based view is much more flexible than Porter's prescriptive approach to strategy formulation.\n\nThe key managerial tasks are:\n\n1) Identify the firm’s potential key resources.\n\n2) Evaluate whether these resources fulfill the following criteria (also known as \"VRIN\" criteria:\n\n\n3) Develop, nurture and protect resources that pass these evaluations.\n\nGiven the centrality of resources in terms of conferring competitive advantage, the management and marketing literature carefully defines and classifies resources and capabilities.\n\nBarney defines firm resources as: \"all assets, capabilities, organizational processes, firm attributes, information, knowledge, etc. controlled by a firm that enable the firm to conceive of and implement strategies that improve its efficiency and effectiveness” \n\nCapabilities are “a special type of resource, specifically an organizationally embedded non-transferable firm-specific resource whose purpose is to improve the productivity of the other resources possessed by the firm.” \n\nBarney defined a competitive advantage as \"when [a firm] is able to implement a “value creating strategy not simultaneously being implemented by any current or potential competitors.”\n\nFirm-based resources may be tangible or intangible.\n\nFirms in possession of a resource, or mix of resources that are rare among competitors, are said to have a \"comparative advantage.\" This comparative advantage enables firms to produce marketing offerings that are either (a) perceived as having superior value or (b) can be produced at lower costs. Therefore, a comparative advantage in resources can lead to a competitive advantage in market position.\n\nIn the resource-based view, strategists select the strategy or competitive position that best exploits the internal resources and capabilities relative to external opportunities. Given that strategic resources represent a complex network of inter-related assets and capabilities, organisations can adopt many possible competitive positions. Although scholars debate the precise categories of competitive positions that are used, there is general agreement, within the literature, that the resource-based view is much more flexible than Porter's prescriptive approach to strategy formulation. Hooley et al. suggest the following classification of competitive positions:\n\nA number of criticisms of RBV have been widely cited, and are as follows:\n\n\nOther criticisms include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41077446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41077446", "title": "Retail Systems Research", "text": "Retail Systems Research\n\nRetail Systems Research, or RSR is an American market intelligence company focused on the impact of technology on the retail industry.\nRSR research has been mentioned by news institutions including \"The Economist\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"USA Today\", and \"National Public Radio\", as well as in industry publications such as RetailWire, Retailers Magazine, and Chain Store Age.\n\nRSR’s partners, Nikki Baird, Paula Rosenblum, Steve Rowen, and Brian Kilcourse are considered influencers in the industry, contributing to Forbes.com and giving interviews as subject matter experts.\nNikki Baird left the company in January 2018.\n\nTheir research is also cited in books and publications.\n\nPrice intelligence\n\n"}
{"id": "6874024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6874024", "title": "Sales outsourcing", "text": "Sales outsourcing\n\nSales outsourcing is a way for companies to attract increased, high volumes of sales for their products or services by using a third party. The company typically uses outsourcing companies to improve sales volumes without links to the sales teams that carry out those campaigns. The company that undertakes the outsourcing will normally be paid based on the results they are able to generate, and therefore creates a mutually beneficial situation for both client and the outsourcing company. \n\nFull 'sales outsourcing' is observed when companies have an external third party sales force. It is differentiated from value added reselling or distribution in that the business model can be based on shared risk, although there are models where the outsourcer is paid for all of their activity - just as with a hired direct sales force, but the outsourcer provides rapidity, flexibility and experience. \nOther names for sales outsourcing include 'indirect sales' and 'channel sales'.\n\nFull sales outsourcing is different from telemarketing in that it requires direct recruitment of sales personnel with specific backgrounds for each sales campaign. Usually the sales executives will be part of a team that may include telemarketing, marketing, tools systems and methodologies as well as sales management.\n\nSales outsourcing firms provide accountability regarding all sales results and activities while representing the brand of the client. For the end-customer, it usually appears as if the sales team sold the product themselves rather than the sales outsourcing firm. The outsourcing firm is, in essence, an extension of the client but is responsible for all operations associated with direct sales activities, often receiving sales engineering and initial product/service training support from the client.\n\nThe sole purpose of a contract sales organization is to provide sales resource to its clients, without taking title to their products. Sales outsourcing providers include manufacturers' representatives, contract sales organizations, sales agents or sales outsourcing consultants. One way of organising the sales effort, especially when product delivery is erratic, is to replace or supplement internal resources with functionality and expertise brought in from contract sales organisations.\n\nSales outsourcing is quite different from large-scale service outsourcing, which has its advantages but also requires pro-active contract and relationship management. In addition to full sales outsourcing, many partial models are observed, particularly in large firms.\n\nSales outsourcing is expected to be cheaper than the fully loaded cost of employing salespeople, but calculating the cost comparison over time is far from straightforward. Nevertheless, replacing fixed costs with variable costs is attractive to budget-holders. However, unlike many forms of outsourcing, the advantages of sales outsourcing does not often come from saving costs but rather increasing revenue or providing speed of response or flexibility.\n\nThe business case for sales outsourcing should also include consideration of the cost of controlling the contract. Difficulty in measuring the link between sales activity and sales performance leads to a preference for employed salespeople. However, the issues internally are often the same and the internal hire has many other corporate \"distractions\" that do not occur with external resources.\n\nCompanies may also choose sales outsourcing as a means of accessing the best sales skills. Although the pejorative term “rent-a-rep” is still used, there is some evidence that contractors are perceived as good performers against qualitative as well as quantitative performance criteria. Even so, the reputational risk of third parties handling customer relationships has been observed as a factor restricting sales outsourcing. One could argue that an employee is often using a company to gain 2–3 years salary and experience whereas a sales outsourcing firm would usually be looking at a long term contract even though the staff may change during that time. So the aims of an outsourcer can be closely aligned with the aims and objectives of the contracting company.\n\nA recent study has highlighted flexibility as an important driver for outsourcing sales. Uncertain business environments accentuate the need to turn sales resource on and off quickly. Industries and companies undergoing rapid change may need to avoid hiring and firing costs and risks. Contract sales organizations can absorb employment risk, enabling their clients to respond to short-term opportunities or competitor activity (see Lean startup). However, an outsourcer may build in more of a premium to the rate or commission if excessive flexibility is required on a contract.\n\nContract sales organizations are growing in volume and influence, able to provide both tactical activity and long-term strategic support to their clients.\n\nSpeed of response is seen as a key reason to use an outsourcer. If a company was looking to enter a market it may take several months to recruit the local manager which then takes several months to find an office and build a team. With an outsourcer, a full working team can oftentimes be operational within a matter of days or weeks.\n\nSales outsourcing can also be used as a market entry strategy and avoids permanent establishment risk.\n\nThe experience of many organizations over the past several years demonstrates that indirect channels can be critical to expanding market coverage. This has been particularly true in the electronics, communications and high tech sectors. For example, the indirect channel now accounts for 66 percent of overall technology sales, up from 53 percent in 1997.\n\nSome examples of communications companies who employ indirect sales forces to their internal sales efforts include: AireSpring, AT&T, Comcast, Earthlink Business, Integra Telecom, Level 3 Communications, Time Warner Cable, TelePacific, tw telecom, XO Communications, and Windstream. Some top sales agencies who sell voice and data services for these carriers include Telarus, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, Intelisys, based in Petaluma, California, and Telecom Brokerage Inc (TBI), based in Chicago, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "19818206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818206", "title": "Sustainopreneurship", "text": "Sustainopreneurship\n\nSustainopreneurship (entrepreneurship and innovation for sustainability) is a concept that has emerged from the earlier concepts social entrepreneurship and ecopreneurship, via sustainability entrepreneurship. The concept means to use creative business organizing to solve problems related to sustainability to create social and environmental sustainability as a strategic objective and purpose, at the same time respecting the boundaries set in order to maintain the life support systems in the process. In other words, it is a \"business with a cause\" – where the world problems are turned into business opportunities by deployment of sustainability innovations. \n\nThe definition first introduced in a conference article in 2006:\n\n\nThe business world has been nominated as a premier force for creating a sustainable world, especially when acting as a source of innovation and creativity – e. g. as Robinson (2004:378) puts it:\n\nSustainopreneurship is a candidate to be the accentuating factor to give even more leverage to forces emerging from world of business activities to contribute to sustainability. The concept of sustainopreneurship was first introduced as a term in 2000 where it was predominantly related to the proactive change management approaches associated with process adjustment with increased respect to the environment. The phenomenon developed with publications in 2003, and further evolved and was tentatively defined in 2006 by Anders Abrahamsson. This tentative definition was empirically tested in his Master thesis, where the enactive research process confirmed that the definition stood the test contrasting it towards the auto-ethnographical empirical material. A paper to identify future research challenges was made beyond this in 2007, and developed further with a book chapter published in September 2008.\n\nIn general, the entrepreneurial discourse has opened up to move beyond a strictly economic phenomenon, rather than being perceived primarily as a social process at large. Preceding the conceptual formation were two traces of social entrepreneurship and eco-preneurship, dealing primarily with the social and ecological dimensions of sustainability. Primary associations with social entrepreneurship have also been establishing not-for-profit venturing and charities to innovatively address and solve social problems, whereas ecopreneurship has been primarily focused on solving environmental problems. See Principles of ecopreneurship.\n\nBoth these traces of conceptual development are taken beyond, merge and integrate into the suggested conceptual construct at hand, where distinctions are made from both of these concepts – sustainopreneurial processes taking place institutionally through for-profit organizing, but not with profit as its main driving force. Sustainopreneurial venturing is done in a holistic manner that meets both ecological and social challenges simultaneously with regard to both purpose and process. \n\nThe definition of sustainopreneurship needs to be highlighted by three distinguishing dimensions with all three being simultaneously present in the applied (inter)action it reflects. The first is oriented towards \"why\" – its purpose and motive. The second and third are reflecting two \"how\"-related dimensions – its process. \n\n1. Sustainopreneurship consciously sets out to find and/or create innovations to solve sustainability-related problems\n\n2. Sustainopreneurship means to get solutions to the market through creative organizing \n\n3. Sustainopreneurship in process adds sustainability value with respect for life support systems \n\nWith these dimensions clarified and distinctions made a common conceptual vagueness or lack of clarity needs to be addressed, where a strong need to distinguish clearly between sustainable, vs. \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship is identified. From this point of view, a very important distinction with the concept formed is claimed – \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship as in the concept \"sustainopreneurship; \"the use of entrepreneurial activity in a \"determined action orientation towards solving a sustainability-related problem\" with (creative) business organizing as a \"means\" to solve the problem(s) – business with a cause: to turn business activity from a part of the problem to a part of the solution.\" Sustainable\" entrepreneurship is just a generic entrepreneurial process that takes into consideration the boundaries set by sustainability, and does not address where to and why, the destination, the purpose or the aim of the venture. The strategic intent and the business idea in itself are not related to sustainability \"per se,\" sustainability just being an \"attachment\" to the entrepreneurial process. The second and third dimensions are represented, but not the first. \"Sustainability\" entrepreneurship, in contrast, takes as its root of existence and strategic aim to solve a sustainability-related problem. This means that all three dimensions are simultaneously present: to take a sustainability innovation to the market through creative organizing with respect for life-supporting systems in the process.\n\nGiven its recent date, there is a need for future research, as mentioned above. Main findings here are that conceptually, a deeper analysis is needed to be conducted with a nuanced and detailed taxonomy and framework created of sustainability innovations, the core of sustainopreneurship, primarily by cataloging and categorizing case stories. It is also needed to make a more detailed description to relate sustainopreneurship to other concepts in the wider, general idea-sphere of the \"business case of sustainability\", in the contemporary plethora of \"buzz-words\", approaches, methods and acronyms that already exists – and in this context also to motivate why this concept adds value. \n\nIt has been recommended, though, to keep the research applied, to identify obstacles and institutional barriers, and how to overcome them; i. e. facilitating factors for sustainopreneurship, researching prospective tools, enablers and approaches. Appropriate areas and domains for sustainopreneurship applied are recommended to be digested. Research methods recommended are Enactive Research and Open Space Technology, since they add instant value among stakeholders, and in themselves naturally builds arenas where sustainopreneurship evolves and proliferates. For progress, beyond these \"how\"-related pointers, the key is to single out \"the big questions\", getting answers through collaborative, collective dialogue and conversation, with an explicit interaction and results orientation. Issues and topics have been formulated and outlined, where it is of striking importance with an intention to attract authentic forces potentially hearing this call of exploring the phenomenon further, with the purpose to collapse the degrees of separation in between the stakeholders of the sustainopreneurial concept – in idea, reflective practice and applied interaction to generate collective and collaborative wisdom for a deeper understanding of the concept. An association with this purpose is in its interim stages, ÆREAS(i).\n\n"}
{"id": "5447286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447286", "title": "Title retention clause", "text": "Title retention clause\n\nA retention of title clause (also called a \"Romalpa\" clause in some jurisdictions) is a provision in a contract for the sale of goods that the title to the goods remains vested in the seller until certain obligations (usually payment of the purchase price) are fulfilled by the buyer.\n\nThe main purpose of retention of title (\"ROT\") clauses is to ensure that where goods are supplied on credit, if the buyer subsequently goes into bankruptcy, the seller can repossess the goods. They are often seen as a natural extension of the credit economy; where suppliers are expected to sell goods on credit, there is a reasonable expectation that if they are not paid they should be able to repossess the goods. Nonetheless, in a number of jurisdictions, insolvency regimes or credit arrangement regimes prevent title retention clauses from being enforced where doing so would upset administration of the regime.\n\nRetention of title clauses are mandated in the European Union by Article 9 of the Late Payments Directive, and sellers' ROT rights are recognized by Article 7 of the Insolvency Regulation.\n\nEspecially prevalent in Germany, these clauses are permitted in the United Kingdom by s.19 of the \"Sale of Goods Act 1979\", which expanded upon the 1976 judgment of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales in \"Aluminium Industrie Vaassen BV v Romalpa Aluminium Ltd\".\n\nIn contrast to English law, the common-law jurisdictions in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States have instituted the concept of \"security interest\", under which ROT clauses may need to be registered in order to have effect:\n\nAlthough title retention clauses are conceptually very simple, they have become increasingly widely drafted, which has resulted in the courts in a number of countries striking down the clauses, or recharacterising them as the grant of a security interest. It has consequentially been noted that \"the practical outcome of a series of later cases has put it beyond doubt that 'extended' title reservation clauses will not work.\" Several particular problems have been identified:\n\nRetention of title clauses will obviously vary from country to country, and even within countries they will usually be specialised to the form of industry used in, and the type of goods which are sold. The following are just two examples of the types of clause which can be seen.\n\n\"A shorter form clause:\"\n\n\"A longer form clause:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16773166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16773166", "title": "Tulane Corporate Law Institute", "text": "Tulane Corporate Law Institute\n\nThe Tulane Corporate Law Institute is an annual two-day M&A and corporate law conference that takes place in downtown New Orleans every spring. It attracts the most high-profile lawyers and bankers from around the United States, as well as judges, journalists, and others who follow the dealmaking world. The event typically takes place on a Thursday and Friday in late March or early April, at a prominent Canal Street hotel. \n\nIn the late 1980s, Delaware Supreme Court Justice Andrew G.T. Moore (author of \"Smith v. Van Gorkom\" and \"Revlon v. MacAndrews\") and a group of New Orleans corporate practitioners were among those who undertook an aggressive goal: to establish a new annual platform for a gathering of the nation's\nleading corporate jurists and practitioners. More than 20 years later, the Tulane Corporate Law Institute remains a critical meeting place for national leaders in the fields of law and business. \n\nThe second day of the 22nd annual meeting (on April 16, 2010), coincided with the unexpected release of an SEC fraud complaint against Goldman Sachs. The release temporarily disrupted the day's meeting agenda as the story made national headlines and SEC officials were sought for comment in The Roosevelt Hotel. The news caused an immediate thirteen percent drop in Goldman's stock price, and a 1.3% decline in the market as a whole. \n\n\n\nThe Tulane Law School's Career Development Office typically organizes informational interviews among leading practitioners and select groups of Tulane law and JD/MBA students. In the past, students have met directly with a variety of business and governmental leaders, including partners of big New York City and Los Angeles law firms, in-house attorneys at major investment banks and hedge funds throughout the country, and the commissioner of the SEC.\n\n"}
{"id": "12193805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12193805", "title": "Warren Bryant", "text": "Warren Bryant\n\nWarren Bryant was the CEO of Longs Drugs Store Corporation out of California prior to the retail chain's acquisition by CVS/Caremark. Hired in 2002 to Longs, he was Senior Vice President of The Kroger Company., a retail grocery chain, from 1999 to 2002. Prior to that, from 1996 to 1999, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Dillon Companies, Inc., a retail grocery chain and subsidiary of The Kroger Co. He is also a director of OfficeMax Incorporated. \n\n\n"}
