{"id": "4878340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4878340", "title": "Algorithmic art", "text": "Algorithmic art\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as \"algorithm art\", is art, mostly visual art, of which the design is generated by an algorithm. Algorithmic artists are sometimes called algorists.\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as computer-generated art, is a subset of generative art (generated by an autonomous system) and is related to systems art (influenced by systems theory). Fractal art is an example of algorithmic art.\n\nFor an image of reasonable size, even the simplest algorithms require too much calculation for manual execution to be practical, and they are thus executed on either a single computer or on a cluster of computers. The final output is typically displayed on a computer monitor, printed with a raster-type printer, or drawn using a plotter. Variability can be introduced by using pseudo-random numbers. There is no consensus as to whether the product of an algorithm that operates on an existing image (or on any input other than pseudo-random numbers) can still be considered computer-generated art, as opposed to computer-assisted art.\n\nRoman Verostko argues that Islamic geometric patterns are constructed using algorithms, as are Italian Renaissance paintings which make use of mathematical techniques, in particular linear perspective and proportion.\n\nSome of the earliest known examples of computer-generated algorithmic art were created by Georg Nees, Frieder Nake, A. Michael Noll, Manfred Mohr and in the early 1960s. These artworks were executed by a plotter controlled by a computer, and were therefore computer-generated art but not digital art. The act of creation lay in writing the program, which specified the sequence of actions to be performed by the plotter. Sonia Landy Sheridan established Generative Systems as a program at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1970 in response to social change brought about in part by the computer-robot communications revolution. Her early work with copier and telematic art focused on the differences between the human hand and the algorithm. \n\nAside from the ongoing work of Roman Verostko and his fellow algorists, the next known examples are fractal artworks created in the mid to late 1980s. These are important here because they use a different means of execution. Whereas the earliest algorithmic art was \"drawn\" by a plotter, fractal art simply creates an image in computer memory; it is therefore digital art. The native form of a fractal artwork is an image stored on a computer –this is also true of very nearly all equation art and of most recent algorithmic art in general. However, in a stricter sense \"fractal art\" is not considered algorithmic art, because the algorithm is not devised by the artist.\n\nIn light of such ongoing developments, pioneer algorithmic artist Ernest Edmonds has documented the continuing prophetic role of art in human affairs by tracing the early 1960s association between art and the computer up to a present time in which the algorithm is now widely recognized as a key concept for society as a whole. \n\nFrom one point of view, for a work of art to be considered algorithmic art, its creation must include a process based on an algorithm devised by the artist. Here, an algorithm is simply a detailed recipe for the design and possibly execution of an artwork, which may include computer code, functions, expressions, or other input which ultimately determines the form the art will take. This input may be mathematical, computational, or generative in nature. Inasmuch as algorithms tend to be deterministic, meaning that their repeated execution would always result in the production of identical artworks, some external factor is usually introduced. This can either be a random number generator of some sort, or an external body of data (which can range from recorded heartbeats to frames of a movie.) Some artists also work with organically based gestural input which is then modified by an algorithm. By this definition, fractals made by a fractal program are not art, as humans are not involved. However, defined differently, algorithmic art can be seen to include fractal art, as well as other varieties such as those using genetic algorithms. The artist Kerry Mitchell stated in his 1999 \"Fractal Art Manifesto\":\n\n\"Algorist\" is a term used for digital artists who create algorithmic art.\n\nAlgorists formally began correspondence and establishing their identity as artists following a panel titled \"Art and Algorithms\" at SIGGRAPH in 1995. The co-founders were Jean-Pierre Hébert and Roman Verostko. Hébert is credited with coining the term and its definition, which is in the form of his own algorithm:\n\nCellular automata can be used to generate artistic patterns with an appearance of randomness, or to modify images such as photographs by applying a transformation such as the stepping stone rule (to give an impressionist style) repeatedly until the desired artistic effect is achieved. Their use has also been explored in music.\n\nFractal art consists of varieties of computer-generated fractals with colouring chosen to give an attractive effect. Especially in the western world, it is not drawn or painted by hand. It is usually created indirectly with the assistance of fractal-generating software, iterating through three phases: setting parameters of appropriate fractal software; executing the possibly lengthy calculation; and evaluating the product. In some cases, other graphics programs are used to further modify the images produced. This is called post-processing. Non-fractal imagery may also be integrated into the artwork.\n\nGenetic or evolutionary art makes use of genetic algorithms to develop images iteratively, selecting at each \"generation\" according to a rule defined by the artist.\n\nAlgorithmic art is not only produced by computers. Wendy Chun explains:\n\nThe American artist, Jack Ox, has used algorithms to produce paintings that are visualizations of music without using a computer. Two examples are \"visual performances\" of extant scores, such as Anton Bruckner's Eighth Symphony and Kurt Schwitters' \"Ursonate\". Later, she and her collaborator, Dave Britton, created the 21st Century Virtual Color Organ that does use computer coding and algorithms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21084897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084897", "title": "Artist's portfolio", "text": "Artist's portfolio\n\nAn artist's portfolio is an edited collection of their best artwork intended to showcase an artist's style or method of work. A portfolio is used by artists to show employers their versatility by showing different samples of current work. Typically, the work reflects an artist's best work or a depth in one specific area of work.\n\nHistorically, portfolios were printed out and placed into a book. With the increased use of the internet and email, however, there are now websites that host online portfolios that are available to a wider audience. Sometimes an artist's portfolio can be referred to as a lookbook.\n\nA photography portfolio can focus on a single subject. It can be a collection of photographs taken with a certain type of camera, in one geographic area, of one person or a group of people, only black & white or sepia photos, a special event, etc.\n\nMany photographers use portfolios to show their best work when looking for jobs in the photography industry. For example, wedding photographers may put together a book of their best wedding photos to show to engaged couples who are looking for a wedding photographer. Photojournalists may take a collection of their best freelance work with them when looking for a job.\n\nAn artist design book is a collection of photographs meant to show off a model, photographer, style, or clothing line. Sometimes they are made to compile the looks of other people such as a celebrity, politician or socialite. This is an especially popular term with fashion bloggers.\n\nArtist design books, or ADBs, in their online form, can be described as \"fashion diaries\" because bloggers are constantly updating them on a daily or weekly basis. \n\nIt is common for stores or clothing designers to use an ADB to show off products. They may include photos of multiple types of clothes, shoes and other accessories from a season or line.\n"}
{"id": "3547336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3547336", "title": "Artist-in-residence", "text": "Artist-in-residence\n\nArtist-in-residence programs exist to invite artists, academicians, curators, to reside within the premises of an institution.\n\nSome residency programs are incorporated within larger institutions, such as museums, universities, or galleries. Other organizations exist solely to support residential exchange programs.\n\nVarious Composer-in-Residence programs exist, for example with orchestras and with universities.\n"}
{"id": "55806219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55806219", "title": "Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención", "text": "Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención\n\nThe Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención (AACI) is an Argentinian art movement that focuses on Concrete Art. Following WWII, numerous pieces Latin American art as well as several Latin American artists used themes regarding Socialism and Reconstruction. Artists from the AACI proposed, for the first time in the history of Argentina, the necessity for an art that was different from symbolic, representational, and expressionistic art. They believed that their artwork, or \"inventions\" could harbor social change in their current Argentinian political climate. The founders of the AACI showed similar themes throughout their artworks, such as a desire to appear with universality, objectivity, and lack any sort of representativeness.\n\nThe formation of the Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención officially happened in 1945. The creators of this organization were primarily Tómas Maldonado, Lidy Prati, Alfredo Hlito, Raúl Lozza, Enio Lommi, Manuel Espinoza, and Juan Melé. The creation of the AACI happened because of a difference in artistic beliefs. Maldonado and Prati were married during this time period, despite being in the same artistic group and movement. In 1944, Maldonado, Rhod Rothfuss, Gyula Kosice, Lidy Prati, and Carmelo Arden Quin produced the first and only issue of the illustrated magazine \"Arturo\". The appearance of \"Arturo\" was the beginning of a distinct revolutionary period in Argentinian art. The magazine expressed the founders' shared opposition of representational and symbolic art. However, from the magazine, two artistic groups emerged. Grupo Madi, led by Arden Quin, Kosice, and Rothfuss. And Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención led by Maldonado and Prati.\n\nThe first influence that happened upon the world of Latin American art regarding Concrete Art came from the works of Joaquín Torres-Garcia. In 1936, Torres-Garcia had already referred to invention, speaking about those movements that put new art styles to use, such as Impressionism or Cubism. From Torres-Garcia, came the entirety of the Concrete art movement. Maldonado had a noticeable impact on the AACI because of his restraints he put on the artists and artworks. His political views seemed to influence his views on artwork. Maldonado was a Marxist who had certain utopian ambitions for the art created by the AACI in a new revolutionary societal movement in Latin America. The political views demonstrated by AACI members were often communistic and somewhat socialistic as well. While simultaneously following the purist aesthetics of artists such as Piet Mondrian and Theo van Doesburg. The art group rapidly began making waves among the art world and by 1946, Prati and Maldonado had attracted the interest of one of the original practicing concrete artists in Switzerland, Max Bill.\n\nThe aforementioned magazine was the first work by the members of the AACI before they were officially together as a group. The concepts “invention” and “trimmed frame” are used to portray the movement of Concrete Art. These terms originated with the issuing of the Arturo magazine, and are perhaps the most original contributions to the Concrete Art movement. Arden Quin discussed about invention in \"Arturo’s\" first article. He rose against Expressionism, Surrealism, and any form of Realism in his works. This is a common theme among the group and among concrete artists as a whole. Regarding the appearance of Arturo, Ana J. Pozzi-Harris writes, \"In the Argentina of the early 1940s, no artist or movement held truly comparable ideas to those exposed in Arturo or in the early exhibitions of the Concrete and Madí artists. Exhibition reviews show that the most successful Argentine artists from this period worked in styles which may be categorized as classical and academic; picturesque and romantic; and expressionist.\" For a description of the magazine, the cover was an engraving by Tomás Maldonado and in the inner pages were seen several pieces by this artist and by Lidy Prati as well. There also were essays and poems by Edgard Bailey, Gyula Kosice, Torres-García, Vicente Huidobro and Murilo Mendes, and projects reproduced by Vieira Da Silva, Torres-García, Augusto Torres, Kandinsky, Mondrian and Rothfuss. An important influence that can be seen in the magazine is from the Dutch artist Theo Van Doesburg. He formulated in “\"Basis of the Concrete painting\"”, in Paris, April 1930. Van Doesburg described concrete art by stating,\"1) Art is universal.2) The work of art must be conceived and entirely shaped by the spirit before its execution. It must not receive anything from the given shapes of nature, neither from sensuality, nor from sentimentality. We want to exclude lyricism, drama, symbolism, etc.3) The picture must be entirely built with purely plastic elements, that is to say, planes and colors. A pictorial element has no other significance but that of “itself”.4) The construction of the picture, as well as that of its elements, must be simple and visually controllable.5) The technique must be mechanical, that is to say, exact, anti-impressionist.6) Endeavor for absolute clearness.”These guidelines for Concrete Art truly united all of the contributor's when creating their artworks for Arturo. Their similar beliefs led to a criticism of all art that could be interpreted, the AACI wanted to have their works be viewed with simplicity and with no forms of interpretation.\n\nFrom the publication of \"Arturo\", two similar Argentinian artistic groups emerged. These aforementioned groups both believed in the artistic style of Concrete art, however, their perspectives of this type of artwork differed. The Madí’s members worked in various ways; they often distributed small posters and pamphlets in the streets of Buenos Aires. They also published the magazine \"Arte Madí Universal\" from 1947 to 1954 and organized art showings that mixed types visual art, poetry, music, and performance to create an encapsulating Concrete Art experience. Their art emphasized materials and the reality of these materials, often changing the conventional frame for strangely shaped canvases and frames to encapsulate their works. In 1946, both groups publicly announced their separations and different agendas through their manifestos. For the AACI, Maldonado read the \"Manifiesto Invencionista\" (Inventionist Manifesto) in March 1946 at their first exhibition in the Salón Peuser. The Madí read their Manifiesto Madí (Madí Manifesto) altogether at the Instituto Francés de Estudios Superiores in August 1946. Most of the art created by both groups was during the rule of the infamous Argentinian president Juan Domingo Perón. Perón was a former Colonel in the Argentine army whom assumed the power of President of Argentina in February 1946. Perón's extremely authoritarian rule many called \"Fascist\" used means of mass propaganda, mass appeal, and outright oppressive measures to remain in control of Argentina until 1955. Scholars suggest the political climate of the Peronian era had a direct influence on both the AACI and the Madí. Both parties attempted to use their Communist influence to combat the Perón agenda.\n\n\"Serial Composition\": A piece made by Lidy Prati, done in 1948, and held in the Latin American Art Museum of Buenos Aires. The Dutch artist Piet Mondrian is historically found to be a crucial influence on the art of Prati and connections are often made about this piece and his works. This artwork shows a theme of systematic geometric abstraction which can be interpreted through the various red, white, and black rectangles or squares spaced equally far apart from one another in a grid format. This style of equidistant geometric shapes was often seen from various artists in the AACI.\n\n\"Coplanar Nº13\": An artwork made by Juan Melé in 1946 that consists of three different shapes made of wood, colored with oil paint and connected by a metal rod behind each of the shapes. The style used makes an appearance to the viewer that the geometric objects float in front of the wall behind them. Melé often experimented with various frames, backgrounds, and colors. His distinct artistic format is easily recognizable in this piece. \"Coplanar Nº13\" simultaneously shows the core values of the AACI in its universality and lacking of any symbolism or representational effect.\n\n\"Composition\": This oil on canvas painting by Tómas Maldonado depicts multiple colored and black lines of different width meeting near the center of the piece to form a rectangular shape. This piece was created in 1950 and is currently being held in the National Museum of Fine Arts in Argentina. Regarding the painting, author María Amalia Garcia describes, \"\"Composición\" is based on neo-plastic postulates that seek to exalt the white surface by way of tension generated between different elements inscribed on that support.\"\n\n\"Development of a Triangle\": Another oil on canvas painting by Maldonado that exhibits different sized triangles along with several intersecting black lines coming down the canvas. It is currently being held at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The piece demonstrates geometric abstraction and follows the strict regiments of any artwork that is considered to be related to the AACI.\n"}
{"id": "2663645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2663645", "title": "Avenue of the Arts (Philadelphia)", "text": "Avenue of the Arts (Philadelphia)\n\nThe Avenue of the Arts is a city designated arts cultural district on a segment of Broad Street in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, that includes many of the city's cultural institutions, most notably the theater district south of City Hall. The designation can be found as far south as Washington Avenue and as far north as the Cecil B. Moore neighborhood.\n\nThe name \"Avenue of the Arts\" originated in a strategy by mayor Ed Rendell to redevelop South Broad Street in Center City. The Avenue of the Arts originally ran along Broad Street from Locust Street south to Lombard Street. The Avenue's definition was expanded to North Broad Street by city planners under mayor John F. Street's administration to encourage further development in the area. The Avenue of the Arts is overseen by the non-profit organization Avenue of the Arts, Inc. led by Executive Director Karen Lewis.\n\nThe Avenue of the Arts is the locale for many of the city's large theatres, including the Kimmel Center (home of the Philadelphia Orchestra), the Academy of Music, Merriam Theater, Wilma Theater, Liacouras Center, and Suzanne Roberts Theatre. Buildings for the University of the Arts are located just south and east of the Kimmel Center; the Merriam Theatre is often used for high-end productions involving the school.\n\nPhiladelphia International Records' offices and gift shop is also located along this strip. Just south of the strip is the Clef Club of Jazz and Performing Arts, and on Broad Street in this vicinity, just north of City Hall, is the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, which, founded in 1805, is America's oldest art school and museum and boasts a distinguished collection of American art.\n\nSeveral parking garages and public transportation services provided by SEPTA and DRPA at the Walnut–Locust, 12-13th Street, and 15-16th Street stations, served by the Broad Street Line and the Lindenwold Line. The availability of public transportation makes Avenue of the Arts highly accessible to visitors.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2456307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2456307", "title": "Bill Henson", "text": "Bill Henson\n\nBill Henson (born 7 October 1955) is an Australian contemporary art photographer.\n\nHenson has exhibited nationally and internationally in galleries such as the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, the Venice Biennale, the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, Australia, the Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia and the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris. His current practice involves holding one exhibition in Australia every two years, and up to three overseas exhibitions each year.\n\nThe use of chiaroscuro is common throughout his works, through underexposure and adjustment in printing. His photographs' use of bokeh is intended to give them a painterly atmosphere. The work is often presented as diptychs, triptychs and in other groupings, and the exhibitions are specifically curated by Henson to reflect a sense of musicality.\n\nDuality is a recurring theme of Henson's work, often in combination with adolescent subjects. He frequently employs a flattened perspective through the use of telephoto lenses. His works are often in the form of staged tableaux in which faces of the subjects are often blurred or partly shadowed and do not directly face the viewer.\n\nHenson states that he is not interested in a political or sociological agenda.\n\nRaised in the Eastern suburbs of Melbourne, Henson studied Visual Arts and Design 1974–1975 at Prahran College of Advanced Education where Athol Shmith was head of the Photography program and John Cato and Paul Cox were lecturers. He did not complete the diploma, but the nineteen-year-old Henson's work was promoted by Shmith to Jennie Boddington, inaugural Curator of Photography at the National Gallery of Victoria with the result that Henson's first solo show was exhibited there in 1975.\n\nFrom his period as a student until its closure in 1980, he worked at The Bookshop of Margareta Webber 343 Little Collins Street Melbourne, which specialised in luxurious books on ballet, dance and the visual arts. Leaving the bookshop, he traveled and photographed in Eastern Europe. He taught briefly at the Victorian College of the Arts in Melbourne. Henson's long-term relationship with Luminist Melbourne painter Louise Hearman, whom he met in 1981 at the Victorian College of Arts, has been noted as mutually influential on their art. Hearman won the 2014 Moran portrait prize, Australia's richest at $A150,000, with her double portrait of Bill Henson.\n\nOn 22 May 2008, the opening night of Bill Henson's 2007–2008 exhibition at the Roslyn Oxley9 Gallery in Paddington, Sydney, was canceled after eight individual complaints were made to Police voicing concerns about an email invitation from the Gallery to a \"Private View\" that depicted photographs of a nude 13-year-old girl. Hetty Johnston, a child protection advocate also lodged a complaint with the New South Wales police.\nOn the same day a \"Sydney Morning Herald\" columnist, Miranda Devine, had also written a scathing article in response to viewing the email invitation, which precipitated heated talk-back and media discussion throughout the day. In the process of removing the images from the Gallery, Police found more photographs of naked children on exhibition among various large format photographs of nonfigurative subjects, which they later sought to examine for the purposes of determining their legal status under the NSW Crimes Act and child protection legislation. Following discussions with the Gallery and a decision by Henson, the Gallery canceled the opening and postponed the show.\n\nIt was announced on 23 May that a number of the images in the exhibition had been seized by police local Area Commander Alan Sicard, with the intention of charging Bill Henson, the Gallery, or both with \"publishing an indecent article\" under the Crimes Act. The seized images were also removed from the Roslyn Oxley9 Gallery website, where the remainder of the series can now be viewed online.\n\nThe situation provoked a national debate on censorship. In a televised interview, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd stated that he found the images \"absolutely revolting\" and that they had \"no artistic merit\". These views swiftly drew censure from members of the 'creative stream' who attended the recent 2020 Summit convened by Rudd, led by actress Cate Blanchett.\n\nOn 5 June 2008 the former director of the National Gallery of Australia, Betty Churcher, said it was \"not surprising\" that the New South Wales Department of Public Prosecutions (DPP) would announce its official recommendation that no charges be laid regarding the Sydney Roslyn Oxley9 gallery's collection of photographs by artist Bill Henson. Ms Churcher said it would have been ridiculous to drag the case through the courts: \n\nOn 6 June 2008 it was reported in \"The Age\" that police would not prosecute Bill Henson over his photographs of naked teenagers, after they were declared \"mild and justified\" and given a PG rating by the Australian Classification Board, suggesting viewing by children under the age of 16 is suitable with parental guidance.\n\nAustralian scholar Niall Lucy criticized Devine's response to Henson's art in his 2010 book \"Pomo Oz: Fear and Loathing Down Under\". David Marr's book about the 2008 incident \"The Henson case\" was listed for the 2009 Victorian Premier's Literary Award and the 2009 Prime Minister's Literary Awards.\n\nOn 4 October 2008, Henson became the center of controversy again after it was revealed in extracts of \"The Henson case\" that in 2007 he visited St Kilda Park Primary School to pick out potential models for his artwork. Henson was allowed entry into the school and escorted by principal Sue Knight around the school grounds and picked two children he thought would be suitable – one child, a boy, was later photographed after his parents were approached by the school on behalf of the artist.\n\nAn investigation into the matter was launched by the Department of Education on 6 October 2008. The investigation found that the principal had complied with departmental policy, and had no case to answer.\n\nA few of his exhibitions:\n\n1975\n1981\n1985\n1989\n1990\n1993\n1998\n2004\n2006\n2008\n2010\n2011\n2012\n2013\n\nMajor monographs on the artist's work:\n\n"}
{"id": "31160993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31160993", "title": "Black Spark", "text": "Black Spark\n\nBlack Spark is an anonymous male American film director and photographer (born on 14 August 1990) who is most noted for his hypersexualized music videos and unique surreal style. He began posting videos in the fourth quarter of 2010. He has stated in interviews that he is bisexual, that all videos are about his own sex life, and that he is influenced by art pornography from the 1970s.\n\nMuch speculation about his identity has been made. Some sources claimed to have identified him as an adult film actor or model who has done scenes for a web company called \"CollegeDudes\".\n\nBlack Spark has given reasons in interviews as to why he has chosen to be anonymous. His everyday real life is the opposite of Black Spark's hypersexualized life, he works on other projects, and he doesn't want the Black Spark identity to hinder his \"large-scale future plans in film\".\n"}
{"id": "221909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221909", "title": "COBRA (avant-garde movement)", "text": "COBRA (avant-garde movement)\n\nCOBRA (or CoBrA) was a European avant-garde movement active from 1948 to 1951. The name was coined in 1948 by Christian Dotremont from the initials of the members' home cities: Copenhagen (Co), Brussels (Br), Amsterdam (A).\n\nDuring the time of occupation of World War II, the Netherlands had been disconnected from the art world beyond its borders. COBRA was formed shortly thereafter. This international movement of artists who worked experimentally evolved from the criticisms of Western society and a common desire to break away from existing art movements, including \"detested\" naturalism and \"sterile\" abstraction. Experimentation was the symbol of an unfettered freedom, which, according to Constant, was ultimately embodied by children and the expressions of children. COBRA was formed by Karel Appel, Constant, Corneille, Christian Dotremont, Asger Jorn, and Joseph Noiret on 8 November 1948 in the Café Notre-Dame, Paris, with the signing of a manifesto, \"La cause était entendue\" (\"The Case Was Settled\"), drawn up by Dotremont. Formed with a unifying doctrine of complete freedom of colour and form, as well as antipathy towards Surrealism, the artists also shared an interest in Marxism as well as modernism.\nTheir working method was based on spontaneity and experiment, and they drew their inspiration in particular from children’s drawings, from primitive art forms and from the work of Paul Klee and Joan Miró.\n\nComing together as an amalgamation of the Dutch group Reflex, the Danish group Høst and the Belgian Revolutionary Surrealist Group, the group only lasted a few years but managed to achieve a number of objectives in that time: the periodical \"Cobra\", a series of collaborations between various members called \"Peintures-Mot\" and two large-scale exhibitions. The first of these was held at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam, November 1949, the other at the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Liège in 1951.\n\nIn November 1949 the group officially changed its name to Internationale des Artistes Expérimentaux with membership having spread across Europe and the United States, although this name has never stuck. The movement was officially disbanded in 1951, but many of its members remained close, with Dotremont in particular continuing collaborations with many of the leading members of the group. The primary focus of the group consisted of semi-abstract paintings with brilliant color, violent brushwork, and distorted human figures inspired by primitive and folk art and similar to American action painting. Cobra was a milestone in the development of Tachisme and European abstract expressionism.\n\nCobra was perhaps the last avant-garde movement of the twentieth century. According to Nathalie Aubert the group only\nlasted officially for three years (1948 to 1951). After that period each artist\nin the group developed their own individual paths.\n\nThe manifesto, entitled, \"La cause était entendue\" (The Case Was Settled) was written by CoBrA member Christian Dotremont and signed by all founding members in Paris in 1948. It was directly speaking to their experience attending the Centre International de Documentation sur l’Art d’Avant-garde in which they felt the atmosphere was sterile and authoritarian. It was a statement of working collaboratively in an organic mode of experimentation in order to develop their work separate from the current place of the avant-garde movement. The name of the manifesto was also a play on words from an earlier document signed by Belgian and French Revolutionary Surrealists in July 1947, entitled \"La cause est entendue\" (The Case Is Settled).\n\nThe European artists were different from their American counterparts (the Abstract expressionists) for they preferred the process over the product and introduced primitive, mythical, and folkloric elements along with a decorative input from their children. One of the new approaches that united the COBRA artists was their unrestrained use of strong colors, along with violent handwritings and figuration which can be either frightening or humorous. Their art was alive with subhuman figures in order to mirror the terror and weakness of our time unlike the dehumanized art of Abstraction. This spontaneous method was a rejection of Renaissance art, specialization, and ‘civilized art’, they preferred ‘uncivilized’ forms of expression which created an interplay between the conscious and the unconscious instead of the Surrealist interest in the unconscious alone. The childlike in their method meant a pleasure in painting, in the materials, forms, and finally the picture itself; this aesthetic notion was called ‘desire unbound’. The Dutch Artists in particular within Cobra (Corneille, Appel, Constant) were interested in Children's art.“We Wanted to start again like a child” Karel Appel insisted. As part of the Western Left, they were built upon the fusion of Art and Life through experiment in order to unite form and expression.\n\nThey exhibited mainly in Holland, but also Paris and other countries in Europe.\n\nThe first major exhibition was held at the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam in November 1949 under the title \"International Experimental Art\".\n\nThe museum's director and curator Willem Sandberg was interested in bringing experimentalism and abstraction to The Netherlands, and had also been an active member of the Dutch Resistance during the war. He was deeply involved with the CoBrA group and maintained direct contacts between the artists and the Stedelijk Museum.\n\nThe architect Aldo van Eyck, who would later become known for his architecture of playgrounds as cultural critique, was asked to do the interior design of the exhibition. The close relationship between Van Eyck and the artists from the CoBrA, who also drew their inspiration in particular from children's drawings, makes it probable that much of Eyck's early inspiration for the playgrounds may have derived from CoBrA.\n\nThe Stedelijk Museum exhibition gave rise to furious criticism from press and the public. A critic from \"Het Vrije Volk\" (Free People) wrote, “Geklad, geklets en geklodder in het Stedelijk Museum” (“Smirch, twaddle and mess in the SMA\"). The CoBrA artists are considered scribblers and con artists. Newspapers spoke of offensive art and provocation on the part of the artists, and one evening for experimental poetry at the Stedelijk was the occasion for a public brawl.\n\nThe last CoBrA exhibit was located in Liège, Belgium, in 1951. Shortly after this exhibit, the group dissolved. The show was organised by Pierre Alechinsky, an artist from Belgium. The Dutch architect, Van Eyck designed the exhibition layout, just as he had for the 1949 CoBrA exhibition in Stedelijk. The innovations of this exhibit were that the composition for the wall was in a grid formation. In addition, the sculptures, which were featured in this show were on coal beds from the Liege area itself.\n\nThis show was not specific to only CoBrA artists, and also, major artists of the CoBrA movement were not in this exhibit due to the existing conflict within the group that eventually led to the collapse of CoBrA shortly after in the same year.\n\n\nNotable artists who had contact with, and/or were influenced by COBRA:\n\n\nThere is a Cobra Museum in Amstelveen, Netherlands, displaying works by Karel Appel and other international avant-garde artists.\n\nThe NSU Art Museum in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, is known for its large assemblage of works of CoBrA art. The museum displays works by Karel Appel, Pierre Alechinsky, and Asger Jorn, the movement's leading exponents. (www.nsuartmuseum.org )<from Florida travel book and the museum's website>\n\nAuctioneers Bruun Rasmussen held an auction of COBRA artists on April 3, 2006 in Copenhagen. It set records for the highest price for an Asger Jorn painting (6.4 million DKK for \"Tristesse Blanche\") and for the highest amount raised in a single auction in Denmark (30 million DKK in total).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339562", "title": "Camera lucida", "text": "Camera lucida\n\nA camera lucida is an optical device used as a drawing aid by artists.\n\nThe \"camera lucida\" performs an optical superimposition of the subject being viewed upon the surface upon which the artist is drawing. The artist sees both scene and drawing surface simultaneously, as in a photographic double exposure. This allows the artist to duplicate key points of the scene on the drawing surface, thus aiding in the accurate rendering of perspective.\n\nThe \"camera lucida\" was patented in 1806 by William Hyde Wollaston. The basic optics were described 200 years earlier by Johannes Kepler in his Dioptrice (1611), but there is no evidence he or his contemporaries constructed a working camera lucida. By the 19th century, Kepler's description had fallen into oblivion, so Wollaston's claim was never challenged. The term \"camera lucida\" (Latin \"well-lit room\" as opposed to \"camera obscura\" \"dark room\") is Wollaston's. (cf. Edmund Hoppe, Geschichte der Optik, Leipzig 1926)\n\nWhile on honeymoon in Italy in 1833, the photographic pioneer William Fox Talbot used a \"camera lucida\" as a sketching aid. He later wrote that it was a disappointment with his resulting efforts which encouraged him to seek a means to \"cause these natural images to imprint themselves durably\".\n\nIn 2001, artist David Hockney's book \"\" was met with controversy. His argument, known as the Hockney-Falco thesis, is that the notable transition in style for greater precision and visual realism that occurred around the decade of the 1420s is attributable to the artists’ discovery of the capability of optical projection devices, specifically an arrangement using a concave mirror to project real images. Their evidence is based largely on the characteristics of the paintings by great artists of later centuries, such as Ingres, Van Eyck, and Caravaggio.\n\nThe \"camera lucida\" is still available today through art-supply channels but is not well known or widely used. It has enjoyed a resurgence recently through a number of Kickstarter campaigns.\n\nThe name \"camera lucida\" (Latin for \"light chamber\") is obviously intended to recall the much older drawing aid, the \"camera obscura\" (Latin for \"dark chamber\"). There is no optical similarity between the devices. The \"camera lucida\" is a light, portable device that does not require special lighting conditions. No image is projected by the \"camera lucida\".\n\nIn the simplest form of \"camera lucida\", the artist looks down at the drawing surface through a half-silvered mirror tilted at 45 degrees. This superimposes a direct view of the drawing surface beneath, and a reflected view of a scene horizontally in front of the artist. This design produces an inverted image which is right-left reversed when turned the right way up. Also, light is lost in the imperfect reflection. Wollaston's design used a prism with four optical faces to produce two successive reflections (see illustration), thus producing an image that is not inverted or reversed. Angles ABC and ADC are 67.5° and BCD is 135°. Hence, the reflections occur through total internal reflection, so very little light is lost. It is not possible to see straight through the prism, so it is necessary to look at the very edge to see the paper.\nThe instrument often came with an assortment of weak negative lenses, to create a virtual image of the scene at several distances. If the right lens is inserted, so that the chosen distance roughly equals the distance of the drawing surface, both images can be viewed in good focus simultaneously.\n\nIf white paper is used with the \"camera lucida\", the superimposition of the paper with the scene tends to wash out the scene, making it difficult to view. When working with a \"camera lucida\", it is often beneficial to use black paper and to draw with a white pencil.\n\nAs recently as a few decades ago, the \"camera lucida\" was still a standard tool of microscopists. It is still a key tool in the field of palaeontology. Until very recently, photomicrographs were expensive to reproduce. Furthermore, in many cases, a clear illustration of the structure that the microscopist wished to document was much easier to produce by drawing than by micrography. Thus, most routine histological and microanatomical illustrations in textbooks and research papers were \"camera lucida\" drawings rather than photomicrographs. The \"camera lucida\" is still used as the most common method among neurobiologists for drawing brain structures, although it is recognised to have limitations. \"For decades in cellular neuroscience, camera lucida hand drawings have constituted essential illustrations. (...) The limitations of camera lucida can be avoided by the procedure of digital reconstruction\". Of particular concern is distortion, and new digital methods are being introduced which can limit or remove this, \"computerized techniques result in far fewer errors in data transcription and analysis than the camera lucida procedure\". It is also regularly used in biological taxonomy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35857691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35857691", "title": "Carving", "text": "Carving\n\nCarving is the act of using tools to shape something from a material by scraping away portions of that material. The technique can be applied to any material that is solid enough to hold a form even when pieces have been removed from it, and yet soft enough for portions to be scraped away with available tools. Carving, as a means for making sculpture, is distinct from methods using soft and malleable materials like clay, fruit, and melted glass, which may be shaped into the desired forms while soft and then harden into that form. Carving tends to require much more work than methods using malleable materials.\n\nKinds of carving include:\n\n"}
{"id": "21478754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21478754", "title": "Common sense", "text": "Common sense\n\nCommon sense is sound practical judgment concerning everyday matters, or a basic ability to perceive, understand, and judge that is shared by (\"common to\") nearly all people. The first type of common sense, good sense, can be described as \"the knack for seeing things as they are, and doing things as they ought to be done.\" The second type is sometimes described as folk wisdom, \"signifying unreflective knowledge not reliant on specialized training or deliberative thought.\" The two types are intertwined, as the person who has common sense is in touch with common-sense ideas, which emerge from the lived experiences of those commonsensical enough to perceive them.\n\nIn a psychology context, Smedslund defines common sense as \"the system of implications shared by the competent users of a language\" and notes, \"A proposition in a given context belongs to common sense if and only if all competent users of the language involved agree that the proposition in the given context is true and that its negation is false.\"\n\nThe everyday understanding of common sense derives from historical philosophical discussion involving several European languages. Related terms in other languages include Latin ', Greek ('), and French , but these are not straightforward translations in all contexts. Similarly in English, there are different shades of meaning, implying more or less education and wisdom: \"good sense\" is sometimes seen as equivalent to \"common sense\", and sometimes not.\n\n\"Common sense\" also has at least two specifically philosophical meanings. One is a capability of the animal soul (, ) proposed by Aristotle, which enables different individual senses to collectively perceive the characteristics of physical things such as movement and size, which all physical things have in different combinations, allowing people and other animals to distinguish and identify physical things. This common sense is distinct from basic sensory perception and from human rational thinking, but cooperates with both.\n\nThe second special use of the term is Roman-influenced and is used for the natural human sensitivity for other humans and the community. Just like the everyday meaning, both of these refer to a type of basic awareness and ability to judge that most people are expected to share naturally, even if they cannot explain why.\n\nAll these meanings of \"common sense\", including the everyday ones, are interconnected in a complex history and have evolved during important political and philosophical debates in modern Western civilisation, notably concerning science, politics and economics. The interplay between the meanings has come to be particularly notable in English, as opposed to other western European languages, and the English term has become international.\n\nSince the Age of Enlightenment the term \"common sense\" has frequently been used for rhetorical effect, sometimes pejorative, and sometimes appealed to positively, as an authority. It can be negatively equated to vulgar prejudice and superstition, or on the contrary it is often positively contrasted to them as a standard for good taste and as the source of the most basic axioms needed for science and logic. It was at the beginning of the eighteenth century that this old philosophical term first acquired its modern English meaning: \"Those plain, self-evident truths or conventional wisdom that one needed no sophistication to grasp and no proof to accept precisely because they accorded so well with the basic (common sense) intellectual capacities and experiences of the whole social body\" \nThis began with Descartes' criticism of it, and what came to be known as the dispute between \"rationalism\" and \"empiricism\". In the opening line of one of his most famous books, \"Discourse on Method\", Descartes established the most common modern meaning, and its controversies, when he stated that everyone has a similar and sufficient amount of common sense (), but it is rarely used well. Therefore, a skeptical logical method described by Descartes needs to be followed and common sense should not be overly relied upon. In the ensuing 18th century Enlightenment, common sense came to be seen more positively as the basis for modern thinking. It was contrasted to metaphysics, which was, like Cartesianism, associated with the . Thomas Paine's polemical pamphlet \"Common Sense\" (1776) has been described as the most influential political pamphlet of the 18th century, affecting both the American and French revolutions. Today, the concept of common sense, and how it should best be used, remains linked to many of the most perennial topics in epistemology and ethics, with special focus often directed at the philosophy of the modern social sciences.\n\nThe origin of the term is in the works of Aristotle. The best-known case is \"De Anima\" Book III, chapter 1, especially at line 425a27. The passage is about how the animal mind converts raw sense perceptions from the five specialized sense perceptions, into perceptions of real things moving and changing, which can be thought about. According to Aristotle's understanding of perception, each of the five senses perceives one type of \"perceptible\" or \"sensible\" which is specific (, ) to it. For example, sight can see colour. But Aristotle was explaining how the animal mind, not just the human mind, links and categorizes different tastes, colours, feelings, smells and sounds in order to perceive real things in terms of the \"common sensibles\" (or \"common perceptibles\"). In this discussion, \"common\" (, ) is a term opposed to specific or particular (). The Greek for these common sensibles is (, ), which means shared or common things, and examples include the oneness of each thing, with its specific shape and size and so on, and the change or movement of each thing. Distinct combinations of these properties are common to all perceived things.\n\nIn this passage, Aristotle explained that concerning these (such as movement) we already have a sense, a \"common sense\" or sense of the common things (), which does not work by accident (, ). And there is no specific () sense perception for movement and other , because then we would not perceive the at all, except by accident. As examples of perceiving by accident Aristotle mentions using the specific sense perception vision on its own to see that something is sweet, or to recognize a friend by their distinctive color. explains that \"when I see Socrates, it is not insofar as he is Socrates that he is visible to my eye, but rather because he is coloured\". So the normal five individual senses do sense the common perceptibles according to Aristotle (and Plato), but it is not something they necessarily interpret correctly on their own. Aristotle proposes that the reason for having several senses is in fact that it increases the chances that we can distinguish and recognize things correctly, and not just occasionally or by accident. Each sense is used to identify distinctions, such as sight identifying the difference between black and white, but, says Aristotle, all animals with perception must have \"some one thing\" that can distinguish black from sweet. The common sense is where this comparison happens, and this must occur by comparing impressions (or symbols or markers; , , ) of what the specialist senses have perceived. The common sense is therefore also where a type of consciousness originates, \"for it makes us aware of having sensations at all\". And it receives physical picture imprints from the imaginative faculty, which are then memories that can be recollected.\n\nThe discussion was apparently intended to improve upon the account of Aristotle's friend and teacher Plato in his Socratic dialogue, the \"Theaetetus\". But Plato's dialogue presented an argument that recognizing is an active thinking process in the rational part of the human soul, making the senses instruments of the thinking part of man. Plato's Socrates says this kind of thinking is not a kind of sense at all. Aristotle, trying to give a more general account of the souls of all animals, not just humans, moved the act of perception out of the rational thinking soul into this , which is something like a sense, and something like thinking, but not rational.\nThe passage is difficult to interpret and there is little consensus about many of the details. has argued that this may be because Aristotle did not use the term as a standardized technical term at all. For example, in some passages in his works, Aristotle seems to use the term to refer to the individual sense perceptions simply being common to all people, or common to various types of animals. There is also difficulty with trying to determine whether the common sense is truly separable from the individual sense perceptions and from imagination, in anything other than a conceptual way as a capability. Aristotle never fully spells out the relationship between the common sense and the imaginative faculty (, ), although the two clearly work together in animals, and not only humans, for example in order to enable a perception of time. They may even be the same. Despite hints by Aristotle himself that they were united, early commentators such as Alexander of Aphrodisias and Al-Farabi felt they were distinct, but later, Avicenna emphasized the link, influencing future authors including Christian philosophers. argues that Aristotle used the term \"common sense\" both to discuss the individual senses when these act as a unity, which Gregorić calls \"the perceptual capacity of the soul\", or the higher level \"sensory capacity of the soul\" that represents the senses and the imagination working as a unity. According to Gregorić, there appears to have been a standardization of the term as a term for the perceptual capacity (not the higher level sensory capacity), which occurred by the time of Alexander of Aphrodisias at the latest.\n\nCompared to Plato, Aristotle's understanding of the soul () has an extra level of complexity in the form of the or \"intellect\"—which is something only humans have and enables humans to perceive things differently from other animals. It works with images coming from the common sense and imagination, using reasoning (, ) as well as the \"active intellect\". The identifies the true forms of things, while the common sense identifies shared aspects of things. Though scholars have varying interpretations of the details, Aristotle's \"common sense\" was in any case not rational, in the sense that it implied no ability to explain the perception. Reason or rationality () exists only in man according to Aristotle, and yet some animals can perceive \"common perceptibles\" such as change and shape, and some even have imagination according to Aristotle. Animals with imagination come closest to having something like reasoning and . Plato, on the other hand was apparently willing to allow that animals could have some level of thought, meaning that he did not have to explain their sometimes complex behavior with a strict division between high-level perception processing and the human-like thinking such as being able to form opinions. Gregorić additionally argues that Aristotle can be interpreted as using the verbs and to distinguish two types of thinking or awareness, the first being found in animals and the second unique to humans and involving reason. Therefore, in Aristotle (and the medieval Aristotelians) the universals used to identify and categorize things are divided into two. In medieval terminology these are the used for perception and imagination in animals, and the or apprehendable forms used in the human intellect or .\n\nAristotle also occasionally called the (or one version of it) the (, ). (According to Gregorić, this is specifically in contexts where it refers to the higher order common sense that includes imagination.) Later philosophers developing this line of thought, such as Themistius, Galen, and Al-Farabi, called it the of the senses or sense, apparently a metaphor developed from a section of Plato's \"Timaeus\" (70b). Augustine and some of the Arab writers, also called it the \"inner sense\". The concept of the inner senses, plural, was further developed in the Middle Ages. Under the influence of the great Persian philosophers Al-Farabi and Avicenna, several inner senses came to be listed. \"Thomas Aquinas and John of Jandun recognized four internal senses: the common sense, imagination, , and memory. Avicenna, followed by Robert Grosseteste, Albert the Great, and Roger Bacon, argued for five internal senses: the common sense, imagination, fantasy, , and memory.\" By the time of Descartes and Hobbes, in the 1600s, the inner senses had been standardized to \"five wits\", which complemented the more well-known five \"external\" senses. Under this medieval scheme the common sense was understood to be seated not in the heart, as Aristotle had thought, but in the anterior Galenic ventricle of the brain. The great anatomist Andreas Vesalius however found no connections between the anterior ventricle and the sensory nerves, leading to speculation about other parts of the brain into the 1600s.\n\n\"\" is the Latin translation of the Greek , which came to be recovered by Medieval scholastics when discussing Aristotelian theories of perception. However, in earlier Latin during the Roman empire the term had taken a distinct ethical detour, developing new shades of meaning. These especially Roman meanings were apparently influenced by several Stoic Greek terms with the word (, ); not only , but also such terms as (, ) (), and , all of which involve —something, at least in Aristotle, that would not be present in \"lower\" animals.\n\nAnother link between Latin and Aristotle's Greek was in rhetoric, a subject that Aristotle was the first to systematize. In rhetoric, a prudent speaker must take account of opinions (, ) that are widely held. Aristotle referred to such commonly held beliefs not as (, ), which is a term he used for self-evident logical axioms, but with other terms such as ().\n\nIn his \"Rhetoric\" for example Aristotle mentions \"\" or \"common beliefs\", saying that \"our proofs and arguments must rest on generally accepted principles, [...] when speaking of converse with the multitude\". In a similar passage in his own work on rhetoric, \"De Oratore\", Cicero wrote that \"in oratory the very cardinal sin is to depart from the language of everyday life and the usage approved by the sense of the community\". The sense of the community is in this case one translation of \"\" in the Latin of Cicero.\n\nWhether the Latin writers such as Cicero deliberately used this Aristotelian term in a new more peculiarly Roman way, probably also influenced by Greek Stoicism, therefore remains a subject of discussion. has proposed for example that the Roman republic maintained a very \"oral\" culture whereas in Aristotle's time rhetoric had come under heavy criticism from philosophers such as Socrates. argues, in agreement with Shaftesbury in the 18th century, that the concept developed from the Stoic concept of ethical virtue, influenced by Aristotle, but emphasizing the role of both the individual perception, and shared communal understanding. But in any case a complex of ideas attached itself to the term, to be almost forgotten in the Middle Ages, and eventually returning into ethical discussion in 18th-century Europe, after Descartes.\n\nAs with other meanings of common sense, for the Romans of the classical era \"it designates a sensibility shared by all, from which one may deduce a number of fundamental judgments, that need not, or cannot, be questioned by rational reflection\". But even though Cicero did at least once use the term in a manuscript on Plato's \"Timaeus\" (concerning a primordial \"sense, one and common for all [...] connected with nature\"), he and other Roman authors did not normally use it as a technical term limited to discussion about sense perception, as Aristotle apparently had in \"De Anima\", and as the Scholastics later would in the Middle Ages. Instead of referring to all animal judgment, it was used to describe pre-rational, widely shared human beliefs, and therefore it was a near equivalent to the concept of . This was a term that could be used by Romans to imply not only human nature, but also humane conduct, good breeding, refined manners, and so on. Apart from Cicero, Quintilian, Lucretius, Seneca, Horace and some of the most influential Roman authors influenced by Aristotle's rhetoric and philosophy used the Latin term \"\" in a range of such ways. As C. S. Lewis wrote:\nCompared to Aristotle and his strictest medieval followers, these Roman authors were not so strict about the boundary between animal-like common sense and specially human reasoning. As discussed above, Aristotle had attempted to make a clear distinction between, on the one hand, imagination and the sense perception which both use the sensible , and which animals also have; and, on the other hand, (intellect) and reason, which perceives another type of , the intelligible forms, which (according to Aristotle) only humans have. In other words, these Romans allowed that people could have animal-like shared understandings of reality, not just in terms of memories of sense perceptions, but in terms of the way they would tend to explain things, and in the language they use.\n\nOne of the last notable philosophers to accept something like the Aristotelian \"common sense\" was Descartes in the 17th century, but he also undermined it. He described this inner faculty when writing in Latin in his \"Meditations on first philosophy\". The common sense is the link between the body and its senses, and the true human mind, which according to Descartes must be purely immaterial. Unlike Aristotle, who had placed it in the heart, by the time of Descartes this faculty was thought to be in the brain, and he located it in the pineal gland. Descartes' judgement of this common sense was that it was enough to persuade the human consciousness of the existence of physical things, but often in a very indistinct way. To get a more distinct understanding of things, it is more important to be methodical and mathematical. This line of thought was taken further, if not by Descartes himself then by those he influenced, until the concept of a faculty or organ of common sense was itself rejected.\nContemporaries such as Gassendi and Hobbes went beyond Descartes in some ways in their rejection of Aristotelianism, rejecting explanations involving anything other than matter and motion, including the distinction between the animal-like judgement of sense perception, a special separate common sense, and the human mind or , which Descartes had retained from Aristotelianism. In contrast to Descartes who \"found it unacceptable to assume that sensory representations may enter the mental realm from without\"...\nBut Descartes used two different terms in his work, not only the Latin term \"\", but also the French term , with which he opens his \"Discourse on Method\". And this second concept survived better. This work was written in French, and does not directly discuss the Aristotelian technical theory of perception. is the equivalent of modern English \"common sense\" or \"good sense\". As the Aristotelian meaning of the Latin term began to be forgotten after Descartes, his discussion of gave a new way of defining in various European languages (including Latin, even though Descartes himself did not translate as , but treated them as two separate things).\n\nThe idea that now became influential, developed in both the Latin and French works of Descartes, though coming from different directions, is that common good sense (and indeed sense perception) is not reliable enough for the new Cartesian method of skeptical reasoning. The Cartesian project to replace common good sense with clearly defined mathematical reasoning was aimed at certainty, and not mere probability. It was promoted further by people such as Hobbes, Spinoza, and others and continues to have important impacts on everyday life. In France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain and Italy, it was in its initial florescence associated with the administration of Catholic empires of the competing Bourbon, and Habsburg dynasties, both seeking to centralize their power in a modern way, responding to Machiavellianism and Protestantism as part of the so-called counter reformation.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, Descartes' insistence upon a mathematical-style method of thinking that treated common sense and the sense perceptions sceptically, was accepted in some ways, but also criticized. On the one hand, the approach of Descartes is and was seen as radically sceptical in some ways. On the other hand, like the Scholastics before him, while being cautious of common sense, Descartes was instead seen to rely too much on undemonstrable metaphysical assumptions in order to justify his method, especially in its separation of mind and body (with the linking them). Cartesians such as Henricus Regius, Geraud de Cordemoy, and Nicolas Malebranche realized that Descartes's logic could give no evidence of the \"external world\" at all, meaning it had to be taken on faith. Though his own proposed solution was even more controversial, Berkeley famously wrote that enlightenment requires a \"revolt from metaphysical notions to the plain dictates of nature and common sense\". Descartes and the Cartesian \"rationalists\", rejected reliance upon experience, the senses and inductive reasoning, and seemed to insist that certainty was possible. The alternative to induction, deductive reasoning, demanded a mathematical approach, starting from simple and certain assumptions. This in turn required Descartes (and later rationalists such as Kant) to assume the existence of innate or \"\" knowledge in the human mind—a controversial proposal.\n\nIn contrast to the rationalists, the \"empiricists\" took their orientation from Francis Bacon, whose arguments for methodical science were earlier than those of Descartes, and less directed towards mathematics and certainty. Bacon is known for his doctrine of the \"idols of the mind\", presented in his \"Novum Organum\", and in his \"Essays\" described normal human thinking as biased towards believing in lies. But he was also the opponent of all metaphysical explanations of nature, or over-reaching speculation generally, and a proponent of science based on small steps of experience, experimentation and methodical induction. So while agreeing upon the need to help common sense with a methodical approach, he also insisted that starting from common sense, including especially common sense perceptions, was acceptable and correct. He influenced Locke and Pierre Bayle, in their critique of metaphysics, and in 1733 Voltaire \"introduced him as the \"father\" of the scientific method\" to a French audience, an understanding that was widespread by 1750. Together with this, references to \"common sense\" became positive and associated with modernity, in contrast to negative references to metaphysics, which was associated with the .\n\nAs mentioned above, in terms of the more general epistemological implications of common sense, modern philosophy came to use the term common sense like Descartes, abandoning Aristotle's theory. While Descartes had distanced himself from it, John Locke abandoned it more openly, while still maintaining the idea of \"common sensibles\" that are perceived. But then George Berkeley abandoned both. David Hume agreed with Berkeley on this, and like Locke and Vico saw himself as following Bacon more than Descartes. In his synthesis, which he saw as the first Baconian analysis of man (something the lesser known Vico had claimed earlier), common sense is entirely built up from shared experience and shared innate emotions, and therefore it is indeed imperfect as a basis for any attempt to know the truth or to make the best decision. But he defended the possibility of science without absolute certainty, and consistently described common sense as giving a valid answer to the challenge of extreme skepticism. Concerning such sceptics, he wrote:\n\nOnce Thomas Hobbes and Spinoza had applied Cartesian approaches to political philosophy, concerns about the inhumanity of the deductive approach of Descartes increased. With this in mind, Shaftesbury and, much less known at the time, Giambattista Vico, both presented new arguments for the importance of the Roman understanding of common sense, in what is now often referred to, after Hans-Georg Gadamer, as a humanist interpretation of the term. Their concern had several inter-related aspects. One ethical concern was the deliberately simplified method that treated human communities as made up of selfish independent individuals (methodological individualism), ignoring the \"sense of community\" that the Romans understood as part of common sense. Another connected epistemological concern was that by considering \"common good sense\" as inherently inferior to Cartesian conclusions developed from simple assumptions, an important type of wisdom was being arrogantly ignored.\n\nShaftesbury's seminal 1709 essay \"Sensus Communis: An Essay on the Freedom of Wit and Humour\" was a highly erudite and influential defense of the use of irony and humour in serious discussions, at least among men of \"Good Breeding\". He drew upon authors such as Seneca, Juvenal, Horace and Marcus Aurelius, for whom, he saw, common sense was not just a reference to widely held vulgar opinions, but something cultivated among educated people living in better communities. One aspect of this, later taken up by authors such as Kant, was good taste. Another very important aspect of common sense particularly interesting to later British political philosophers such as Francis Hutcheson was what came to be called \"moral sentiment\", which is different from a tribal or factional sentiment, but a more general fellow feeling that is very important for larger communities:\nHutcheson described it as, \"a Publick Sense, viz. \"our Determination to be pleased with the Happiness of others, and to be uneasy at their Misery.\"\" which, he explains, \"was sometimes called or Sensus Communis by some of the Antients\".\n\nA reaction to Shaftesbury in defense of the Hobbesian approach of treating communities as driven by individual self-interest, was not long coming in Bernard Mandeville's controversial works. Indeed, this approach was never fully rejected, at least in economics. And so despite the criticism heaped upon Mandeville and Hobbes by Adam Smith, Hutcheson's student and successor in Glasgow university, Smith made self-interest a core assumption within nascent modern economics, specifically as part of the practical justification for allowing free markets.\n\nBy the late enlightenment period in the 18th century, the communal sense or empathy pointed to by Shaftesbury and Hutcheson had become the \"moral sense\" or \"moral sentiment\" referred to by Hume and Adam Smith, the latter writing in plural of the \"moral sentiments\" with the key one being \"sympathy\", which was not so much a public spirit as such, but a kind of extension of self-interest. Jeremy Bentham gives a summary of the plethora of terms used in British philosophy by the nineteenth century to describe common sense in discussions about ethics:\n\nAccording to Gadamer, at least in French and British philosophy a moral element in appeals to common sense (or ), such as found in Reid, remains normal to this day. But according to Gadamer, the civic quality implied in discussion of in other European countries did not take root in the German philosophy of the 18th and 19th centuries, despite the fact it consciously imitated much in English and French philosophy. \" was understood as a purely theoretical judgment, parallel to moral consciousness (conscience) and taste.\" The concept of \"was emptied and intellectualized by the German enlightenment\". But German philosophy was becoming internationally important at this same time.\n\nGadamer notes one less-known exception—the Württemberg pietism, inspired by the 18th century Swabian churchman, M. Friedrich Christoph Oetinger, who appealed to Shaftesbury and other Enlightenment figures in his critique of the Cartesian rationalism of Leibniz and Wolff, who were the most important German philosophers before Kant.\n\nVico, who taught classical rhetoric in Naples (where Shaftesbury died) under a Cartesian-influenced Spanish government, was not widely read until the 20th century, but his writings on common sense have been an important influence upon Hans-Georg Gadamer, Benedetto Croce and Antonio Gramsci. Vico united the Roman and Greek meanings of the term . Vico's initial use of the term, which was of much inspiration to Gadamer for example, appears in his \"On the Study Methods of our Time\", which was partly a defense of his own profession, given the reformist pressure upon both his University and the legal system in Naples. It presents common sense as something adolescents need to be trained in if they are not to \"break into odd and arrogant behaviour when adulthood is reached\", whereas teaching Cartesian method on its own harms common sense and stunts intellectual development. Rhetoric and elocution are not just for legal debate, but also educate young people to use their sense perceptions and their perceptions more broadly, building a fund of remembered images in their imagination, and then using ingenuity in creating linking metaphors, in order to make enthymemes. Enthymemes are reasonings about uncertain truths and probabilities—as opposed to the Cartesian method, which was skeptical of all that could not be dealt with as syllogisms, including raw perceptions of physical bodies. Hence common sense is not just a \"guiding standard of eloquence\" but also \"the standard of practical judgment\". The imagination or fantasy, which under traditional Aristotelianism was often equated with the , is built up under this training, becoming the \"fund\" (to use Schaeffer's term) accepting not only memories of things seen by an individual, but also metaphors and images known in the community, including the ones out of which language itself is made.\n\nIn its mature version, Vico's conception of is defined by him as \"judgment without reflection, shared by an entire class, an entire people, and entire nation, or the entire human race\". Vico proposed his own anti-Cartesian methodology for a new Baconian science, inspired, he said, by Plato, Tacitus, Francis Bacon and Grotius. In this he went further than his predecessors concerning the ancient certainties available within vulgar common sense. What is required, according to his new science, is to find the common sense shared by different people and nations. He made this a basis for a new and better-founded approach to discuss Natural Law, improving upon Grotius, John Selden, and Pufendorf who he felt had failed to convince, because they could claim no authority from nature. Unlike Grotius, Vico went beyond looking for one single set of similarities amongst nations but also established rules about how natural law properly changes as peoples change, and has to be judged relative to this state of development. He thus developed a detailed view of an evolving wisdom of peoples. Ancient forgotten wisdoms, he claimed, could be re-discovered by analysis of languages and myths formed under the influence of them. This is comparable to both Montesquieu's \"Spirit of the Laws\", as well as much later Hegelian historicism, both of which apparently developed without any awareness of Vico's work.\n\nContemporary with Hume, but critical of Hume's scepticism, a so-called Scottish school of Common Sense formed, whose basic principle was enunciated by its founder and greatest figure, Thomas Reid:\nThomas Reid was a successor to Francis Hutcheson and Adam Smith as Professor of Moral Philosophy, Glasgow. While Reid's interests lay in the defense of common sense as a type of self-evident knowledge available to individuals, this was also part of a defense of natural law in the style of Grotius. He believed that the term common sense as he used it did encompass both the social common sense described by Shaftesbury and Hutcheson, and the perceptive powers described by Aristotelians.\n\nReid was criticised, partly for his critique of Hume, by Kant and J. S. Mill, who were two of the most important influences in nineteenth century philosophy. He was blamed for over-stating Hume's scepticism of commonly held beliefs, and more importantly for not perceiving the problem with any claim that common sense could ever fulfill Cartesian (or Kantian) demands for absolute knowledge. Reid furthermore emphasized inborn common sense as opposed to only experience and sense perception. In this way his common sense has a similarity to the assertion of knowledge asserted by rationalists like Descartes and Kant, despite Reid's criticism of Descartes concerning his theory of ideas. Hume was critical of Reid on this point.\n\nDespite the criticism, the influence of the Scottish school was notable for example upon American pragmatism, and modern Thomism. The influence has been particularly important concerning the epistemological importance of a for any possibility of rational discussion between people.\n\nImmanuel Kant developed a new variant of the idea of , noting how having a sensitivity for what opinions are widely shared and comprehensible gives a sort of standard for judgment, and objective discussion, at least in the field of aesthetics and taste:\n\nKant saw this concept as answering a particular need in his system: \"the question of why aesthetic judgments are valid: since aesthetic judgments are a perfectly normal function of the same faculties of cognition involved in ordinary cognition, they will have the same universal validity as such ordinary acts of cognition\".\n\nBut Kant's overall approach was very different from those of Hume or Vico. Like Descartes, he rejected appeals to uncertain sense perception and common sense (except in the very specific way he describes concerning aesthetics), or the prejudices of one's \"\", and tried to give a new way to certainty through methodical logic, and an assumption of a type of knowledge. He was also not in agreement with Reid and the Scottish school, who he criticized in his \"Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics\" as using \"the magic wand of common sense\", and not properly confronting the \"metaphysical\" problem defined by Hume, which Kant wanted to be solved scientifically—the problem of how to use reason to consider how one ought to act.\n\nKant used different words to refer to his aesthetic , for which he used Latin or else German , and the more general English meaning which he associated with Reid and his followers, for which he used various terms such as , , or .\n\nAccording to Gadamer, in contrast to the \"wealth of meaning\" that Vico and Shaftesbury brought from the Roman tradition into their humanism, Kant \"developed his moral philosophy in explicit opposition to the doctrine of \"moral feeling\" that had been worked out in English philosophy\". The moral imperative \"cannot be based on feeling, not even if one does not mean an individual's feeling but common moral sensibility\". For Kant, the only applied to taste, and the meaning of taste was also narrowed as it was no longer understood as any kind of knowledge. Taste, for Kant, is universal only in that it results from \"the free play of all our cognitive powers\", and is communal only in that it \"abstracts from all subjective, private conditions such as attractiveness and emotion\".\n\nKant himself did not see himself as a relativist, and was aiming to give knowledge a more solid basis, but as Richard J. Bernstein remarks, reviewing this same critique of Gadamer:\n\nContinuing the tradition of Reid and the enlightenment generally, the common sense of individuals trying to understand reality continues to be a serious subject in philosophy. In America, Reid influenced C. S. Peirce, the founder of the philosophical movement now known as Pragmatism, which has become internationally influential. One of the names Peirce used for the movement was \"Critical Common-Sensism\". Peirce, who wrote after Charles Darwin, suggested that Reid and Kant's ideas about inborn common sense could be explained by evolution. But while such beliefs might be well adapted to primitive conditions, they were not infallible, and could not always be relied upon.\n\nAnother example still influential today is from G. E. Moore, several of whose essays, such as the 1925 \"A Defence of Common Sense\", argued that individuals can make many types of statements about what they judge to be true, and that the individual and everyone else knows to be true. Michael Huemer has advocated an epistemic theory he calls \"phenomenal conservatism\", which he claims to accord with common sense by way of internalist intuition.\n\nIn twentieth century philosophy the concept of the as discussed by Vico and especially Kant became a major topic of philosophical discussion. The theme of this discussion questions how far the understanding of eloquent rhetorical discussion (in the case of Vico), or communally sensitive aesthetic tastes (in the case of Kant) can give a standard or model for political, ethical and legal discussion in a world where forms of relativism are commonly accepted, and serious dialogue between very different nations is essential. Some philosophers such as Jacques Rancière indeed take the lead from Jean-François Lyotard and refer to the \"postmodern\" condition as one where there is \"\".\n\nHannah Arendt adapted Kant's concept of as a faculty of aesthetic judgement that imagines the judgements of others, into something relevant for political judgement. Thus she created a \"Kantian\" political philosophy, which, as she said herself, Kant did not write. She argued that there was often a banality to evil in the real world, for example in the case of someone like Adolf Eichmann, which consisted in a lack of and thoughtfulness generally. Arendt and also Jürgen Habermas, who took a similar position concerning Kant's , were criticised by Lyotard for their use of Kant's as a standard for real political judgement. Lyotard also saw Kant's as an important concept for understanding political judgement, not aiming at any consensus, but rather at a possibility of a \"euphony\" in \"dis-sensus\". Lyotard claimed that any attempt to impose any in real politics would mean imposture by an empowered faction upon others.\n\nIn a parallel development, Antonio Gramsci, Benedetto Croce, and later Hans-Georg Gadamer took inspiration from Vico's understanding of common sense as a kind of wisdom of nations, going beyond Cartesian method. It has been suggested that Gadamer's most well-known work, \"Truth and Method\", can be read as an \"extended meditation on the implications of Vico's defense of the rhetorical tradition in response to the nascent methodologism that ultimately dominated academic enquiry\". In the case of Gadamer, this was in specific contrast to the concept in Kant, which he felt (in agreement with Lyotard) could not be relevant to politics if used in its original sense.\n\nGadamer came into direct debate with his contemporary Habermas, the so-called . Habermas, with a self-declared Enlightenment \"prejudice against prejudice\" argued that if breaking free from the restraints of language is not the aim of dialectic, then social science will be dominated by whoever wins debates, and thus Gadamer's defense of effectively defends traditional prejudices. Gadamer argued that being critical requires being critical of prejudices including the prejudice against prejudice. Some prejudices will be true. And Gadamer did not share Habermas' acceptance that aiming at going beyond language through method was not itself potentially dangerous. Furthermore, he insisted that because all understanding comes through language, hermeneutics has a claim to universality. As Gadamer wrote in the \"Afterword\" of \"Truth and Method\", \"I find it frighteningly unreal when people like Habermas ascribe to rhetoric a compulsory quality that one must reject in favor of unconstrained, rational dialogue\".\n\nPaul Ricoeur argued that Gadamer and Habermas were both right in part. As a hermeneutist like Gadamer he agreed with him about the problem of lack of any perspective outside of history, pointing out that Habermas himself argued as someone coming from a particular tradition. He also agreed with Gadamer that hermeneutics is a \"basic kind of knowing on which others rest.\" But he felt that Gadamer under-estimated the need for a dialectic that was critical and distanced, and attempting to go behind language.\n\nA recent commentator on Vico, John D. Schaeffer has argued that Gadamer's approach to exposed itself to the criticism of Habermas because it \"privatized\" it, removing it from a changing and oral community, following the Greek philosophers in rejecting true communal rhetoric, in favour of forcing the concept within a Socratic dialectic aimed at truth. Schaeffer claims that Vico's concept provides a third option to those of Habermas and Gadamer and he compares it to the recent philosophers Richard J. Bernstein, Bernard Williams, Richard Rorty, and Alasdair MacIntyre, and the recent theorist of rhetoric, Richard Lanham.\n\nThe other Enlightenment debate about common sense, concerning common sense as a term for an emotion or drive that is unselfish, also continues to be important in discussion of social science, and especially economics. The axiom that communities can be usefully modeled as a collection of self-interested individuals is a central assumption in much of modern mathematical economics, and mathematical economics has now come to be an influential tool of political decision making.\n\nWhile the term \"common sense\" had already become less commonly used as a term for the empathetic moral sentiments by the time of Adam Smith, debates continue about methodological individualism as something supposedly justified philosophically for methodological reasons (as argued for example by Milton Friedman and more recently by Gary S. Becker, both members of the so-called Chicago school of economics). As in the Enlightenment, this debate therefore continues to combine debates about not only what the individual motivations of people are, but also what can be known about scientifically, and what should be usefully assumed for methodological reasons, even if the truth of the assumptions are strongly doubted. Economics and social science generally have been criticized as a refuge of Cartesian methodology. Hence, amongst critics of the methodological argument for assuming self-centeredness in economics are authors such as Deirdre McCloskey, who have taken their bearings from the above-mentioned philosophical debates involving Habermas, Gadamer, the anti-Cartesian Richard Rorty and others, arguing that trying to force economics to follow artificial methodological laws is bad, and it is better to recognize social science as driven by rhetoric.\n\nAmong Catholic theologians, writers such as theologian François Fénelon and philosopher Claude Buffier (1661–1737) gave an anti-Cartesian defense of common sense as a foundation for knowledge. Other catholic theologians took up this approach, and attempts were made to combine this with more traditional Thomism, for example Jean-Marie de Lamennais. This was similar to the approach of Thomas Reid, who for example was a direct influence on Théodore Jouffroy. This however meant basing knowledge upon something uncertain, and irrational. Matteo Liberatore, seeking an approach more consistent with Aristotle and Aquinas, equated this foundational common sense with the of Aristotle, that correspond to the of Aquinas. In the twentieth century, this debate is especially associated with Étienne Gilson and Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange. Gilson pointed out that Liberatore's approach means categorizing such common beliefs as the existence of God or the immortality of the soul, under the same heading as (in Aristotle and Aquinas) such logical beliefs as that it is impossible for something to exist and not exist at the same time. This, according to Gilson, is going beyond the original meaning. Concerning Liberatore he wrote:\n\nGilson argued that Thomism avoided the problem of having to decide between Cartesian innate certainties and Reid's uncertain common sense, and that \"as soon as the problem of the existence of the external world was presented in terms of common sense, Cartesianism was accepted\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14073564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14073564", "title": "Communication aesthetics", "text": "Communication aesthetics\n\nCommunication Aesthetics was devised by Mario Costa and Fred Forest at Mercato San Severino in Italy in 1983. It is a theory of aesthetics calling for artistic practise engaging with and working through the developments, evolutions and paradigms of late twentieth century communications technologies. Observing the emerging supremacy of networks over subjects, it called for an artistic approach that was both adapted to, and invested in this changing techno-social arena.\n\nAt the occasion of Artmedia, on Video Art organized by Mario Costa, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Salerno, Fred Forest had been invited to enact a performance and installation involving the Italian National Television Broadcaster (RAI). The ensuing encounter revealed their mutual enthusiasm and interest in the evolution of the place of art in society given then developing communications technologies. Following an evening of intense discussion they wrote and signed a manifesto with Argentinian artist Horacio Zabala acting as witness. From the next day onwards, they established a list of artists whose practises reflected the artistic movement they had thus established. As a result, Roy Ascott, Antoni Muntadas, Stéphan Barron, Marc Denjean, Natan Karczmar, Jean-Claude Anglade, Mit Mitropoulos, Christian Sevette, Robert X Adrian, Jean-Marc Philippe, Wolfgang Ziemer Chrobatzek, Tom Klinkowstein, Eric Gidney, Ugo la Petria, Horacio Zabala, Daniel Dewaele and Piotr Kowalski expressed their alignment with the informal international group. Derrick de Kerckhove, director of the Marshall McLuhan Program in Culture and Technology at the University of Toronto, in direct communication with Fred Forest and Mario Costa, then set up a Canadian group titled “Strategic Arts” responding to the same concepts and objectives and in which Norman White was involved.\n\nCommunication Aesthetics is currently intact, though for geographical reasons it is today broken up into three distinct spheres of thought, action and intercession:\n\nIn an article first published in French in 1985 and available online in English, Fred Forest outlines the purpose of Communication Aesthetics:\n\n“Electrical, electronic and computer technology have now brought us firmly into communication society. This technology is at the heart of changes tha that have come about in social reorganization over a century, thus modifying not only our physical environment but also our mental system of representation. Electricity, electronics and computers today provide artists with new instruments of creation. The way our surroundings are being transformed in this direction a little more each day, together with our continually evolving adjustment with an ever-changing reality, is doubtless what is most important. This is why we must constantly reconsider our perceptions in order to apprehend the world in which we live.”\n\nIn short, Communication Aesthetics claims that a concomitant evolution in technologies of communication and strategies in art would have democratized (and thus demystified) the means of artistic production thus replacing the purpose of art as material production with the purpose of art as social interaction: “the artist now intervenes directly on reality, that is to say the carries out his symbolic and aesthetic activity using different means from those he has used up to now.” But Communication Aesthetics pushing this position further, by calling for an interactive intervention on reality, one that plays with the spectator in both meanings of the phrase.\n\nThis play is in turn a form of power play as it questions the labelling and limitations of figures of authority. The political ramifications of Communication Aesthetics are openly acknowledged by the founders, indeed they are called for: “In turn, the artist becomes a \" social operative \", he becomes a social performer. The scaling down and the provocation of power, and its recuperation as a form of play, belong to the field of art. The responsible artist knows this power as his, and confronts the surrounding world with it.”\n\nThe socio-political position-taking goes further still, as the artists call for the recognition of the formative as well as informative nature of technology, and particularly information technologies: “It must be admitted once and for all that the history and genesis of the configurations of the imaginary are indelibly engraved in the \"technologies\" upon which our perception is utterly dependent - and thus today engraved in the \"technologies\" of communication.” It is this analysis of the formal and functional aspects of communication that Communication Aesthetics calls for.\n\nCommunication Aesthetics pushes the psycho-physiological implications of technological innovations further still, elaborating on their concomitant modification of our concepts of Space and Time. Just as the auto mobile changed our approach and experience of home and locality, so too Communication Aesthetics posited that IT innovations would change our approach to human interaction. “The hooking-up of computers to each other, and also to other machines, is a fore-runner of the opening out of the telecommunications network and the abolition of certain constraints of distance.” And, once again, it is for the artist to understand and harness these modifications and constraints so as to engage with these evolutions in the name of communication: “We can but remark that all these transformations brought about by media systems are, without our knowing it, reorganising our whole system of aesthetic representation.”\n\nLastly, Communication Aesthetics engages with another more problematic implication of technological innovations, the increasing intangibility of perception and sensuality resulting from the rise of the virtual. Indeed, far from encouraging this lapse into asociality or asensuality, Communication Aesthetics seeks to frame these emerging problems rather than shy away from them. Once again, Communication Aesthetics seeks to lay claim to societal relevance and influence by allying communications innovations and artistic innovations on the levels both formally and functionally.\n\n\"The goal of Communication artists is certainly not to produce first level meanings, but above all to make us aware as to how, in the end, the generalised practice of Communication interreacts on the whole of our sensory system. This evolution is about to put into place the data for a \" new awareness \" at the edge of our perception, and then, along with new \" ways of feeling \", it will open up new aesthetic paths.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8190595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8190595", "title": "Contemporary Tibetan art", "text": "Contemporary Tibetan art\n\nContemporary Tibetan art refers to the art of modern Tibet, or Tibet after 1950. It can also refer to art by the Tibetan diaspora, which is explicitly political and religious in nature. Contemporary Tibetan art includes modern thangka (religious scroll paintings) that resemble ancient thangka, as well as radical, avant-garde, works.\n\nFor more than a thousand years, Tibetan artists have played a key role in the cultural life of Tibet. From designs for painted furniture to elaborate murals in religious buildings, their efforts have permeated virtually every facet of life on the Tibetan plateau. The vast majority of surviving artworks created before the mid-20th century are dedicated to the depiction of religious subjects, for the most part being distemper on cloth or murals. They were commissioned by religious establishments or by pious individuals for use within the practice of Tibetan Buddhism and were manufactured in large workshops by uncredited artists. These works not only document spiritual concepts but also demonstrate the vitality of Tibetan aesthetics over the centuries in terms of the cross-fertilisation of stylistic influences from other Chinese, Nepalese, and Indian styles.\n\nHistorical Tibetan art followed a formal system of art making that was used to spread Tibetan religious culture. However, in 1950, the People's Republic of China gained sovereignty over Tibet while still granting autonomy to the area. This changed the social reality of life in Tibet, and modern Tibetan artists use their work as a mode of self-expression and exploration of their new, complex national identity. Contemporary Tibetan artwork often conflicts with traditional artwork commissioned for religious purposes, and identity was largely tied to place, family lines, Tibetan language, and Tibetan Buddhism, with art serving as the transmission of the religion. However, Tibetan art after 1950 raises questions of how globalization effects national and cultural identity, the conflict between tradition and modernity, and the influence of religion in a more secular age.\n\nGonkar Gyatso is a Tibetan-born British artist, born in 1961 during the Cultural Revolution. He studied \"thankga\" (scroll painting) in India before returning to Tibet in 1985, when he established the Sweet Tea House Contemporary Gallery, the first avant-garde artists association in Tibet. \n\nGyatso's work incorporates pencils and stickers on paper using the technique of the Tibetan thankga. He applies kitsch stickers to penciled images of the Buddha, and often adds commentary in speech bubbles. These colorful children's stickers often take the form of characters from American movies and media, such as The Simpsons and Spiderman, creating a cheap, consumerist appearance that contrasts with the meticulous and deliberate nature of their application. These images draw the viewer's attention to the conflict between the meditative and spiritual aspects of Buddhism and worldly materialism. Gyatso draws on his training in traditional art techniques to create work that explores Western consumer interests, the relationship between capitalism and culture, as well as the conflict between tradition and modernity, spirituality and materialism, and religion and secularism. \n\n"}
{"id": "2872472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2872472", "title": "Costumbrismo", "text": "Costumbrismo\n\nCostumbrismo (sometimes anglicized as Costumbrism) is the literary or pictorial interpretation of local everyday life, mannerisms, and customs, primarily in the Hispanic scene, and particularly in the 19th century. \"Costumbrismo\" is related both to artistic realism and to Romanticism, sharing the Romantic interest in expression as against simple representation and the romantic \"and\" realist focus on precise representation of particular times and places, rather than of humanity in the abstract. It is often satiric and even moralizing, but unlike mainstream realism does not usually offer or even imply any particular analysis of the society it depicts. When not satiric, its approach to quaint folkloric detail often has a romanticizing aspect.\n\n\"Costumbrismo\" can be found in any of the visual or literary arts; by extension, the term can also be applied to certain approaches to collecting folkloric objects, as well. Originally found in short essays and later in novels, \"costumbrismo\" is often found in the \"zarzuelas\" of the 19th century, especially in the \"género chico\". \"Costumbrista\" museums deal with folklore and local art and \"costumbrista\" festivals celebrate local customs and artisans and their work.\n\nAlthough initially associated with Spain in the late 18th and 19th century, \"costumbrismo\" expanded to the Americas and set roots in the Spanish-speaking portions of the Americas, incorporating indigenous elements. Juan López Morillas summed up the appeal of \"costumbrismo\" for writing about Latin American society as follows: the \"costumbristas<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" \"preoccupation with minute detail, local color, the picturesque, and their concern with matters of style is frequently no more than a subterfuge. Astonished by the contradictions observed around them, incapable of clearly understanding the tumult of the modern world, these writers sought refuge in the particular, the trivial or the ephemeral.\"\n\nAntecedents to \"costumbrismo\" can be found as early as the 17th century (for example in the work of playwright Juan de Zabaleta) and the current becomes clearer in the 18th century (Diego de Torres Villarroel, José Clavijo y Fajardo, José Cadalso, Ramón de la Cruz, Juan Ignacio González del Castillo). All of these writers have, in at least some of their work, an attention to specific, local detail, an exaltation of the \"typical\" that would feed into both \"costumbrismo\" and Romanticism. In the 19th century \"costumbrismo\" bursts out as a clear genre in its own right, addressing a broad audience: stories and illustrations often made their first or most important appearance in cheap periodicals for the general public. It is not easy to draw lines around the genre: Evaristo Correa Calderón spoke of its \"extraordinary elasticity and variety\". Some of it is almost reportorial and documentary, some simply folkloric; what it has in common is the effort to capture a particular place (whether rural or urban) at a particular time.\nSebastián de Miñano y Bedoya (1779–1845) is considered by some a \"costumbrista\", although arguably his writing is too political to properly fit the genre. According to Andrés Soria, the first incontestable \"costumbristas\" are the anonymous and pseudonymous contributors to \"La Minerva\" (1817), \"El Correo Literario y Mercantil\" (1823–33) and \"El Censor\" (1820–23). Later come the major figures of literary \"costumbrismo\": Serafín Estébanez Calderón (1799–1867), Ramón de Mesonero Romanos (1803–82), and Mariano José de Larra (1809–37) who sometimes wrote under the pseudonym \"Fígaro\". Estébanez Calderón (who originally wrote for the abovementioned \"Correo Literario y Mercantil\") looked for a \"genuine\" and picturesque Spain in the recent past of particular regions; Mesonero Romanos was a careful observer of the Madrid of his time, especially of the middle classes; Larra, according to José Ramón Lomba Pedraja, arguably transcended his genre, using the form of \"costumbrismo\" for political and psychological ideas. An \"afrancesado\"—a liberal child of the Enlightenment—he was not particularly enamored of the Spanish society that he nonetheless observed minutely.\n\n\"Costumbrismo\" was by no means without foreign influences. The work of Joseph Addison and Richard Steele nearly a century earlier in \"The Spectator\" had influenced French writers, who in turn influenced the \"costumbristas\". Furthermore, Addison and Steele's own work was translated into Spanish in the early 19th century, and Mesonero Romanos, at least, had read it in French. Still, an even stronger influence came by way of Victor-Joseph Étienne de Jouy (whose work appeared in translation in \"La Minerva\" and \"El Censor\"), Louis-Sébastien Mercier (especially for \"Le Tableau de Paris\", 1781–88), Charles Joseph Colnet Du Ravel, and Georges Touchard-Lafosse. In addition, there were the travelogues such as Richard Ford's \"A Handbook for Travellers in Spain\", written by various foreigners who had visited Spain and, in painting, the foreign artists (especially, David Roberts) who had settled for a time especially in Seville and Granada and drew or painted local subjects.\n\nWhile Estébanez Calderón, Mesonero Romanos, and (insofar as he fits the genre) Larra were the major \"costumbrista\" writers, many other Spanish writers of the 19th century devoted all or part of their careers to \"costumbrismo\". Antonio María Segovia (1808–74), who mainly wrote pseudonymously as \"El Estudiante\" and who founded the satiric-literary magazine \"El Cócora\"; his collaborator Santos López Pelegrín (1801–46), \"Abenámar\"; many early contributors to Madrid's \"Semanario Pintoresco Español\" (1836-57), Spain's first illustrated magazine; and such lesser lights as Antonio Neira de Mosquera (1818–53), \"El Doctor Malatesta\" (\"Las ferias de Madrid\", 1845); Clemente Díaz, with whom \"costumbrismo\" took a turn toward the rural; Vicente de la Fuente (1817–89), portraying the lives of bookish students (in between writing serious histories); José Giménez Serrano, portraying a romantic Andalusia; Enrique Gil y Carrasco, a Carlist from Villafranca del Bierzo, friend of Alexander von Humboldt, and contributor to the \"Semanario Pintoresco Español\"; and many other regionalists around Spain.\n\nMuch as literary \"costumbrismo\" had been influenced by English models, often by way of France, the same occurred with the equivalent in the visual arts, but with far more recent models. In a period when physiognomy was in vogue, \"Heads of the People or Portraits of the English\" was serialized in London starting in 1838 and was published in its entirety in 1840–41. It combined essays by such \"distinguished writers\" (the volume's own choice of words) as William Makepeace Thackeray and Leigh Hunt with pictures of individuals emblematic of different English \"types\". This was followed in France by a work first serialized as \"Les Français, Moeurs Contemporaines\" (\"The French, Contemporary Manners\", beginning in 1839) and published in a volume in 1842 as \"Les Français peints par eux-mêmes. Encyclopédie Morale du dixneuviéme siécle\" (\"The French, drawn by themselves. Moral Encyclopedia of the 19th Century\"). The Spanish soon followed with \"Los españoles pintados por sí mismos\" (\"The Spanish Drawn By Themselves\") serialized from 1842 and published in a volume in 1843.\nA collective and hence, necessarily, uneven anthology of \"types\", \"Los españoles…\" was a mixture of verse and prose, and of writers and artists from various generations. Illustrators included Leonardo Alenza (1807–45), Fernando Miranda, Francisco Lameyer (1825–1877), Vicente Urrabieta y Ortiz, and Calixto Ortega. The writers included Mesonero and Estébanez as well as various less \"costumbrista\" writers and many not usually associated with the genre, such as Gabriel García Tassara (1817–75) or the conservative politician Francisco Navarro Villoslada (1818–95). Andrés Soria remarks that, except for the Andalusian \"types\", everything was from the point of view of Madrid. Unlike later \"costumbrismo\", the focus remained firmly on the present day. In some ways, the omissions are as interesting as the inclusions: no direct representation of the aristocracy, of prominent businessmen, of the high clergy, or of the army, and except for the \"popular\" classes, the writing is a bit circumspect and cautious. Still, the material is strong on ethnological, folkloric, and linguistic detail.\n\nIn an epilogue to \"Los españoles…\", \"Contrastes. Tipos perdidos, 1825, Tipos hallados, 1845\" (\"Contrasts. Types lost, 1825, types found, 1845\"), Mesonero on the one hand showed that the genre, in its original terms, was played out, and on the other laid the ground for future \"costumbrismo\": new \"types\" would always arise, and many places remained to be written about in this fashion. The book had many descendants, and a major reissue in 1871. A particularly strong current came out of Barcelona: for example, José M. de Freixas's \"Enciclopedia de tipos vulgares y costumbres de Barcelona\" (\"Encyclopedia of vulgar types and customs of Barcelona\", 1844) illustrated by Servat, and \"El libro Verde de Barcelona\" (\"The Green Book of Barcelona\", 1848) by \"José y Juan\" (José de Majarrés and Juan Cortada y Sala. The very title of \"Los valencianos pintados por sí mismos\" (Valencia 1859) gave a nod of the hat to the earlier work,\nA revival of collective works of \"costumbrismo\" in the time of the First Spanish Republic saw the reissue of \"Los españoles…\" (1872), as well as the publication of \"Los españoles de hogaño\" (\"The Spanish these days\", 1872), focused on Madrid, and the vast undertaking \"Las mujeres españolas, portuguesas y americanas…\" (\"Spanish, Portuguese, and American Women…\", published in Madrid, Havana, and Buenos Aires in 1872–1873 and 1876). Also from this time was the satiric \"Madrid por dentro y por fuera\" (\"Madrid from inside and outside, 1873) by Manuel del Palacio (1831–1906).\n\nCarlos Frontaura carried on \"costumbrismo\" in Madrid with \"Las tiendas\" (\"Shops\", 1886) and \"Tipos madrileños\" (\"Madrid types\", 1888). Ramón de Navarrete (1822–1897) writing variously as or \"Asmodeo\" (after Asmodeus, king of the demons), broke with the history of the genre by writing of the upper classes in Madrid during the Restoration, as in his \"Sueños y realidades (\"Dreams and realities\", 1878). Enrique Sepúlveda wrote about both Madrid and Barcelona, Narcís Oller (1846–1930) about Barcelona, and Sabino de Goicoechea (1826–1901), known as \"Argos\", about the Basque Country. Galicia was represented by the collective work \"El álbum de Galicia. Tipos, costumbres y leyendas\" (\"The album of Galicia. Types, customs and legends\", 1897).\n\nPoet, journalist and pamphleteer Antonio Flores Algovia (1821–65), one of the contributors to \"Los españoles…\" followed up in 1846 with \"Doce españoles de brocha gorda, que no pudiéndose pintar a sí mismos, me han encargado a mí, Antonio Flores, sus retratos\" (\"Twelve Spaniards with a broad brush, who not being able to portray themselves have put me, Antonio Flores, in charge of their portraits\"), subtitled a \"novel of popular customs\" (\"novela de costumbres populares\"). Published in 1846 and reissued several times, the book merged the hitherto more essayistic \"costumbrista\" form with aspects of the novel (although not a particularly tightly plotted novel). Somewhat more novelistic was his \"Fe, Esperanza y Caridad\" (\"Faith Hope and Charity\"), published serially in \"La Nación\" in 1850–1851 and also much reprinted. Flores had been Eugène Sue's translator into Spanish, and Sue's influence is strong in this work. Flores turned to again to \"custumbrismo\", of a sort, in 1853 with \"Ayer, hoy y mañana o la fe, el vapor y la electricidad (cuadros sociales de 1800, 1850 y 1899)\" (\"Yesterday, today and tomorrow or faith, steam and electricity (social pictures of 1800, 1850, and 1899)\") going Mesonero's \"types lost\" and \"types found\" one better by projecting a vision of the future influenced by the work of Émile Souvestre. His newspaper \"El Laberinto\" continued publishing his \"costumbrista\" work even posthumously, such as \"Tipos y costumbres españolas\" (1877).\n\nEugenio de Ochoa (1815–72) carried \"costumbrismo\" in a different direction. Born in the Basque country and moving often between Spain and France, his 1860 book \"Museo de las familias. París, Londres y Madrid\" (\"Museum of families. Paris, London, Madrid\") created a sort of cosmopolitan \"costumbrismo\".\n\nMany of the great Spanish realist writers of the 19th century worked at times in the \"costumbrista\" mode, especially at the start of their careers. Fernán Caballero (pen name of Cecilia Francisca Josefa Böhl de Faber) (1796–1877), for example, in the prose portions of her \"Cuentos y poesías populares andaluzas\" (\"Popular Andalusian stories and poems\", collected in 1859 from prior publication in magazines), writes within the genre, particularly in \"Una paz hecha sin preliminares, sin conferencias y sin notas diplomáticas\" (\"A peace made without preliminaries, without conferences, and without diplomatic notes\"), with its very specific setting in Chiclana de la Frontera. Pedro Antonio de Alarcón (1833–1891) issued a collection \"Cosas que fueron\", bringing together 16 \"costumbrista\" articles.\n\nAndrés Soria sees José María de Pereda (1833–1906) as the most successful fusion of \"costumbrista\" scenes into proper novels, especially his portrayals of \"La Montaña\", the mountainous regions of Cantabria. His \"Escenas montañesas\" (1864) is particularly in the \"costumbrista\" mode, with its mixture of urban, rural and seafaring scenes, and sections offering sketches of various milieus. Poet and novelist Antonio de Trueba (1819 or 1821–89) wrote squarely within the genre with \"Madrid por fuera\" and \"De flor en flor\". Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer (1836–1870) portrayed Madrid, Seville, and Toledo. José María Gabriel y Galán (1870–1905), best known as a poet, also wrote \"costumbrista\" pieces about Salamanca. Armando Palacio Valdés (1853–1938) also essayed the genre in newspaper articles, collected in \"Aguas fuertes\" (\"Strong waters\", 1884). The writer and diplomat Ángel Ganivet (1865–98), seen by some as a precursor to the Generation of '98, wrote \"costumbrista\" scenes of Granada.\n\nElements of \"costumbrismo\", or even entire works in the genre, can be found among major Spanish writers of the 20th century, though to a lesser extent. Miguel de Unamuno (1864–1936) worked in the genre for \"De mi país\" (\"Of my country\", 1903) and some stories such as \"Solitaña\" in of \"El espejo de la muerte\" (\"The Mirror of Death\", 1913), as did Pío Baroja with \"Vitrina pintoresca\" (\"Picturesque showcase\", 1935) and in passages of his novels set in the Basque Country. Azorín (José Augusto Trinidad Martínez Ruíz, 1873–1967) often wrote in this genre; one could comb the works of Ramón Gómez de la Serna (1888–1963) and Camilo José Cela (1916–2002) and find many passages that could come straight from a work of \"costumbrismo\". Although taken as a whole these writers are clearly not \"costumbristas\", they use the \"costumbrista\" style to evoke surviving remnants of Spain's past.\n\nThe tradition of \"costumbrismo\" in Spain by no means ended at the turn of the century, but it simply did not play as important a role in 20th-century Spanish literature as it did in the century before. As noted above, several of the most important 20th-century Spanish writers at least dabbled in, or were influenced by, the genre. When we go beyond the first string of writers, we see more of a continuation of \"costumbrismo\".\n\nIn the course of the century, more and more Spanish regions asserted their particularity, allowing this now established technique of writing to be given new scope. In other regions—Madrid, Andalusia—\"costumbrismo\" itself had become part of the region's identity. The magazine \"España\", founded 1915, wrote about some new \"types\": the indolent \"golfo\"; the lower class \"señorito chulo\" with his airs and exaggerated fashions; the \"albañil\" or construction worker, but with far less sympathy than \"costumbristas\" in the previous century had portrayed their predecessors. Other \"types\" were those who were a caricature of times past: \"el erudito\", with his vast but pointless book-learning, or \"El poeta de juegos florales\" (\"the poet of floral games\").\nAndrés Soria describes 20th century regional \"costumbrismo\" as more serious, less picturesque, and more poetic than in the 19th century. Among his many examples of the 20th century continuation of \"costumbrismo\" are Santiago Rusiñol (1861–1931), writing in Catalan about Catalonia and Mallorca; numerous chroniclers of the Basque Country: José María Salaverría (1873–1940), Ricardo Baroja (1871–1953), Dionisio de Azkue (\"Dunixi\"), José María Iribarren (1906–1971), and, as mentioned above, Pío Baroja; Vicente Blasco Ibáñez (1867–1928) writing about Valencia; and Vicente Medina Tomás (1866–1937), writing about Murcia.\n\nA strong current of \"costumbrismo\" continued in 20th-century Madrid, including in poetry (Antonio Casero, 1874–1936) and theater (José López Silva, 1860–1925; Carlos Arniches Barreda, 1866–1943). Other writers who continued the tradition were Eusebio Blasco (1844–1903), Pedro de Répide (1882–1947), Emiliano Ramírez Ángel (1883–1928), Luis Bello (1872–1935), and Federico Carlos Sainz de Robles (1899–1983). Similarly, 20th century Andalusia saw work by José Nogales (1860?–1908), Salvador Rueda (1857–1933), Arturo Reyes (1864–1913), José Mas y Laglera (1885–1940), Ángel Cruz Rueda (1888–1961), and Antonio Alcalá Venceslada (1883–1955).\n\nCostumbrismo is an art form developed by Spanish painters. In the 19th-century, a wave of nationalistic fervour took hold, providing the stimulus for painters to focus on local customs (or \"costumbres\"). As in literary \"costumbrismo\", Madrid and Andalusia (particularly Seville) were Spain's two great centers of \"costumbrismo\" in the visual arts. Andalusian \"costumbrista\" paintings were mainly romantic and folkloric, largely devoid of social criticism. Much of their market was to foreigners for whom Andalusia epitomized their vision of a Spain distinct from the rest of Europe. The \"costumbrista\" artists of Madrid were more acerbic, sometimes even vulgar, in portraying the life of lower class Madrid. More of their market was domestic, including to the often snobbish (and often Europeanizing and liberal) elite of the capital. Among other things, the School of Madrid often used large masses of solid color and painted with a broad brush, while the School of Seville painted more delicately. The Madrid paintings have a certain urgency, while the Seville paintings are typically serene, even misty. The Madrid painters focus more on unique individuals, the Sevillianos on individuals as representatives of a type.\nRomantic Andalusian \"costumbrismo\" (\"costumbrismo andaluz\") follows in the footsteps of two painters of the School of Cádiz, Juan Rodríguez y Jiménez, \"el Panadero\" (\"the Baker\", 1765–1830) and Joaquín Manuel Fernández Cruzado (1781–1856), both associated with Romanticism. The trend was continued by the School of Seville, in a city much more on the path of a foreign clientele. The founding figure was José Domínguez Bécquer (1805–41), father of the poet Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer (see above) and painter Valeriano Bécquer (1833–70), who moved to Madrid. Domínguez Bécquer's influence came as an art teacher, as well as an artist. His student and cousin Joaquín Domínguez Bécquer (1817–79) was known for his acute observation of light and atmosphere. Another of José Domínguez Bécquer's students, the bold and forceful Manuel Rodríguez de Guzmán (1818–67), may have been the genre's strongest painter.\n\nOther important early figures were Antonio Cabral Bejarano (1788–1861), best known for paintings of individuals theatrically posed against rural backgrounds, and an atmosphere reminiscent of Murillo, and José Roldán (1808–71), also very influenced by Murillo, known especially as a painter of children and urchins. One of Cabral Bejarano's sons, Manuel Cabral Bejarano (1827–91) began as a \"costumbrista\", but eventually became more of a realist. Another son, Francisco Cabral Bejarano (1824–90), also painted in the genre.\n\nOther painters of the School of Seville were Andrés Cortés (1810–79), Rafael García Hispaleto (1833–54), Francisco Ramos, and Joaquín Díez; history painter José María Rodríguez de Losada (1826–96); and portraitist José María Romero (1815–80).\n\nTypical subject matter included \"majos\" (lower class dandies) and their female equivalents, horsemen, bandits and smugglers, street urchins and beggars, Gypsies, traditional architecture, fiestas, and religious processions such as Holy Week in Seville.\n\nThe School of Madrid was united less by a common visual style than by an attitude, and by the influence of Goya rather than Murillo. Notable in this school were Alenza and Lameyer, both contributors to \"Los españoles pintados por sí mismos\". Alenza, in particular, showed a strong influence from the Flemish painters as well as from Goya. A fine portraitist who tended to take his subjects from among the common people, in some ways he epitomizes the difference between the School of Madrid and that of Seville. For him the \"official\" Romanticism was a topic to satirize, as in his series of paintings \"Suicidios románticos\" (\"Romantic suicides\").\nProbably foremost in the School of Madrid was Eugenio Lucas Velázquez (1817–70). An artistic successor to Goya (though a more erratic painter than the master), Lucas Velázquez's work ranged from bullfighting scenes to Orientalism to scenes of witchcraft. His son Eugenio Lucas Villamil (1858–1918) and his students Paulino de la Linde (1837-?) and José Martínez Victoria followed in his tracks; he was also a strong influence on Antonio Pérez Rubio (1822–88) and Ángel Lizcano Monedero (1846–1929).\n\nJosé Elbo (1804–44) was at least strongly akin to the School of Madrid. Although born in Úbeda in the Andalusian province of Jaén, Elbo studied painting in Madrid under José Aparicio (1773–1838), and was influenced by Goya; he was also influenced by the Central European equivalents of \"costumbrismo\". His painting is rife with social criticism, and often angrily populist.\n\nAlso in Madrid, but not really part of the School of Madrid, was Valeriano Bécquer (transplanted son of José Domínguez Bécquer). Although also influenced by Goya (and by Diego Velázquez), his work in Madrid did partake of some of the socially critical aspects of the other painters of that city, but not of the satiric aspects: his portraits of common people emphasize their dignity, seldom their foibles.\n\nThe dark vision of 20th-century Madrid painter José Gutiérrez Solana (1886–1945) was influenced by \"costumbrismo\" and also directly by the Black Paintings of Goya that had so influenced the \"costumbristas\".\n\nIn nineteenth-century Mexico, colonial-era casta paintings, a type of secular genre painting depicting racial categories and hierarchy disappeared at independence when casta categories were abolished, but costumbrismo paintings resonated with the stereotypes of the earlier genre. A number of foreign visitors to Mexico produced images in the costumbrista tradition, including Claudio Linati and Edouard Pingret. The most significant Mexican costumbrista painter is José Agustín Arrieta, whose paintings of a market scene (\"La Sorpresa\"), a kitchen scene (\"La Cocina Poblana\"), and a tavern scene (\"Tertulia de pulquería\") are well known. One less famous than Arrieta is (ca. 1830-ca. 1870s), about whom little is known. His painting \"Vendador de buñuelos\", depicting a fritter seller in an urban night scene is in the collections of the Mexican government. Another less well known Mexican artist is (1824-1904), who was also a writer, teacher, art critic, intellectual, and cultural diplomat.\"\n\nSome of Argentina's most distinguished writers worked in the \"costumbrista\" genre in at least some of their writing, though few worked narrowly within the genre. Esteban Echeverría (1805–51) was a politically passionate Romantic writer whose work has strong \"costumbrista\" aspects; his \"El Matadero\" (\"The Slaughterhouse\") is still widely read. Juan Bautista Alberdi (1810–84) and Domingo Faustino Sarmiento (1811–1888) both wrote at times in the genre, as did José Antonio Wilde (1813–83), in \"Buenos Aires desde setenta años atrás\" (\"Buenos Aires from seventy years ago\"); Vicente G. Quesada (1830–1913), in \"Recuerdos de un viejo\" (\"Memories of an old man\"); Lucio V. López (1848–94), in the novela \"La gran aldea\" (\"The big village\"); Martín Coronado (1850–1919), playwright; Martiniano Leguizamón (1858–1935), in the novel \"Montaraz\"; José S. Alvarez (1858–1903, \"Fray Mocho\"), in the story \"Viaje al país de los matreros\" (\"A trip to bandit country\"); Emma de la Barra (1861–1947), who wrote under the pseudonym César Duayen, in \"Stella\"; Joaquín V. González (1863–1923), in \"Mis montañas\" (\"My Mountains\"); Julio Sánchez Gardel (1879–1937), in numerous comedies; and Manuel Gálvez (1882–1962), in such novels as \"La maestra normal\" (\"The normal school teacher\") and \"La sombra del convento\" (\"The sleep of the convent\").\n\nBolivian \"costumbristas\" include Julio Lucas Jaimes (1845–1914), Lindaura Anzoátegui de Campero (1846–98), Jaime Mendoza (1874–1938), Alcides Arguedas (1879–1946), and Armando Chirveches (1881–1926).\n\nGuatemalan novelist and historian José Milla (1822–82) wrote several \"costumbrista\" works and created the character of \"Juan Chapín\", the emblematic Guatemalan. Other Central American \"costumbristas\" are José María Peralta Lagos (1875–1944, El Salvador), Ramón Rosa (1848–93, Honduras), Carlos Alberto Uclés (1854–1942, Honduras), and a distinguished line of Costa Rican writers: Manuel de Jesús Jiménez (1854–1916), Manuel González Zeledón (1864–1936), the verse writer Aquileo Echeverría (1866–1909), and, in the 20th century, Joaquín García Monge (1881–1958).\n\n\"Costumbrismo\" enters Chilean literature in some of the writing of José Zapiola (1804–85), Vicente Pérez Rosales (1807–86), Román Fritis (1829–74), Pedro Ruiz Aldea (ca. 1833–70) and especially José Joaquín Vallejo (1811–58), who under the name \"Jotabeche\" was the supreme Chilean \"costumbrista\".\n\nStrong aspects of \"costumbrismo\" can be seen in the novels and other works of Alberto Blest Gana (1830–1920). There are many \"costumbrista\" passages in the works of Benjamín Vicuña Mackenna (1831–86) and Daniel Barros Grez(1833–1904); Román Vial (1833–1896) entitled one of his books \"Costumbres chilenas\"; Zorobabel Rodríguez (1839–1901), Moisés Vargas (1843–98), Arturo Givovich (1855–1905), Daniel Riquelme (1854–1912), Senén Palacios (1858–1927), Egidio Poblete (1868–1940) all wrote in the mode at times. \"Costumbrismo\" figures particularly heavily in stage comedies: \"El patio de los Tribunales\" (\"The courtyard of the tribunals [of justice]\", by Valentín Murillo (1841–1896); \"Don Lucas Gómez\", by Mateo Martínez Quevedo (1848–1923); \"Chincol en sartén\" (\"A sparrow in the pan\") and \"En la puerta del horno\" (\"In the gate of horn\"), by Antonio Espiñeira (1855–1907); \"La canción rota\" (\"The broken song\"), by Antonio Acevedo Hernández (1886–1962); \"Pueblecito\" (\"Little town\") by Armando Moock (1894–1942). In prose, \"costumbrismo\" mixes eventually into realism, with Manuel J. Ortiz (1870–1945) and Joaquín Díaz García (1877–1921) as important realists with \"costumbrista\" aspects.\n\nColombia can claim one of the earliest antecedents to the \"costumbrismo\" in \"El Carnero\" (written 1636–38, but not published until 1859) by Juan Rodríguez Freile (1566–1638 or 1640), Rodríguez's work begins as a chronicle of the conquest of New Granada, but as it approaches his own time it becomes more and more detailed and quotidian, and its second half is a series of narratives that, according to Stephen M. Hart, give \"lip service\" to conventional morality while taking \"a keen delight in recounting the various skullduggeries of witches, rogues, murderers, whores, outlaws, priests and judges.\"\n\nColombia can also claim a particularly rich tradition of \"costumbrismo\" in the 19th century and into the 20th: José Manuel Groot (1800–78); novelists Eugenio Díaz (1803–65), José Manuel Marroquín (1827–1908), and José María Vergara y Vergara (1831–72), all of whom collaborated on the magazine \"El Mosaico, la revista bogotana del costumbrismo\" (1858–71); Luis Segundo Silvestre (1838–87); and Jorge Isaacs (1837–95), whose sole novel \"María\" was praised by Alfonso M. Escudero as the greatest Spanish-language romantic novel.\n\nOther Colombian \"costumbristas\" are José Caycedo Rojas (1816–1897), Juan de Dios Restrepo (1823–94), Gregorio Gutiérrez González (1826–72), Ricardo Carrasquilla (1827–86), Camilo A. Echeverri (1827–87), Manuel Pombo (1827–98), José David Guarín (1830–90), Ricardo Silva (1836–87), José María Cordovez Moure (1835–1918), Rafael María Camargo (1858–1926; wrote under the pseudonym Fermín de Pimentel y Vargas), and Tomás Carrasquilla (1858–1940).\n\nCuba's leading \"costumbristas\" were Gaspar Betancourt Cisneros (1803–66, known as \"El Lugareño\"), Cirilo Villaverde (1812–94), and José María de Cárdenas y Rodríguez (1812–82). The patrician Betancourt published a series of \"Escenas cotidianas que abren camino al costumbrismo en Cuba\" (\"Day-to-day scenes that open a road to \"costumbrismo\" in Cuba, 1838–40). His work focused often on what he found vulgar or ridiculous about Cuban life, but was written with a fatherly affection. Villaverde, probably Cuba's greatest \"costumbrista\", wrote romantic novels, most notably \"Cecilia Valdés\" (the first part of which was published in 1839, although the definitive version was not published until 1882). This \"costumbrista\" anti-slavery novel can be seen as an early realist work, and continues to be read in recent times. Villaverde also wrote the prologue for Cárdenas's 1847 collection of \"costumbrista\"articles.\nJosé Victoriano Betancourt (1813–75) was patron to many intellectuals in 1860s Havana; he later went into exile in Mexico. He is best remembered today as a \"costumbrista\" writer, as is another Betancourt, José Ramón Betancourt (1823–90), author of \"Una feria de caridad en 183…\" (ellipses in original title), set in Camagüey in the late 1830s.\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, Francisco Gregorio Billini (1844–94) stands out for his novel \"Baní o Engracia y Antoñita\" (1892). Still, in some ways, his vision was narrow. J. Alcántara Almánzar remarks that \"black people are practically absent as important characters, and this absence is very significant in a country whose majority is 'mulatto'.\" Blacks are more present in the \"costumbrista\" works of Cesar Nicolas Penson (1855–1901), but he is far more sympathetic to his white characters, portraying Haitians as fierce beasts.\n\nEcuadorians who wrote at least part of the time in the \"costumbrista\" mode include Pedro Fermín Cevallos (1812–93), Juan León Mera (1832–94), José Modesto Espinosa (1833–1915), Carlos R. Tobar (1854–1920), Honorato Vázquez (1855–1933), Víctor M. Rendón (1859–1940), J. Trajano Mera (1862–1919), and Luis A. Martínez (1868–1909). Another Ecuadorian was Alfredo Baquerizo Moreno (1859–1951), a novelist and later president of the country.\n\nMexican \"costumbrismo\" can claim one of the longest lineages to be found in the Americas. In the same era in which the genre was gaining an identity in Spain, José Joaquín Fernández de Lizardi (1776–1827) Mexico's first novelist (and perhaps Latin America's first novelist) wrote works that had many similar aspects, including \"Periquillo Sarniento\" (1816), recently translated into English as \"The Mangy Parrot\". Other Mexican \"costumbristas\" are Guillermo Prieto (1818–97) and José Tomás de Cuéllar (1830–94). In addition, José López Portillo y Rojas (1850–1923), Rafael Delgado (1853–1914), Ángel del Campo (1868–1908) and Emilio Rabasa (1856–1930) can be seen as \"costumbristas\", but their work can also be considered realist.\n\nParaguayan \"costumbristas\" include Teresa Lamas Carísimo de Rodríguez Alcalá (1887–1976) and Carlos Zubizarreta (1904–72).\n\nPeruvian \"costumbrismo\" begins with José Joaquín de Larriva y Ruiz (1780–1832), poeta and journalist and his younger, irreverent, Madrid-educated collaborator Felipe Pardo y Aliaga (1806–68). A more festive and comic note was struck by Manuel Ascensio Segura (1805–71). Manuel Atanasio Fuentes (1820–29) wrote verse under the name \"El Murciélago\" (\"the Bat\"), a name which he also gave to a magazine he founded.\n\nRicardo Palma (1833–1919), best known for the multi-volume \"Tradiciones peruanas\", was a man of letters, a former liberal politician and later the director of the National Library of Peru, who rebuilt the collection of that library after the War of the Pacific. He referred to his works in this mode as \"tradiciones\", rather than \"costumbrismo\".\n\nOther Peruvian \"costumbristas\" are satirist and verse writer Pedro Paz Soldán y Unanue (1839–1895), Abelardo M. Gamarra (1850–1924), and the nostalgic José Gálvez (1885–1957).\n\nIn Puerto Rico, Manuel A. Alonso (1822–89) published \"El gibaro: cuadro de costumbres de la isla de Puerto Rico\" (The \"Jíbaro\" [modern spelling]: picture of customs of the island of Puerto Rico\", 1849), Puerto Rico's most important contribution to the genre. Manuel Fernández Juncos (1846–1928), born in Asturias, Spain, emigrated at age eleven to the island and wrote \"Tipos y caracteres y Costumbres y tradiciones\" (\"Types and characters and customs and traditions\").\n\nProminent Uruguayan \"costumbristas\" include Santiago Maciel (1862–1931), Manuel Bernárdez (1867–1942), Javier de Viana (1868–1926), Adolfo Montiel Ballesteros (1888–1971), and Fernán Silva Valdés (1887–1975). Most of these writers also did significant work outside of the genre.\n\nVenezuelan \"costumbristas\" include Fermín Toro (c.1807–65), Daniel Mendoza (1823–67), Francisco de Sales Pérez (1836–1926), Nicanor Bolet Peraza (1838–1906), Francisco Tosta García (1845–1921), José María Rivas (1850–1920), Rafael Bolívar Alvarez (1860–1900), and Pedro Emilio Coll (1872–1947).\n\n"}
{"id": "38621152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38621152", "title": "Cow Wallpaper", "text": "Cow Wallpaper\n\nAndy Warhol's Cow Wallpaper was the first in a series of wallpaper designs he created from the 1960s to the 1980s.\n\nAccording to Warhol, the inspiration for the cow image came from art dealer Ivan Karp:Another time he said, 'Why don't you paint some cows, they're so wonderfully pastoral and such a durable image in the history of the arts.' (Ivan talked like this.) I don't know how 'pastoral' he expected me to make them, but when he saw the huge cow heads — bright pink on a bright yellow background — that I was going to have made into rolls of wallpaper, he was shocked. But after a moment he exploded with: 'They're \"super\"-pastoral! They're ridiculous! They're blazingly bright and vulgar!' I mean, he loved those cows and for my next show we papered all the walls in the gallery with them.\n\nThe show Warhol refers to is his April, 1966 show at the Leo Castelli Gallery, which consisted only of \"Cow Wallpaper\" in one room, and a second room with Warhol's silver helium-filled \"Clouds\".\n\nThe historian and critic Barbara Rose interpreted \"Cow Wallpaper\" as a commentary on the nature of art collecting and the character of the institutions where art is displayed. In a review of Warhol's 1971 retrospective show at the Whitney, she observed that cows are a common subject of genre paintings that people display in their homes, and that the wallpaper made the Whitney look like \"a boutique.\" She continued, \"Of course the museum has been a boutique for a long time, and people have been treating paintings like wallpaper even longer. But Andy spells it out with his usual cruel clarity.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37803", "title": "Cubism", "text": "Cubism\n\nCubism is an early-20th-century art movement which brought European painting and sculpture historically forward toward 20th century Modern art. Cubism in its various forms inspired related movements in literature and architecture. Cubism has been considered to be among the most influential art movements of the 20th century. The term is broadly used in association with a wide variety of art produced in Paris (Montmartre, Montparnasse and Puteaux) during the 1910s and throughout the 1920s.\n\nThe movement was pioneered by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, joined by Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Robert Delaunay, Henri Le Fauconnier, and Fernand Léger. One primary influence that led to Cubism was the representation of three-dimensional form in the late works of Paul Cézanne. A retrospective of Cézanne's paintings had been held at the Salon d'Automne of 1904, current works were displayed at the 1905 and 1906 Salon d'Automne, followed by two commemorative retrospectives after his death in 1907. In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from a single viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context.\n\nThe impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging. In other countries Futurism, Suprematism, Dada, Constructivism, De Stijl and Art Deco developed in response to Cubism. Early Futurist paintings hold in common with Cubism the fusing of the past and the present, the representation of different views of the subject pictured at the same time, also called multiple perspective, simultaneity or multiplicity, while Constructivism was influenced by Picasso's technique of constructing sculpture from separate elements. Other common threads between these disparate movements include the faceting or simplification of geometric forms, and the association of mechanization and modern life.\n\nHistorians have divided the history of Cubism into phases. In one scheme, the first phase of Cubism, known as \"Analytic Cubism\", a phrase coined by Juan Gris a posteriori, was both radical and influential as a short but highly significant art movement between 1910 and 1912 in France. A second phase, \"Synthetic Cubism\", remained vital until around 1919, when the Surrealist movement gained popularity. English art historian Douglas Cooper proposed another scheme, describing three phases of Cubism in his book, \"The Cubist Epoch\". According to Cooper there was \"Early Cubism\", (from 1906 to 1908) when the movement was initially developed in the studios of Picasso and Braque; the second phase being called \"High Cubism\", (from 1909 to 1914) during which time Juan Gris emerged as an important exponent (after 1911); and finally Cooper referred to \"Late Cubism\" (from 1914 to 1921) as the last phase of Cubism as a radical avant-garde movement. Douglas Cooper's restrictive use of these terms to distinguish the work of Braque, Picasso, Gris (from 1911) and Léger (to a lesser extent) implied an intentional value judgement.\n\nCubism burgeoned between 1907 and 1911. Pablo Picasso's 1907 painting \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\" has often been considered a proto-Cubist work. Georges Braque's 1908 \"Houses at L’Estaque\" (and related works) prompted the critic Louis Vauxcelles, in \"Gil Blas\", 25 March 1909, to refer to \"bizarreries cubiques\" (cubic oddities). Gertrude Stein referred to landscapes made by Picasso in 1909, such as \"Reservoir at Horta de Ebro\", as the first Cubist paintings. The first organized group exhibition by Cubists took place at the Salon des Indépendants in Paris during the spring of 1911 in a room called 'Salle 41'; it included works by Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Fernand Léger, Robert Delaunay and Henri Le Fauconnier, yet no works by Picasso or Braque were exhibited.\n\nBy 1911 Picasso was recognized as the inventor of Cubism, while Braque’s importance and precedence was argued later, with respect to his treatment of space, volume and mass in the L’Estaque landscapes. But \"this view of Cubism is associated with a distinctly restrictive definition of which artists are properly to be called Cubists,\" wrote the art historian Christopher Green: \"Marginalizing the contribution of the artists who exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants in 1911 [...]\"\n\nThe assertion that the Cubist depiction of space, mass, time, and volume supports (rather than contradicts) the flatness of the canvas was made by Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler as early as 1920, but it was subject to criticism in the 1950s and 1960s, especially by Clement Greenberg.\n\nContemporary views of Cubism are complex, formed to some extent in response to the \"Salle 41\" Cubists, whose methods were too distinct from those of Picasso and Braque to be considered merely secondary to them. Alternative interpretations of Cubism have therefore developed. Wider views of Cubism include artists who were later associated with the \"Salle 41\" artists, e.g., Francis Picabia; the brothers Jacques Villon, Raymond Duchamp-Villon and Marcel Duchamp, who beginning in late 1911 formed the core of the Section d'Or (or the Puteaux Group); the sculptors Alexander Archipenko, Joseph Csaky and Ossip Zadkine as well as Jacques Lipchitz and Henri Laurens; and painters such as Louis Marcoussis, Roger de La Fresnaye, František Kupka, Diego Rivera, Léopold Survage, Auguste Herbin, André Lhote, Gino Severini (after 1916), María Blanchard (after 1916) and Georges Valmier (after 1918). More fundamentally, Christopher Green argues that Douglas Cooper's terms were \"later undermined by interpretations of the work of Picasso, Braque, Gris and Léger that stress iconographic and ideological questions rather than methods of representation.\"\n\nJohn Berger identifies the essence of Cubism with the mechanical diagram. \"The metaphorical model of Cubism is the diagram: The diagram being a visible symbolic representation of invisible processes, forces, structures. A diagram need not eschew certain aspects of appearance but these too will be treated as signs not as imitations or recreations.\"\n\nThere was a distinct difference between Kahnweiler’s Cubists and the Salon Cubists. Prior to 1914, Picasso, Braque, Gris and Léger (to a lesser extent) gained the support of a single committed art dealer in Paris, Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, who guaranteed them an annual income for the exclusive right to buy their works. Kahnweiler sold only to a small circle of connoisseurs. His support gave his artists the freedom to experiment in relative privacy. Picasso worked in Montmartre until 1912, while Braque and Gris remained there until after the First World War. Léger was based in Montparnasse.\n\nIn contrast, the Salon Cubists built their reputation primarily by exhibiting regularly at the Salon d'Automne and the Salon des Indépendants, both major non-academic Salons in Paris. They were inevitably more aware of public response and the need to communicate. Already in 1910 a group began to form which included Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay and Léger. They met regularly at Henri le Fauconnier's studio near the Boulevard de Montparnasse. These soirées often included writers such as Guillaume Apollinaire and André Salmon. Together with other young artists, the group wanted to emphasise a research into form, in opposition to the Neo-Impressionist emphasis on color.\n\nLouis Vauxcelles, in his review of the 26th Salon des Indépendants (1910), made a passing and imprecise reference to Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, Léger and Le Fauconnier as \"ignorant geometers, reducing the human body, the site, to pallid cubes.\" At the 1910 Salon d'Automne, a few months later, Metzinger exhibited his highly fractured \"Nu à la cheminée (Nude)\", which was subsequently reproduced in both \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" (1912) and \"Les Peintres Cubistes\" (1913).\n\nThe first public controversy generated by Cubism resulted from Salon showings at the Indépendants during the spring of 1911. This showing by Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, le Fauconnier and Léger brought Cubism to the attention of the general public for the first time. Amongst the Cubist works presented, Robert Delaunay exhibited his \"Eiffel Tower, Tour Eiffel\" (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York).\nAt the Salon d'Automne of the same year, in addition to the Indépendants group of \"Salle 41\", were exhibited works by André Lhote, Marcel Duchamp, Jacques Villon, Roger de La Fresnaye, André Dunoyer de Segonzac and František Kupka. The exhibition was reviewed in the October 8, 1911 issue of \"The New York Times\". This article was published a year after Gelett Burgess' \"The Wild Men of Paris\", and two years prior to the Armory Show, which introduced astonished Americans, accustomed to realistic art, to the experimental styles of the European avant garde, including Fauvism, Cubism, and Futurism. The 1911 \"New York Times\" article portrayed works by Picasso, Matisse, Derain, Metzinger and others dated before 1909; not exhibited at the 1911 Salon. The article was titled \"The \"Cubists\" Dominate Paris' Fall Salon\" and subtitled \"Eccentric School of Painting Increases Its Vogue in the Current Art Exhibition - What Its Followers Attempt to Do.\"\n\nThe subsequent 1912 Salon des Indépendants was marked by the presentation of Marcel Duchamp's \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\", which itself caused a scandal, even amongst the Cubists. It was in fact rejected by the hanging committee, which included his brothers and other Cubists. Although the work was shown in the Salon de la Section d'Or in October 1912 and the 1913 Armory Show in New York, Duchamp never forgave his brothers and former colleagues for censoring his work. Juan Gris, a new addition to the Salon scene, exhibited his \"Portrait of Picasso\" (Art Institute of Chicago), while Metzinger's two showings included \"La Femme au Cheval (Woman with a horse)\" 1911-1912 (National Gallery of Denmark). Delaunay's monumental \"La Ville de Paris\" (Musée d'art moderne de la Ville de Paris) and Léger's \"La Noce, The Wedding\" (Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris) were also exhibited.\n\nThe Cubist contribution to the 1912 Salon d'Automne created scandal regarding the use of government owned buildings, such as the Grand Palais, to exhibit such artwork. The indignation of the politician Jean Pierre Philippe Lampué made the front page of \"Le Journal\", 5 October 1912. The controversy spread to the Municipal Council of Paris, leading to a debate in the Chambre des Députés about the use of public funds to provide the venue for such art. The Cubists were defended by the Socialist deputy, Marcel Sembat.\n\nIt was against this background of public anger that Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes wrote \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" (published by Eugène Figuière in 1912, translated to English and Russian in 1913). Among the works exhibited were Le Fauconnier's vast composition \"Les Montagnards attaqués par des ours (Mountaineers Attacked by Bears)\" now at Rhode Island School of Design Museum, Joseph Csaky's \"Deux Femme, Two Women\" (a sculpture now lost), in addition to the highly abstract paintings by Kupka, \"Amorpha\" (The National Gallery, Prague), and Picabia, \"La Source, The Spring\" (Museum of Modern Art, New York).\n\nThe most extreme forms of Cubism were not those practiced by Picasso and Braque, who resisted total abstraction. Other Cubists, by contrast, especially František Kupka, and those considered Orphists by Apollinaire (Delaunay, Léger, Picabia and Duchamp), accepted abstraction by removing visible subject matter entirely. Kupka’s two entries at the 1912 Salon d'Automne, \"Amorpha-Fugue à deux couleurs\" and \"Amorpha chromatique chaude\", were highly abstract (or nonrepresentational) and metaphysical in orientation. Both Duchamp in 1912 and Picabia from 1912 to 1914 developed an expressive and allusive abstraction dedicated to complex emotional and sexual themes. Beginning in 1912 Delaunay painted a series of paintings entitled \"Simultaneous Windows\", followed by a series entitled \"Formes Circulaires\", in which he combined planar structures with bright prismatic hues; based on the optical characteristics of juxtaposed colors his departure from reality in the depiction of imagery was quasi-complete. In 1913–14 Léger produced a series entitled \"Contrasts of Forms\", giving a similar stress to color, line and form. His Cubism, despite its abstract qualities, was associated with themes of mechanization and modern life. Apollinaire supported these early developments of abstract Cubism in \"Les Peintres cubistes\" (1913), writing of a new \"pure\" painting in which the subject was vacated. But in spite of his use of the term Orphism these works were so different that they defy attempts to place them in a single category.\n\nAlso labeled an Orphist by Apollinaire, Marcel Duchamp was responsible for another extreme development inspired by Cubism. The ready-made arose from a joint consideration that the work itself is considered an object (just as a painting), and that it uses the material detritus of the world (as collage and papier collé in the Cubist construction and Assemblage). The next logical step, for Duchamp, was to present an ordinary object as a self-sufficient work of art representing only itself. In 1913 he attached a bicycle wheel to a kitchen stool and in 1914 selected a bottle-drying rack as a sculpture in its own right.\n\nThe \"Section d'Or\", also known as \"Groupe de Puteaux\", founded by some of the most conspicuous Cubists, was a collective of painters, sculptors and critics associated with Cubism and Orphism, active from 1911 through about 1914, coming to prominence in the wake of their controversial showing at the 1911 Salon des Indépendants. The \"Salon de la Section d'Or\" at the \"Galerie La Boétie\" in Paris, October 1912, was arguably the most important pre-World War I Cubist exhibition; exposing Cubism to a wide audience. Over 200 works were displayed, and the fact that many of the artists showed artworks representative of their development from 1909 to 1912 gave the exhibition the allure of a Cubist retrospective.\n\nThe group seems to have adopted the name Section d'Or to distinguish themselves from the narrower definition of Cubism developed in parallel by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque in the Montmartre quarter of Paris, and to show that Cubism, rather than being an isolated art-form, represented the continuation of a grand tradition (indeed, the golden ratio had fascinated Western intellectuals of diverse interests for at least 2,400 years).\n\nThe idea of the Section d'Or originated in the course of conversations between Metzinger, Gleizes and Jacques Villon. The group's title was suggested by Villon, after reading a 1910 translation of Leonardo da Vinci's \"Trattato della Pittura\" by Joséphin Péladan.\n\nThe fact that the 1912 exhibition had been curated to show the successive stages through which Cubism had developed, and that \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" had been published for the occasion, indicates the artists' intention of making their work comprehensible to a wide audience (art critics, art collectors, art dealers and the general public). Undoubtedly, due to the great success of the exhibition, Cubism became recognized as a tendency, genre or style in art with a specific common philosophy or goal.\n\nA significant modification of Cubism between 1914 and 1916 was signaled by a shift towards a strong emphasis on large overlapping geometric planes and flat surface activity. This grouping of styles of painting and sculpture, especially significant between 1917 and 1920, was practiced by several artists; particularly those under contract with the art dealer and collector Léonce Rosenberg. The tightening of the compositions, the clarity and sense of order reflected in these works, led to its being referred to by the critic Maurice Raynal as 'crystal' Cubism. Considerations manifested by Cubists prior to the outset of World War I—such as the fourth dimension, dynamism of modern life, the occult, and Henri Bergson's concept of duration—had now been vacated, replaced by a purely formal frame of reference.\n\nCrystal Cubism, and its associative \"rappel à l’ordre\", has been linked with an inclination—by those who served the armed forces and by those who remained in the civilian sector—to escape the realities of the Great War, both during and directly following the conflict. The purifying of Cubism from 1914 through the mid-1920s, with its cohesive unity and voluntary constraints, has been linked to a much broader ideological transformation towards conservatism in both French society and French culture.\n\nThe most innovative period of Cubism was before 1914. After World War I, with the support given by the dealer Léonce Rosenberg, Cubism returned as a central issue for artists, and continued as such until the mid-1920s when its avant-garde status was rendered questionable by the emergence of geometric abstraction and Surrealism in Paris. Many Cubists, including Picasso, Braque, Gris, Léger, Gleizes, and Metzinger, while developing other styles, returned periodically to Cubism, even well after 1925. Cubism reemerged during the 1920s and the 1930s in the work of the American Stuart Davis and the Englishman Ben Nicholson. In France, however, Cubism experienced a decline beginning in about 1925. Léonce Rosenberg exhibited not only the artists stranded by Kahnweiler’s exile but others including Laurens, Lipchitz, Metzinger, Gleizes, Csaky, Herbin and Severini. In 1918 Rosenberg presented a series of Cubist exhibitions at his Galerie de l’Effort Moderne in Paris. Attempts were made by Louis Vauxcelles to claim that Cubism was dead, but these exhibitions, along with a well-organized Cubist show at the 1920 Salon des Indépendants and a revival of the Salon de la Section d’Or in the same year, demonstrated it was still alive.\n\nThe reemergence of Cubism coincided with the appearance from about 1917–24 of a coherent body of theoretical writing by Pierre Reverdy, Maurice Raynal and Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler and, among the artists, by Gris, Léger and Gleizes. The occasional return to classicism—figurative work either exclusively or alongside Cubist work—experienced by many artists during this period (called Neoclassicism) has been linked to the tendency to evade the realities of the war and also to the cultural dominance of a classical or Latin image of France during and immediately following the war. Cubism after 1918 can be seen as part of a wide ideological shift towards conservatism in both French society and culture. Yet, Cubism itself remained evolutionary both within the oeuvre of individual artists, such as Gris and Metzinger, and across the work of artists as different from each other as Braque, Léger and Gleizes. Cubism as a publicly debated movement became relatively unified and open to definition. Its theoretical purity made it a gauge against which such diverse tendencies as Realism or Naturalism, Dada, Surrealism and abstraction could be compared.\n\nThe Cubism of Picasso, Braque and Gris had more than a technical or formal significance, and the distinct attitudes and intentions of the Salon Cubists produced different kinds of Cubism, rather than a derivative of their work. \"It is by no means clear, in any case,\" wrote Christopher Green, \"to what extent these other Cubists depended on Picasso and Braque for their development of such techniques as faceting, 'passage' and multiple perspective; they could well have arrived at such practices with little knowledge of 'true' Cubism in its early stages, guided above all by their own understanding of Cézanne.\" The works exhibited by these Cubists at the 1911 and 1912 Salons extended beyond the conventional Cézanne-like subjects—the posed model, still-life and landscape—favored by Picasso and Braque to include large-scale modern-life subjects. Aimed at a large public, these works stressed the use of multiple perspective and complex planar faceting for expressive effect while preserving the eloquence of subjects endowed with literary and philosophical connotations.\n\nIn \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" Metzinger and Gleizes explicitly related the sense of time to multiple perspective, giving symbolic expression to the notion of ‘duration’ proposed by the philosopher Henri Bergson according to which life is subjectively experienced as a continuum, with the past flowing into the present and the present merging into the future. The Salon Cubists used the faceted treatment of solid and space and effects of multiple viewpoints to convey a physical and psychological sense of the fluidity of consciousness, blurring the distinctions between past, present and future. One of the major theoretical innovations made by the Salon Cubists, independently of Picasso and Braque, was that of \"simultaneity\", drawing to greater or lesser extent on theories of Henri Poincaré, Ernst Mach, Charles Henry, Maurice Princet, and Henri Bergson. With simultaneity, the concept of separate spatial and temporal dimensions was comprehensively challenged. Linear perspective developed during the Renaissance was vacated. The subject matter was no longer considered from a specific point of view at a moment in time, but built following a selection of successive viewpoints, i.e., as if viewed simultaneously from numerous angles (and in multiple dimensions) with the eye free to roam from one to the other.\n\nThis technique of representing simultaneity, multiple viewpoints (or relative motion) is pushed to a high degree of complexity in Gleizes' monumental \"Le Dépiquage des Moissons (Harvest Threshing)\", exhibited at the 1912 Salon de la Section d'Or, Le Fauconnier’s \"Abundance\" shown at the Indépendants of 1911, and Delaunay's \"City of Paris\", shown at the Indépendants in 1912. These ambitious works are some of the largest paintings in the history of Cubism. Léger’s \"The Wedding\", also shown at the Salon des Indépendants in 1912, gave form to the notion of simultaneity by presenting different motifs as occurring within a single temporal frame, where responses to the past and present interpenetrate with collective force. The conjunction of such subject matter with simultaneity aligns Salon Cubism with early Futurist paintings by Umberto Boccioni, Gino Severini and Carlo Carrà; themselves made in response to early Cubism.\n\nCubism and modern European art was introduced into the United States at the now legendary 1913 Armory Show in New York City, which then traveled to Chicago and Boston. In the Armory show Pablo Picasso exhibited \"La Femme au pot de moutarde\" (1910), the sculpture \"Head of a Woman (Fernande)\" (1909–10), \"Les Arbres\" (1907) amongst other cubist works. Jacques Villon exhibited seven important and large drypoints, while his brother Marcel Duchamp shocked the American public with his painting \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\" (1912). Francis Picabia exhibited his abstractions \"La Danse à la source\" and \"La Procession, Seville\" (both of 1912). Albert Gleizes exhibited \"La Femme aux phlox\" (1910) and \"L'Homme au balcon\" (1912), two highly stylized and faceted cubist works. Georges Braque, Fernand Léger, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Roger de La Fresnaye and Alexander Archipenko also contributed examples of their cubist works.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Europeans were discovering African, Polynesian, Micronesian and Native American art. Artists such as Paul Gauguin, Henri Matisse, and Pablo Picasso were intrigued and inspired by the stark power and simplicity of styles of those foreign cultures. Around 1906, Picasso met Matisse through Gertrude Stein, at a time when both artists had recently acquired an interest in primitivism, Iberian sculpture, African art and African tribal masks. They became friendly rivals and competed with each other throughout their careers, perhaps leading to Picasso entering a new period in his work by 1907, marked by the influence of Greek, Iberian and African art. Picasso's paintings of 1907 have been characterized as Protocubism, as notably seen in \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", the antecedent of Cubism.\nThe art historian Douglas Cooper states that Paul Gauguin and Paul Cézanne \"were particularly influential to the formation of Cubism and especially important to the paintings of Picasso during 1906 and 1907\". Cooper goes on to say: \"The \"Demoiselles\" is generally referred to as the first Cubist picture. This is an exaggeration, for although it was a major first step towards Cubism it is not yet Cubist. The disruptive, expressionist element in it is even contrary to the spirit of Cubism, which looked at the world in a detached, realistic spirit. Nevertheless, the \"Demoiselles\" is the logical picture to take as the starting point for Cubism, because it marks the birth of a new pictorial idiom, because in it Picasso violently overturned established conventions and because all that followed grew out of it.\"\n\nThe most serious objection to regarding the \"Demoiselles\" as the origin of Cubism, with its evident influence of primitive art, is that \"such deductions are unhistorical\", wrote the art historian Daniel Robbins. This familiar explanation \"fails to give adequate consideration to the complexities of a flourishing art that existed just before and during the period when Picasso's new painting developed.\" Between 1905 and 1908, a conscious search for a new style caused rapid changes in art across France, Germany, Holland, Italy, and Russia. The Impressionists had used a double point of view, and both Les Nabis and the Symbolists (who also admired Cézanne) flattened the picture plane, reducing their subjects to simple geometric forms. Neo-Impressionist structure and subject matter, most notably to be seen in the works of Georges Seurat (e.g., \"Parade de Cirque\", \"Le Chahut\" and \"Le Cirque\"), was another important influence. There were also parallels in the development of literature and social thought.\n\nIn addition to Seurat, the roots of cubism are to be found in the two distinct tendencies of Cézanne's later work: first his breaking of the painted surface into small multifaceted areas of paint, thereby emphasizing the plural viewpoint given by binocular vision, and second his interest in the simplification of natural forms into cylinders, spheres, and cones. However, the cubists explored this concept further than Cézanne. They represented all the surfaces of depicted objects in a single picture plane, as if the objects had all their faces visible at the same time. This new kind of depiction revolutionized the way objects could be visualized in painting and art.\nThe historical study of Cubism began in the late 1920s, drawing at first from sources of limited data, namely the opinions of Guillaume Apollinaire. It came to rely heavily on Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler's book \"Der Weg zum Kubismus\" (published in 1920), which centered on the developments of Picasso, Braque, Léger, and Gris. The terms \"analytical\" and \"synthetic\" which subsequently emerged have been widely accepted since the mid-1930s. Both terms are historical impositions that occurred after the facts they identify. Neither phase was designated as such at the time corresponding works were created. \"If Kahnweiler considers Cubism as Picasso and Braque,\" wrote Daniel Robbins, \"our only fault is in subjecting other Cubists' works to the rigors of that limited definition.\"\n\nThe traditional interpretation of \"Cubism\", formulated \"post facto\" as a means of understanding the works of Braque and Picasso, has affected our appreciation of other twentieth-century artists. It is difficult to apply to painters such as Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Robert Delaunay and Henri Le Fauconnier, whose fundamental differences from traditional Cubism compelled Kahnweiler to question whether to call them Cubists at all. According to Daniel Robbins, \"To suggest that merely because these artists developed differently or varied from the traditional pattern they deserved to be relegated to a secondary or satellite role in Cubism is a profound mistake.\"\n\nThe history of the term \"Cubism\" usually stresses the fact that Matisse referred to \"cubes\" in connection with a painting by Braque in 1908, and that the term was published twice by the critic Louis Vauxcelles in a similar context. However, the word \"cube\" was used in 1906 by another critic, Louis Chassevent, with reference not to Picasso or Braque but rather to Metzinger and Delaunay:\n\nThe critical use of the word \"cube\" goes back at least to May 1901 when Jean Béral, reviewing the work of Henri-Edmond Cross at the Indépendants in \"Art et Littérature\", commented that he \"uses a large and square pointillism, giving the impression of mosaic. One even wonders why the artist has not used cubes of solid matter diversely colored: they would make pretty revetments.\" (Robert Herbert, 1968, p. 221)\n\nThe term Cubism did not come into general usage until 1911, mainly with reference to Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, and Léger. In 1911, the poet and critic Guillaume Apollinaire accepted the term on behalf of a group of artists invited to exhibit at the Brussels Indépendants. The following year, in preparation for the Salon de la Section d'Or, Metzinger and Gleizes wrote and published \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" in an effort to dispel the confusion raging around the word, and as a major defence of Cubism (which had caused a public scandal following the 1911 Salon des Indépendants and the 1912 Salon d'Automne in Paris). Clarifying their aims as artists, this work was the first theoretical treatise on Cubism and it still remains the clearest and most intelligible. The result, not solely a collaboration between its two authors, reflected discussions by the circle of artists who met in Puteaux and Courbevoie. It mirrored the attitudes of the \"artists of Passy\", which included Picabia and the Duchamp brothers, to whom sections of it were read prior to publication. The concept developed in \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" of observing a subject from different points in space and time simultaneously, i.e., the act of moving around an object to seize it from several successive angles fused into a single image (multiple viewpoints, mobile perspective, simultaneity or multiplicity), is a generally recognized device used by the Cubists.\n\nThe 1912 manifetso \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" by Metzinger and Gleizes was followed in 1913 by \"Les Peintres Cubistes\", a collection of reflections and commentaries by Guillaume Apollinaire. Apollinaire had been closely involved with Picasso beginning in 1905, and Braque beginning in 1907, but gave as much attention to artists such as Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, Picabia, and Duchamp.\n\nJust as in painting, Cubist sculpture is rooted in Paul Cézanne's reduction of painted objects into component planes and geometric solids (cubes, spheres, cylinders, and cones). And just as in painting, it became a pervasive influence and contributed fundamentally to Constructivism and Futurism.\n\nCubist sculpture developed in parallel to Cubist painting. During the autumn of 1909 Picasso sculpted \"Head of a Woman (Fernande)\" with positive features depicted by negative space and vice versa. According to Douglas Cooper: \"The first true Cubist sculpture was Picasso's impressive \"Woman's Head\", modeled in 1909–10, a counterpart in three dimensions to many similar analytical and faceted heads in his paintings at the time.\" These positive/negative reversals were ambitiously exploited by Alexander Archipenko in 1912–13, for example in \"Woman Walking\". Joseph Csaky, after Archipenko, was the first sculptor in Paris to join the Cubists, with whom he exhibited from 1911 onwards. They were followed by Raymond Duchamp-Villon and then in 1914 by Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Laurens and Ossip Zadkine.\n\nIndeed, Cubist construction was as influential as any pictorial Cubist innovation. It was the stimulus behind the proto-Constructivist work of both Naum Gabo and Vladimir Tatlin and thus the starting-point for the entire constructive tendency in 20th-century modernist sculpture.\n\nCubism formed an important link between early-20th-century art and architecture. The historical, theoretical, and socio-political relationships between avant-garde practices in painting, sculpture and architecture had early ramifications in France, Germany, the Netherlands and Czechoslovakia. Though there are many points of intersection between Cubism and architecture, only a few direct links between them can be drawn. Most often the connections are made by reference to shared formal characteristics: faceting of form, spatial ambiguity, transparency, and multiplicity.\n\nArchitectural interest in Cubism centered on the dissolution and reconstitution of three-dimensional form, using simple geometric shapes, juxtaposed without the illusions of classical perspective. Diverse elements could be superimposed, made transparent or penetrate one another, while retaining their spatial relationships. Cubism had become an influential factor in the development of modern architecture from 1912 (\"La Maison Cubiste\", by Raymond Duchamp-Villon and André Mare) onwards, developing in parallel with architects such as Peter Behrens and Walter Gropius, with the simplification of building design, the use of materials appropriate to industrial production, and the increased use of glass.\nCubism was relevant to an architecture seeking a style that needed not refer to the past. Thus, what had become a revolution in both painting and sculpture was applied as part of \"a profound reorientation towards a changed world\". The Cubo-Futurist ideas of Filippo Tommaso Marinetti influenced attitudes in avant-garde architecture. The influential De Stijl movement embraced the aesthetic principles of Neo-plasticism developed by Piet Mondrian under the influence of Cubism in Paris. De Stijl was also linked by Gino Severini to Cubist theory through the writings of Albert Gleizes. However, the linking of basic geometric forms with inherent beauty and ease of industrial application—which had been prefigured by Marcel Duchamp from 1914—was left to the founders of Purism, Amédée Ozenfant and Charles-Édouard Jeanneret (better known as Le Corbusier,) who exhibited paintings together in Paris and published \"Après le cubisme\" in 1918. Le Corbusier's ambition had been to translate the properties of his own style of Cubism to architecture. Between 1918 and 1922, Le Corbusier concentrated his efforts on Purist theory and painting. In 1922, Le Corbusier and his cousin Jeanneret opened a studio in Paris at 35 rue de Sèvres. His theoretical studies soon advanced into many different architectural projects.\n\nAt the 1912 Salon d'Automne an architectural installation was exhibited that quickly became known as \"Maison Cubiste\" (Cubist House), signed Raymond Duchamp-Villon and André Mare along with a group of collaborators. Metzinger and Gleizes in \"Du \"Cubisme\"\", written during the assemblage of the \"Maison Cubiste\", wrote about the autonomous nature of art, stressing the point that decorative considerations should not govern the spirit of art. Decorative work, to them, was the \"antithesis of the picture\". \"The true picture\" wrote Metzinger and Gleizes, \"bears its \"raison d'être\" within itself. It can be moved from a church to a drawing-room, from a museum to a study. Essentially independent, necessarily complete, it need not immediately satisfy the mind: on the contrary, it should lead it, little by little, towards the fictitious depths in which the coordinative light resides. It does not harmonize with this or that ensemble; it harmonizes with things in general, with the universe: it is an organism...\".\n\"Mare's ensembles were accepted as frames for Cubist works because they allowed paintings and sculptures their independence\", writes Christopher Green, \"creating a play of contrasts, hence the involvement not only of Gleizes and Metzinger themselves, but of Marie Laurencin, the Duchamp brothers (Raymond Duchamp-Villon designed the facade) and Mare's old friends Léger and Roger La Fresnaye\". \"La Maison Cubiste\" was a fully furnished house, with a staircase, wrought iron banisters, a living room—the \"Salon Bourgeois\", where paintings by Marcel Duchamp, Metzinger (\"Woman with a Fan\"), Gleizes, Laurencin and Léger were hung—and a bedroom. It was an example of \"L'art décoratif\", a home within which Cubist art could be displayed in the comfort and style of modern, bourgeois life. Spectators at the Salon d'Automne passed through the full-scale 10-by-3-meter plaster model of the ground floor of the facade, designed by Duchamp-Villon. This architectural installation was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Armory Show, New York, Chicago and Boston, listed in the catalogue of the New York exhibit as Raymond Duchamp-Villon, number 609, and entitled \"Facade architectural, plaster\" (\"Façade architecturale\").\n\nSeveral years after World War I, in 1927, Cubists Joseph Csaky, Jacques Lipchitz, Louis Marcoussis, Henri Laurens, the sculptor Gustave Miklos, and others collaborated in the decoration of a Studio House, rue Saint-James, Neuilly-sur-Seine, designed by the architect Paul Ruaud and owned by the French fashion designer Jacques Doucet, also a collector of Post-Impressionist and Cubist paintings (including \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", which he bought directly from Picasso's studio). Laurens designed the fountain, Csaky designed Doucet's staircase, Lipchitz made the fireplace mantel, and Marcoussis made a Cubist rug.\n\nThe original Cubist architecture is very rare. There is only one country in the world where Cubism was really applied to architecture – namely Bohemia (today Czech Republic) and especially its capital, Prague. Czech architects were the first and only ones in the world to ever design original Cubist buildings. Cubist architecture flourished for the most part between 1910–1914, but the Cubist or Cubism-influenced buildings were also built after the World War I. After the war, the architectural style called \"Rondo-Cubism\" was developed in Prague fusing the Cubist architecture with round shapes.\nIn their theoretical rules, the Cubist architects expressed the requirement of dynamism, which would surmount the matter and calm contained in it, through a creative idea, so that the result would evoke feelings of dynamism and expressive plasticity in the viewer. This should be achieved by shapes derived from pyramids, cubes and prisms, by arrangements and compositions of oblique surfaces, mainly triangular, sculpted facades in protruding crystal-like units, reminiscent of the so-called diamond cut, or even cavernous that are reminiscent of the late Gothic architecture. In this way, the entire surfaces of the facades including even the gables and dormers are sculpted. The grilles as well as other architectural ornaments attain a three-dimensional form. Thus, new forms of windows and doors were also created, e. g. hexagonal windows. Czech Cubist architects also designed Cubist furniture.\n\nThe leading Cubist architects were Pavel Janák, Josef Gočár, Vlastislav Hofman, Emil Králíček and Josef Chochol. They worked mostly in Prague but also in other Bohemian towns. The best-known Cubist building is the House of the Black Madonna in the Old Town of Prague built in 1912 by Josef Gočár with the only Cubist café in the world, Grand Café Orient. Vlastislav Hofman built the entrance pavilions of Ďáblice Cemetery in 1912–1914, Josef Chochol designed several residential houses under Vyšehrad. A Cubist streetlamp has also been preserved near the Wenceslas Square, designed by Emil Králíček in 1912, who also built the Diamond House in the New Town of Prague around 1913.\n\nThe influence of cubism extended to other artistic fields, outside painting and sculpture. In literature, the written works of Gertrude Stein employ repetition and repetitive phrases as building blocks in both passages and whole chapters. Most of Stein's important works utilize this technique, including the novel \"The Making of Americans\" (1906–08). Not only were they the first important patrons of Cubism, Gertrude Stein and her brother Leo were also important influences on Cubism as well. Picasso in turn was an important influence on Stein's writing.\n\nIn the field of American fiction, William Faulkner's 1930 novel \"As I Lay Dying\" can be read as an interaction with the cubist mode. The novel features narratives of the diverse experiences of 15 characters which, when taken together, produce a single cohesive body.\n\nThe poets generally associated with Cubism are Guillaume Apollinaire, Blaise Cendrars, Jean Cocteau, Max Jacob, André Salmon and Pierre Reverdy. As American poet Kenneth Rexroth explains, Cubism in poetry \"is the conscious, deliberate dissociation and recombination of elements into a new artistic entity made self-sufficient by its rigorous architecture. This is quite different from the free association of the Surrealists and the combination of unconscious utterance and political nihilism of Dada.\" Nonetheless, the Cubist poets' influence on both Cubism and the later movements of Dada and Surrealism was profound; Louis Aragon, founding member of Surrealism, said that for Breton, Soupault, Éluard and himself, Reverdy was \"our immediate elder, the exemplary poet.\" Though not as well remembered as the Cubist painters, these poets continue to influence and inspire; American poets John Ashbery and Ron Padgett have recently produced new translations of Reverdy's work. Wallace Stevens' \"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird\" is also said to demonstrate how cubism's multiple perspectives can be translated into poetry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39217270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39217270", "title": "Dalle de verre", "text": "Dalle de verre\n\nDalle de verre, from French: \"glass slab\", is a glass art technique that uses pieces of coloured glass set in a matrix of concrete and epoxy resin or other supporting material. \n\nThe technique was developed by Jean Gaudin in Paris in the 1930s. Slabs of coloured glass, to square or rectangular and typically up to thick, are shaped by breaking with a hammer or cutting with a saw. The edges of the resulting pieces may be chipped or faceted to increase the refraction and reflection effects.\n\nThe pieces are laid out to a design, similar to traditional stained-glass work. The pieces are laid on a bed of sand, bounded by a wooden casting frame. A matrix material, sand and cement or epoxy resin, is poured between the glass pieces and allowed to dry, typically requiring 24 hours to harden. The visible glass faces are then cleaned and the resulting solid panel can be relocated, embedded or hung as required.\n\nThe use of thicker glass produces deeper colour effects than traditional lead came stained-glass, especially when illuminated by bright natural or artificial light.\n\nThe technique achieved prominence in the stained glass literature of the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe resulting works may be subject to structural problems over time and, just like more traditional stained glass works, pose challenges to conservators and restorers.\n\nDalle de verre was brought to the UK by Pierre Fourmaintraux who joined James Powell and Sons (later Whitefriars Glass Studio) in 1956 and trained Dom Charles Norris in the technique. Norris was a Dominican Friar who went on to become arguably the most prolific British proponent of dalle de verre. His work is incorporated in several Modernist listed Catholic churches.\n"}
{"id": "26334957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26334957", "title": "Eadred Reliquary", "text": "Eadred Reliquary\n\nThe Eadred Reliquary was one of the wide-ranging art forgeries produced by Shaun Greenhalgh and his family, of Bolton, Greater Manchester. \n\nIn 1989, Shaun Greenhalgh's father, George, tried to sell to Manchester University a supposed 10th-century Anglo-Saxon silver reliquary, containing a small piece of wood which he claimed was a fragment of the True Cross. He said he had found the vessel while metal detecting in a park in Preston, Lancashire.\n\nShaun, who had crafted the object, intended it to resemble a known missing Anglo-Saxon piece, dating back to the time of Eadred, the King of England from 946 to 955. The British Museum decided that the reliquary was not genuine, but the Greenhalgh family managed to sell it privately for a modest £100.\n"}
{"id": "23044955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23044955", "title": "Egyptian revival decorative arts", "text": "Egyptian revival decorative arts\n\nEgyptian revival decorative arts is a style in Western art, mainly of the early nineteenth century, in which Egyptian motifs were applied to a wide variety of decorative arts objects.\n\nEnthusiasm for the artistic style of Ancient Egypt is generally attributed to the excitement over Napoleon's conquest of Egypt and, in Britain, to Admiral Nelson's defeat of Napoleon at the Battle of the Nile in 1798. Napoleon took a scientific expedition with him to Egypt. Publication of the expedition's work, the \"Description de l'Égypte\", began in 1809 and came out in a series though 1826, inspiring everything from sofas with Sphinxes for legs, to tea sets painted with the pyramids. It was the popularity of the style that was new, Egyptianizing works of art had appeared in scattered European settings from the time of the Renaissance.\n\nThe Egyptian Gallery, a private room in the Duchess Street home of connoisseur Thomas Hope to display his Egyptian antiquities, and illustrated in engravings from his meticulous line drawings in his book,\"Household Furniture and Interior Decoration\" (1807), were a prime source for the Regency style in British furnishings. The book inspired a generation of fashionable English homeowners to install parlor suites featuring chairs, tables and sofas in shapes that evoked the objects depicted on Egyptian tomb paintings.\n\nLater discoveries prompted small further revivals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52970399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52970399", "title": "Epic Laws of Folk Narrative", "text": "Epic Laws of Folk Narrative\n\nThe epic laws of folk narrative were a series of principles identified by Axel Olrik for understanding the structure and form of folktales, and have a foundational significance in European folklore studies.\n\nOlrik's formulation of his 'epic laws' was inspired by an idea of Moltke Moe, but whereas Moe sought to derive rules for the historical development of narratives, Olrik's approach focuses on the structure of oral narrative. The principles were articulated in various publications, the first prominent one appearing in Danish in 1908. In the same year, Olrik presented the principles in German at an interdisciplinary congress in Berlin.\n\nOlrik's thought on 'epic laws' was part of a wider project, developed with Kristian Erslev, for understanding oral narrative (which Olrik called \"sagn\" in Danish), also including principles for the study of sources and a theory of transmission. Although Olrik drew on non-European material, his focus was explicitly on European folk narrative.\n\nThis summary is based on the numbering of the 1908 Danish article, and the English terminology is as far as possible from the 1965 English translation of the 1909 German article.\n\n"}
{"id": "41812810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41812810", "title": "Feminist aesthetics", "text": "Feminist aesthetics\n\nFeminist aesthetics first emerged in the 1970's and refers not to a particular aesthetic or style but to perspectives that question assumptions in art and aesthetics concerning sex-role stereotypes, or gender. In particular, feminists argue that despite seeming neutral or inclusive, the way people think about art and aesthetics is influenced by sex roles. Feminist aesthetics is a tool for analyzing how art is understood using gendered issues. A person's gender identity affects the ways in which they perceive art and aesthetics because of their subject position and the fact that perception is influenced by power. The ways in which people see art is also influenced by social values such as class and race. One's subject position in life changes the way art is perceived because of people's different knowledge's about life and experiences. In the way that feminist history unsettles traditional history, feminist aesthetics challenge philosophies of beauty, the arts and sensory experience. \n\nStarting in the 18th century, ideas of aesthetic pleasure have tried to define \"taste\". Kant and Hume both argued that there was universal good taste, which made aesthetic pleasure. A feminist line of logic about these attempts is that, because fine art was a leisure activity at this time, those who could afford to make art or produce supposed universal truths about how it is enjoyed would do so in a way that creates class and sex division. Even when those universal aesthetists did address gender, they categorized aesthetics into two categories: beauty and sublimity; with beauty being small and delicate (feminine) and sublimity being large and awe-inspiring (masculine). Feminist aesthetics analyzes why \"feminine\" traits are subservient compared to \"masculine\" traits in art and aesthetics.\n\nAnother explanation for the male-domination of forming aesthetic theory is that feminists express their aesthetic pleasure differently than non-feminist aesthetes for \"whom the pleasure of theorizing [...] is a form of jouissance\". Instead, a feminist is less likely to view the object as a disinterested interpreter, and intellectualize the sensation (Hilde Hein). Critics of feminist art argue that politics have no place in art, however, many art forms contain politics, but because of their subject position, the critics are unable to perceive it. \n\nThe idea of the \"creative genius\" is inspected in feminist aesthetics. In particular, women artists are often excluded from being creative or artistic geniuses. This exclusion in part stems from the traditional masculine definitions of genius. Christine Battersby has critiqued the fact that women are excluded from being known as geniuses because female artists will be separated from their art, and instead their art will be called genius, instead of the artist. However, women were also excluded because they lacked the opportunities for artistic education required to be recognized as artists and geniuses. In addition, the idea of the creative genius itself celebrates individualism – which Christine Battersby calls \"a kind of masculine heroism\" – and overlooks the work of joint collaborations.\n\nAesthetic theories that make a distinction between \"arts\" and \"crafts\" can be viewed as anti-feminist. Here, art usually refers to \"fine art\" and crafts refers to everything else which has \"everyday aesthetics\". Art forms traditionally used by women, such as embroidery or sewing, are perceived as crafts and not art, because of their domestic uses. Feminist aesthetics focuses on all objects created by women, whether or not they are seen as \"art\". Since those craft practices occur in the home where many women continue to work, their creativity is overlooked by the perception of \"art\", because their domain is marginalized.\n\n"}
{"id": "39623516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39623516", "title": "Feminist art movement", "text": "Feminist art movement\n\nThe feminist art movement refers to the efforts and accomplishments of feminists internationally to produce art that reflects women's lives and experiences, as well as to change the foundation for the production and reception of contemporary art. It also sought to bring more visibility to women within art history and art practice. Corresponding with general developments within feminism, and often including such self-organizing tactics as the consciousness-raising group, the movement began in the 1960s and flourished throughout the 1970s as an outgrowth of the so-called second wave of feminism. It has been called \"the most influential international movement of any during the postwar period.\"\n\nThe 1960s was period of civil rights and gay and lesbian rights movements and protests against war. It was also a period when women artists wanted to gain equal rights as men within the established art world, influenced by modernist movements \"utopian ideals,\" and to create feminist art, often in non-traditional ways, to help \"change the world.\"\n\nLouise Bourgeois (1911-2010) and German-American Eva Hesse (1936-1970) explore some of the themes in feminist art, like domestic life, personal experience and the women's body.\n\nOn 20 July 1964 Yoko Ono, an avant-garde artist, singer, and activist, presented \"Cut Piece\" at the Yamaichi Concert Hall, Kyoto, Japan where she sat still as parts of her clothing were cut off of her, which meant to protest violence against women. She performed it again at Carnegie Hall in 1965. Her son, Sean, participated in the artist performance on 15 September 2013 at the Théâtre le Ranelagh in Paris. \"The Guardian\"'s Jonathan Jones considered it \"one of the 10 most shocking performance artworks ever.\"\n\nWomen artists, motivated by feminist theory and the feminist movement, began the feminist art movement in the 1970s. Feminist art represented a shift away from modernism, where art made by women was put in a different class to works made by men. The movement cultivated a new feminist consciousness, a \"freedom to respond to life... [Unimpeded] by traditional male mainstream.\" Or, as Griselda Pollock and Roszika Parker put it—a separation of Art with a capital \"A\" from art made by women produced a \"feminine stereotype\".\n\nThis demand for equality in representation was codified in the Art Workers' Coalition's (AWC) Statement of Demands, which was developed in 1969 and published in definitive form in March 1970. The AWC was set up to defend the rights of artists and force museums and galleries to reform their practices. While the coalition sprung up as a protest movement following Greek kinetic sculptor Panagiotis \"Takis\" Vassilakis's physical removal of his work Tele-Sculpture(1960) from a 1969 exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, it quickly issued a broad list of demands to 'art museums in general'.\n\nAlongside calls for free admission, better representation of ethnic minorities, late openings and an agreement that galleries would not exhibit an artwork without the artist's consent, the AWC also demanded that museums 'encourage female artists to overcome centuries of damage done to the image of the female as an artist by establishing equal representation of the sexes in exhibitions, museum purchases and on selection committees'.\n\nThere are also feminist forms of postmodernism which emerged in the 1980s. The feminist art movement grew out of the struggle to find a new way to express sexual, material, social and political aspects of life, and femininity. Feminist art movements emerged in the United States; Europe, including Spain; Australia; Canada; and Latin America in the 1970s.\n\nSince then, there are women's art movements in Sweden, Denmark and Norway, Russia, and Japan. Women artists from Asia, Africa and particularly Eastern Europe emerged in large numbers onto the international art scene in the late 1980s and 1990s as contemporary art became popular worldwide.\n\nMajor exhibitions of contemporary women artists include \"WACK! Art and the Feminist Revolution\" curated by Connie Butler, SF MOMA, 2007, \"Global Feminisms\" curated by Linda Nochlin and Maura Reilly at the Brooklyn Museum, 2007, \"Rebelle\", curated by Mirjam Westen at MMKA, Arnheim, 2009, \"Kiss Kiss Bang Bang! 45 Years of Art and Feminism\" curated by Xavier Arakistan at Bilbao Fine Arts Museum, 2007, \"Elles at Centre Pompidou\" in Paris (2009-2011), which also toured to Seattle Art Museum. have been increasingly international in their selection. This shift is also reflected in journals set up in the 1990s like \"n.paradoxa\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26073072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26073072", "title": "Fundred Dollar Bill Project", "text": "Fundred Dollar Bill Project\n\nThe Fundred Dollar Bill Project is an art project implemented by Mel Chin, and is aimed to connect and represent the voices of children across the United States, with the end goal to propose a funding solution for the lead contamination in the soil of New Orleans, Louisiana. People in the United States and around the globe are invited to draw their own 100 dollar bills and send to collection centers, or schools, for safekeeping. During a nationwide road-trip in an armored truck, the Fundred Dollar Bills will be collected.\n\nThe completed Fundred Dollar Bills will be presented to Congress for an even exchange of U.S. dollars to help the remediation of lead in the soil of New Orleans. This funding supports Operation Paydirt, which is the program that, once implemented, will make the lead content in the soil safe for inhabitants of New Orleans and cities affected by lead poisoning-across the United States.\n\nSo far nearly half a million people have created and sent in their unique Fundreds. \n\nArmored Truck Tour\n\nThroughout 2010, students at hundreds of schools across the country created Fundred Dollar Bills that were picked up in a specially designed armored truck. \nAs students and educators handed their Fundreds over to truck guards for safekeeping, schools held events that raised awareness of the gravity and persistence of the lead in our environment. \n\nThese events gave local elected officials and community organizations a chance to show their support for lead cleanup while giving local press brought the issue to larger audiences.\n\nAt every stop the armored truck tour connected the national campaign for lead awareness. Each event around the country not only provided public and impassioned demonstrations against lead poisoning, but brought people together to make connections around this public health health issue.\n\nGrand Rapids\n\nIn the fall of 2014, the ArtPrize competition in Grand Rapids, Michigan featuring the Fundred Dollar Bill Project, offered an opportunity to raise visibility of local lead issues and invite participation from the tends of thousands of expected visitors. \n\nVisitors to the exhibit sat at bank teller tables and drew their unique Fundreds. Once drawn, their Fundreds were added to hundreds of others on a wall in the exhibit, making their artful demonstrations part of the exhibit for its duration. In addition to creating a public display of action-oriented art, the Grand Rapids initiative brought together local public health specialists, educators, and scientists to talk about the challenges and solutions to lead poisoning in Grand Rapids.\n\nArt Academy in Cincinnati\n\nIn 2015, the Art Academy of Cincinnati partnered with the Fundred Dollar Bill Project and the Cincinnati Health Department Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program to create a course that used art and design to address and impact issues of lead contamination in Cincinnati. \n\nWith the Fundred Dollar Bill Project as a common starting point and inspiration, students launched group projects to increase awareness of childhood lead poisoning and our ability to put an end to it. Students exhibited their projects at a publicly accessible end of semester block party. Students explored lead poisoning through dance performance and graphic design and created a learning-through-play area. The Health Department shared information about lead, and a public Fundred drawing table provided opportunity for attendees to sit together for conversation and to creatively put their values in action.\n\nInitiatives\n\nFundred Reserve Open Lab at H-Space, located in DC, is a space to expand the Fundred program by continuing to amplify personal stories, having fact based dialogue about problems in DC, and engaging more people to take purposeful action. \n\nOpen Lab continues the presence after the 2017 Fundred Reserve exhibition at The Corcoran. Open Lab programming runs from October through April 2018, with space provided by Hamiltonian Artists, and support from The Kresge Foundation through our partnership with MIT CoLab. \n\nAs an extension of Mel Chin’s multi-venue exhibition, All Over the Place (April 8 - September 5, 2018), the Fundred Project is on view at the Queens Museum as part of the exhibition.\n\n"}
{"id": "210085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210085", "title": "Genre fiction", "text": "Genre fiction\n\nGenre fiction, also known as popular fiction, is a term used in the book-trade for fictional works written with the intent of fitting into a specifically literary genre, in order to appeal to readers and fans already familiar with that genre. \n\nAlthough Genre fiction is generally distinguished from literary fiction, a number of major literary figures have also written genre fiction, for example, John Banville, publishes crime novels as Benjamin Black, and both Doris Lessing, and Margaret Atwood have written science fiction. Georges Simenon, the creator of the Maigret detective novels, has been described by André Gide as \"the most novelistic of novelists in French literature\".\n\nThe main genres are crime, fantasy, romance, science fiction, western, inspirational, historical fiction and horror. More commercially oriented genre fiction has been dismissed by literary critics as poorly written or escapist.\n\nIn the publishing industry the term \"category fiction\" is often used as a synonym for genre fiction, with the categories serving as the familiar shelf headings within the fiction section of a bookstore, such as Western or mystery.\n\nThe uncategorized section is known in the industry as \"general fiction\", but in fact many of the titles in this usually large section are often themselves genre novels that have been placed in the general section because sellers believe they will appeal, due to their high quality or other special characteristics, to a wider audience than merely the readers of that genre.\n\nAdult fans are often embarrassed to read genre fiction in public, but authors known for literary fiction have written novels under pseudonyms. With the demise of the hardback book, distinctions between genre fiction and literary fiction may begin to blur, with appropriate changes in marketing.\n\nThough a production not promoted by secondary criticism it is popular literature that holds the largest market share. Romance fiction had an estimated $1.375 billion share in the US book market in 2007. Religion/inspirational literature followed with $819 million, science fiction/fantasy with $700 million, mystery with $650 million and then classic literary fiction with $466 million.\n\nGenre began as an absolute classification system for ancient Greek literature. Poetry, prose, and drama each had a specific and calculated style that related to the theme of the story. Among the genres were the epic in poetry and tragedy and comedy for plays. In later periods other genres such as the chivalric romance, opera, and prose fiction developed.\n\nThough the novel is often seen as a modern genre, Ian Watt, in \"The Rise of the Novel\" (1957) suggests that the novel first came into being in the early 18th century, it has also been described as possessing \"a continuous and comprehensive history of about two thousand years\", from the time of both Classical Greece and Rome.\n\nThe \"romance\" is a closely related long prose narrative. Walter Scott defined it as \"a fictitious narrative in prose or verse; the interest of which turns upon marvellous and uncommon incidents\", whereas in the novel \"the events are accommodated to the ordinary train of human events and the modern state of society\". However, many romances, including the historical romances of Scott, Emily Brontë's \"Wuthering Heights\" and Herman Melville's \"Moby-Dick\", are also frequently called novels, and Scott describes romance as a \"kindred term\". Romance, as defined here, should not be confused with the genre fiction love romance or romance novel. Other European languages do not distinguish between romance and novel: \"a novel is \"le roman\", \"der Roman\", \"il romanzo\".\"\n\nGenre fiction developed from various subgenres of the novel (and its \"romance\" version) during the nineteenth century, along with the growth of the mass-marketing of fiction in the twentieth century: this includes the gothic novel, fantasy, science fiction, adventure novel, historical romance, and the detective novel. Some scholars see precursors to the genre fiction romance novels in literary fiction of the 18th and 19th centuries, including Samuel Richardson's sentimental novel \"Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded\" (1740) and the novels of Jane Austen such as \"Pride and Prejudice\" (1813).\n\nThe following are some of the main genres as they are used in contemporary publishing:\n\nCrime fiction is the literary genre that fictionalises crimes, their detection, criminals, and their motives. It is usually distinguished from mainstream fiction and other genres such as historical fiction or science fiction, but the boundaries are indistinct. Crime fiction has multiple subgenres, including detective fiction (such as the whodunit), courtroom drama, hard-boiled fiction, mystery fiction, and legal thrillers. Suspense and mystery are key elements to the genre.\n\nFantasy is a genre of fiction that uses magic or other supernatural elements as a main plot element, theme, or setting. Many works within the genre take place in imaginary worlds where magic and magical creatures are common. Fantasy is generally distinguished from the genres of science fiction and horror by the expectation that it steers clear of scientific and macabre themes, respectively, though there is a great deal of overlap among the three, all of which are subgenres of speculative fiction. In popular culture, the fantasy genre predominantly features a medieval-type setting.\n\nThe romance novel or \"romantic novel\" primarily focuses on the relationship and romantic love between two people, and must have an \"emotionally satisfying and optimistic ending.\" There are many subgenres of the romance novel including fantasy, historical, science fiction, same sex romantic fiction, and paranormal fiction.\n\nThere is a literary fiction form of romance, which Walter Scott defined as \"a fictitious narrative in prose or verse; the interest of which turns upon marvellous and uncommon incidents\".\n\nAccording to \"Romance Writers of America\" data, the most important subgenres are: Contemporary series romance, Contemporary romance, Historical romance, Paranormal romance, Romantic suspense, Inspirational romance, Romantic suspense (series).\n\nScience fiction is a genre of speculative fiction dealing with imaginative concepts such as futuristic science and technology, space travel, time travel, faster than light travel, parallel universes and extraterrestrial life. Science fiction often explores the potential consequences of scientific and other innovations, and has been called a \"literature of ideas\". It usually eschews the supernatural, and unlike the related genre of fantasy, historically science fiction stories were intended to have at least pretense of science-based fact or theory at the time the story was created, but this connection has become tenuous or non-existent in much of science fiction.\n\nWestern fiction is defined primarily by being set in the American West in the second half of the 19th century and, secondarily, by featuring heroes who are rugged, individualistic horsemen (cowboys). Other genres, such as romance, have subgenres that make use of the Western setting.\n\nInspirational fiction is fictional works with faith-based themes. It may be targeted at a specific demographic, such as Christians. Modern inspirational fiction has grown to encompass non-traditional subgenres, such as inspirational thrillers.\n\nHorror fiction aims to frighten or disgust its readers. Although many horror novels feature supernatural phenomena or monsters, it is not required. Early horror took much inspiration from Romanticism and Gothic fiction. Modern horror, such as cosmic horror and splatterpunk, tends to be less melodramatic and more explicit. Horror is often mixed with other genres.\n\nAlthough frequently ignored or ridiculed by literary critics, genre fiction has achieved a measure of acceptance among some modern critics, with Stephen King being awarded the Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters; but this polarized opinions and led to debate on genre fiction's literary merit. Negative comments about genre fiction have sparked responses from \"Time\", \"Salon\", \"the Atlantic\", and the \"Los Angeles Review of Books\". Nobel laureate Doris Lessing described science fiction as \"some of the best social fiction of our time\", and called Greg Bear, author of \"Blood Music\", \"a great writer\". \n\nA number of major literary figures have written works of genre fiction. Graham Greene at the time of his death in 1991 had a reputation as a writer of both deeply serious novels on the theme of Catholicism, and of \"suspense-filled stories of detection\". Acclaimed during his lifetime, he was shortlisted in 1966 for the Nobel Prize for Literature.\n\nIn the 2000s, the BBC defended itself against charges that it had sneered at genre fiction, while the Man Booker and National Book Awards have been criticized for ignoring genre fiction in their selection process. \n\nSome critics have claimed that reading romance and suspense thrillers makes readers more sensitive, because these novels focus on interpersonal relationships.\n\nSir John Barrow's descriptive 1831 account of the Mutiny on the Bounty immortalised the Royal Navy ship and her people. The legend of Dick Turpin was popularised when the 18th-century English highwayman's exploits appeared in the novel \"Rookwood\" in 1834.\n\nAlthough pre-dated by John Ruskin's \"The King of the Golden River\" in 1841, the history of the modern fantasy genre is generally said to begin with George MacDonald, the influential author of \"The Princess and the Goblin\" and \"Phantastes\" (1858). William Morris was a popular English poet who also wrote several fantasy novels during the latter part of the nineteenth century. Wilkie Collins' epistolary novel \"The Moonstone\" (1868), is generally considered the first detective novel in the English language, while \"The Woman in White\" is regarded as one of the finest sensation novels. H. G. Wells's (1866–1946) writing career began in the 1890s with science fiction novels like \"The Time Machine\" (1895), and \"The War of the Worlds\" (1898) which describes an invasion of late Victorian England by Martians, and Wells is seen, along with Frenchman Jules Verne (1828–1905), as a major figure in the development of the science fiction genre. He also wrote realistic fiction about the lower middle class in novels like \"Kipps\" (1905) and \"The History of Mr Polly\" (1910).\n\nPenny dreadful publications were an alternative to mainstream works, and were aimed at working class adolescents, introducing the infamous Sweeney Todd. The premier ghost story writer of the 19th century was the Irish writer Sheridan Le Fanu. His works include the macabre mystery novel \"Uncle Silas\" 1865, and his Gothic novella \"Carmilla\" 1872, tells the story of a young woman's susceptibility to the attentions of a female vampire. The vampire genre fiction began with John William Polidori's \"The Vampyre\" (1819). This short story was inspired by the life of Lord Byron and his poem \"The Giaour\". An important later work is \"Varney the Vampire\" (1845), where many standard vampire conventions originated: Varney has fangs, leaves two puncture wounds on the neck of his victims, and has hypnotic powers and superhuman strength. Varney was also the first example of the \"sympathetic vampire\", who loathes his condition but is a slave to it. Bram Stoker, yet another Irish writer, was the author of seminal horror work \"Dracula\" and featured as its primary antagonist the vampire Count Dracula, with the vampire hunter Abraham Van Helsing his arch-enemy. \"Dracula\" has been attributed to a number of literary genres including vampire literature, horror fiction, gothic novel and invasion literature.\nSir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes is a brilliant London-based \"consulting detective\", famous for his intellectual prowess, skilful use of astute observation, deductive reasoning and forensic skills to solve difficult cases. Holmes' archenemy Professor Moriarty, is widely considered to be the first true example of a supervillain, while Sherlock Holmes has become a by-word for a detective. Conan Doyle wrote four novels and fifty-six short stories featuring Holmes, from 1880 up to 1907, with a final case in 1914. All but four Conan Doyle stories are narrated by Holmes' friend, assistant, and biographer, Dr John H. Watson.\n\nThe Lost World literary genre was inspired by real stories of archaeological discoveries by imperial adventurers. H. Rider Haggard wrote one of the earliest examples, \"King Solomon's Mines\" in 1885. Contemporary European politics and diplomatic manoeuvrings informed Anthony Hope's swashbuckling Ruritanian adventure novels \"The Prisoner of Zenda\" 1894, and \"Rupert of Hentzau\", 1898.\n\nF. Anstey's comic novel \"Vice Versa\" 1882, sees a father and son magically switch bodies. Satirist Jerome K. Jerome's \"Three Men in a Boat\" 1889, is a humorous account of a boating holiday on the river Thames. Grossmith brothers George & Weedon's \"Diary of a Nobody\" 1892, is also considered a classic work of humour.\n\nErskine Childers' \"The Riddle of the Sands\" (1903), defined the spy novel and Follett has also called it \"the first modern thriller\".\n\nEmma Orczy's \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\" (1903) was originally a highly successful play, when staged in London in 1905. The novel \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\" was published soon after the play opened and was an immediate success. Orczy gained a following of readers in Britain and throughout the world. The popularity of the novel, which recounted the adventures of a member of the English gentry in the French Revolutionary period, encouraged her to write a number of sequels for her \"reckless daredevil\" over the next 35 years. The play was performed to great acclaim in France, Italy, Germany and Spain, while the novel was translated into 16 languages. Subsequently, the story has been adapted for television, film, a musical and other media. Baroness Orczy's character \"The Old Man in the Corner\" (1908) was among the earliest armchair detectives to be created. Her short stories about \"Lady Molly of Scotland Yard\" (1910) were an early example of a female detective as main character.\n\nJohn Buchan wrote the adventure novels on \"Prester John\" (1910) and four novels telling the adventures of Richard Hannay, of which the first, \"The Thirty-Nine Steps\" (1915) is the best known. Novels featuring a gentleman adventurer were popular in the interwar period, exemplified by the series of H. C. McNeile with \"Bulldog Drummond\" (1920), and Leslie Charteris, whose many books chronicled the adventures of Simon Templar, alias \"The Saint\".\n\nThe medievalist scholar M. R. James wrote highly regarded ghost stories (1904–1928) in contemporary settings.\n\nThis was called the Golden Age of Detective Fiction. Agatha Christie, a writer of crime novels, short stories and plays, is best remembered for her 80 detective novels and her successful West End theatre plays. Christie's works, particularly those featuring the detectives Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple, made her one of the most important and innovative writers in the development of the genre. Her most influential novels include \"The Murder of Roger Ackroyd\" (1926); one of her most controversial novels, its innovative twist ending had a significant impact on the genre), \"Murder on the Orient Express\" (1934), \"Death on the Nile\" (1937) and \"And Then There Were None\" (1939). Other female writers dubbed \"Queens of crime\" include Dorothy L. Sayers (gentleman detective, Lord Peter Wimsey), Margery Allingham (Albert Campion, supposedly created as a parody of Sayers' Wimsey,) and New Zealander Ngaio Marsh (Roderick Alleyn). Georgette Heyer recreated the historical romance genre since 1921, and also wrote detective fiction (1932–1953).\n\nA major work of science fiction, from the early 20th century, is \"A Voyage to Arcturus\" by Scottish writer David Lindsay, first published in 1920. It combines fantasy, philosophy, and science fiction in an exploration of the nature of good and evil and their relationship with existence. It has been described by critic and philosopher Colin Wilson as the \"greatest novel of the twentieth century\", and was a central influence on C. S. Lewis's \"Space Trilogy\". Also J. R. R. Tolkien said he read the book \"with avidity\", and praised it as a work of philosophy, religion, and morality. It was made widely available in paperback form when published as one of the precursor volumes to the Ballantine Adult Fantasy series in 1968.\n\nFrom the early 1930s to late 1940s, an informal literary discussion group associated with the English faculty at the University of Oxford, were the \"Inklings\". Its leading members were the major fantasy novelists; C. S. Lewis and J. R. R. Tolkien. Lewis is known for \"The Screwtape Letters\" (1942), \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" (1950–1956) and \"The Space Trilogy\" (1938–1945), while Tolkien is best known as the author of \"The Hobbit\" (1937), \"The Lord of the Rings\" (1954–1955), and \"The Silmarillion\" (1977).\n\nIn thriller writing, Ian Fleming created the character James Bond 007 in January 1952, while on holiday at his Jamaican estate, Goldeneye. Fleming chronicled Bond's adventures in twelve novels, including \"Casino Royale\" (1953), \"Live and Let Die\" (1954), \"Dr. No\" (1958), \"Goldfinger\" (1959), \"Thunderball\" (1961), \"The Spy Who Loved Me\" (1962), and nine short story works.\n\nIn contrast to the larger-than-life spy capers of Bond, John le Carré was an author of spy novels who depicted a shadowy world of espionage and counter-espionage, and his best known novel \"The Spy Who Came in from the Cold\" (1963), is often regarded as one of the greatest in the genre. Frederick Forsyth writes thriller novels, including \"The Day of the Jackal\" (1971), \"The Odessa File\" (1972), \"The Dogs of War\" (1974) and \"The Fourth Protocol\" (1984). Ken Follett writes spy thrillers, his first success being \"Eye of the Needle\" (1978), followed by \"The Key to Rebecca\" (1980), as well as historical novels, notably \"The Pillars of the Earth\" (1989), and its sequel \"World Without End\" (2007). Elleston Trevor is remembered for his 1964 adventure story \"The Flight of the Phoenix\", while the thriller novelist Philip Nicholson is best known for \"Man on Fire\". Peter George's \"Red Alert\" (1958), is a Cold War thriller.\n\nWar novels include Alistair MacLean thriller's \"The Guns of Navarone\" (1957), \"Where Eagles Dare\" (1968), and Jack Higgins' \"The Eagle Has Landed\" (1975). Patrick O'Brian's nautical historical novels feature the \"Aubrey–Maturin series\" set in the Royal Navy, the first being \"Master and Commander\" (1969).\n\nThe \"father of Wicca\", Gerald Gardner, began propagating his own version of witchcraft in the 1950s. Having claimed to have been initiated into the New Forest coven in 1939, Gardner published his books \"Witchcraft Today\" (1954) and \"The Meaning of Witchcraft\" (1959), the foundational texts for the religion of Wicca. Ronald Welch's Carnegie Medal winning novel \"Knight Crusader\" is set in the 12th century and gives a depiction of the Third Crusade, featuring the Christian leader and King of England Richard the Lionheart.\n\nIn crime fiction, the murder mysteries of Ruth Rendell and P. D. James are popular.\n\nNigel Tranter wrote historical novels of celebrated Scottish warriors; Robert the Bruce in \"The Bruce Trilogy\", and William Wallace in \"The Wallace\" (1975), works noted by academics for their accuracy.\n\nJohn Wyndham wrote post-apocalyptic science fiction, his most notable works being \"The Day of the Triffids\" (1951), and \"The Midwich Cuckoos\" (1957). George Langelaan's \"The Fly\" (1957), is a science fiction short story. Science fiction novelist Arthur C. Clarke's \"\" (1968), is based on his various short stories, particularly \"The Sentinel\" (1951). His other major novels include \"Rendezvous with Rama\" (1972), and \"The Fountains of Paradise\" (1979). Brian Aldiss is Clarke's contemporary.\n\nMichael Moorcock (born 1939) is a writer, primarily of science fiction and fantasy, who has also published a number of literary novels. He was involved with the 'New Wave' of science fiction writers \"part of whose aim was to invest the genre with literary merit\" Similarly J. G. Ballard (born 1930) \"became known in the 1960s as the most prominent of the 'New Wave' science fiction writers\". A later major figure in science fiction was Iain M. Banks who created a fictional anarchist, socialist, and utopian society named \"The Culture\". The novels that feature in it include \"Excession\" (1996), and \"Inversions\" (1998). He also published mainstream novels, including the highly controversial \"The Wasp Factory\" in 1984. Nobel prize winner Doris Lessing also published a sequence of five science fiction novels the \"Canopus in Argos: Archives\" between 1979 and 1983.\n\nTerry Pratchett is best known for his \"Discworld\" series of comic fantasy novels, that begins with \"The Colour of Magic\" (1983), and includes \"Mort\" (1987), \"Hogfather\" (1996), and \"Night Watch\" (2002). Pratchett's other most notable work is the 1990 novel \"Good Omens\".\n\nPhilip Pullman's fantasy trilogy \"His Dark Materials\" comprises \"Northern Lights\" (1995), \"The Subtle Knife\" (1997), and \"The Amber Spyglass\" (2000). It follows the coming-of-age of two children as they wander through a series of parallel universes against a backdrop of epic events.\n\nNeil Gaiman is a writer of science fiction, fantasy short stories and novels, whose notable works include \"Stardust\" (1998), \"Coraline\" (2002), \"The Graveyard Book\" (2009), and \"The Sandman\" series.\n\nAlan Moore's works include \"Watchmen\", \"V for Vendetta\" set in a dystopian future UK, \"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\", and \"From Hell\", speculating on the identity and motives of Jack the Ripper.\n\nDouglas Adams wrote the five-volume science fiction comedy series \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", and also wrote the humorous fantasy detective novel \"Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency\".\n\nClive Barker horror novels include \"The Hellbound Heart\" (1986), and works in fantasy, \"Weaveworld\" (1987), \"Imajica\" and \"Abarat\" (2002).\n\nMost genres of fiction may also be segmented by the age of the intended reader:\n\n"}
{"id": "27466224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27466224", "title": "Harold Rubin", "text": "Harold Rubin\n\nHarold Rubin (born 13 May 1932) is a South African-born Israeli visual artist and free jazz clarinettist.\n\nHarold Rubin was born in Johannesburg, South Africa on 13 May 1932. He attended the Jeppe High School for Boys and received private instruction in the fine arts. Instructed in the classical clarinet as a teenager, he developed a fascination with jazz and began playing at the Skyline Night Club at eighteen. Enrolled as an architecture student at the University of the Witwatersrand, he completed his professional studies after further education in London.\n\nRubin's creative endeavours in South African society during the 1950s and 1960s dissented against the apartheid-era Afrikaner establishment by defying the country's racist social norms. Rubin organised his own jazz group in the 1950s, snuck into black townships, and played alongside black musicians. Rubin's visual artwork was first exhibited in 1956. Among Rubin's contributions to the South African fine arts in this spirit was the 1961 \"Sharpeville\", a series of drawings devoted to the brutality of the Apartheid-era authorities during the Sharpeville massacre in 1960.\n\nRubin's most controversial project on the South African art scene of the 1960s was \"My Jesus\", a provocative rendering of the crucifixion in which Jesus Christ appeared as a nude black figure with the head of a monster. The work contained the inscription \"I forgive you O Lord, for you know not what you do\" – a sardonically reversed \"Father forgive them, for they know not what they do\" – and depicted the naked figure with a slight hint of an erection. The controversial image was put on display alongside other anti-establishment works at a Johannesburg gallery in 1962. The exhibition caused such furore that the government sent the police to shut down the exhibition and referred its artwork for an examination by its censorship board. Rubin became the second South African to be charged with blasphemy.\n\nAcquitted in court of the alleged blasphemy in March 1963, Rubin protested the repressive political environment by leaving the country for Israel and quickly re-established himself in Tel Aviv. Rubin was employed as an architect, in the office of Arieh Sharon, on projects in Israel and abroad and taught at an academy of architecture and design between the 1960s and his retirement in 1986.\n\nRubin began creating visual art as a critique and commentary on the militaristic aspect of Israeli society as early as the 1960s. The anti-war subject was a prime subject of Rubin's work during the 1980s – a decade witnessing the 1982 invasion of Lebanon and the tensions aroused by the increasingly visible peace movement, and marked by the creation of such works as \"The Anatomy of a War Widow\" (1984), a series of twenty-two black-and-white pictures. The caustic \"Homage to Rabbi Kahane\", which portrayed the outspoken ultra-nationalist Rabbi Meir Kahane as a Jewish Nazi, was pulled off the wall by a Knesset member when hung at a Haifa gallery in 1985. The proceeds raised from an August 1987 exhibition and auction of art by Rubin and other Israeli artists at the Meimad Gallery in Tel Aviv were donated to a fund for educational activities and promotion of the values of democracy and freedom of speech dedicated to Emil Grunzweig, an Israeli teacher and Peace Now activist murdered in 1983 by a grenade thrown at a Jerusalem peace rally. Rubin's drawings and paintings have been exhibited in Israel, South Africa, the United States, and Germany since the 1960s.\n\nRubin returned to playing jazz in late 1979, having previously given up performance for more than a decade after his emigration from Africa. He became a founding member of the 1980s Zaviot jazz quartet, which recorded albums with the label Jazzis Records and performed at festivals and clubs in Israel and Europe until its break-up in 1989. Rubin's more recent appearances have include performances with Ariel Shibolet, Assif Tsahar, Daniel Sarid, Maya Dunietz, and Yoni Silver.\n\nAwarded the Landau Award in tribute to his contributions to jazz music in 2008, he continues to play jazz with musicians of the younger generations in Tel Aviv.\n\nHarold Rubin and his first wife, Riva Wainer, married in 1957, separated in the 1970s and divorced in 1975. Since 1976 he has been married to Miriam Kainy, a well-recognized Israeli dramatist particularly known for plays concerned with the subject of Jewish-Arab relations and feminist themes. His family includes two sons from his first marriage, as well as one daughter and two stepdaughters from his second.\n\nRubin is an avowed atheist.\n\n"}
{"id": "4029769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4029769", "title": "Incoherents", "text": "Incoherents\n\nThe Incoherents (\"Les Arts incohérents\") was a short-lived French art movement founded by Parisian writer and publisher (1857-1935) in 1882, which in its satirical irreverence anticipated many of the art techniques and attitudes later associated with avant-garde and anti-art. \n\nLévy coined the phrase \"les arts incohérents\" as a play on the common expression \"les arts décoratifs\" (i.e. arts & crafts, but above all, a famous art school in Paris, the National School of Decorative Arts). The Incoherents presented work which was deliberately irrational and iconoclastic, contained found objects, was nonsensical, included humoristic sketchs, drawings of children, and drawings \"made by people who don't know how to draw.\" Lévy exhibited an all-black painting by poet Paul Bilhaud called \"Combat de Nègres dans un Tunnel\" (Negroes Fight in a Tunnel). The early film animator Émile Cohl contributed photographs which would later be called surreal. \n\nAlthough small and short-lived, the Incoherents were certainly well-known. The movement sprang from the same Montmartre cabaret culture that spawned the Hydropathes of Émile Goudeau and Alfred Jarry's \"Ubu Roi\". The October 1882 show was attended by two thousand people, including Manet, Renoir, Camille Pissarro, and Richard Wagner. Beginning in 1883 there were annual shows, or masked balls, or both. In an 1883 show, the artist contributed \"Le rire,\" an \"augmented\" \"Mona Lisa\" smoking a pipe, that directly prefigures the famous Marcel Duchamp 1919 \"appropriation\" of the \"Mona Lisa\", \"L.H.O.O.Q.\". \n\nThe movement wound down in the mid-1890s.\n\nThe Incoherent arts were born in the late nineteenth century, a period that was rich in scientific discoveries and social innovations. Cheeky and inventive, this time also marks a turning point in the field of art. The official art traditions were even being questioned in the newspapers through satirical images which implied it was a dying craft. It was in this creative lull that Jules Levy - former member of the literary club Hydropathes - decided to organize \"an exhibition of drawings made by people who can not draw.\" This charitable carnival helped victims of a recent gas explosion to have an opportunity to present their works. The first \"Incoherent arts\" get-together, which took place on July 13, 1882 on the Champs Elysées hosts many curiosities. Taking advantage of a power outage, and lit only by candlelight, they created a jumble of rebellious works, using all types of materials and any inspiration with the ultimate goal of making people laugh. \n\nOn October 2, 1882, Jules Lévy decided to repeat the experience at home. He gathered his friends under the pretense of having an \"unusual evening\". In his tiny apartment they worked under the phrase \"Death to clichés, to us young people!\" They received unexpected success and lots of newspaper coverage. As a result, the Incohérents arts movement became engrained into the Parisian cultural landscape. In October 1883 the Paris had its first official exhibition of Incoherent art, ran by local Galerie Vivienne. The purpose was charitable as with all Incoherent exhibits thereafter. A regulation 13-point proclamation was that \"All the works are allowed, the serious works and obscene excepted\". The exhibition adopts a true catalog, including a piece by Levy Orville in which he reverses an inkwell for the sake of aesthetics. The tone of the exhibition was set by an abundance of parodies and pictorial puns. More than 20,000 visitors took part over a month. \n\nA year later, the Incoherents returned to haunt the Galerie Vivienne with their cheeky pranks. They hoped this occasion would see the image of the \"Chief pipes Poyle sand without number, on a silver field,\" an ancient statue carving chisel of an academician who does not lead wide. A catalog accompanied the exhibition with luxury engraved reproductions of most of the significant works. On its cover, a dancer brandishes a broom and scares away the gloom of black birds. The journalists accompanied the event with enthusiasm. The artists were increasingly familiarizing themselves with the pictorial map and the pun, both of which helped to establish this kind of \"Incoherent\" art. In 1886 the Incoherents at the Eden Theatre unveiled their new exhibit. Jules Chéret's poster included Levy going through the moon like a paper hoop. At the entrance, the rules regarding the event were framed prominently: \"One goal you propose, laugh and cheer you frankly.\" The room was also full of visitors that worked in high, medium or low relief. Everything was recorded in catalog records which are decorated with \"striking\" portraits of exhibitors and zany references. \n\nIn 1886 Jules Levy began to be the target of criticism. He was accused of using the Incoherent Arts for its own interests. He had in fact opened a publishing house in 1886 and published the works of his friends (Goudeau, Leroy, Monselet, etc..), illustrated by artists such as Boutet, Somm or Gray. He gradually lost the support of the French Courrier who had declared him as \"the official unofficial Incoherent\" in 1884. Meanwhile, some seeking to take advantage of the Incoherent movement by opening Incoherent cafes or established magazine operations, that the founders of the movement had nothing to do with. In 1887 Jules Levy promised the end of Inconsistency would be on April 16 of that year. A costume party was organized for the occasion with a Folies Bergère funeral procession. However, Incoherence has a brief renaissance on March 27, 1889 at a new dance held at the Eden Theatre. Levy wanted this event to remind the good memories of the Incoherent arts and to announce the return of his exhibitions. But in the spring of the 1889 exhibition he organized, while the Expo was in full swing in Paris, it was a fiasco. The press hardly covered the event, and even the French Courier remained silent. The Incoherent arts was no longer a novelty interest. Jules Levy, refusing to give up, created the magazine \"Folies Bergère\" in January 1891. Poorly organized, not repeated, the show is considered too long and the ball too short.\nThe last gasp of the inconsistency, his exhibition of 1893 had a brand new premise at Olympia, and passed almost unnoticed. Jules Blois of the French Mail wrote: \"All that is outdated, outmoded. Inconsistency joined decadence, decay and other jokes with or without handles in the bag of old fashioned chiffes\" Despite that, Levy still pulled on the Incoherent string until 1896 when it was met with massive indifference from the press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30770358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30770358", "title": "Journal of Religion and Theatre", "text": "Journal of Religion and Theatre\n\nThe Journal of Religion and Theatre was a peer-reviewed academic journal covering research on the relationship between theatre and religion. It was abstracted and indexed in the MLA International Bibliography. It was established in 2001 with Debra Bruch as founding editor-in-chief until 2006. She was succeeded by Heather Beasley until the journal was discontinued in 2010. It was published by the Religion and Theatre Focus Group of the Association for Theatre in Higher Education. \n\n"}
{"id": "47112529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47112529", "title": "Khaled Akil", "text": "Khaled Akil\n\nKhaled Akil (Arabic خالد عقيل) is a Syrian Fine-art photographer and mixed media artist, born in Aleppo city, his work focuses primarily on critiquing war, religion and social turmoil in the Middle East. He is best known for his controversial topics pointing out taboos in Islamic and Middle Eastern societies.\n\nKhaled Akil was born in Aleppo, Syria, to a family with a long history of artistic and political influence. His father is the renowned painter Youssef Akil. His great maternal grandfather is the Syrian author and historical figure Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi.\n\nKhaled’s first exhibition was held in 2009, when at the time he was completing his bachelor's degree in Law. His experience in law, politics and human rights played a major role in his artistic development and projections. Most of his works deal with topics related to the social, political, and religious discrepancies he witnessed around the region.\n\nIn 2012, he held a solo exhibition “The Legend of Death” in Istanbul, where he resides today due to the escalation of the war in Syria.\n\nHis work is a hybrid of photography and painting, with a digital final product. various layers, created in direct relation with the photographic work and the issue presented.\n\nWhat one sees when looking into Akil's images is a dual universe wherein creatures and symbols merge with the visual fragments of war and abandonment.\n\nKhaled Akil subjects his original photographs to countless layers of manual intervention that ultimately result in digital prints. With their mixture of photography, painting, and sometimes Arabic calligraphy, the dense surfaces of the works make them expressive and strongly palpable.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56624093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56624093", "title": "Libro de' Disegni", "text": "Libro de' Disegni\n\nThe Libro de' Disegni (Italian for \"Book of Drawings\") was a collection of drawings gathered, sorted and grouped by Giorgio Vasari whilst writing his \"Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects\". By the time of his death in 1574 it is thought to have contained around 526 drawings, of which 162 are now in the Louvre and 83 in the Nationalmuseum, Stockholm. There are also drawings from the \"Libro\" in the prints and drawings departments of the Uffizi, the British Museum, the Albertina, the National Gallery of Art and other institutions.\n\nSome art historians believe they were gathered to illustrate Vasari's \"Lives\" directly, as a visual index of the artists' works, whilst others believe it was a separate document in its own right. In his preface to the \"Lives\", Vasari described his reasons for writing:\nNo text reveals why Vasari compiled his collection of drawings, but it was probably to illustrate the styles of the different artists he wrote about and to show how he had divided them \"into three parts, or rather let us call them periods, between the rebirth of the arts and our own time - each of these is distinguished from the others by manifest differences\". The earliest drawing in the collection was by Cimabue and the latest dated to Vasari's own time. In the 1550 and 1568 editions of the \"Lives\" Vasari insisted on drawings as documents which allowed the viewer to perceive the \"maniera\" of the great masters of painting and mentioned when he owned one or two drawings by a particular artist, such as at the end of his life of Filippo Lippi:\n(\"Fra Filippo drew very well, as one can see in my own \"Libro\" of the most famous painters, in the preparatory drawings for the altarpiece at Santo Spirito and the frescoes in the Prato chapel.\") and in his life of Sandro Botticelli (\"Sandro's drawings were of a totally unique excellence; and, after his death, more and more artists have been keen to have some of his drawings; and I myself, in my collection, have a few which were done with great care and judgement\").\n\nGiorgio Vasari was one of the founders of the Accademia delle Arti del Disegno set up in Florence by Cosimo I of Tuscany in 1563. He and the other founders wished to use this academy to promote artists above the status of artisans. He was also a passionate collector of drawings and in his \"Libro\" he set them in his own paper frames and gathered drawings by one or more painters on a single sheet. In 1528 he received a collection of Lorenzo Ghiberti's drawings, as one of Ghiberti's descendents.\n\nAfter Vasari's death, the sheets of the \"Libro\" were initially bought in 1574 by the Florentine collector Niccolò Gaddi (1537-1591). They were then sold by Gaddi's heirs before 18 May 1638, the date of death of Lorenzo Sabbatini, who had been put in charge of the \"Libro\". They were then dispersed among the Medici, Arundel, Quesnel, Crozat and Mariette collections during the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe first drawings from the \"Libro de' Disegni\" to enter the French national collection were bought by Everhard Jabach, probably when the Arundel collections were sold in 1646 and 1654 after his and his widow's deaths. They then passed from Jabach into Louis XIV's drawings collection in 1671. Further sheets from the \"Libro\" were added when the French royal collection bought part of the collection of Mariette in 1755 and when Saint-Morys's collection was seized by the revolutionary government in 1793. These later additions may have originated in the sale of the Crozat collection, for which a catalogue survives. Part of the Mariette collection was sold to the royal collection in 1775. Other pages entered the French national collection from émigré goods seized by the revolutionary government and via gift and purchase.\n\nThe museum acquired 83 drawings from the \"Libro\" as part of the Pierre Crozat and Carl Gustaf Tessin collections. They include Domenico Ghirlandaio's \"\", a study for his 1490 painting \"An Old Man and his Grandson\", now in the Louvre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15229303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15229303", "title": "Marmotinto", "text": "Marmotinto\n\nMarmotinto is the art of creating pictures using coloured sand or marble dust and otherwise known as sand painting.\n\nOriginating in Europe, and probably based on the Japanese craft of \"bonseki\" (aka 'tray-painting'), \"marmotinto\" was fleetingly popular in England following a 1783 dinner party given by George III at Windsor Castle who was taken with a display of unfixed coloured sands, sugars and marble dust arranged under glass upon the surface of the dinner table in decorative patterns and including fruit and flowers, and exotic birds which was executed by the Bavarian table-decker Benjamin Zobel (Memmingen, 21 September 1762 - London, 24 October 1830), a friend of George Morland, a painter prominent in the \"Isle of Wight School\". The King and his courtiers was so impressed with the resulting picture, it was suggested that Zobel find a way to make his compositions permanent and hence the craft of \"marmotinto\" or sandpainting was born and proved most successful under the patronage of various members of the royal household including the then Duke of York. \n\nWoburn Abbey in Bedford, England possesses a fine example of the table deckers' craft in the form of an ornate folding room screen with three panels, decorated with sand pictures protected by glass. The centre one has five spaces for sweetmeat pyramid dishes while the two side leaves of the screen have three spaces for fruit trays. There are four sand pictures in each corner of the side panels of the screen, featuring 18th-century pastoral scenes, while the remaining areas of the screen are decorated with butterflies, doves, fruit, flowers, etc. The screen would be laid upon the surface of a side table where it doubled as a serving base for elaborate porcelain dishes and glass trays containing fruits, bonbons and sweetmeats, from which the hosts and their guests could help themselves while socializing or stretching their legs between the multiple courses being served on the main table in the dining hall. This screen is believed to be the work of F. Schweikhardt, Zobel's predecessor at Windsor who specialised in still-life studies in the style of the Dutch painter Jan van Huysum.\nLater the craft became popular in the early 19th century as the tourist industry began to develop on the Isle of Wight particularly at Alum Bay where coloured sands were readily available to the visitors should they wish to try their hand at creating their own souvenirs when they disembarked directly onto the beach from the decks of mainland steamers. The locals soon realised an opportunity to develop and market small framed sand pictures and also compressed sand patterns inside glass jars to supplement their meagre income. There are some examples of Alum Bay sand pictures at Osborne House and Carisbrook Castle while at the Victoria and Albert Museum, the late Queen Mary's collection of Georgian sandpaintings may be viewed by request.\n\nAlthough \"marmotinto\" using coloured sands and marble dust was popular across England and on the continent for a while, it declined after an initial fashionable period. The art saw a comeback in the 20th century using natural coloured sands, supplemented by discarded, recycled and found materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36836451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36836451", "title": "Modern sculpture", "text": "Modern sculpture\n\nModern sculpture is generally considered to have begun with the work of Auguste Rodin, who is seen as the progenitor of modern sculpture. While Rodin did not set out to rebel against the past, he created a new way of building his works. He \"dissolved the hard outline of contemporary Neo-Greek academicism, and thereby created a vital synthesis of opacity and transparency, volume and void\". Along with a few other artists in the late 19th century who experimented with new artistic visions in sculpture like Edgar Degas and Paul Gauguin, Rodin invented a radical new approach in the creation of sculpture. Modern sculpture, along with all modern art, \"arose as part of Western society's attempt to come to terms with the urban, industrial and secular society that emerged during the nineteenth century\".\n\nModernist sculpture movements include Art Nouveau, Cubism, Geometric abstraction, De Stijl, Suprematism, Constructivism, Dadaism, Surrealism, Futurism, Formalism Abstract expressionism, Pop-Art, Minimalism, Postminimalism, Land art, Conceptual art, and Installation art among others.\n\nThe modern sculpture movement can be said to begin at the Rodin exhibit at the Universal Exhibition held in Paris in 1900. At this event Rodin showed his Burghers of Calais, Balzac, Victor Hugo statues, and the exhibition included the first public showing of his Gates of Hell which included The Thinker.\n\nCubist sculpture, in the early 20th century, was a style that developed in parallel with cubist painting, and the formal experiments of Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. Beginning around 1909 and evolving through the early 1920s cubist artists developed new means of constructing works of art using collage, sculptural assemblage using disparate materials and traditional sculpture making from plaster and clay molds. Some sources name Picasso's 1909 bronze \"Head of a Woman\" as the first cubist sculpture. Artists like Raymond Duchamp-Villon (1876-1918), whose career was cut short by his death in military service, and Alexander Archipenko, who'd arrived in Paris in 1908 and whose 1912 \"Walking Woman\" were very quick to follow Braque and Picasso's lead. Joseph Csaky, a sculptor from Hungary, exhibited his first cubist sculptures in Paris in 1911. Duchamp-Villon, Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Laurens and Ossip Zadkine and others joined the earlier cubist sculptors.\n\nIn the early 20th century, during his period of cubist innovation, Pablo Picasso revolutionized the art of sculpture when he began creating his \"constructions\" fashioned by combining disparate objects and materials into one constructed piece of sculpture; Picasso reinvented the art of sculpture with his innovative use of constructing a work in three dimensions with disparate material, the sculptural equivalent of the collage in two-dimensional art. Just as collage was a radical development in two-dimensional art; so was \"construction\" a radical development in three-dimensional sculpture. The advent of Surrealism led to things occasionally being described as \"sculpture\" that would not have been so previously, such as \"involuntary sculpture\" in several senses, including coulage. In later years Picasso became a prolific potter, leading, with interest in historic pottery from around the world, to a revival of ceramic art, with figures such as George E. Ohr and subsequently Peter Voulkos, Kenneth Price, and Robert Arneson. Marcel Duchamp originated the use of the \"found object\" (French: \"objet trouvé\") or \"readymade\" with pieces such as Fountain (1917).\n\nSimilarly, the work of Constantin Brâncuși at the beginning of the century paved the way for later abstract sculpture. In revolt against the naturalism of Rodin and his late 19th-century contemporaries, Brâncuși distilled subjects down to their essences as illustrated by the elegantly refined forms of his \"Bird in Space\" series (1924). These elegantly refined forms became synonymous with 20th-century sculpture. In 1927, Brâncuși won a lawsuit against the U.S. customs authorities who attempted to value his sculpture as raw metal. The suit led to legal changes permitting the importation of abstract art free of duty.\n\nBrâncuși's impact, with his vocabulary of reduction and abstraction, is seen throughout the 1930s and 1940s, and exemplified by artists such as Gaston Lachaise, Sir Jacob Epstein, Henry Moore, Alberto Giacometti, Joan Miró, Ásmundur Sveinsson, Julio González, Pablo Serrano, Jacques Lipchitz and also by the 1940s abstract sculpture was impacted and expanded by Alexander Calder, Len Lye, Jean Tinguely, and Frederick Kiesler who were pioneers of Kinetic art.\n\nSince the 1950s Modernist trends in sculpture both abstract and figurative have dominated the public imagination and the popularity of Modernist sculpture had sidelined the traditional approach. Picasso was commissioned to make a maquette for a huge, -high public sculpture to be built in Chicago, known usually as the \"Chicago Picasso\". He approached the project with a great deal of enthusiasm, designing a sculpture which was ambiguous and somewhat controversial. What the figure represents is not known; it could be a bird, a horse, a woman, or a totally abstract shape. The sculpture, one of the most recognizable landmarks in downtown Chicago, was unveiled in 1967. Picasso refused to be paid $100,000 for it, donating it to the people of the city.\n\nIn the late 1950s and the 1960s, abstract sculptors began experimenting with a wide array of new materials and different approaches to creating their work. Surrealist imagery, anthropomorphic abstraction, new materials and combinations of new energy sources and varied surfaces and objects became characteristic of much new modernist sculpture. Collaborative projects with landscape designers, architects, and landscape architects expanded the outdoor site and contextual integration. Artists such as Isamu Noguchi, David Smith, Alexander Calder, Jean Tinguely, Richard Lippold, George Rickey, Louise Bourgeois, and Louise Nevelson came to characterize the look of modern sculpture.\n\nBy the 1960s Abstract expressionism, Geometric abstraction and Minimalism, which reduces sculpture to its most essential and fundamental features, predominated. Some works of the period are: the Cubi works of David Smith, and the welded steel works of Sir Anthony Caro, as well as welded sculpture by a large variety of sculptors, the large scale work of John Chamberlain, and environmental installation scale works by Mark di Suvero. Other Minimalists and Postminimalists include Tony Smith, Donald Judd, Robert Morris, Anne Truitt, Ronald Bladen, Giacomo Benevelli, Arnaldo Pomodoro, Richard Serra, Carl Andre, Dan Flavin, Eva Hesse, Christo, Walter De Maria, Robert Smithson, and others like John Safer who added motion and monumentality to the theme of purity of line. led contemporary abstract sculpture in new directions. During the 1960s and 1970s figurative sculpture by pop artists and modernist artists in stylized forms by artists such as: George Segal, Claes Oldenburg, Arman, Leonard Baskin, Ernest Trova, Marisol Escobar, Paul Thek, Manuel Neri and others became popular. In the 1980s several artists, among others, exploring figurative sculpture were Robert Graham in a classic articulated style and Fernando Botero bringing his painting's \"oversized figures\" into monumental sculptures. Ceramic sculpture as practiced by Pablo Picasso, Peter Voulkos, Stephen De Staebler, Kenneth Price, and others became an important idiom of modern sculpture in the 20th century.\n\nSite specific and environmental art works are represented by artists: Andy Goldsworthy, Walter De Maria, Richard Long, Richard Serra, Robert Irwin, George Rickey, and Christo and Jeanne-Claude-led contemporary abstract sculpture in new directions. Artists created environmental sculpture on expansive sites in the \"land art in the American West\" group of projects. These land art or \"earth art\" environmental scale sculpture works exemplified by artists such as Robert Smithson, Michael Heizer, James Turrell (Roden Crater). Eva Hesse, Sol LeWitt, Jackie Winsor, Keith Sonnier, and Bruce Nauman, among others were pioneers of Postminimalist sculpture.\n\nAlso during the 1960s and 1970s artists as diverse as Eduardo Paolozzi, Chryssa, Walter De Maria, Claes Oldenburg, George Segal, Edward Kienholz, Nam June Paik, Wolf Vostell, Duane Hanson, and John DeAndrea explored abstraction, imagery, and figuration through video art, environment, light sculpture, and installation art in new ways.\n\nConceptual art is art in which the concept(s) or idea(s) involved in the work take precedence over traditional aesthetic and material concerns. Works include \"One and Three Chairs\", 1965, by Joseph Kosuth, and \"An Oak Tree\", 1973, by Michael Craig-Martin, and those of Joseph Beuys and James Turrell among others.\n\nPostmodern sculpture occupies a broader field of activities than Modernist sculpture. Rosalind Krauss identified sculpture in the expanded field, a series of oppositions around the work's relationship to its environment that describe the various sculpture-like activities that are postmodern sculpture, creating a theoretical explanation that could adequately fit the developments of Land art, Minimalist sculpture, and site-specific art into the category of \"sculpture\":\n\n\nModern sculpture is often created outdoors, as in environmental art and environmental sculpture, often in full view of spectators. Light sculpture and site-specific art also often make use of the environment. Site-specific artwork is intentionally created for a specific place. The term was first used in the mid-1970s by sculptors Patricia Johanson, Dennis Oppenheim, Athena Tacha, and others. Site specific environmental art was described as a movement by architectural critic Catherine Howett and art critic Lucy Lippard. Land art, Earthworks, (Earth art) is an art movement that makes specific use of the real landscape to form works of sculpture that are located in and make use of nature generally in altered form. It is a form of sculpture created in nature, from nature, using materials found in nature like dirt, soil, rocks, logs, branches, leaves, and water, as well as man made materials like Chain-link fencing, barbed wire, rope, rubber, glass, concrete, metal, asphalt, and mineral pigments. Ice sculpture is a form of ephemeral sculpture that uses ice as the raw material. It is popular in China, Japan, Canada, Sweden, and Russia. Ice sculptures feature decoratively in some cuisines, especially in Asia. Kinetic sculptures are sculptures that are designed to move, which include mobiles. Snow sculptures are usually carved out of a single block of snow about 6 to on each side and weighing about 20–30 tons. The snow is densely packed into a form after having been produced by artificial means or collected from the ground after a snowfall.\n\nSound sculptures take the form of indoor sound installations, outdoor installations such as aeolian harps, automatons, or be more or less near conventional musical instruments. Sound sculpture is often site-specific. Art toys have become another format for contemporary artists since the late 1990s, such as those produced by Takashi Murakami and Kid Robot, designed by Michael Lau, or hand-made by Michael Leavitt.\n\n"}
{"id": "31724035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31724035", "title": "Molse School", "text": "Molse School\n\nMolse School, \"translated as \"School of Mol\",\" is a common term for some international paint artists or a specific genre of paintings in late 19th and early 20th century. The paintings typically show picturesque and rustic places, farms, ... of the Belgian municipality Mol, which is located in the Campine. The most famous painters of the \"Molse School\" were Jakob Smits and Dirk Baksteen who lived in Achterbos, a hamlet of Mol.\n\nBased upon the Barbizon school the municipality Mol organized an international art exhibition in 1907 and invited painters from all over the world. Most of these artists had not met before and their only connection was their stay in a local hotel during the exhibition. These artists were not tied by a fine art society, neither was there a common style. In total 68 artists participated at this event, showing 212 works. This exhibition was also an attempt to show the artists the beauty of Mol, its heath, the white sand flats and how the inhabitants (mostly farmers) lived. This attempt succeeded.\n\nUpon their return home, the artists showed their paintings to their colleagues. This resulted in those colleagues also coming over to Mol making painting en plein air popular.\n\nSome artists commonly categorized under the \"Molse School\" are Dirk Baksteen, Gerard Baksteen, Charles Claessens, Leon Delderenne, Paul Mathieu, Ernest Midy, Erneste Rinquet, Jakob Smits, Willem Battaille, Emile Van Damme-Sylva, Paula Van Rompa-Zenke, Gaston De Biemme\n"}
{"id": "14332112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14332112", "title": "Nerikomi", "text": "Nerikomi\n\nNerikomi (練り込み , lit. \"kneading\") is an artistic technique for creating Japanese pottery agateware. The name derives from the traditional technique of creating patterns with colored clay. The technique is also called neriage (練上げ).\n\n\"Nerikomi\" is a contemporary Japanese term. Marbling ceramic techniques were used in Egypt and China and through the Romans to the West. Early ceramics in the Stoke-on-Trent use more than one colour of clay for decorative effect. In England this was referred to as agateware. In Japan there are a few pieces from the Momoyama period, and Edo period, as well as \"Mingei\" and there was an explosion of it from about 1978–1995 due probably to Aida Yusuke's advertising and to Matsui Kousei who refers to his work as \"neriage\". \n\nThe term started being used in the 1970s to describe related kanji \"neriage\". Yusuke Aida was on a television commercial for Nescafé and it seems to have entered the vocabulary at about that time when his nerikomi coffee cups were available to the first people contacting the advertisers.\n\nIt was used in the Tang Dynasty in 7th century China there are at least two Chinese characters to describe variations of this technique (one surface, one structural).\n\nSlabs of different clays or clays colored with stains or oxides, are stacked, folded, pressed into logs, sliced, and arranged to form a vessel. In this way, the numerous stacked layers appear as fine undulating lines embedded in a surrounding color in the finished vessel.\n\n"}
{"id": "36809948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36809948", "title": "Night in paintings (Western art)", "text": "Night in paintings (Western art)\n\nThe depiction of night in paintings is common in Western art. Paintings that feature a night scene as the theme may be religious or history paintings, genre scenes, portraits, landscapes, or other subject types. Some artworks involve religious or fantasy topics using the quality of dim night light to create mysterious atmospheres. The source of illumination in a night scene—whether it is the moon or an artificial light source—may be depicted directly, or it may be implied by the character and coloration of the light that reflects from the subjects depicted.\nBeginning in the early Renaissance, artists such as Giotto, Bosch, Uccello and others told stories with their painted works, sometimes evoking religious themes and sometimes depicting battles, myths, stories and scenes from history, using night-time as the setting. By the 16th and 17th centuries, painters of the late Renaissance, Mannerists, and painters from the Baroque era including El Greco, Titian, Giorgione, Caravaggio, Frans Hals, Rembrandt, Velázquez, Jusepe de Ribera often portrayed people and scenes in night-time settings, illustrating stories and depictions of real life.\n\nEighteenth-century Rococo painters Antoine Watteau, François Boucher, Jean-Honoré Fragonard, and others used the night-time theme to illustrate scenes of the imagination, often with dramatic literary connotations, including scenes of secret liaisons and romantic relationships reminiscent of the popular 1782 book \"Les Liaisons dangereuses\" by Pierre Choderlos de Laclos. Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin, Jean-Baptiste Greuze, used the themes of nighttime to depict illustrations of ordinary life. Poet and painter William Blake and painter Henry Fuseli used the night-time in their work as the setting for many of their most imaginative visions. The most dramatic use of the night-time can be seen in the 1793 painting by Jacques-Louis David, called \"The Death of Marat\", portraying the French revolutionary leader Jean-Paul Marat after his murder by Charlotte Corday.\n\nThe night in paintings of the 19th century was used to convey a complex of diverse meanings. A mystical, religious, and sublime reverence for nature is seen in Caspar David Friedrich, Thomas Cole, Frederick Church, Albert Bierstadt, Albert Pinkham Ryder and others, while the powerful and dramatic romanticism of Francisco Goya, Théodore Géricault, and Eugène Delacroix served as visual reportage of current events, and in the case of Géricault revealed a scandal. Gustave Courbet, who with Honoré Daumier, Jules Breton, Jean-François Millet, and others created the Realist school, portrayed ordinary people hard at work, traveling, or engrossed in their everyday lives, at night and during the day. The Impressionists and Post-Impressionists of the late 19th century used the night-time theme to express a multitude of emotional and aesthetic insights seen most dramatically in the paintings of Edgar Degas, Paul Cézanne, Vincent van Gogh and others.\n\nBlack and grey shades often symbolize gloom, fear, mystery, superstitions, evil, death, secret, sorrow. The light source in most religious paintings symbolize hope, guidance or divinity.\n\nIn fantasy paintings light could symbolize magic, like the following lines of a poem entitled \"The Magic\": \"There's magic in this night, enshrouded in this night, hidden, like a lamp in an old man's robe, there's MAGIC.\"\n\nOne of the first attempts in depicting night in paintings was by Taddeo Gaddi, an Italian painter and architect. Gaddi, fascinated by nocturnal lighting, depicted the effect of the light in \"The Angelic Announcement to the Shepherds\" night scene. The fresco at Basilica of Santa Croce in Florence, Italy features an incandescent angel as it hovers over a shepherd. Against the night sky the brilliance of the angel's bright glow, likely intended as \"verification of the presence of God and as a metaphor for spiritual enlightenment\", appears to startle the shepherd. Gaddi's use of monochromatic colors in and around the shepherd reveals how the colors are made pale due to the remarkable illumination.\n\nGiotto di Bondone (1266/7–1337), Taddeo Gaddi's teacher and godfather, created the fresco of \"Crucifixion\", one of the multiple frescoes that told the story of Christ's life, for the Arena Chapel. He depicts Christ on a cross, while the Virgin Mary is comforted by John. Kneeling at his feet is Mary Magdalene, and swirling in the sky above Jesus and the watching crowd's heads are a number of angels. Giotto depicts night and heaven through the use of a deep blue background in the fresco panel and use of stars in the otherwise blue ceiling. He was able to create depth and dimension through the use of incremental degrees of light and dark shades, the precursor to chiaroscuro. He also used light in a way to represent the divinity of people and angels from the Bible, as he did in other frescoes at Arena Chapel.\n\nThe Western tradition began properly in the 15th century, especially with depictions in illuminated manuscripts of the biblical night-time scenes of the Annunciation to the Shepherds in the Nativity story, and the Arrest of Christ and Agony in the Garden in the Passion of Christ.\n\nIn the book of miniatures, Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry, the scene of \"Christ in Gethsemane\" is an apcolyptic one which foretells the death of Christ, through the presence of three comets in the evening sky.\n\n\"Niccolò Mauruzi da Tolentino at the Battle of San Romano\" is one of a three painting series that captures the Battle of San Romano. The passage of time, from dawn to evening, is illustrated in the three paintings with the initial use of pale, pastel shades and increasingly darker tones as the battle progresses.\n\nInfluenced by a vision of Saint Bridget of Sweden (1303–1373), Geertgen tot Sint Jans's \"Nativity at Night\" depicts the infant Jesus who \"radiated such an ineffable light and splendour, that the sun was not comparable to it, nor did the candle that St. Joseph had put there, give any light at all, the divine light totally annihilating the material light of the candle.\" Strengthening the message about the baby Jesus being the light source, Geertgen depicts the child as the only source of illumination for the main scene inside the stable. Aglow are the faces of the angels, St Joseph and Virgin Mary. Although the shepherds' fire on the hill behind and the angel outside the window create a light source, it's dim in comparison to that provided by the infant child. The sharp contrast of the divine light against dark is a tool used to make the scene appear more profound for its viewers. London's National Gallery describes Geertgen's work as: \"one of the most engaging and convincing early treatments of the Nativity as a night scene.\n\nIn the still of the night, the only source of light radiates in \"Annunciation to the Shepherds\" comes from an angel who has come to tell the shepherds of the birth of the infant Christ. The light is so brilliant that the Bethlehem shepherds must shield their eyes. Aside from the startling angel, the nocturnal painting is a pleasant, still pastoral scene with a group of angels in the distance.\n\nDosso Dossi (c. 1490 – 1542), was an Italian Renaissance painter who belonged to the Ferrara School of Painting.\n\nAlbrecht Altdorfer (c. 1480 – 12 February 1538) was a German painter, engraver and architect of the Renaissance of the so-called Danube School setting biblical and historical subjects against landscape backgrounds of expressive colours.\n\nGiuseppe Cesari (c. 1568 – 3 July 1640) was an Italian Mannerist painter and instructor to Caravaggio.\n\nEarly Baroque artist Adam Elsheimer created night scenes that were highly original. His works departed slightly from other works of the Baroque period were dramatic and abundantly detailed. Baroque paintings featured \"exaggerated lighting, intense emotions, release from restraint, and even a kind of artistic sensationalism\". Elsheimer's lighting effects in general were very subtle, and very different from those of Caravaggio. He often uses as many as five different sources of light, and graduates the light relatively gently, with the less well-lit parts of the composition often containing important parts of it. \n\nMichelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio was an Italian artist active between 1593 and 1610. His paintings, which combine a realistic observation of the human state, both physical and emotional, with a dramatic use of lighting, had a formative influence on the Baroque school of painting. Caravaggio's novelty was a radical naturalism that combined close physical observation with a dramatic, even theatrical, use of chiaroscuro. This came to be known as Tenebrism, the shift from light to dark with little intermediate value.\n\nGeorges de La Tour was a French Baroque painter who painted mostly religious chiaroscuro scenes lit by candlelight, which were more developed than his artistic predecessors, yet lacked dramatic effects of Caravaggio. He created some of the most arresting works in this genre, portraying a wide range of scenes by candlelight from card games to New Testament narratives.\n\nThe Dutch Golden Age painter Aert van der Neer was a landscape painter, specializing in small night scenes lit only by moonlight and fires, and snowy winter landscapes, both often looking down a canal or river.\n\nAnthony van Dyck (22 March 1599 – 9 December 1641) was a Flemish Baroque artist and leading court painter in England.\n\nJoseph Mallord William Turner (23 April 1775 – 19 December 1851) was an English Romantic landscape painter, who is commonly known as \"the painter of light\".\n\nClaude-Joseph Vernet (14 August 1714 – 3 December 1789) was a French painter whose landscapes, including those of moonlights were popular with English aristocrats. His \"The Port of Rochefort\" (1763, Musée national de la Marine) is particularly notable; in the piece Vernet is able to achieve, according to art historian Michael Levey, one of his most 'crystalline and atmospherically sensitive skies'.\n\nJoseph Wright of Derby (3 September 1734 – 29 August 1797) was an English landscape and portrait painter who is notable for his use of Chiaroscuro effect, which emphasises the contrast of light and dark, and for his paintings of candle-lit subjects. Wright is seen at his best in his candlelit subjects. The \"Three Gentlemen observing the 'Gladiator'\" (1765). \"A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery\" shows an early mechanism for demonstrating the movement of the planets around the sun. \"An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump\" (1768) shows people gathered round observing an early experiment into the nature of air and its ability to support life.\n\nThese factual paintings are considered to have metaphorical meaning too, the bursting into light of the phosphorus in front of a praying figure signifying the problematic transition from faith to scientific understanding and enlightenment, and the various expressions on the figures around the bird in the air pump indicating concern over the possible inhumanity of the coming age of science.\n\nThéodore Géricault (26 September 1791 – 26 January 1824) was an influential French artist and one of the pioneers of the Romantic movement.\n\nAtkinson Grimshaw (6 September 1836 – 13 October 1893) was a Victorian-era artist known for his city night-scenes and landscapes. His careful painting and skill in lighting effects meant that he captured both the appearance and the mood of a scene in minute detail. His \"paintings of dampened gas-lit streets and misty waterfronts conveyed an eerie warmth as well as alienation in the urban scene.\"\n\n\"On Hampstead Hill\" is considered one of Grimshaw's finest works, exemplifying his skill with a variety of light sources, in capturing the mood of the passing of twilight into night. In his later career his urban scenes under twilight or yellow streetlighting were popular with his middle-class patrons.\n\nIn the 1880s, Grimshaw maintained a London studio in Chelsea, not far from the studio of James Abbott McNeill Whistler. After visiting Grimshaw, Whistler remarked that \"I considered myself the inventor of Nocturnes until I saw Grimmy's moonlit pictures.\" Unlike Whistler's Impressionistic night scenes Grimshaw worked in a realistic vein: \"sharply focused, almost photographic,\" his pictures innovated in applying the tradition of rural moonlight images to the Victorian city, recording \"the rain and mist, the puddles and smoky fog of late Victorian industrial England with great poetry.\"\n\nPetrus van Schendel (1806–1870) was a Dutch Romantic painter, etcher and draughtsman. Van Schendel specialised in nocturnal Dutch market scenes, exploring the effects the soft light had upon his subjects, as a result he was named Monsieur Chandelle by the French. Van Schendel was inspired by these famous forebears, but brought a unique nineteenth century mood to his night scenes. He eloquently captured the mysterious world of city markets illuminated by lamps and moonlight before the dawn.\n\nJames Abbott McNeill Whistler (11 July 1834 – 17 July 1903) was an American-born, British-based artist.\nWhistler's ill-advised journey in 1866 to Valparaíso, Chile, resulted in Whistler's first three nocturnal paintings—which he termed \"moonlights\" and later re-titled as \"nocturnes\"—night scenes of the harbor painted with a blue or light green palette. Later in London, he painted several more nocturnes over the next ten years, many of the River Thames and of Cremorne Gardens, a pleasure park famous for its frequent fireworks displays, which presented a novel challenge to paint. In his maritime nocturnes, Whistler used highly thinned paint as a ground with lightly flicked color to suggest ships, lights, and shore line. Some of the Thames paintings also show compositional and thematic similarities with the Japanese prints of Hiroshige.\n\nIn 1877 Whistler sued the art critic John Ruskin for libel after the critic condemned his painting \"\". Ruskin accused Whistler of \"asking two hundred guineas for throwing a pot of paint in the public's face.\" Whistler won the suit, but was awarded one farthing for damages. The cost of the case bankrupted him. It has been suggested John Ruskin suffered from CADASIL and the visual disturbances this condition caused him might have been a factor in his irritation at this particular painting. Whistler published his account of the trial in the pamphlet Whistler v. Ruskin: Art and Art Critics, included in his later \"The Gentle Art of Making Enemies\" (1890).\n\n\"The Night Watch\" or \"The Shooting Company of Frans Banning Cocq\" by Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn is one of the most famous paintings in the world. One of its key elements is the effective use of light and shadow (chiaroscuro). Made in 1642, it depicts the eponymous company moving out, led by Captain Frans Banning Cocq (dressed in black, with a red sash) and his lieutenant, Willem van Ruytenburch (dressed in yellow, with a white sash). With effective use of sunlight and shade, Rembrandt leads the eye to the three most important characters among the crowd, the two gentlemen in the centre (from whom the painting gets its original title), and the small girl in the centre left background.\n\nFor much of its existence, the painting was coated with a dark varnish which gave the incorrect impression that it depicted a night scene, leading to the name by which it is now commonly known. The heavy varnish was only discovered in the 1940s and restoration began after 1975.\n\n\"The Third of May 1808\" by Spanish painter Francisco Goya commemorates Spanish resistance to Napoleon's armies during the occupation of 1808 in the Peninsular War. The painting's content, presentation, and emotional force secure its status as a groundbreaking, archetypal image of the horrors of war. Although it draws on many sources from both high and popular art, \"The Third of May 1808\" marks a clear break from convention. Diverging from the traditions of Christian art and traditional depictions of war, it has no distinct precedent, and is acknowledged as one of the first paintings of the modern era. According to the art historian Kenneth Clark, \"The Third of May 1808\" is \"the first great picture which can be called revolutionary in every sense of the word, in style, in subject, and in intention\".\n\nIt is set in the early hours of the morning following the uprising and centers on two masses of men: one a rigidly poised firing squad, the other a disorganized group of captives held at gun point. Executioners and victims face each other abruptly across a narrow space; according to Kenneth Clark, \"by a stroke of genius [Goya] has contrasted the fierce repetition of the soldiers' attitudes and the steely line of their rifles, with the crumbling irregularity of their target.\" A square lantern situated on the ground between the two groups throws a dramatic light on the scene. The brightest illumination falls on the huddled victims to the left, whose numbers include a monk or friar in prayer. The central figure is the brilliantly lit man kneeling amid the bloodied corpses of those already executed, his arms flung wide in either appeal or defiance.\n\nThe painting is structurally and thematically tied to traditions of martyrdom in Christian art, as exemplified in the dramatic use of chiaroscuro, and the appeal to life juxtaposed with the inevitability of imminent execution. However, Goya's painting departs from this tradition. Works that depicted violence, such as those by Jusepe de Ribera, feature an artful technique and harmonious composition which anticipate the \"crown of martyrdom\" for the victim.\n\nThe lantern as a source of illumination in art was widely used by Baroque artists, and perfected by Caravaggio. Traditionally a dramatic light source and the resultant chiaroscuro were used as metaphors for the presence of God. Illumination by torch or candlelight took on religious connotations; but in \"The Third of May\" the lantern manifests no such miracle. Rather, it affords light only so that the firing squad may complete its grim work, and provides a stark illumination so that the viewer may bear witness to wanton violence. The traditional role of light in art as a conduit for the spiritual has been subverted.\n\n\"The Starry Night\", made by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh, depicts his memory of the view outside his sanitorium room window at Saint-Rémy-de-Provence (located in southern France) at night. Although Van Gogh was not very happy with the painting, art historian Joachim Pissarro cites \"The Starry Night\" as an exemplar of the artist's fascination with the nocturnal. One of Van Gogh's most popular pieces, the painting is widely hailed as his \"magnum opus\".\n\nEdward Hopper had a lifelong interest in capturing the effect of light on the objects it touched, including the nighttime effect of artificial, man-made light spilling out of windows, doorways and porches. \"Nighthawks\" was probably Hopper's most ambitious essay in capturing the night-time effects of man-made light. For one thing, the diner's plate-glass windows cause significant light to spill out onto the sidewalk and the brownstones on the far side of the street. As well, interior light comes from more than a single lightbulb, with the result that multiple shadows are cast, and some spots are brighter than others as a consequence of being lit from more than one angle. Across the street, the line of shadow caused by the upper edge of the diner window is clearly visible towards the top of the painting. These windows, and the ones below them as well, are partly lit by an unseen streetlight, which projects its own mix of light and shadow. As a final note, the bright interior light causes some of the surfaces within the diner to be reflective. This is clearest in the case of the right-hand edge of the rear window, which reflects a vertical yellow band of interior wall, but fainter reflections can also be made out, in the counter-top, of three of the diner's occupants. None of these reflections would be visible in daylight.\n\nIn his 1950 painting \"The Empire of Light,\" René Magritte (1898–1967), explores the illusion of night and day, and the paradox of time and light. On the top half of his canvas Magritte paints a clear blue sky and white clouds that radiate bright daytime; while on the bottom half of his canvas below the sky, he paints a street, sidewalk, trees and houses all steeped in the darkness of night. The darkened trees and darkened houses appear to be in nighttime shadows, in the middle of the night; and the sidewalk streetlight is on to guide the way. Some of the questions implied by these pictures include is it night-time? is it daytime? or is it just a painting? \"The Empire of Light\" is one of a series of paintings that René Magritte painted between 1950 and 1954 that explores his surrealist insight into illusion and reality, using night and day as his subject.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35200138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35200138", "title": "Nouvelle tendance", "text": "Nouvelle tendance\n\nNouvelle Tendance (New Tendency) was an art movement founded in Yugoslavia in 1961. The \"theoretician\" of the group was Serbian art critic Marko Mestrovich. The other original founders of Nouvelle Tendance were Brazilian painter Almir Mavignier, and Bozo Bek, the Croatian director of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Zagreb.\n\nThe Nouvelle Tendance was more accurately a reflection of common approaches used by artists in a variety of simultaneous movements worldwide, such as Concrete art, Kinetic art, and Op Art. The main consideration of the movement has been described as the \"problem of movement as conveyed through repetition\". The \"sensation of displeasure\" is provoked in some Nouvelle Tendance works, to \"stimulate a more active field of vision\" and interest the spectator in an \"auto-creative process\".\n\nDistinct self-identified groups of artists who became associated with Nouvelle Tendance included GRAV, Gruppo T, Gruppo N, and Zero. The movement attracted artists from France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain. International artists participated in a series of exhibits at European galleries.\n\nThis group should not be confused with an early 20th century circle of Paris-based artists who operated briefly under the name \"Tendances nouvelles\" and held an exhibition in 1904; founding members included Alice Dannenberg and Martha Stettler.\n\n"}
{"id": "7603861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7603861", "title": "Old master print", "text": "Old master print\n\nAn old master print is a work of art produced by a printing process within the Western tradition. The term remains current in the art trade, and there is no easy alternative in English to distinguish the works of \"fine art\" produced in printmaking from the vast range of decorative, utilitarian and popular prints that grew rapidly alongside the artistic print from the 15th century onwards. Fifteenth-century prints are sufficiently rare that they are classed as old master prints even if they are of crude or merely workmanlike artistic quality. A date of about 1830 is usually taken as marking the end of the period whose prints are covered by this term.\n\nThe main techniques used, in order of their introduction, are woodcut, engraving, etching, mezzotint and aquatint, although there are others. Different techniques are often combined in a single print. With rare exceptions printed on textiles, such as silk, or on vellum, old master prints are printed on paper. This article is concerned with the artistic, historical and social aspects of the subject; the article on printmaking summarizes the techniques used in making old master prints, from a modern perspective.\n\nMany great European artists, such as Albrecht Dürer, Rembrandt, and Francisco Goya, were dedicated printmakers. In their own day, their international reputations largely came from their prints, which were spread far more widely than their paintings. Influences between artists were also mainly transmitted beyond a single city by prints (and sometimes drawings), for the same reason. Prints therefore are frequently brought up in detailed analyses of individual paintings in art history. Today, thanks to colour photo reproductions, and public galleries, their paintings are much better known, whilst their prints are only rarely exhibited, for conservation reasons. But some museum print rooms allow visitors to see their collection, sometimes only by appointment.\n\nThe oldest technique is woodcut, or woodblock printing, which was invented as a method for printing on cloth in China, and perhaps separately in Egypt in the Byzantine period. This had reached Europe via the Byzantine or Islamic worlds before 1300, as a method of printing patterns on textiles. Paper arrived in Europe, also from China via Islamic Spain, slightly later, and was being manufactured in Italy by the end of the thirteenth century, and in Burgundy and Germany by the end of the fourteenth. Religious images and playing cards are documented as being produced on paper, probably printed, by a German in Bologna in 1395. However, the most impressive printed European images to survive from before 1400 are printed on cloth, for use as hangings on walls or furniture, including altars and lecterns. Some were used as a pattern to embroider over. Some religious images were used as bandages, to speed healing.\n\nThe earliest print images are mostly of a high artistic standard, and were clearly designed by artists with a background in painting (on walls, panels or manuscripts). Whether these artists cut the blocks themselves, or only inked the design on the block for another to carve, is not known. During the fifteenth century the number of prints produced greatly increased as paper became freely available and cheaper, and the average artistic level fell, so that by the second half of the century the typical woodcut is a relatively crude image. The great majority of surviving 15th-century prints are religious, although these were probably the ones more likely to survive. Their makers were sometimes called \"Jesus maker\" or \"saint-maker\" in documents. As with manuscript books, monastic institutions sometimes produced, and often sold, prints. No artists can be identified with specific woodcuts until towards the end of the century.\n\nThe little evidence we have suggests that woodcut prints became relatively common and cheap during the fifteenth century, and were affordable by skilled workers in towns. For example, what may be the earliest surviving Italian print, the \"Madonna of the Fire\", was hanging by a nail to a wall in a small school in Forlì in 1428. The school caught fire, and the crowd who gathered to watch saw the print carried up into the air by the fire, before falling down into the crowd. This was regarded as a miraculous escape and the print was carried to Forlì Cathedral, where it remains, since 1636 in a special chapel, displayed once a year. Like the majority of prints before approximately 1460, only a single impression (the term used for a copy of an old master print; \"copy\" is used for a print copying another print) of this print has survived.\n\nWoodcut blocks are printed with light pressure, and are capable of printing several thousand impressions, and even at this period some prints may well have been produced in that quantity. Many prints were hand-coloured, mostly in watercolour; in fact the hand-colouring of prints continued for many centuries, though dealers have removed it from many surviving examples. Italy, Germany, France and the Netherlands were the main areas of production; England does not seem to have produced any prints until about 1480. However prints are highly portable, and were transported across Europe. A Venetian document of 1441 already complains about cheap imports of playing cards damaging the local industry.\n\nBlock-books were a very popular form of (short) book, where a page with both pictures and text was cut as a single woodcut. They were much cheaper than manuscript books, and were mostly produced in the Netherlands; the \"Art of Dying\" (Ars moriendi) was the most famous; thirteen different sets of blocks are known. As a relief technique (see printmaking) woodcut can be printed easily together with movable type, and after this invention arrived in Europe about 1450 printers quickly came to include woodcuts in their books. Some book owners also pasted prints into prayer books in particular. Playing cards were another notable use of prints, and French versions are the basis of the traditional sets still in use today.\n\nBy the last quarter of the century there was a large demand for woodcuts for book-illustrations, and in both Germany and Italy standards at the top end of the market improved considerably. Nuremberg was the largest centre of German publishing, and Michael Wolgemut, the master of the largest workshop there worked on many projects, including the gigantic Nuremberg Chronicle. Albrecht Dürer was apprenticed to Wolgemut during the early stages of the project, and was the godson of Anton Koberger, its printer and publisher. Dürer's career was to take the art of the woodcut to its highest development.\n\nEngraving on metal was part of the goldsmith's craft throughout the Medieval period, and the idea of printing engraved designs onto paper probably began as a method for them to record the designs on pieces they had sold. Some artists trained as painters became involved from about 1450–1460, although many engravers continued to come from a goldsmithing background. From the start, engraving was in the hands of the luxury tradesmen, unlike woodcut, where at least the cutting of the block was associated with the lower-status trades of carpentry, and perhaps sculptural wood-carving. Engravings were also important from very early on as models for other artists, especially painters and sculptors, and many works survive, especially from smaller cities, which take their compositions directly from prints. Serving as a pattern for artists may have been a primary purpose for the creation of many prints, especially the numerous series of apostle figures.\n\nThe surviving engravings, though the majority are religious, show a greater proportion of secular images than other types of art from the period, including woodcut. This is certainly partly the result of the relative survival rates—although wealthy fifteenth-century houses certainly contained secular images on walls (inside and outside), and cloth hangings, these types of image have survived in tiny numbers. The Church was much better at retaining its images. Engravings were relatively expensive and sold to an urban middle-class that had become increasingly affluent in the belt of cities that stretched from the Netherlands down the Rhine to Southern Germany, Switzerland and Northern Italy. Engraving was also used for the same types of images as woodcuts, notably devotional images and playing cards, but many seem to have been collected for keeping out of sight in an album or book, to judge by the excellent state of preservation of many pieces of paper over five hundred years old.\nAgain unlike woodcut, identifiable artists are found from the start. The German, or possibly German-Swiss, Master of the Playing Cards was active by at least the 1440s; he was clearly a trained painter. The Master E. S. was a prolific engraver, from a goldsmithing background, active from about 1450–1467, and the first to sign his prints with a monogram in the plate. He made significant technical developments, which allowed more impressions to be taken from each plate. Many of his faces have a rather pudding-like appearance, which reduces the impact of what are otherwise fine works. Much of his work still has great charm, and the secular and comic subjects he engraved are almost never found in the surviving painting of the period. Like the Otto prints in Italy, much of his work was probably intended to appeal to women.\n\nThe first major artist to engrave was Martin Schongauer (c. 1450–1491), who worked in southern Germany and was also a well-known painter. His father and brother were goldsmiths, so he may well have had experience with the burin from an early age. His 116 engravings have a clear authority and beauty and became well known in Italy as well as northern Europe, as well as much copied by other engravers. He also further developed engraving technique, in particular refining cross-hatching to depict volume and shade in a purely linear medium.\n\nThe other notable artist of this period is known as the Housebook Master. He was a highly talented German artist who is also known from drawings, especially the Housebook album from which he takes his name. His prints were made exclusively in drypoint, scratching his lines on the plate to leave a much shallower line than an engraver's burin would produce; he may have invented this technique. Consequently, only a few impressions could be produced from each plate—perhaps about twenty—although some plates were reworked to prolong their life. Despite this limitation, his prints were clearly widely circulated, as many copies of them exist by other printmakers. This is highly typical of admired prints in all media until at least 1520; there was no enforceable concept of anything like copyright. Many of the Housebook Master's print compositions are only known from copies, as none of the presumed originals have survived — a very high proportion of his original prints are only known from a single impression. The largest collection of his prints is at Amsterdam; these were probably kept as a collection, perhaps by the artist himself, from around the time of their creation.\nIsrahel van Meckenam was an engraver from the borders of Germany and the Netherlands, who probably trained with Master ES, and ran the most productive workshop for engravings of the century between about 1465 and 1503. He produced over 600 plates, most copies of other prints, and was more sophisticated in self-presentation, signing later prints with his name and town, and producing the first print self-portrait of himself and his wife. Some plates seem to have been reworked more than once by his workshop, or produced in more than one version, and many impressions have survived, so his ability to distribute and sell his prints was evidently sophisticated. His own compositions are often very lively, and take a great interest in the secular life of his day.\n\nPrintmaking in woodcut and engraving both appeared in Northern Italy within a few decades of their invention north of the Alps, and had similar uses and characters, though within significantly different artistic styles, and with from the start a much greater proportion of secular subjects. The earliest known Italian woodcut has been mentioned above. Engraving probably came first to Florence in the 1440s; Vasari typically claimed that his fellow-Florentine, the goldsmith and nielloist Maso Finiguerra (1426–64) invented the technique. It is now clear this is wrong, and there are now considered to be no prints as such that can be attributed to him on anything other than a speculative basis. He may never have made any printed engravings from plates, as opposed to taking impressions from work intended to be nielloed. There are a number of complex niello religious scenes that he probably executed, and may or may not have designed, which were influential for the Florentine style in engraving. Some paper impressions and sulphur casts survive from these. These are a number of paxes in the Bargello, Florence, plus one in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York which depict scenes with large and well-organised crowds of small figures. There are also drawings in the Uffizi, Florence that may be by him.\n\nWhere German engraving arrived into a still Gothic artistic world, Italian engraving caught the very early Renaissance, and from the start the prints are mostly larger, more open in atmosphere, and feature classical and exotic subjects. They are less densely worked, and usually do not use cross-hatching. From about 1460–1490 two styles developed in Florence, which remained the largest centre of Italian engraving. These are called (although the terms are less often used now) the \"Fine Manner\" and the \"Broad Manner\", referring to the typical thickness of the lines used. The leading artists in the Fine Manner are Baccio Baldini and the \"Master of the Vienna Passion\", and in the Broad Manner, Francesco Rosselli and Antonio Pollaiuolo, whose only print was the \"Battle of the Nude Men\" (right), the masterpiece of 15th-century Florentine engraving. This uses a new zigzag \"return stroke\" for modelling, which he probably invented.\n\nA chance survival is a collection of mostly rather crudely executed Florentine prints now in the British Museum, known as the Otto Prints after an earlier owner of most of them. This was probably the workshop's own reference set of prints, mostly round or oval, that were used to decorate the inside covers of boxes, primarily for female use. It has been suggested that boxes so decorated may have been given as gifts at weddings. The subject matter and execution of this group suggests they were intended to appeal to middle-class female taste; lovers and cupids abound, and an allegory shows a near-naked young man tied to a stake and being beaten by several women.\n\nThe other notable early centre was Ferrara, from the 1460s, which probably produced both sets of the so-called \"Mantegna Tarocchi\" cards, which are not playing cards, but a sort of educational tool for young humanists with fifty cards, featuring the Planets and Spheres, Apollo and the Muses, personifications of the Seven liberal arts and the four Virtues, as well as \"the Conditions of Man\" from Pope to peasant.\n\nAndrea Mantegna who trained in Padua, and then settled in Mantua, was the most influential figure in Italian engraving of the century, although it is still debated whether he actually engraved any plates himself (a debate revived in recent years by Suzanne Boorsch). A number of engravings have long been ascribed to his school or workshop, with only seven usually given to him personally. The whole group form a coherent stylistic group and very clearly reflect his style in painting and drawing, or copy surviving works of his. They seem to date from the late 1460s onwards.\n\nIn the last five years of the fifteenth century, Dürer, then in his late twenties and with his own workshop in Nuremberg, began to produce woodcuts and engravings of the highest quality which spread very quickly through the artistic centres of Europe. By about 1505 most young Italian printmakers went through a phase of directly copying either whole prints or large parts of Dürer's landscape backgrounds, before going on to adapt his technical advances to their own style. Copying of prints was already a large and accepted part of the printmaking culture but no prints were copied as frequently as Dürer's.\n\nDürer was also a painter, but few of his paintings could be seen except by those with good access to private houses in the Nuremberg area. The lesson of how he, following more spectacularly in the footsteps of Schongauer and Mantegna, was able so quickly to develop a continent-wide reputation very largely through his prints was not lost on other painters, who began to take much greater interest in printmaking.\n\nFor a brief period a number of artists who began by copying Dürer made very fine prints in a range of individual styles. They included Giulio Campagnola, who succeeded in translating the new style Giorgione and Titian had brought to Venetian painting into engraving. Marcantonio Raimondi and Agostino Veneziano both spent some years in Venice before moving to Rome, but even their early prints show classicizing tendencies as well as Northern influence. The styles of the Florentine Cristofano Robetta, and Benedetto Montagna from Vicenza are still based in Italian painting of the period, and are also later influenced by Giulio Campagnola.\n\nGiovanni Battista Palumba, once known as \"Master IB with the Bird\" from his monogram, was the major Italian artist in woodcut in these years, as well as an engraver of charming mythological scenes, often with an erotic theme.\n\nPrints copying prints were already common, and many fifteenth century prints must have been copies of paintings, but not intended to be seen as such, but as images in their own right. Mantegna's workshop produced a number of engravings copying his \"Triumph of Caesar\" (now Hampton Court Palace), or drawings for it, which were perhaps the first prints intended to be understood as depicting paintings—called \"reproductive prints\". With an increasing pace of innovation in art, and of a critical interest among a non-professional public, reliable depictions of paintings filled an obvious need. In time this demand was almost to smother the old master print.\n\nDürer never copied any of his paintings directly into prints, although some of his portraits base a painting and a print on the same drawing, which is very similar. The next stage began when Titian in Venice, and Raphael in Rome, almost simultaneously began to collaborate with printmakers to make prints to their designs. Titian at this stage worked with Domenico Campagnola and others on woodcuts, whilst Raphael worked with Raimondi on engravings, for which many of Raphael's drawings survive. Rather later, the paintings done by the School of Fontainebleau were copied in etchings, apparently in a brief organised programme including many of the painters themselves.\n\nThe Italian partnerships were artistically and commercially successful, and inevitably attracted other printmakers who simply copied paintings independently to make wholly reproductive prints. Especially in Italy, these prints, of greatly varying quality, came to dominate the market and tended to push out original printmaking, which declined noticeably from about 1530–40 in Italy. By now some publisher/dealers had become important, especially Dutch and Flemish operators like Philippe Galle and Hieronymus Cock, developing networks of distribution that were becoming international, and much work was commissioned by them. The effect of the development of the print-selling trade is a matter of scholarly controversy, but there is no question that by the mid-century the rate of original printmaking in Italy had declined considerably from that of a generation earlier, if not as precipitously as in Germany.\n\nAlthough no artist anywhere from 1500 to 1550 could ignore Dürer, several artists in his wake had no difficulty maintaining highly distinctive styles, often with little influence from him. Lucas Cranach the Elder was only a year younger than Dürer, but he was about thirty before he began to make woodcuts, in an intense Northern style reminiscent of Matthias Grünewald. He was also an early experimenter in the chiaroscuro woodcut technique. His style later softened, and took in the influence of Dürer, but he concentrated his efforts on painting, in which he became dominant in Protestant Germany, based in Saxony, handing over his very productive studio to his son at a relatively early age.\n\nLucas van Leyden had a prodigious natural talent for engraving, and his earlier prints were highly successful, with an often earthy treatment and brilliant technique, so that he came to be seen as Dürer's main rival in the North. However, his later prints suffered from straining after an Italian grandeur, which left only the technique applied to far less dynamic compositions. Like Dürer, he had a \"flirtation\" with etching, but on copper rather than iron. His Dutch successors for some time continued to be heavily under the spell of Italy, which they took most of the century to digest.\n\nAlbrecht Altdorfer produced some Italianate religious prints, but he is most famous for his very Northern landscapes of drooping larches and firs, which are highly innovative in painting as well as prints. He was among the most effective early users of the technique of etching, recently invented as a printmaking technique by Daniel Hopfer, an armourer from Augsburg. Neither Hopfer nor the other members of his family who continued his style were trained or natural artists, but many of their images have great charm, and their \"ornament prints\", made essentially as patterns for craftsmen in various fields, spread their influence widely.\n\nHans Burgkmair from Augsburg, Nuremberg's neighbour and rival, was slightly older than Dürer, and had a parallel career in some respects, training with Martin Schongauer before apparently visiting Italy, where he formed his own synthesis of Northern and Italian styles, which he applied in painting and woodcut, mostly for books, but with many significant \"single-leaf\" (i.e. individual) prints. He is now generally credited with inventing the coloured chiaroscuro (coloured) woodcut. Hans Baldung was Dürer's pupil, and was left in charge of the Nuremberg workshop during Dürer's second Italian trip. He had no difficulty in maintaining a highly personal style in woodcut, and produced some very powerful images. Urs Graf was a Swiss mercenary and printmaker, who invented the white-line woodcut technique, in which his most distinctive prints were made.\n\nThe Little Masters is a term for a group of several printmakers, who all produced very small finely detailed engravings for a largely bourgeois market, combining in miniature elements from Dürer and from Marcantonio Raimondi, and concentrating on secular, often mythological and erotic, rather than on religious themes. The most talented were the brothers Bartel Beham and the longer-lived Sebald Beham. Like Georg Pencz, they came from Nuremberg and were expelled by the council for atheism for a period. The other principal member of the group was Heinrich Aldegrever, a convinced Lutheran with Anabaptist leanings, who was perhaps therefore forced to spend much of his time producing ornament prints.\n\nAnother convinced Protestant, Hans Holbein the Younger, spent most of his adult career in England, then and for long after too primitive as both a market and in technical assistance to support fine printmaking. Whilst the famous blockcutter Hans Lützelburger was alive, he created from Holbein's designs the famous small woodcut series of the \"Dance of Death\". Another Holbein series, of ninety-one Old Testament scenes, in a much simpler style, was the most popular of attempts by several artists to create Protestant religious imagery. Both series were published in Lyon in France by a German publisher, having been created in Switzerland.\n\nAfter the deaths of this very brilliant generation, both the quality and quantity of German original printmaking suffered a strange collapse; perhaps it became impossible to sustain a convincing Northern style in the face of overwhelming Italian productions in a \"commoditized\" Renaissance style. The Netherlands now became more important for the production of prints, which would remain the case until the late 18th century.\n\nSome Italian printmakers went in a very different direction to either Raimondi and his followers, or the Germans, and used the medium for experimentation and very personal work. Parmigianino produced some etchings himself, and also worked closely with Ugo da Carpi on chiaroscuro woodcuts and other prints.\n\nGiorgio Ghisi was the major printmaker of the Mantuan school, which preserved rather more individuality than Rome. Much of his work was reproductive, but his original prints are often very fine. He visited Antwerp, a reflection of the power the publishers there now had over what was now a European market for prints. A number of printmakers, mostly in etching, continued to produce excellent prints, but mostly as a sideline to either painting or reproductive printmaking. They include Battista Franco, Il Schiavone, Federico Barocci and Ventura Salimbeni, who only produced nine prints, presumably because it did not pay. Annibale Carracci and his cousin Ludovico produced a few influential etchings, while Annibale's brother Agostino engraved. Both brothers influenced Guido Reni and other Italian artists of the full Baroque period in the next century.\n\nThe Italian artists known as the School of Fontainebleau were hired in the 1530s by King Francis I of France to decorate his showpiece Chateau at Fontainebleau. In the course of the long project, etchings were produced, in unknown circumstances but apparently in Fontainebleau itself and mostly in the 1540s, mostly recording wall-paintings and plasterwork in the Chateau (much now destroyed). Technically they are mostly rather poor—dry and uneven—but the best powerfully evoke the strange and sophisticated atmosphere of the time. Many of the best are by Leon Davent to designs by Primaticcio, or Antonio Fantuzzi. Several of the artists, including Davent, later went to Paris and continued to produce prints there.\n\nPreviously the only consistent printmaker of stature in France had been Jean Duvet, a goldsmith whose highly personal style seems halfway between Dürer and William Blake. His plates are extremely crowded, not conventionally well-drawn, but full of intensity; the opposite of the languorous elegance of the Fontainebleau prints, which were to have the greater effect on French printmaking. His prints date from 1520 to 1555, when he was seventy, and completed his masterpiece, the twenty-three prints of the Apocalypse.\n\nCornelius Cort was an Antwerp engraver, trained in Cock's publishing house, with a controlled but vigorous style, and excellent at depicting dramatic lighting effects. He went to Italy and in 1565 was retained by Titian to produce prints of his paintings (Titian having secured his \"privileges\" or rights to exclusively reproduce his own works). Titian took considerable trouble to get the effect he wanted; he said that Cort could not work from the painting alone, so he produced special drawings for him to use. Eventually, the results were highly effective and successful, and after Titian's death Cort moved to Rome, where he taught a number of the most successful printmakers of the next generation, notably Hendrik Goltzius, Francesco Villamena and Agostino Carracci, the last major Italian artist to resist the spread of etching.\n\nGoltzius, arguably the last great engraver, took Cort's style to its furthest point. Because of a childhood accident, he drew with his whole arm, and his use of the swelling line, altering the profile of the burin to thicken or diminish the line as it moved, is unmatched. He was extraordinarily prolific, and the artistic, if not the technical, quality of his work is very variable, but his finest prints look forward to the energy of Rubens, and are as sensuous in their use of line as he is in paint.\n\nAt the same time Pieter Brueghel the elder, another Cort-trained artist, who escaped to paint, was producing prints in a totally different style; beautifully drawn but simply engraved. He only etched one plate himself, a superb landscape, the \"Rabbit Hunters\", but produced many drawings for the Antwerp specialists to work up, of peasant life, satires, and newsworthy events.\n\nMeanwhile, numerous other engravers in the Netherlands continued to produce vast numbers of reproductive and illustrative prints of widely varying degrees of quality and appeal—the two by no means always going together. Notable dynasties, often publishers as well as artists, include the Wierix family, the Saenredams, and Aegidius Sadeler and several of his relations. Philippe Galle founded another long-lived family business. Theodor de Bry specialised in illustrating books on new colonial areas.\n\nThe 17th century saw a continuing increase in the volume of commercial and reproductive printmaking; Rubens, like Titian before him, took great pains in adapting the trained engravers in his workshop to the particular style he wanted, though several found his demands too much and left. The generation after him produced a number of widely dispersed printmakers with very individual and personal styles; by now etching had become the normal medium for such artists.\n\nRembrandt bought a printing-press for his house in the days of his early prosperity, and continued to produce etchings (always so called collectively, although Rembrandt mixed techniques by adding engraving and drypoint to some of his etchings) until his bankruptcy, when he lost both house and press. Fortunately his prints have always been keenly collected, and what seems to be a high proportion of his intermediate states have survived, often in only one or two impressions. He was clearly very directly involved in the printing process himself, and probably selectively wiped the plate of ink himself to produce effects \"surface tone\" on many impressions. He also experimented continually with the effects of different papers. He produced prints on a wider range of subjects than his paintings, with several pure landscapes, many self-portraits that are often more extravagantly fanciful than his painted ones, some erotic (at any rate obscene) subjects, and a great number of religious prints. He became increasingly interested in strong lighting effects, and very dark backgrounds. His reputation as the greatest etcher in the history of the medium was established in his lifetime, and never questioned since. Few of his paintings left Holland whilst he lived, but his prints were circulated throughout Europe, and his wider reputation was initially based on them alone.\n\nA number of other Dutch artists of the century produced original prints of quality, mostly sticking to the same categories of genre they painted. The eccentric Hercules Seghers and Jacob van Ruysdael produced landscapes in very small quantities, Nicolaes Berchem and Karel Dujardin Italianate landscapes with animals and figures, and Adriaen van Ostade peasant scenes. None was very prolific, but the Italianate landscape was the most popular type of subject; Berchem had a greater income from his prints than his paintings.\n\nGiovanni Benedetto Castiglione grew up in Genoa and was greatly influenced by the stays there of Rubens and van Dyck when he was a young artist. His etching technique was extremely fluent, and in all mediums he often repeats the same few subjects in a large number of totally different compositions. His early prints include a number of bravura treatments of classical and pastoral themes, whilst later religious subjects predominate. He also produced a large series of small heads of exotically dressed men, which were often used by other artists. He was technically innovative, inventing the monotype and also the oil sketch intended to be a final product. He, like Rembrandt, was interested in chiaroscuro effects (contrasts of light and dark), using a number of very different approaches.\n\nJusepe de Ribera may have learned etching in Rome, but all his fewer than thirty prints were made in Naples during the 1620s when his career as a painter seems to have been in the doldrums. When the painting commissions began to flow again, he all but abandoned printmaking. His plates were sold after his death to a Rome publisher, who made a better job of marketing them than Ribera himself. His powerful and direct style developed almost immediately, and his subjects and style remain close to those of his paintings.\n\nJacques Bellange was a court painter in Lorraine, a world that was to vanish abruptly in the Thirty Years War shortly after his death. No surviving painting of his can be identified with confidence, and most of those sometimes attributed to him are unimpressive. His prints, mostly religious, are Baroque extravaganzas that were regarded with horror by many 19th century critics, but have come strongly back into fashion—the very different Baroque style of another Lorraine artist Georges de La Tour has enjoyed a comparable revival. He was the first Lorraine printmaker (or artist) of stature, and must have influenced the younger Jacques Callot, who remained in Lorraine but was published in Paris, where he greatly influenced French printmaking.\n\nCallot's technical innovations in improving the recipes for etching ground were crucial in allowing etching to rival the detail of engraving, and in the long term spelt the end of artistic engraving. Previously the unreliable nature of the grounds used meant that artists could not risk investing too much effort in an etched plate, as the work might be ruined by leaks in the ground. Equally, multiple stoppings-out, enabling lines etched to different depths by varying lengths of exposure to the acid, had been too risky. Callot led the way in exploiting the new possibilities; most of his etchings are small but full of tiny detail, and he developed a sense of recession in landscape backgrounds in etching with multiple bitings to etch the background more lightly than the foreground. He also used a special etching needle called an \"échoppe\" to produce swelling lines like those created by the burin in an engraving, and also reinforced the etched lines with a burin after biting; which soon became common practice among etchers. Callot etched a great variety of subjects in over 1400 prints, from grotesques to his tiny but extremely powerful series \"Les Grandes Misères de la guerre\". Abraham Bosse, a Parisian illustrative etcher popularized Callot's methods in a hugely successful manual for students. His own work is successful in his declared aim of making etchings look like engravings, and is highly evocative of French life at the middle of the century. \nWenzel Hollar was a Bohemian (Czech) artist who fled his country in the Thirty Years War, settling mostly in England (he was besieged at Basing House in the English Civil War, and then followed his Royalist patron into a new exile in Antwerp, where he worked with a number of the large publishers there). He produced great numbers of etchings in a straightforward realist style, many topographical, including large aerial views, portraits, and others showing costumes, occupations and pastimes. Stefano della Bella was something of an Italian counterpart to Callot, producing many very detailed small etchings, but also larger and freer works, closer to the Italian drawing tradition. Anthony van Dyck produced only a large series of portrait prints of contemporary notables, the \"Iconographia\" for which he only etched a few of the heads himself, but in a brilliant style, that had great influence on 19th century etching. Ludwig von Siegen was a German soldier and courtier, who invented the technique of mezzotint, which in the hands of better artists than he was to become an important, mostly reproductive, technique in the 18th century.\n\nThe last third of the century produced relatively little original printmaking of great interest, although illustrative printmaking reached a high level of quality. French portrait prints, most often copied from paintings, were the finest in Europe and often extremely brilliant, with the school including both etching and engraving, often in the same work. The most important artists were Claude Mellan, an etcher from the 1630s onwards, and his contemporary , whose combination of engraving and etching influenced many later artists. Robert Nanteuil was official portrait engraver to Louis XIV, and produced over two hundred brilliantly engraved portraits of the court and other notable French figures.\n\nThe extremely popular engravings of William Hogarth in England were little concerned with technical printmaking effects; in many he was producing reproductive prints of his own paintings (a surprisingly rare thing to do) that only set out to convey his crowded moral compositions as clearly as possible. It would not be possible, without knowing, to distinguish these from his original prints, which have the same aim. He priced his prints to reach a middle and even upper working-class market, and was brilliantly successful in this.\n\nCanaletto was also a highly successful painter, and though his relatively few prints are vedute, they are rather different from his painted ones, and fully aware of the possibilities of the etching medium. Piranesi was primarily a printmaker, a technical innovator who extended the life of his plates beyond what was previously possible. His \"Views of Rome\"—well over a hundred huge plates—were backed by a serious understanding of Roman and modern architecture and brilliantly exploit the drama both of the ancient ruins and Baroque Rome. Many prints of Roman views had been produced before, but Piranesi's vision has become the benchmark. Gianbattista Tiepolo, near the end of his long career produced some brilliant etchings, subjectless capricci of a landscape of classical ruins and pine trees, populated by an elegant band of beautiful young men and women, philosophers in fancy dress, soldiers and satyrs. Bad-tempered owls look down on the scenes. His son Domenico produced many more etchings in a similar style, but of much more conventional subjects, often reproducing his father's paintings.\n\nThe technical means at the disposal of reproductive printmakers continued to develop, and many superb and sought-after prints were produced by the English mezzotinters (many of them in fact Irish) and by French printmakers in a variety of techniques. French attempts to produce high quality colour prints were successful by the last part of the century, although the techniques were expensive. Prints could now be produced that closely resembled drawings in crayon or watercolours. Some original prints were produced in these methods, but few major artists used them.\n\nThe rise of the novel led to a demand for small, highly expressive, illustrations for them. Many fine French and other artists specialised in these, but clearly standing out from the pack is the work of Daniel Chodowiecki, a German of Polish origin who produced over a thousand small etchings. Mainly illustrations for books, these are wonderfully drawn, and follow the spirit of the times, through the cult of sentiment to the revolutionary and nationalist fervour of the start of the 19th century.\nGoya's superb but violent aquatints often look as though they are illustrating some unwritten work of fiction, but their meaning must be elucidated from their titles, often containing several meanings, and the brief comments recorded by him about many of them. His prints show from early on the macabre world that appears only in hints in the paintings until the last years. They were nearly all published in several series, of which the most famous are: \"Caprichos\" (1799), \"Los desastres de la guerra\" (\"The Disasters of War\" from after 1810, but unpublished for fifty years after). Rather too many further editions were published after his death, when his delicate aquatint tone had been worn down, or reworked.\n\nWilliam Blake was as technically unconventional as he was in subject-matter and everything else, pioneering a relief etching process that was later to become the dominant technique of commercial illustration for a time. Many of his prints are pages for his books, with text and image on the same plate, as in the 15th century block-books. The Romantic Movement saw a revival in original printmaking in several countries, with Germany taking a large part once again; many of the Nazarene movement were printmakers. In England, John Sell Cotman etched many landscapes and buildings in an effective, straightforward style. J. M. W. Turner produced several print series including one, the \"Liber Studiorum\", which consisted of seventy-one etchings with mezzotint that were influential on landscape artists; according to Linda Hults, this series of prints amounts to \"Turner's manual of landscape types, and ... a statement of his philosophy of landscape.\" With the relatively few etchings of Delacroix the period of the old master print can be said to come to an end. Printmaking was to revive powerfully later in the 19th and 20th centuries, in a great variety of techniques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1488146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1488146", "title": "Paragone", "text": "Paragone\n\nParagone (, meaning \"comparison\"), was a debate from the Italian Renaissance in which painting and sculpture (and to a degree architecture) were each championed as superior to - and therefore distinct from - the others. \n\nLeonardo da Vinci's treatise on painting, noting the difficulty of painting and supremacy of sight, is a noted example. Giorgio Vasari argues that drawing is the father of all arts, and as such, the most important one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2453966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2453966", "title": "Photo-referencing", "text": "Photo-referencing\n\nPhoto-referencing in visual art is the practice of creating art based on a photograph. Art produced through this technique is said to be photo-referenced.\n\nAlmost all artists will photo-reference at some point; even if not in their daily work, artists may photo-reference as part of their training, to improve their artistic eye.\n\nPhoto-referencing, rather than working with live models, is useful for cases in which an artist seeks to realistically produce a work of art based on some subject that is not readily available, such as specific person who is not there or a structure in another country.\n\nArtists may use a lightbox as an aid in photo-referencing.\n\nIn the comic book industry, photo-referencing is criticized by some as a technique used to disguise the weakness of the artist's technical capability. However, others feel that photo-referencing is a legitimate technique and that there is nothing wrong with it. Artists that have been charged with excessive photo-referencing by their critics include Greg Land and Alex Ross, though others defend the quality of their work. Award-winning comic creator Alison Bechdel also uses extensive photo reference, frequently photographing herself in the poses of the characters she draws in order to convey body language accurately.\n"}
{"id": "19092390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19092390", "title": "Powerhouse Arts District, Jersey City", "text": "Powerhouse Arts District, Jersey City\n\nThe Powerhouse Arts District is a historic warehouse district in Downtown Jersey City, New Jersey, United States, which takes its name from the unused generating station Hudson and Manhattan Railroad Powerhouse currently undergoing an extensive stabilization effort. This neighborhood was previously called \"WALDO\", an acronym for Work And Live District Overlay, but has since been renamed though is still occasionally used on maps and in local parlance. Part of what was once called the Horseshoe Section, the neighborhood's informal borders are Newport to the north, Exchange Place to the east, Paulus Hook to the south and Harsimus Cove to the west. \n\nThe landmarked Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company Warehouse is at Provost St. between 1st and Bay Sts (). The Pavonia-Newport, Harsimus Cove, and Harborside stations of the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail, and the Grove Street station of the PATH system are nearby.\n\nWALDO was the name of a planning strategy adopted into Jersey City zoning in 2002 per a proposal written by the Urban Land Institute, and was deleted from the zoning on January 24, 2007. As the name implies, the purpose was to most effectively re-use an eight block area of industrial buildings, and transition them to include more residences, without zoning them a purely residential use. Currently, most zoning codes do not allow industrial and residential uses to co-exist on the same lot. The district also aimed at retaining the high bulk, low rise industrial buildings which were threatened by development of high rise towers in the area.\n\nThe plan indicated that roughly half of the apartments built in the existing industrial buildings in the eight block neighborhood must go to artists. Under the district plan, two industrial buildings were renovated into loft apartments, and one new building, Waldo Lofts, was constructed. During the district's lifespan, there were several attempts to bring in more housing and studios for artists, to make the area more pedestrian friendly, and to bring in art schools or museums. There were also been proposals to turn the Powerhouse into residences, shops, galleries, and museum space.\n\nMost of the proposals for retail and gallery space never materialized or found tenants, and as a result the eight blocks of industrial buildings remain much the same as in 2002 when the district began. As well, the city approved new zoning for a large development on First Street which deviated from the district plan. New zoning is proposed for several other blocks. Most proposed developments are higher rise structures, and the majority of capital investment in the district favors high rise development. These factors led to WALDO being removed from the zoning ordinance.\n\nThe term Waldo has been used before the zoning plan was introduced. Waldo Avenue is named for Samuel Waldo who built and owned three attached brownstone homes located on the NW corner of Magnolia and Waldo Avenues. Today, the three structures still stand.The avenue which runs south from Newark Avenue to \"The Island\" a remnant outcropping of Bergen Hill, which in turn overlooks the Waldo Yards, originally used by the Pennsylvania Railroad Jersey City Branch, and now by Port Authority Trans Hudson mass transit trains.\n\n"}
{"id": "49699377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49699377", "title": "Qene", "text": "Qene\n\nQene also known as Säm əna Wärq is a unique style of poetry from Ethiopia that is rich and deep in meaning, which demands critical thinking and analysis of the poetry to understand its meaning. It demands having not only a strong Amharic, Tigrigna, or Ge’ez vocabulary, but also familiarity with the culture from where the particular poem originates or the background against which it was written.\n\nIt is believed that Saint Yared is the originator of Qəne. Since most of Saint Yared’s works are based on the Bible, thus it can be assumed that the Bible is the original source of Qəne composition. Some parts of the Bible such as the Psalms and the Song of Songs (Song of Solomon) are written in poetry form. Some books of the Bible such as the Song of Songs and the teachings (sermons) of Jesus use a lot of metaphorical and allegorical language similar to the Säm əna Wärq mode of Qəne. Saint Yared’s non-sparing use of the content and style of the Bible helped in making his compositions acceptable and popular. Some of his compositions are still used as prayers in their original form.\n\nAlthough Saint Yared was the earliest composer of Qəne, he does not appear to have set the forms and meters for the genre. There are, in fact, several possible candidates deemed responsible. One possibility lies with Qəne scholars during the reign of Emperor Eskender (1478-1494) - Hawira, Menkera, Eskendera, Poeskenedera and Abidira. Another explanation – commonly referred to as the Wadla claim – attributes it to an early 15th-century scholar from Wadla named Yohannəs Geblawi. And then there is the Gonj claim - attributing the deed to a certain Täwanäy who flourished after the 15th century. Täwanäy is alleged to have learned his Qəne alongside Wäldä Mariam from a certain Eliab, who in turn learned it from alongside Lehib from Sämrä Ab, who in turn learned it from Yohannəs Geblawi.\n\nOral traditions also mention a certain Däqä Est’ifa as the scholar responsible for setting the meters for Qəne. Däqä Est’ifa is alleged to have acquired seven crafts from Greece - six having to do with magic, and the seventh Qəne - and returned to Ethiopia during the reign of Emperor Bä'edä Mariam (1468-1478). He is then said to have taught the seventh craft to Prince Eskinder, Hawira, Menkera, Behur, and another Eskinder.\n\nDäqä Est’ifa was quite popular at his former pupil Emperor Eskinder's court. One tradition claims he seduced the Emperor's wife and used one of his other crafts to vanish with her. Shortly thereafter, the Emperor set fire to the house Däqä Est’ifa and the Empress were hiding in. However, Däqä Est’ifa allegedly used another of his crafts to again disappear with his lover - and is said to still roam the island.\n\nYohannəs Geblawi, in contrast to Däqä Est’ifa's worldly crafts, is said to have acquired his Qəne during a spiritual meditation. Yohannəs was born at Geblon in Wadla (Lasta), and flourished at the time of Emperor Zar'a Yacob (1434-1468). He and is said to have taught near Mount Tabor at Amara Saynt. Yohannes taught Qəne to the monk Aba Wäldä Gabriel, who in turn taught Sämrä Kristos (Sämrä Ab). Sämrä Kristos (Sämrä Ab) is said to have given Emperor Bä'edä Mariam (1468-1478) Qəne lessons. He also taught Lehib and Eliab, the latter of whom taught Qəne to Täwanäy and Dədəq Wäldä Mariam.\n\nEmperor Be'ede Mariam was so taken by the art of Qəne that he is said, on the advice of his teacher Sämrä Kristos, to have gone into a week-long meditation to determine its origin. The answer was revealed to him on the festival of the changing of water unto wine (Qana ZeGelila), when he composed the following Qəne by divine inspiration,\n\nAs Be'ede Mariam's Qəne was composed during a gathering (Gubae) at the festival of Qana ZeGelila, its form and meter has been known as Gubaʾe Qana. Sämrä Kristos was then said to have composed a Zäʾämlakəye Qəne, after which the Emperor composed a Mibäzhu Qəne - the tradition claims.\n\nOne tradition also claims Täwanäy as Däqä Est’ifa's student. However, Däqä Est’ifa flourished during the reign of Emperor Eskender - a period when third generation disciples of Yohannes Geblawi also taught. This casts into doubt the alleged role of Däqä Est’ifa as the originator of Qəne - as the line of Yohannes Geblawi would have precedence. Furthermore, the more than fifty years that span between Däqä Est’ifa and Täwanäy would make it hard to take the latter as a disciple. Moreover, other accounts put Täwanäy's time at the early 18th century.\n\nAccordingly, along the Qəne line of Yohannes Geblawi, Sämrä Ab taught Lehib and Eliab. Eliab, in turn, taught Dədəq Wäldä Mariam and Täwanäy. Tradition also holds that due to unfavorable conditions caused by the wars of Ahmad Gragn (mid-16th century), Dədəq Wäldä Mariam and Täwanäy formed two separate Qəne styles - the Wadla and the Gonj schools, respectively.\n\nAnother interesting tradition holds that both disciples made the trip to Däq Island to further their knowledge. While Dədəq Wäldä Mariam chanced upon mystical teachers that helped him further his Qəne, Täwanäy had no such luck. Instead, he fell into the carnal snares of mystical women who thwarted his many attempts to escape. When he turned into an eagle and tried to fly away, they would turn into pebbles and stone him. When he turned into a worm to wiggle his way off the island, they would turn into chickens and peck at him. He finally managed to escape by turning into a flea and attaching himself to a sack of Gesho leaves destined for sale on the mainland! Perhaps the notion of Täwanäy as the disciple of Däqä Est’ifa stems from his legendary exploits at Däq Island.\n\nThe same tradition claims that by the time Täwanäy escaped from Däq, he had only retained a fraction of what Eliab had taught him. Hence, the Gonj school of Qəne associated with Täwanäy stresses Qəne composition, but only fleetingly covers Ge'ez verb conjugation and syntax - whereas the Wadla school associated with Dədəq Wäldä Mariam teaches all these elements. The Wadla school was led by a succession of seven teachers - all with the title Dədəq - the last of whom was also named Dədəq Wäldä Mariam. He was succeeded by Ma'ibel Wäldä Hiwot (MeCha), who was then succeeded by Aleka Getahun (Gete Amoraw). The other disciple of Sämrä Kristos, Lehib, taught Qəne to Zetre Wengel - who was succeeded by Zikri. He was in turn succeeded by Bekuru, and followed by Yonathan, who taught ZeNebiyat and QaleAwadi. Qale Awadi was succeeded by Aleka Maru of Amhara Sayint, who then taught Aqabe Se'at Kabte of Gonder.\n\nNevertheless, the multiplicity of Qəne lines of transmission does not imply multiple origins for Qəne. Saint Yared remains to be held as the founder of Qəne. Moreover, the many schools of Qəne can be seen in parallel to the various types of musical notations (such as Bethleheme, Qome, WenChere, AChabre, Wadle and Tegulete schools) that developed out of Saint Yared's Deggwa.\n\nTraditionally any metrical verse with a rhyming scheme is defined as a poem, and since Qəne fulfills these requirements it can be considered to be a poem. However, while most poems have literal meaning, Qəne has to have a literal as well as a symbolic meaning by using the mode of Säm əna Wärq. One can say that all Qəne are poems, but not all poems can be Qəne. Qəne is different in that a profound idea can be veiled underneath an every-day idea through the mode of Säm əna Wärq (i.e. metaphorical representation). \nSince Qəne is sung as a hymn at a church service, one has to adhere to a standard metrical pattern. The different types of Qəne have their own metrical pattern. The measure for the types of Qəne is not only numbers of verse but the syllabic metrical pattern as well. Thus, even though a poem uses a mode of Säm əna Wärq, unless it follows a certain metrical pattern it can’t be classified as a Qəne.\n\nThe poem has two Wärq phrases, the former is about the harlot and the latter warns about being destroyed by promiscuity. Even with such complex mode of Säm əna Wärq, the author called it a poem and not a Qəne. Thus we can see that Qəne has a much complex character than a poem.\n\nMost Qənes are composed in Ge’ez, and most students at Qəne school start their education by learning the basics of the Gəʾəz language. Most Qənes are composed in Gəʾəz since Qəne rules regarding the Säm əna Wärq mode and metrical pattern are set up for the Gəʾəz language. But once we follow the right metrical pattern and rules of metaphor, one can compose Qəne in other languages. For Example in Amharic, Afaan Oromo, English …etc. This is evident in the advent of Guramayle Qəne (a blend of Gəʾəz and Amharic) and Amharic Qənes starting from the Gondarine Period (17th to 19th century)\nExample of Qene blending Gəʾəz, Amharic and English:\n3፡ Mäwädəs\n\nMeanings:\nFor the Säm, it is normal for people to rush towards a banquet hall where good food and drinks are being served. Comparatively, the BaläQəne(Qene Poet) advises his brothers (members of the MahəBärä Qədusan(MQ) organization) to rush towards the gates of the church where one can find food for the soul – words from the gospel and angelic voices of gratitude. In the second half, the BaläQəne recounts that without rain the farmer will lose all that he has planted. But observing the presence of rain clouds, the farmer will plant his seeds and when it rains all the plants will blossom. For the Wärq, the BaläQəne advises the MQ members to listen to the words of the gospel with love and humility. And the members are overjoyed because Patriarch Paulos, disregarding those advising him to close down the MQ association, allowed the association to continue doing its work.\n\nMost Qənes are differentiated by their metrical pattern and length of verse. There are also different types of Qəne which are differentiated by the particular usage of the Säm əna Wärq mode. Since Qəne is sung as a hymn at a church service, classifying Qənes according to the metrical pattern is commonplace. Accordingly, there are 9 major Qəne types. And since some of them have sub-types, we can say that there are 17 types of Qəne.\n\nThe Qəne type is determined by the quantity and length of the verses. Thus there are some Qənes which have the same quantity of verses but are classified as different types of Qəne because of the variation in the length of the verses. A student starts his Qəne education starting from the shorter Qənes and working up to the lengthy Qənes. Each Qəne stage uses the previous stage as a building block. When a student is able to compose all the different types of Qəne, he is said to \"Bet Molla\". When someone presents the full variety of Qənes he is said to have composed \"Mulu Bet\".\n\nGubaʾe Qana consists of two verses and symbolizes the divine and human nature of God. There are four types of Gubaʾe Qana differentiated by length of the verse (Short Gubaʾe Qana and long Gubaʾe Qana) and Zema mode ( Gəʾəz Gubaʾe Qana and ʾəzl Gubaʾe Qana). Some say that Gubaʾe Qana got its name by being presented on Tərr 12 – the commemoration of Qana zägälila (wedding in Cana of Galilee). Others say that it got its name by being presented at an assembly in a place called Qana in Showa. Still others say that the name is given to signify the flavor (Qana) of Qəne. The fact that there are only two verses makes it ideal for beginner students and all Qəne students take their first steps in the world of Qəne with the two verse Gubaʾe Qana.\n\nZäʾämlakəye consists of three verses and the zema mode is ʾəzl . The second verse is called Mändärdärya. According to some Qəne experts, the three verses symbolize the mystery of the Trinity. The name Zäʾämlakəye is derived from the fact that this type of Qəne is composed using the first line of Psalm 62 (“አምላኪየ አምላኪየ እገይስ ሀቤከ).\n\nJust like Zäʾämlakəye, Mibäzhu has three verses. The zema mode is ʾəzl and symbolizes the Trinity. The name Mibäzhu is derived from the fact that this type of Qəne is composed using the first line of Psalm 3 (እግዚኦ ሚበዝኁ እለ ይሳቅዩኒ).\n\nThere are two types of Wazema: Long Wazema (five verses with Araray zema mode) and Short Wazema(two verses). Some say Wazema is named as such because it is composed on the eve (wazema) of a major church holiday. Others say that the name is derived from a line in St. Yared’s chant “ዋይ ዜማ ሰማእኩ እመላእክት ቅዱሳን’’ . The long wazema is always composed on the eve of major church holidays.\n\nSəllase has six verses and the zema mode is ʾəzl . This Qəne genre symbolizes the 6 commands of the New Testament. The name is derived from the prayer of the 3 children thanking the god of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob ይትባረክ እግዚአብሔር አምላከ አበዊነ አምላከ አብርሃም አምላከ ይስሃቅ አምላከ ያዕቆብ.\n\nZäyəʾəze Qəne is usually presented in honor of a sovereign. The name is derived from the Psalm where it says “ይዕዜ ትስእሮ ለገብርከ”. There are two types of Zäyəʾəze: long Zäyəʾəze (five verses with Gəʾəz zema mode) and Short Zäyəʾəze (three verses with Araray zema mode). The Short Zäyəʾəze is also called sahləkä because it is usually presented with the psalm “ተሰሃለኒ እግዚኦ በከመ እበየ ሳህልከ”.\n\nThe word Mäwädəs is derived from the verb ወደሰ and denotes gratefulness. There are two types of Mäwädəs: fətah litä (eight verses with Araray zema mode) and kuləkəmu (nine verses). Fətah litä is so named because it is performed after Psalm 42 (“ፍታህ ሊተ እግዚኦ ወተበቀል በቀልየ”), while kuləkəmu is performed after Psalm 46 (ኩልክሙ አህዛብ ጥፍሁ እደዊክሙ).\n\nThis four verse Qəne is usually composed about the subject of the Holy Cross. According to the Zema mode, kəbər yəʾəti is classified into two: Gəʾəz kəbər yəʾəti and ʾəzl kəbər yəʾəti. The name kəbər yəʾəti is derived because it is performed after Psalm 149:9 (“ክብር ይእቲ ዛቲ ለከሉ ፃድቃኑ”).\n\nThere are two types of ʾət’anä mogär: Gəʾəz ʾət’anä mogär (seven verses) and ʾəzl ʾət’anä mogär (eleven verses). The first 4 verses of Gəʾəz ʾət’anä mogär and the first 6 verses of ʾəzl ʾət’anä mogär usually recount about the day’s festivity. The last 3 verses of Gəʾəz ʾət’anä mogär and the last 5 verses of ʾəzl ʾət’anä mogär are called ʿäsärä nəgus. The ʿäsärä nəgus is composed in honor of a sovereign or to praise or rebuke a public figure.\n\nThere are some well known traditions of Qəne such as Nät’äqa, Gəlbät’a, and Tämäst’o. The mastery of these Qəne traditions is the sign of the BaläQəne’s expertise of the genre and his placement at the summit of the Qəne world.\n\nAs the meaning of the term attests, this tradition signifies the taking away of verses but does not equate with stealing. Nät’äqa involves finishing off the verses of a Qəne as another person is reciting the beginning verses. This shows that the one who is doing the Nät’äqa already knows what the other composer was going to recite.\nExample: Emahoy Gälanäsh’s Nät’äqa of her father’s Qəne\n\nWhen the father was reciting\n\nAnd the daughter finished the Qəne by saying,\n\nThe amazed father then said,\n\nMeaning: When a strong horse gallops it is hard for the rider to restrain it.\n\nHidden Meaning: When Jesus took Peter and John with him to the top of Mount Tabor and showed them his transfiguration amongst Moses and Elijah, the disciples were overwhelmed and fell on the ground. The part about St Paul is referring to the Paul’s edict barring women from teaching in public.\n\nGəlbät’a involves taking someone’s Qəne creating a new Qəne by changing the message and rhyming scheme. For example, it is common to wish newlyweds to have a marriage like Abraham and Sarah. But another person can use Gəlbät’a and overturn the blessing by saying let your marriage be not like Abraham and Sarah. When asked why, one can say may the bride not be mentally anguished as Sarah was when Abraham had a child from Sarah’s Servant Hagar. On the other hand, a fearful Abraham gave away his wife to King Abemelek saying she was his sister – and this is a good reason to overturn the first blessing.\n\nThus, likewise, one can overturn the message of a Qəne being recited and create a whole new Qəne. Such practice will help open up new viewpoints of things we are accustomed to and help us list the advantages and disadvantages of a particular knowledge system.\n\nWhen composing Qəne, one is usually immersed in deep contemplation (Tämäst’o) and becomes oblivious to one’s surrounding. A well known example of such a deep contemplation is the story of the BaläQəne Kəflä Yohannəs who was active during the reign of Emperor Iyassu I (1674 – 1698). It is said that Kəflä Yohannəs lived a very humble life and was not popular among the luxury-seeking clergy of the court who were constantly at work to put a rift between him and the emperor. On one occasion, Kəflä Yohannəs, deep in contemplation, did not salute as the Emperor entered the Däbrä Bərhan Səllase Church with his entourage. The clergy were quick to point out Kəflä Yohannəs’ faux pas to the Emperor. Knowing that Kəflä Yohannəs meant no malice, the Emperor threw at him a gold nugget to rouse him from his meditation. Kəflä Yohannəs then approached the Emperor and composed the following Qəne:\n\nThe clergy were further disgraced when the Emperor rewarded Kəflä Yohannəs the gold nugget. Kəflä Yohannəs donated the gold nugget to the church.\n\n"}
{"id": "3516959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516959", "title": "Scottish folklore", "text": "Scottish folklore\n\nScottish folklore encompasses the folklore of the Scottish people from their earliest records until today. Folklorists, both academic and amateur, have published a variety of works focused specifically on the area over the years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1358956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358956", "title": "Scratchboard", "text": "Scratchboard\n\nSometimes referred to as scraperboard (especially in Great Britain), but usually called scratchboard in North America and Australia, is a form of direct engraving where the artist scratches off dark ink to reveal a white or colored layer beneath. Scratchboard refers to both a fine-art medium, and an illustrative technique using sharp knives and tools for engraving into a thin layer of white China clay that is coated with dark, often black India ink. There is also foil paper covered with black ink that, when scratched, exposes the shiny surface beneath. Scratchboard can be used to yield highly detailed, precise and evenly textured artwork. Works can be left black and white, or colored.\n\nModern scraperboard originated in the 19th century in Britain and France. As printing methods developed, scraperboard became a popular medium for reproduction because it replaced wood, metal and linoleum engraving. It allowed for a fine line appearance that could be photographically reduced for reproduction without losing quality. It was most effective and expeditious for use in single-color book and newspaper printing. From the 1930s to 1950s, it was one of the preferred techniques for medical, scientific and product illustration. During that time period, Virgil Finlay made very detailed illustrations, often combining scraperboard methods with traditional pen & ink techniques, and producing highly detailed artworks. In more recent years, it has made a comeback as an appealing medium for editorial illustrators of magazines, ads, graphic novels, and one of a kind pieces of fine art displayed in galleries and museums internationally.\n\nUnlike many drawing media, where the artist adds in the mid-tones and shadows, with scratchboard the artist is working by adding in the highlights. The artist can use a variety of tools to scratch away the black ink from the board and reveal more or less of the white clay that is underneath (see materials list below for tools). After black ink has been removed as desired the work may be considered complete, or subsequently be colored with watercolors, airbrush, ink, color pencil or acrylics. Transparent media are generally used to color scratchboard, as they fill in the white scratches without affecting the black ink left on the board. After an area has been colored it can be scratched again, revealing more of the white clay. Sometimes the artist will color and scratch several times to create subtle shading or color variations. This technique can yield a graphic image that can be very detailed. Artists that begin with a white clay-coated board will add their own ink to the surface, and then scratch away the ink in the same manner as described above. After completion, the artwork may be varnished to protect it against damage.\n\nScratchboard itself comes either with a paper (cardboard) backing, or a hardboard support. While the cardboard does have its uses, as it can be easily cut into size, the hardboard is much superior, giving greater stability to the work, being able to be corrected more often. It is more durable and easier to scratch into for cleaner, crisper details and lines. Several tools have been created specifically for scratchboard; however any sharp implement will do though a range of blades of different thicknesses allows the removal of more or less of the ink at will (see variety of tools listed below). Isopropyl Alcohol on a cotton swab or cotton ball, sandpaper and non-oily, fine, steel wool are also useful for removing large areas, and creating texture. Coloring scratchboard, black or white boards, can be done with many media applied with paint brush, air brush, and even cotton balls. Special scratchboard colored inks can be added to the white areas and then scratched again for additional highlights and volume for added dimension. While some artists choose to make their own scratchboards, most artists work on commercially available materials.\n\nSome of the tools professional scratchboard artists use for scratching through the ink include xacto blades, scalpel blades, tattoo needles, tips made by speedball (scratchboard tips #112 and 113), tips made by scratch-art brand, small fiberglass brushes, wire brushes, sandpaper, steel wool, parallel-line tool, ink erasers, and more! Various techniques such as hatching or stippling can be used to detail the image. The 14\" X 18\" scratchboard Sunflower And Silver by Diana Lee is an example of black scratchboard colored with transparent ink. An extreme close up lets the detail of the scratching be more easily seen.\n\nNotable contemporary illustrators who have worked in the scratchboard medium include David Klein, Michael McCurdy, Peter Blake, Virgil Finlay, John Schoenherr, Gary Houston,Peter Kuper and Scott McKowen.\n\nIn 2011, the International Society of Scratchboard Artists (ISSA) was launched to help promote scratchboard art as a fine art medium, as well as to help educate the public about the medium. The organization holds at least one annual exhibition dedicated exclusively to scratchboard art in a gallery or museum each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "22197912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22197912", "title": "Simpleton", "text": "Simpleton\n\nIn folklore, a simpleton is a person whose foolish actions are the subject of often-repeated stories. Simpletons are also known as noodles, fools, and gothamites. Folklore often holds, with no basis in fact, that certain towns or countries are thought to be home to large numbers of simpletons. The ancient Greeks told tales of stupid populations in Abdera and other cities; in Germany, men of Schilda are conspicuous in these stories; in Spain hundreds of jokes exist about the supposed foolishness of the people from Lepe; and in England, the village of Gotham in Nottinghamshire is reputed to be populated by simpletons. In Sri Lanka whole districts in the central, southern, and western provinces are credited with being the abode of foolish people. \n\nTales of simpleton behavior have often been collected into books, and early joke books include many simpleton jokes. In ancient Greece, Hierokles created such a collection. In England, the famous \"Joe Miller's Jests\" is highly inclusive of simpleton jokes. In Britain the Irish are often stereotyped as stupid and are the butt of An Englishman, an Irishman and a Scotsman jokes. Books of simpleton tales exist in Persia, Ireland, Turkey, Iceland, Japan, Sicily, and India. \n\nSimpleton tales are huge in number, but many of them share the same notions of simple-minded behavior. Many are repeated, with altered names, settings, characters, etc., in language after language and collection after collection. \n\nA very old such tale from England isThere was a man of Gotham that rode to the market with two bushels of wheat, and because his horse should not be damaged by carrying too great a burden, he was determined to carry the corn himself upon his own neck, and still kept riding upon his horse till he arrived at the end of his journey. Now I will leave you to judge which was the wisest, his horse or himself.\n\nA famous one from ancient Greece isA man's father having died, the son dutifully took the body to the embalmers. When he returned at the appointed time to take it, there happened to be a number of bodies in the same place, so he was asked if his father had any peculiarity by which his body might be recognised, and the simpleton replied, \"He had a cough.\"\n\nMythra (A character from Xenoblade Chronicles 2)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913128", "title": "Street painting", "text": "Street painting\n\nStreet painting, also known pavement art, street art, and sidewalk art, is the performance art of rendering artistic designs on pavement such as streets, sidewalks, and town squares with impermanent and semi-permanent materials such as chalk.\n\nThe origins of modern street painting can be traced to Britain. Pavement artists were found all over the United Kingdom and by 1890 it was estimated that more than 500 artists were making a full-time living from pavement art in London alone.\n\nThe British term for pavement artist is \"screever\". The term is derived from the writing style, often Copperplate, that typically accompanied the works of pavement artists since the 1700s. The term screever is most commonly cited as Shakespearean slang dating from around 1500.\n\nThe works of screevers often were accompanied by poems and proverbs, lessons on morality, and political commentary on the day’s events. They were described as \"producing a topical, pictorial newspaper of current event.\" They appealed to both the working people, who (on the whole) could not read or write, but understood the visual images; and to the educated members of the middle-classes who appreciated the moral lessons and comments. It was important for a screever to catch the eye of the ‘well to do’ and in turn attract the pennies donated for their efforts.\n\nStreet painters, (also called chalk artists) a name these performance artists are most commonly called in the United States are called \"I Madonnari\" in Italy (singular form: madonnaro or madonnara) because they recreated images of the Madonna. In Germany Strassenmaler (streets: straßen, painter: maler).\n\nThe Italian Madonnari have been traced to the sixteenth century. They were itinerant artists, many of whom had been brought into the cities to work on the huge cathedrals. When the work was completed, they needed to find another way to make a living, and thus often would recreate the paintings from the church onto the pavement. Aware of festivals and holy days held in each province and town, they traveled to join in the festivities to make a living from observers who would throw coins if they approved of the artist's work. For centuries, many Madonnari were folk artists, reproducing simple images with crude materials such as tiles, coal, and chalk. Others, such as El Greco, would go on to become household names.\n\nIn 1973, street painting was being promoted in Italy by the formation of a two-day festival in Grazie di Curtatone in the Province of Mantua.\n\nIn the 1980s, Kurt Wenner practiced '3-D pavement art', or one-point perspective art, otherwise known as anamorphic art, a 500-year-old technique, which appears in proper perspective only when viewed from a specific angle.\n\nThe first recorded street-painting competition and 'festival' was held in London in 1906.\n\nIn 1972 the first 'Italian' International Street Painting Competition was held in Grazie di Curtatone, Italy. It is part of festival celebrating the Assumption with the streets of the city being turned over to the festival.\n\nIn 1987, Wenner and Manfred Stader introduced street painting to Old Mission Santa Barbara, California.\n\nOne of the largest events in the United States is the Lake Worth Street Painting Festival, held in Lake Worth Florida. Started in 1994, it attracts 100,000 visitors over the weekend to see 250 works of art by over 400 artists.\n\nIn 1993, Rosy Loyola created Festival Bella Via in Monterrey, Mexico, which has launched several Mexican artists into the international street painting field. Within the years it has become the most important street painting festival in Latin America.\n\nStarted in 2002, The Denver Chalk Art Festival on Larimer Square, located in Downtown Denver, is a free two-day street-painting festival. More than 200 artists spend hours during the weekend turning the streets of Larimer Square, into a museum of chalk art. The Festival is produced by the Larimer Arts Association, a nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting arts awareness and education in Denver.\n\nIn 2008 Mark Wagner and 6,000 people (over 4,000 elementary school kids from Alameda, CA) set a Guinness World Record for the World's largest Pavement Art covering over 90,000 sq. ft. (8,361 sq. meters). A satellite photograph was taken of the artwork.\n\nIn 2010, the First International Street Painting Festival held in the United States was organized by Denise Kowal, president of the Avenida de Colores, Inc. 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation that produces the Sarasota Chalk Festival. More than 250 street painters attended the Halloween-themed festival of 2010 that featured street painters from around the world and ran for eight and a half days.\n\nIn 2011 the First International StreetArt was staged in Wilhelmshaven in Germany. The event is scheduled to return in August 2012.\n\nAt Sarasota's 2011 chalk festival Dutch artist Leon Keer and the team of Planet Streetpainting created the 3-D street painting of the Lego Terracotta Army. The chalk painting was inspired by Chinese Emperor Qin Shi Huang's Terracotta Army \"in honor of the arrival of Ego Leonard and to support his release out of his custody.\n\nIn July 2011, the 3-Way-Split Project produced the First Annual in Southend-on-Sea, Essex, United Kingdom. The city of Lake Worth Florida is cited as the source of inspiration, by the project director. Nine street artists from the United States came to Southend-on-Sea to support the launch of this new annual event. In 2012 the festival will be held on the second Saturday in September.\n\nIn August 2012 the Second International StreetArt was staged in Wilhelmshaven in Germany. 37 artists from all over the world traveled to Wilhelmshaven in Germany. Also the largest anamorphic pavement art 3-D streetpainting picture was built by: Gregor Wosik, Lydia Hitzfeld, Melanie Siegel, und Vanessa Hitzfeld.\n\nIn 2012, A company called We Talk Chalk, led by Creative Director Melanie Stimmell, and Remco Van Latum, introduced the art of 3-D street painting to countries such as Israel and Thailand. The city of Chiang Mai hosted their first street painting festival in March 2012. To celebrate the ninetieth anniversary of Tel Aviv suburb Ramat Hasharon, Israeli and 8 International artists from 'We Talk Chalk' used 3-D chalk drawings to transform Bialik Street into an urban art compound. The festival had as many as 50,000 visitors, including Israel’s President Shimon Peres who posed with paintings by Melanie Stimmell and Ruben Poncia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060750", "title": "Superimposition", "text": "Superimposition\n\nSuperimposition is the placement of one thing over another, typically so that both are still evident.\n\nIn graphics, superimposition is the placement of an image or video on top of an already-existing image or video, usually to add to the overall image effect, but also sometimes to conceal something (such as when a different face is superimposed over the original face in a photograph). \n\nThis technique is used in cartography to produce photomaps by superimposing grid lines, contour lines and other linear or textual mapping features over aerial photographs.\n\nSuperimposition of two-dimensional images containing correlated periodic grid structures may produce moiré patterns. Superimposition of two correlated layers comprising parallel lines or curves may give rise line moiré patterns. The movement of one of the layers results in a faster movement of the line moiré superimposition image. Such optical acceleration is known as moiré speedup (check for the formulas of optical speedup for curved patterns). When superimposing two identical layers comprising randomly spaced parallel lines, at a small angle or with a small scaling difference random line moiré patterns, namely line Glass patterns (after Leon Glass, 1969) appear. Similarly, when superimposing two identical layers of randomly scattered dots at a small angle or with a small scaling difference random dot Glass patterns, namely random dot moiré, appears. When one of the layers embeds complex shapes, such as sequences of symbols forming a text, and another layer contains parallel lines or curves, the superimposition image may give rise to magnified shapes, called shape moiré patterns.\n\nSuperimposition (SI) during sound recording and reproduction (commonly called overdubbing) is the process of adding new sounds over existing without completely erasing or masking the existing sound. Some reel-to-reel tape recorders of the mid 20th century provided crude superimposition facilities that were implemented by killing the high-frequency AC feed to the erase head while recording as normal via the read-write head.\n\n"}
{"id": "5024233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5024233", "title": "Tempestarii", "text": "Tempestarii\n\nIn medieval lore, Tempestarii were weather making magicians who dwelt amongst the common people and possessed the power to raise or prevent storms at will. For this reason, anyone reputed as a weather-maker was the subject of respect, fear, and hatred in rural areas.\n\nPerhaps the best known work on tempestarii was a 815 AD piece called \"On Hail and Thunder\" by a bishop, Agobard of Lyon.\n\nSome describe it as a complaint of the irreligious beliefs of his flock, as villagers resented paying tithes to the church, but freely paid a form of insurance against storms to village \"tempestarii\"; but, it was also noted, whenever a supposed weather-maker failed to prevent a storm, he or she would generally suffer the wrath of the populace, being victimised or killed.\n\nA closer examination of Agobard's writing shows that he actually argues against the existence of weather-witches, but acquiesces that the saints of God are able to cause these things by praying with faith. He is more concerned with his flock's misunderstanding that these \"witches\" are obtaining power from the devil, and subsequent eagerness to kill or curse anyone able to work miracles. His key argument is that anyone capable of \"raising a gale\" would be one who has faith in God, a Christian, not a witch, because witches are not able to do such things.\n\"Perhaps the ones who attribute the making of hail to men would say that Moses reached his staff up to heaven and in this sense the storm was sent by human agency. Certainly Moses, the servant of God, was good and righteous, but these people do not dare to say that the so-called ‘storm-makers’ are good and righteous, but rather evil and unrighteous, deserving of both temporal and eternal condemnation, nor are they servants of God, except perhaps by circumstance rather than willing service. For if there were men who could cause hail, in imitation of Moses, they would surely be servants of God, not servants of the devil; although the passages cited above show that neither servants of God nor those of the devil cause of hail, but only omnipotent God...\n\n...not like these half-faithful of ours, who, as soon as they hear thunder, or when there is a breath of light wind, say ‘a gale is raised’ and curse, saying, ‘Cursed be the tongue that did these things, and may it be dried up and now be cut off.’ Pray tell, whom are you cursing? A righteous man or a sinner? For a sinner, partly unbelieving like you, cannot raise a gale, as you put it, because he is not able to by his own strength, nor can he command evil angels (nor do evil angels even have power in these matters).\" \nAgobard of Lyons also referenced a related belief amongst his parishioners—a belief that \"tempestarii\" were in league with a mythical race of cloud-dwellers who came from a land named 'Magonia' (\"Land of Magic\", \"Land of Thieves\"). The Magonians were supposed to sail the skies in storm clouds; they would then pay Frankish \"tempestarii\" to summon up storms over farmlands, during which the Magonians could swoop down and steal the corn from the fields. On the particular occasion which prompted Agobard to write, several supposed Magonians had been taken prisoner by irate villagers shortly after a bad storm; the Bishop had been forced to intervene and debate with the villagers in order to save the prisoners' lives.\n\nDuring the witch hunts the belief in witches who could raise storms was not limited to the Tempestarii. Depending on a witch's preference, they were believed to cause tempests, hailstorms, and lightning. Witches struck homes and crops alike, sank ships, killed men and animals, and it was believed they took great delight in the process. Church authorities gave credence to the belief by stating that God permitted the Devil and witches to perform these acts as punishment for the wickedness of the world.\n\nSince ancient times around the world, the ability to control elements—including the raising of storms and causing rain—has been attributed to magicians, shamans, sorcerers, and witches. As early as 700 A.D., the Catholic Church prosecuted sorcerers for causing storms.\n\nThe most famous storm believed to be caused by witches was recorded in 1591 during the North Berwick Witch Trials. John Fian and his alleged coven of witches were accused of raising a sea storm to drown James VI and Queen Anne on their way from Denmark.\n\nOn the Tempestarii and Magonia see Valerie I. J. Flint, \"The Rise of Magic in Early Medieval Europe\", Princeton Univ. Press, 1991, p. 112.\n\nThe Catholic Church prohibited superstitious remedies against witchcraft such as storm raising because the remedies themselves were of pagan origin. Prayer, sacraments, and the invocation of the name of God were prescribed instead with the belief that a person who had strong faith in God, kept the commandments, and revered the rites of the Church would be immune from storms and tempests raised by malicious witches.\n\nBecause many peasants were reluctant to give up their superstitions as being false, the church also sanctioned remedies like the ringing of church bells, believed to drive storm devils away, and placing charms made from flowers consecrated on Palm Sunday in the crop fields. It was believed that if a storm did strike after the charm was placed, the owner's crops would be protected even if the surrounding land and crops were destroyed.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "19162979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19162979", "title": "The Blind Leading the Blind", "text": "The Blind Leading the Blind\n\nThe Blind Leading the Blind, Blind, or The Parable of the Blind () is a painting by the Netherlandish Renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, completed in 1568. Executed in distemper on linen canvas, it measures . It depicts the Biblical parable of the blind leading the blind from the Gospel of Matthew 15:14, and is in the collection of the Museo di Capodimonte in Naples, Italy.\n\nThe painting reflects Bruegel's mastery of observation. Each figure has a different eye affliction, including corneal leukoma, atrophy of globe and removed eyes. The men hold their heads aloft to make better use of their other senses. The diagonal composition reinforces the off-kilter motion of the six figures falling in progression. It is considered a masterwork for its accurate detail and composition. Copies include a larger version by Bruegel's son Pieter Brueghel the Younger, and the work has inspired literature such as poetry by Charles Baudelaire and William Carlos Williams, and a novel by Gert Hofmann.\n\nBruegel painted \"The Blind\" the year before his death. It has a bitter, sorrowful tone, which may be related to the establishment of the Council of Troubles in 1567 by the government of the Spanish Netherlands. The council ordered mass arrests and executions to enforce Spanish rule and suppress Protestantism. The placement of Sint-Anna Church of the village Sint-Anna-Pede has led to both pro- and anti-Catholic interpretations, though it is not clear that the painting was meant as a political statement.\n\nThe painting depicts a procession of six blind, disfigured men. They pass along a path bordered by a river on one side and a village with a church on the other. The leader of the group has fallen on his back into a ditch and, because they are all linked by their staffs, seems about to drag his companions down with him. A cowherd stands in the background.\n\nBruegel based the work on the Biblical parable of the blind leading the blind from Matthew 15:14, in which Christ refers to the Pharisees. According to art critic Margaret Sullivan, Bruegel's audience was likely as familiar with classical literature as with the Bible. Erasmus had published his \"Adagia\" two years before Bruegel's painting, and it contained the quotation \"\" (\"the blind leader of the blind\") by Roman poet Horace. Bruegel expands the two blind men in the parable to six; they are well dressed, rather than wearing the peasant clothing that typifies his late work. The first blind man's face is not visible; the second twists his head as he falls, perhaps to avoid landing face-first. The shinguard-clad third man, on his toes with knees bent and face to the sky, shares a staff with the second, by which he is being pulled down. The others have yet to stumble, but the same fate seems implied.\n\nThe faces and bodies of the blind men, and background detail including the church, are rendered in exceptionally fine detail. The backward-falling posture of the guide demonstrates Bruegel's mastery of foreshortening. Bruegel's settings tend to be fictional, but that of \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" has been identified as the village Sint-Anna-Pede, and the church as Sint-Anna Church.\n\nOne of four surviving Bruegel paintings in distemper, the work is a tüchlein, a type of light painting that uses tempera made from pigment mixed with water-soluble glue. This medium was widely used in painting and manuscript illumination before the advent of oil paint. It is not known from whom Bruegel learnt its use, but amongst those speculated are his mother-in-law, illuminator Mayken Verhulst; his teacher Pieter Coecke van Aelst; and painter and illuminator Giulio Clovio, with whom he resided in Italy and whom he helped paint miniatures in distemper. Due to the high perishability of linen cloth and the solubility of hide glue, tüchleins do not preserve well and are difficult to restore. \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" is in good condition and has suffered no more than some erosion, such as of a herdsman and some fowl in the middle ground. The grain of the linen canvas is visible beneath the delicate brushstrokes. The work is signed and dated \"\". The painting measures , the largest of 1568.\n\nThe austere tone is achieved through pigments in a colour scheme of mostly greys, greens, brownish-reds, and blacks. The diagonal movement of the bodies creates a dramatic tension in the foreground which is divided diagonally from the landscape background. The flat country features are distinctly Flemish, unlike in most of Bruegel's landscapes, in which he introduced foreign elements such as mountain ranges even into local scenery.\n\nIn contrast to earlier depictions of the blind as beneficiaries of divine gifts, Bruegel's men are stumbling and decrepit, and portrayed without sympathy. The eyeless figure would have been interpreted as a man who had suffered punishment for wrongdoing or fighting.\n\nBruegel painted with the empirical objectivity of the Renaissance. In earlier paintings the blind were typically depicted with eyes closed. Here, Bruegel gives each man a different ocular affliction, all painted with a realism that allowed identification of their conditions by later experts, though there is still some diagnostic disagreement. French anatomical pathologist Jean-Martin Charcot and anatomical artist Paul Richer published an early account, \" (\"The deformed and sick in art\"\", 1889), and French pathologist Tony-Michel Torrillhon followed with more research on Bruegel's figures in 1957. The first man's eyes are not visible; the second has had his eyes removed, along with the eyelids: the third suffers from corneal leukoma; the fourth atrophy of the globe; the fifth is either blind with no light perception, or photophobic; and the sixth has pemphigus or bullous pemphigoid. Charcot and Richer noted Bruegel's accuracy in portraying the blind men facing not forward but with their faces raised in the air, as they would have had to rely on their senses of smell and hearing.\n\nSixteenth-century Europe was undergoing many societal changes: the Protestant Reformation and its rejection of public religious imagery; Renaissance humanism and its emphasis on empiricism at the expense of religious faith; and the growth of the middle class amidst the rise of mercantilism. It was a time of rapid advances in learning and knowledge, and a move towards the empirical sciences—the age of the heliocentric theory of Copernicus and of Gutenberg's printing presses. The cartography of Ortelius influenced the painting of landscapes, and the advances Vesalius brought to the study of anatomy via the direct observation of dissected bodies, motivated artists to pay greater attention to the accuracy of the anatomy in their works.\n\nArt was now traded in open markets; artists sought to distinguish themselves with subjects different from traditional noble, mythological, and Biblical ones, and developed new, realistic techniques based on empirical observation. Classical literature provided precedents for dealing with \"low\" subjects in art. Genre art and its depiction of ordinary people and everyday life emerged against this background.\n\nPieter Bruegel the Elder began his career illustrating landscapes and fantastic scenes in a dense style that earned him a reputation as artistic heir to Hieronymus Bosch. He soon came to follow the example of another master, Pieter Aertsen, who had made a name for himself in the 1550s depicting everyday scenes in a highly realistic style, such as the detailed array of meat products that dominate his large \"Butcher's Stall\" of 1551. Bruegel's subjects became more quotidian and his style observational. He achieved fame for detailed, accurate and realistic portrayals of peasants, with whom his paintings were popular. He painted on linen canvas and oak panel, and avoided scenes of magnificence and portraits of nobility or royalty. The peasants Bruegel at first depicted were featureless and undifferentiated; as his work matured, their physiognomy became markedly more detailed and expressive.\n\nIn 1563, Bruegel married Mayken, the daughter of his teacher Pieter Coecke van Aelst, and moved to Brussels, the seat of government in the Spanish Netherlands (1556–1714). In 1567 the governor of the Netherlands, the Duke of Alba, established the Council of Troubles (popularly called the \"Blood Council\") to suppress non-Catholic religions and enforce Spanish rule, leading to mass arrests and executions. Whether Bruegel had Calvinist sympathies or intended a political message in \"The Blind\" is not clear, but the evidence indicates he likely held views critical of the Catholic Church. A bitter, sorrowful tone characterizes his last works, such as \"The Blind\" and \"The Magpie on the Gallows\".\n\nIn ancient Greece the blind were depicted as having received gifts from the gods, and blind singers were held in high regard. In mediaeval Europe, the blind were depicted as the subjects of miracles, such as Bartimaeus in the healing the blind near Jericho in Mark 10:46–52. Following the Reformation, painted depictions of saints and miracles fell out of favour in Protestant areas. In Catholic thought, charitable works of mercy, such as giving alms to the blind and poor, were good works which, together with faith, helped the salvation of the doer. However, the Protestant doctrine of \"sola fide\" rejected the efficacy of works in achieving salvation, prescribing that it depended on faith alone (and the complication of God's predestined will for each individual). The status of charity for the poor and infirm diminished, and beggars saw their circumstances deteriorate. In popular literature of the time, the blind were depicted as rogues or targets of pranks. The parable of the blind leading the blind also appears as one of the illustrated proverbs in Bruegel's \"Netherlandish Proverbs\" (1559).\n\nCharles Bouleau wrote of the tension in Bruegel's compositional rhythms. The picture is divided into nine equal parts divided by a set of parallel oblique lines. These are divided by another network of lines at constant angles to the first. The composition invites the reader to follow the action rather than dwell on the individual figures. The blind men resemble each other in dress and facial features, and they appear as if they succeed one another in a single movement culminating in a fall, beginning on the left with \"rambling, then hesitation, alarm, stumbling, and finally falling\". The succession of heads follows a curve, and the further the succession, the greater the space between heads, suggesting increasing speed. The steep roofs of the background houses contribute to the composition's feeling of motion.\n\nArt historian Gustav Glück noted incongruities in that the beggars are well-dressed and carry staves and full purses. Academics Kenneth C. Lindsay and Bernard Huppé suggest Bruegel may have implied that the blind men represent false priests who ignored Christ's admonitions not to carry gold, purses, or staves; the leader carries a hurdy-gurdy, a musical instrument associated with beggars in Bruegel's time; this perhaps implies a false minstrel, one who sings praises not for God.\n\nThe church in the background, identified as the Sint-Anna Church at Dilbeek in modern Belgium, has sparked much commentary. One view holds that the church is evidence of the painting's moralistic intent—that while the first two blind men stumble and are beyond redemption, the other four are behind the church and thus may be saved. Another interpretation has it that the church, with a withered tree placed before it, is an anti-Catholic symbol, and that those who follow it will fall following a blind leader as do the men in the ditch. Others deny any symbolism in the church, noting that churches frequently appear in Bruegel's village scenes as they were a common part of the village landscape. Medical researcher Zeynel A. Karcioglu suggests the church represents indifference to the plight of the handicapped.\n\nIn contrast to the posed, static figures typical of paintings of the period, Bruegel suggests the trajectory of time and space through the accelerated movement of the figures. Critics Charcot and Richer wrote that the concept of visualizing movement was not formulated until the 17th century, and that Bruegel prefigures motion pictures and Duchamp's \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\". Karcioglu sees the painting as anticipating the 19th-century chronophotography of Étienne-Jules Marey. Dutch film director Joris Ivens stated, \"If Bruegel were alive today he would be a film director.\"\n\n\"The Blind Leading the Blind\" has been considered one of the great masterpieces of painting. Bruegel's is the earliest surviving painting whose subject is the parable of the blind leading the blind, though there are earlier engravings from the Low Countries known that Bruegel was likely aware of, including attributed to Bosch, and by Cornelis Massijs. Bruegel's paintings have enjoyed worldwide popularity and have been the subjects of scholarly works in disciplines even outside the arts, such as medicine.\n\nBruegel's depictions of beggars in paintings such as \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" left a strong influence on those who followed him, such as David Vinckboons. Hieronymus Wierix incorporated a copy of \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" into the series \"Twelve Flemish Proverbs\". A forgery attributed to Jacob Savery called \"The Blind\" appeared bearing a false inscription dating it 1562. Bruegel's son Pieter Brueghel the Younger painted a larger copy in with extra details, including a flock of sheep, that hangs in the Louvre; this copy was in the collection of Ferdinando Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua, patron of Italian Baroque painter Domenico Fetti, who may have been influenced by the painting when he executed his own version of the parable around 1621–22.\n\nThe painting has been the subject of poetry, including works by the Germans Josef Weinheber and Walter Bauer, and Frenchman Charles Baudelaire's \"The Blind\". American William Carlos Williams wrote a series of poems on Bruegel's paintings; his \"Parable of the Blind\" focuses on the meaning of \"The Blind\"s composition—a word that appears three times in the poems eight tercets. The figures stumble diagonally downward, and—\n\nBruegel's painting served as a model for Belgian playwright Maurice Maeterlinck's one-act \"The Blind\". West German writer Gert Hofmann's 1985 novel \"The Parable of the Blind\" features Bruegel and the six blind men: to accomplish a realistic portrayal, Bruegel repeatedly has the men cross a bridge and fall into a creek in midwinter until their expressions achieve the desolation Bruegel believes represents the human condition. A 1987 historical novel \"Bruegel, or the Workshop of Dreams\" by has Bruegel painting the blind out of fear of losing his own eyesight.\n\nFrench comics artist F'murr's comic strip \"Les Aveugles\" (1991) was directly inspired by Bruegel's painting \"The Blind Leading the Blind\". \n\n\"The Blind Leading the Blind\" and \"The Misanthrope\" were discovered in the collection of the Count Giovanni Battista Masi of Parma in 1612, when Ranuccio I Farnese, Duke of Parma confiscated Masi's property for his part in a conspiracy against the House of Farnese. How the painting arrived in Italy is uncertain, though it is known that Masi's father Cosimo returned from the Netherlands in 1595 with a number of Netherlandish paintings. The Farnese art collection came to be one of the largest of the Renaissance era, divided amongst the Farnese residences in Parma and Rome.\n\nIn the 18th century, Charles III of Spain inherited the collection from his mother, Elisabeth Farnese, heiress of the Duchy of Parma in north Italy, who became Queen consort of Spain. As a younger son, Charles had been made Duke of Parma, then boldly seized the Kingdom of Naples, becoming Charles VII of Naples, before inheriting the Spanish throne. Charles housed the collection in what is now the National Museum of Capodimonte in Naples. The painting hangs in the Capodimonte with \"The Misanthrope\", as part of the Farnese collection.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2437200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437200", "title": "Vampire hunter", "text": "Vampire hunter\n\nA vampire hunter or vampire slayer is a character in folklore and fiction who specializes in finding and destroying vampires, and sometimes other supernatural creatures. A vampire hunter is usually described as having extensive knowledge of vampires and other monstrous creatures, including their powers and weaknesses, and uses this knowledge to effectively combat them. In most literature, vampire hunters are simply humans with more than average knowledge about the occult, while they may also be supernatural beings, having superhuman abilities in works of fiction. A well known and influential vampire hunter is Professor Abraham Van Helsing, a character in Bram Stoker's 1897 horror novel, \"Dracula\".\n\n\"Professional\" or semi-professional vampire hunters played some part in the vampire beliefs of the Balkans (especially in Bulgarian, Serbian, and Romani folk beliefs). In Bulgarian, the terms used to designate them included \"glog\" (lit. \"hawthorn\", the species of wood used for the stake), \"vampirdzhiya\", \"vampirar\", \"dzhadazhiya\", \"svetocher\".\n\nThey were usually either born on Saturday (then called Sabbatarians, Bulgarian \"sâbotnichav\", Greek \"sabbatianoí\") or the offspring of a vampire and a woman (typically his widow), called a \"dhampir\" in Romani or a \"vampirović\" in Serbian. It was also believed that someone born on a Saturday could see a vampire when it was otherwise invisible (and sometimes other supernatural entities as well); similarly for the \"dhampir\". In the case of the Sabbatarians, it was believed in some places that they needed to be fed meat from a sheep killed by a wolf (Bulgarian \"vâlkoedene\"); this would enable them not to fear the things that only they were able to see. In Croatian and Slovenian legends, the villages had their own vampire hunters that were called kresniks, whose spirits were able to turn into animals at night to fight off the vampire or \"kudlak\".\nSome carried a kit that used mallet, stake, crucifix. If part of a church it included holy water, holy oil, etc. However the most important things it carried were items such as rope, crowbars, or even pistols.\n\nThe vampire hunter has found new popularity in modern fiction and popular culture.\n\nThe most widely known example of a vampire hunter is Abraham Van Helsing of the novel \"Dracula\" and in other works of fiction adapting or modifying that work. Other more recent figures include Buffy \"the Vampire Slayer\" Summers from the television show and film of the same name. Buffy's spin-off series \"Angel\" is also focused on a vampire hunter, the titular star, Angel \"the World's Champion,\" a vampire himself, is often portrayed battling vampires. Vampire hunters have also appeared in video games, such as \"Castlevania\" (occupation of the famed Belmont lineage), and \"The Elder Scrolls\" (with factions such as the Dawnguard).\n\nAs well as being knowledgeable about vampire lore, vampire hunters in fiction are often armed with an eclectic mix of items and weapons which are designed to take maximum advantage of the monster's traditional weaknesses. These have included firearms with silver ammunition, appropriate religious symbols, crossbows that fire all wood bolts and even waterguns filled with blessed holy water in the movies \"The Lost Boys\" and \"From Dusk Till Dawn\".\n\nThe organizational strength of depicted vampire hunters can vary wildly. Most hunter characters are in small groups working alone and in secret. By contrast, the Hellsing Organization in the anime television series, \"Hellsing\" is a British government paramilitary strike force with access to troops, heavy combat vehicles and weapons and even allied vampires.\n\nWhile predominantly depicted as human, examples of other types of vampire hunters also exist. Dhampiric figures, having a mix of human and vampire blood, are a popular form. Alucard from the \"Castlevania\" series, and the eponymous hero of the \"Blade\" series of comic books, movies, , and anime, are both examples of dhampir vampire-hunters. Even rarer are vampire hunters that are vampires themselves. Two examples of this type can be found in Morbius from \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", and Zero Kiryuu in the manga and anime series \"Vampire Knight\".\n\nThe image of the vampire hunter is often a mysterious and dramatic avenging hero, an eccentric extremist, a mad scientist, or sometimes a mix of these. A hunter may be a heroic figure, a villain (from the perspective of the vampire), a lonesome avenger, or sometimes, although not usually, a bounty hunter-style character, hunting vampires for profit. Vampire hunters have also popularly been depicted as hunting various creatures such as werewolves, demons, and other forms of undead as well. Others have been depicted as mages and cyborgs. Vampire hunters are often associated with and/or members of the clergy, holy orders, or other religious organizations which may be dedicated to fighting vampires, demons, and other supernatural forces. Vampire hunting as a family tradition or birthright is a popular use of the archetype in fiction, such as the Belmont family from the \"Castlevania\" series. Some hunters devote their entire lives to the eradication of vampires, for others it is just a strange hobby.\n\nOf course with the job for human hunter, comes the risk of getting bitten and turned into vampires themselves. More often than not fellow hunters, usually do mercy killing to prevent them from becoming monsters, though in some fiction it may be possible for a hunter to purify and/or cure themselves (and/or others) of vampirism, especially if the person in question was recently turned into a vampire. Another common trope is hunters being forced to slay their loved ones and/or allies who have been turned into vampires. Alternatively, after becoming a vampire, sometimes hunters will continue to fight and hunt vampires using their newly acquired vampire powers/abilities (sometimes being hunted by their former allies and other human vampire hunters). In addition to human hunters, dhampirs, and vampires that hunt other vampires, it is not uncommon for vampire hunters to be other supernatural creatures such as werewolves or witches. Additionally, some human hunters may possess divine/holy powers, superhuman, and/or other supernatural abilities that they can use both to fight and protect themselves from vampires and other supernatural entities they hunt. Some hunters may even resort to using dark powers/weapons (usually dark magic and/or demonic in nature). Some human hunters may even be tempted to become vampires themselves in order to obtain their powers and immortality, either to continue hunting them, due to fear of their own mortality, and/or simply a lust for power.\n\n"}
