{"id": "55810232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55810232", "title": "Bernard Dadié national grand prize for literature", "text": "Bernard Dadié national grand prize for literature\n\nThe Bernard Dadié national grand prize for literature awards in Côte d'Ivoire since 2014, \"the major writers who give meaning and energy to national letters\". Created by the Ivorian Ministry of Culture and Francophonie, it is open only to individual works. It aims on the one hand to promote books and reading, and on the other hand, to encourage literary creation. This national grand prize with a trophy and a sum of one million CFA francs is awarded at the Salon international du livre d'Abidjan (SILA).\n\nThe organization of competitions and ceremonies related to this prize is entrusted to Akwaba Culture, an Ivorian association.\n\nInitially, National Grand Prix of Literature, it became Bernard Dadié national grand prize for literature to pay homage to the eponymous writer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2611479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611479", "title": "Black and red ware culture", "text": "Black and red ware culture\n\nThe black and red ware culture (BRW) is a late Bronze Age Indian and early Iron Age Indian archaeological culture of the northern and central Indian subcontinent, associated with the Vedic civilization.\n\nIn the Western Ganges plain (western Uttar Pradesh) it is dated to c. 1450-1200 BCE, and is succeeded by the Painted Grey Ware culture; whereas in the Central and Eastern Ganges plain (eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Bengal) and Central India (Madhya Pradesh) the BRW appears during the same period but continues for longer, until c. 700-500 BCE, when it is succeeded by the Northern Black Polished Ware culture.\n\nIn the Western Ganges plain, the BRW was preceded by the Ochre Coloured Pottery culture. The BRW sites were characterized by subsistence agriculture (cultivation of rice, barley, and legumes), and yielded some ornaments made of shell, copper, carnelian, and terracotta.\n\nIn some sites, particularly in eastern Punjab and Gujarat, BRW pottery is associated with Late Harappan pottery, and according to some scholars like Tribhuan N. Roy, the BRW may have directly influenced the Painted Grey Ware and Northern Black Polished Ware cultures. BRW pottery is unknown west of the Indus Valley. \n\nUse of iron, although sparse at first, is relatively early, postdating the beginning of the Iron Age in Anatolia (Hittites) by only two or three centuries, and predating the European (Celts) Iron Age by another two to three hundred years. Recent findings in Northern India show Iron working in the 1800-1000 BCE period. According to Shaffer, the \"nature and context of the iron objects involved [of the BRW culture] are very different from early iron objects found in Southwest Asia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38568171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38568171", "title": "Bouffée délirante", "text": "Bouffée délirante\n\nBouffée déliriante is a culture-bound syndrome in West Africa and Haiti of a sudden outburst of aggression, confusion and psychomotor excitement, possibly including visual or auditory hallucinations and paranoia.\n\nBouffée déliriante is a French term that was introduced in 1886 by Valentin Magnan meaning short-lived psychosis. He used it to describe transient psychotic or psychosis reactions. Bouffée déliriante reactions are sudden attacks of brief duration with paranoid delusions and often concomitant hallucinations, typically precipitated by an intense fear of magical persecution through sorcery or witchcraft.\n\nIn the ICD-10, Bouffée déliriante is classified as a subtype of either Acute polymorphic psychotic disorder without symptoms of schizophrenia (F23.0) or Acute polymorphic psychotic disorder with symptoms of schizophrenia (F23.1).\n\"Bouffée délirante\" literally means a \"delirious flash\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55781783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55781783", "title": "Burung Petala Processions", "text": "Burung Petala Processions\n\nThe Burung Petala Processions (literary \"Celestial Bird Processions\") (; Jawi:ڤراراكن بوروڠ ڤتالا) referred to a series of imperial parade to commemorate the circumcision ceremony of the Kelantanese nobility. During the grand cavalcade, the prince and his royal entourage were celebrated around Kota Bharu via a large bird-like processional cart, notably the grand chariot of 1933 known as Burung Petala Indra and \"tandu\" Burung Petalawati of 1923. The processions were held three times between 1919 and 1933.\n\nThe celebrations rooted from the historical grand parades observed during the pre-Islamic era of the northern coast of Malay Peninsula. As noted from the old records from Chi Tu, the Chinese ambassador of the kingdom would be paraded under a similar fashion upon their arrival to the city state. This largely originated from the custom that holds every state delegations should be celebrated akin as the return of the gods from the heavenly abode. The kingdom managed to obtained strong diplomatic relationship with ancient China derived from the epic celebrations for its delegations.\n\nAs the coming of Islam transformed the isthmian Malay society, so did the function and philosophy of the procession which is then inherited to commemorate Islamic elements and belief system. The birds were mobilised for official use, including during the enthronement of the prince, arrival of state delegations and during royal circumcision celebrations. While not in use, the bird would be nestled in a special chamber, with a courtier delegated with a task of conducting rituals to guard her \"spirit\". The procession was later recorded in great detail upon the arrival of the British colonial administrator in Kelantan from 1909.\n\nThere are several variants of the bird in Pattani and Kelantan, including \"Burung Gagak Suro\" (Raven), \"Karawek\" (Birds of Paradise), \"Merak Mas\" (Peacock), Garuda and \"Burung Singa\" (Lion Bird).\n\nIn the traditional Malay custom, a child would usually be carried on the shoulder of his dad from his abode to the place where his circumcision will be held. But for the more affluent Malay families, the ceremony would be more lavish, the child would be transported on a processional carrier, in a form of boat or a small mosque-like structure by a group of men, a philosophical correspondence of a rite of passage from boys to men. More elaborate practise of the celebration would include a march of men with weapons, musical performance and even ceremonial foods being included in the parade.\n\nBased on the record by Ghulam-Sarwar Yousof, it was narrated that the sultan had a dream about the Burung Petala Wati, the traditional guardian of Kelantan. Following the account, he ordered the construction of the mystical Thunderbird for his prince. Another version of the origin of Petala Wati denotes a far more secular account, as it was believed that the construction of the ark was mainly to illustrate the grandeur of the Kelantanese monarch and to please the British colonial resident at that time, who were intrigued by the local Malay culture, heritage and folklore.\n\nThe design of the chariot emulated many ornamental figures derived from ancient Malay mythology, kingship and the tales from Malay hikayats. Based on the narration by Paul J. Coatalen in his interview with a local Malay Bomoh (shaman) about a parallel Kelantanese imperial vessel, he asserts that the ceremonial vehicle is a symbol of Malay mysticism adopted based upon the legendary promise made between the ancestors of the Kelantan king with a loyal warrior known as Isma Dewa Pekerma Raja.\n\nWhile based on the record between Coatalen and Haji Mubin Sheppard in “Processional Birds Of Kelantan” and “The Giant bird”, he asserted that there was a strong correlation between the Royal barge of Pertala Sri Kelantan with the Hindu epics, deriving Helang, Burung Camar Laut, Garuda and Jentayu as a source of identity and inspiration. This was heavily owed from the fact that the Malayalised Hindu literature was highly celebrated during the period and the tales of Hikayat Maharaja Wana, Ramayana, Isma Dewa Perkerma Raja were often transmitted into the form of Malay theater and Wayang kulit, thus become a norm by the Kelantanese Malay society. Based on Coatalen, despite the design and the name of Hindu mythologies were adopted in the bird art, it doesn't necessary bear any Hindu religious syncretism, instead the adoption was solely for cosmetic factors, he added.\n\nIt would take 3 months to built each of the Petala Birds. The last of the birds was built long after the end of the World War II, solely constructed as a display upon the request of the National Museum of Malaysia. The tandu was named Pertala Indra Maha Sakti and completed in 1963, constructed by the son of one of the assistant craftsman that built the earlier royal birds, Mohamed Noor bin Daud (Weh Burong); he was assisted by Awang bin Sulong and under the supervision Ismail Bakti. The resurrected bird was by far dwarfed in comparison of all her predecessors, nonetheless fine details in the woodcraft remains. Being the sole surviving Kelantanese artist with such expertise, it was largely emulated based on the artisan's childhood memory of helping his father constructing the bird. As of 2017, the sculpture is stored in the Kelantan Heritage Trust in Kota Bharu.\n\nThe Burung Petala Indra of 1933 stands 20 feet tall. It was constructed for Tengku Yunus, a 12-year-old, the third son of the crown prince, Raja Zainal Abidin. Reid, a photographer for The Straits Times Annual in Kelantan noted that several large trees in Kota Bharu have to be removed earlier, in order to maneuver the colossal monument during the celebration. A painted 10 foot square wooded pavilion was erected above colossal bird replica, holding with its Singgora-styled roof. A pair of ornamental crest carved with naga motives are attached onto each bargeboard and the roof tiers. The pavilion can carry up to 6 passengers inside. There were many prominent woodcarver involved in the project, including Encik Ismail, the head artisan for Petala Indra and Encik Long, a royal sculptor from the neighbouring Kingdom of Besut.\n\nWhile the smaller pair of 1923 tandu Petala having a similar pavilion-styled platform with 3 tier hipped roof with a crest. The beak of the replica was painted in gold and her fangs were made from elephant tusk. The bird was seen biting a venomous snake known as Ular Naga Bora that coiled around the bird's neck while her eyes were made from precious stones.\n\nThe bird's main body was decorated by golden Tinsel wraps. The fur on her head and neck were tailored from various velvet and silks, while the feathers on her wings and tail were casted from various glossy papers based on the hue of the rainbows. The bird shiny stood underneath the ray of sun.\n\nThere are two conflicting accounts for the identity of the bird, based on the characters in the assemble.\n\nMany believed that the processional cart was a personification of Sarung Dewa Purba Raksasa, a gigantic bird from the epic Raja Isma Dewa, a local Kelantanese Malay lore. This is supported by the incorporation of a crowned white monkey that stood beneath the Burung Petala Wati of 1923, the white monkey itself was a character from Hikayat Isma Dewa, a companion of the heroic character. The function of the monkey was to persuade the young prince to be as brave as his favourite hero in the saga.\n\nAnother alternative view stated that the birds were derived from Mahabharata, with the identity and design of the gigantic bird was based on the Malayalised version of the sacred Garuda. The act of the bird eating the serpent is a philosophical symbolism of destroying the evil. Based on this understanding, instead of Isma Dewa, the main idol in this version was Vishnu. This notion was largely observed by Haji Mubin Sheppard.\n\nThey day of the parade was the highlight of the month long festival. The carnival lavishly commenced from the palatial gate of Kelantan and continued throughout the main avenues of Kota Bharu to an area known as Batu Peringatan in Padang Bank, passing through various government complex and the residence of other prominent members from the Kelantanese nobility. The grand parade was divided into 38 parts, with some of the performances were held on a moving stage.\n\nThere are 300 members of the Malay regiment accompanying the chariot, it begins with a unit of speared men from the imperial court who wore black, followed by candlestick bearers wearing a red uniform and a unit of rifflemen that would fire celebratory gunshots during the procession.\n\nBehind the military contingent was a group of female palatial maids wearing a yellow shoulder cloth, holding a pedestrial tray with ritualistic yellow glutinous rice known as \"nasi semangat\" to strengthen the prince's spirit before the circumcision. The maidens were followed by a royal guards armed with weaponry of Keris and swords, while at their back was a group of maiden carrying a ceremonial box, handheld fan, silver container, Royal betel box, incense burner, silver water container and a plethora of other items from the imperial regalia.\nFollowing the royal entourage was an open platform of 5 Malay orchestras, staged by a Menora and Mak Yong performance. While the closed platform behind was occupied by the court dancers, elegantly posed in their classical Asyik and Joget costumes. However, in contrast to the preceding Menora and Makyong performers, they do not openly dance during the gala. Behind the court dancers was a Wayang Kulit performance and a Silat troop.\n\nThe towering bird came after the performance. The climax of the imperial cavalcade, it ferried the prince together his two younger brothers with a senior religious clerics and the British resident at that time. The princes were seen to be donned under a richly woven ceremonial attire made from silk, they wore fine gold and jewelry with a keris nicely tucked around their waist. The chariot was mobilised by hundreds of men, all reciting the Islamic prayers and selawat. The men were all individually selected by their village headman from their respected kampung throughout the kingdom.\n\nThe entourage ends with a platform for the percussion and the Great Kelantan drum, Known as \"Rebana Besar\".\n\nTrailing behind the men was dozens of sons from the noble families of Kelantan and the older relatives of the prince, all were attending to usher the circumcision carnival.\n\nThe Burung Petala Indra of 1933 was the last of its kind staged in Kelantan. Following the consultation from the local Kelantanese ulema, it was firmly advised that the element of deviation from the Islamic teaching was present in the parade. Hence, following the verdict, all of the birds were destroyed by the authorities.\n\nThe tradition however, is still survived although is under the verge of extinction across the border in Pattani, Thailand. It is celebrated by the Thai Malay community in the form of Burong Gagak Suro (; ), albeit it is usually celebrated in a smaller scale compared to its historical predecessors.\n\n"}
{"id": "28189440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28189440", "title": "California Resale Royalty Act", "text": "California Resale Royalty Act\n\nThe California Resale Royalty Act (Civil Code section 986) entitles artists to a royalty payment upon the resale of their works of art under certain circumstances.\n\n\nAct does not apply if:\n\nWhen the sale of a work meets the conditions outlined above, a seller must pay the artist 5% of the resale price. If the artist is deceased, the payment goes to the artist's estate or heirs. It is the seller's obligation to locate the artist within 90 days of the sale. If the artist or heirs cannot be located, the seller is to make payment to the California Arts Council, who will hold the collected payments for up to 7 years for the artist. In the event that the Council is unable to locate a particular artist or the artist fails to claim the collected royalties in that time period, the funds collected are distributed to the city of Sacramento's Art in Public Places program.\n\nThe artist's right to receive the royalty cannot be waived in full; it can only be modified by written contract providing for a royalty payment in excess of the 5% of resale value that is required by the Act.\n\nCalifornia's Resale Royalty Act was signed into law in 1976. The resale right has its origins in the French law droit de suite, first enacted in 1920, which provided French artists the right to receive a royalty from resales of their work. The \"droite de suite\" reflects both the idea that artists have certain moral rights in their works (such as the inalienable right to be associated with their works) and the economic concern that artists often are unable to benefit from the full value of their works, where they have low bargaining power in initial sales or where their works appreciate significantly in value after the first sale. As of 2012, over 60 countries across the world recognize some version of the resale right.\n\nThe Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works of 1886 included a \"droite de suite\" provision in Article 14\"ter\" in its 1948 revision. This article provided for a general recognition of a resale right among signatory countries, but included the stipulation that protection provided by such recognition “may be claimed in a country of the Union only if legislation in the country to which the author belongs so permits, and to the extent permitted by the country where this protection is claimed.”\n\nCurrently, California is the only state that recognizes the resale right. The Copyright Office conducted a study, published in 1992, evaluating the nature of the resale right and the possibility of adopting a federal \"droite de suite\". The Copyright Office concluded in the report that there were not adequate economic or copyright policy justifications to warrant adopting \"droite de suite\" at the federal level. The report did indicate that should the EU harmonize its \"droit de suite\" laws and extend the resale right to all member states, Congress may at that point revisit the resale right issue.\n\nIn fact, legislation was proposed in both the Senate (S.2000) and the House (H.R.3688) in December 2011 that would provide for a national resale royalty right. The Equity for Visual Artists Act of 2011 (EVAA) would provide for a 7% royalty to be collected from sales of certain works of art where the sale price exceeded $10,000. Half of this payment would go to the artist or successor in copyright, and half would go towards an escrow account to support U.S. non-profit museums. Both pieces of legislation are currently in committee. In conjunction with the consideration of the legislation, in September 2012 Congress published a Notice of Inquiry requesting comments from the public on factual and policy matters relating to a possible federal resale royalty right.\n\nThe Resale Royalty Act came under legal scrutiny when, in October 2011, a group of artists and their heirs filed class action suits against auction houses Christie's and Sotheby's, and auction site eBay for failure of those brokers to pay royalties per the Resale Act. In a decision on May 17, 2012 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Judge Jacqueline H. Nguyen dismissed the suits on the grounds that the Resale Royalty Act violated the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution, and was therefore invalid as law. (\"Estate of Graham, et al, v. Sotheby’s Inc.\")\n\nThe Commerce Clause has been interpreted by the Supreme Court as not only affirmatively granting to Congress the power to regulate commerce among the states, but also, by negative implication, prohibiting the states from unjustifiably discriminating against or burdening the flow of interstate commerce. A state regulation violates the Commerce clause where it “directly controls commerce occurring wholly outside the boundaries of a State.”\n\nJudge Nguyen found that where the Act regulates any transaction in which the seller resides in California, regardless of the location of the sale, buyer, or artist, the Resale Royalty Act “explicitly regulates applicable sales of fine art occurring wholly outside California.” The Court cited the example of a California resident placing a painting by a New York artist for sale with Sotheby's in New York, where at the subsequent auction the painting is bought by a New York resident. In this instance, the California law requires the New York company to withhold the amount of the royalty from the sale price, and either locate and pay the artist in New York or remit payment to the California Arts Council should the artist not be located. Further, the Act permits the New York artist to sue the New York Sotheby's under California law should the auction house fail to collect and remit the applicable royalty to the artist.\n\nIn 2015, an eleven-judge en banc panel of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed, holding that applying the Act to out-of-state sales made by a California resident was unconstitutional. The court struck the clause \"the seller resides in California or\" from the Act, declining to rule on whether the Act could otherwise be applied to sales made within California. In 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court declined certiorari, leaving the Ninth Circuit decision in place.\n\nIn April 2016, another federal judge, Michael W. Fitzgerald, held the entire Act to be preempted by section 301 of the Copyright Act of 1976. That ruling was appealed to the Ninth Circuit, with initial briefs filed on March 9, 2017. Oral argument was held on April 10, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8773037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8773037", "title": "Candy Desk", "text": "Candy Desk\n\nThe Candy Desk has been a tradition of the United States Senate since 1968, whereby a senator who sits at a particular desk near a busy entrance keeps a drawer full of candy for members of the body. The current occupant of the Candy Desk is Pennsylvania Senator Pat Toomey.\n\nIn 1965, California's George Murphy joined the Senate, and kept candy in his desk to offer his colleagues, and for himself, though eating is not allowed on the Senate floor. When he left the Senate after a six-year term, other Republican senators maintained the custom. The nascent tradition did not become publicly known until the mid-1980s, when Washington Senator Slade Gorton disclosed it in announcing that he would be sitting at the Candy Desk.\n\nSenators who have maintained the Candy Desk tradition include John McCain, Harrison Schmitt, and Rick Santorum, who stocked it with confectionery from his home state of Pennsylvania, including from the Hershey Chocolate Company. After Santorum left the Senate in 2007, the Candy Desk was maintained by a number of senators for a short time each, before Pennsylvania Senator Toomey began his stay in 2015.\n\nGeorge Murphy was elected as the Senator from California in 1964, to take office the following year. Murphy, known as a song-and-dance man from musicals such as \"Broadway Melody of 1938\", \"Broadway Melody of 1940\" and \"For Me and My Gal\", had a taste for sweets. A short time after joining the Senate, he started keeping candy in his desk; then, in 1968, he moved desks and ended up at the spot where the Candy Desk is now situated. Since more senators now passed his desk on a daily basis, he started offering the contents of his desk to his colleagues. Senators who were invited to partake in the sweets started calling Murphy's desk the \"candy desk\". Murphy was defeated in the 1970 Senate elections, but subsequent senators have carried on the tradition of supplying candy in their desk for the enjoyment of the Senate as a whole.\n\nPaul Fannin, Harrison Schmitt, Roger Jepsen, and Steve Symms all continued the new candy desk tradition, in that order, after Murphy's one term was over. Fannin, Schmitt, and Jepsen supplied only hard candy, but Symms was the first to stock sweets supplied by \"candy and chocolate associations.\" During the tenures of these senators, the candy desk was not fixed to one particular spot. Senate seating charts show Schmitt, during his time with the candy desk, sat one seat to the right of its traditional spot for the 95th Congress, and then sat across the aisle from the traditional spot for the 96th.\n\nNone of the above was publicly known until 1985, when Slade Gorton put out a press release stating \"He was now the occupant of this desk and would carry on the rich traditions started by Murphy.\" He also named the past senators who had continued the tradition.\n\nIn 1997, the candy desk was referenced by Kit Bond during a debate over the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 1998. He compared the sizes of microchips to candy he had taken from the desk.\n\nThe high point, in terms of well-known candy, came during the ten years Rick Santorum sat at the candy desk (1997–2007). Being a senator from Pennsylvania, he filled the candy desk with Hershey candy and Just Born products (such as Mike and Ike and Hot Tamales). During this time period, Hershey shipped roughly 100 pounds of chocolate and other candy four times a year for Santorum to fill the desk. When Santorum did not win re-election during the 2006 U.S. Senate elections, Kirk Saville, a spokesman for Hershey, said about the company's no longer being able to supply sweets for the candy desk, \"We were pleased to be a small part of sweetening up congressional proceedings.\"\n\nIssues arose after Santorum was defeated for re-election to the Senate in 2006, and Senator Craig Thomas began his tenure at the candy desk. Wyoming, the state he was representing, has no members of the National Confectioners Association, and therefore no candymakers large enough to donate hundreds of dollars of candy to fill the desk. Senate ethics rules \"forbid members accepting gifts worth $100 or more a year from a single source,\" which can become a problem if a large amount of candy is consumed from the desk each year. An exception to this rule allows larger gifts of objects created or produced in the state the senator is from, as long as the items are primarily not used by the senator and his staff. This is so senators can \"offer visitors home-grown snacks, such as Florida orange juice or Georgia peanuts.\" When asked about Thomas being in charge of the candy desk, Susan Smith, a representative from the National Confectioners Association, stated, \"We're happy to provide candy if there are [association] members...It would be difficult for us to do now.\" These issues were worked around by asking many small, local, Wyoming confectionery businesses and chocolatiers to give small amounts of candy that were rotated in and out of the desk.\n\nAfter Thomas's death in 2007, it was looked after by George Voinovich and then Mel Martinez. Both had relatively short tenures. In 2009, George LeMieux, Martinez's successor, began sitting at the desk and was there until he left the Senate in 2011. Mark Kirk of Illinois occupied the desk from 2011 to 2015.\n\nThe candy desk is not a specific desk in the Senate Chamber, but rather a specific seating within the chamber, and any desk that the senator seated in that position chooses to use becomes the candy desk. The desk's location has remained static since at least the 97th Congress (1981–1983). It is next to the eastern door to the senate chamber. Most senators enter the chamber through this door, which is adjacent to elevators leading to one of the stops on the United States Capitol subway system. The desk is the first desk on the right, or Republican, side, and is in the last row of desks. Traditionally, the candy desk is always on the Republican side of the Senate Chamber and is used by a Republican senator. Since 2015 the desk has been occupied by Pennsylvania Senator Pat Toomey.\nThe Democrats have also had a candy desk since at least 1985. A rolltop desk located on the front wall, belonging to the United States Senate Democratic Conference Secretary, is also filled with sweets. This tradition began \"sometime later\" than the better known candy desk; Hershey Kisses were the most popular candy from this desk during the 1980s, followed by small caramels. Candy for this desk is paid for through a \"candy fund\" to which senators who would like to partake of the desk's contents contribute. Until he left the Senate in 2015, Jay Rockefeller was responsible for collecting the money and purchasing the candy. This tradition is not widely known; in fact, it is so little-known that the Historian of the United States Senate does not know much about it.\n\nOther senators sometimes keep candy in their desks as well. Katherine Buck, a United States Senate Page at the time, wrote the following in 2005:\n\nOne senator with a particularly strong hankering for chocolate is Jim Talent from Missouri. Once during a vote, he called people away from the candy desk to his own on the other side of the row. There were oohs and aahs until six people walked away with Russell Stover Low-Carb Chocolates. (I guess the Atkins craze had made its way to the Senate.)\n"}
{"id": "22032703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22032703", "title": "Clothing material", "text": "Clothing material\n\nHistorically, clothing is, and has been, made from many materials. These materials range from grasses to furs, to much more elaborate and exotic materials. Some cultures, such as the various people of the Arctic Circle, have made their clothing entirely of prepared and decorated furs and skins. Other cultures have supplemented and replaced leather and skins with cloth. Cloth is either woven or knitted, and can be made from a large variety of fibers, which in turn can be natural, cellulose, or synthetic.\n\nHumans have shown extreme inventiveness in devising clothing solutions to environmental hazards and the distinction between clothing and other protective equipment is not always clear-cut; examples include space suit, air conditioned clothing, armor, diving suit, swimsuit, bee-keeper's protective clothing, motorcycle leathers, high-visibility clothing, and protective clothing in general.\n\nClothing is generally made of cloth. There are many different types of cloth, with different names and uses. Main differences between types of cloth include how the cloth was made (woven, knitted, felted, and how those techniques were implemented), what fiber it was made from, and what weight the cloth is. Different types of cloth are used for different types of clothing.\n\nSome common natural clothing materials are:\nSome are made from synthetic fibers, which are man made and generally not biodegradable. These are made primarily from petrochemicals.\nCommon man-made materials include:\n\nLess-common clothing materials include:\n\nReinforcing materials such as wood, bone, plastic and metal may be used in fasteners or to stiffen garments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9891093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9891093", "title": "Conceptual history", "text": "Conceptual history\n\nConceptual history (also the history of concepts or, from German, Begriffsgeschichte) is a branch of historical and cultural studies that deals with the historical semantics of terms. It sees the etymology and the change in meaning of terms as forming a crucial basis for contemporary cultural, conceptual and linguistic understanding. Conceptual history deals with the evolution of paradigmatic ideas and value systems over time, such as \"liberty\" or \"reform.\" It argues that social history – indeed all historical reflection – must begin with an understanding of historically contingent cultural values and practices in their particular contexts over time, not merely as unchanging ideologies or processes.\n\nInterest in conceptual history was given a particular boost in the 20th century through the publication of the \"Historisches Wörterbuch der Philosophie\", the \"Geschichtliche Grundbegriffe\" and the journal Archiv für Begriffsgeschichte.\n\nConceptual history is an interdisciplinary methodology. Alongside the philosopher Joachim Ritter, the historians Otto Brunner and Reinhart Koselleck and the sociologist Erich Rothacker are viewed as the leading scholars of the research area in the German-speaking world and internationally. Raymond Williams is the leading scholar in the English-speaking world. Examples of conceptual histories include a genealogy of the concept of globalization drawing on the approach of Williams written by Manfred B. Steger and Paul James:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33934150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33934150", "title": "Cultural Heritage of Andorra", "text": "Cultural Heritage of Andorra\n\nThe Cultural Heritage of Andorra is an organization in Andorra which protects national buildings and monuments considered of cultural and historical value.\n\n"}
{"id": "58564670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58564670", "title": "Cultural footprint", "text": "Cultural footprint\n\nA cultural footprint is the impact that a group or individual has on the cultural environment.\n\n“Cultural footprint” was defined in June 2013, at the initiative of a group of experts from UNESCO, the OECD, the International Organisation of the Francophonie, French ministries, various companies and civil society.\n\nThey explained it as “all of the externalities, both positive and negative, generated in the cultural environment by agents’ actions”. It is considered to be positive when it enriches cultural diversity or fosters cultural intensity.\n\nA second reference document published in 2017 specified that “all actors have the possibility of activating (i.e. exploring and utilizing) available cultural resources. At the same time, it is their responsibility to make a positive contribution” to that sub-stratum, to that creative atmosphere. This means that groups and individuals must “set requirements for themselves, engage based on their own singularities, and be culturally involved and invested”.\n\n“The Cultural Footprint of the Cosmetic Sector” is a document to which Gilles Andrier, Loïc Armand, Francesco Bandarin, Jérôme Bédier, Françoise Benhamou, Fouad Benseddik, Gilles Boëtsch, Dominique Bourg, Jérôme Gouadain, Maria Gravari-Barbas, Marc-Antoine Jamet, François Jullien, Pascal Lamy, Jacques Lévy, Gilles Lipovetsky, Françoise Montenay, Jean Musitelli, Patrick O’Quin, Philippe d’Ornano, Dominique Perrault, Marie-Hélène Plainfossé and Nicole Rouvet contributed. It suggests several aspects of the cultural environment where economics might be able to make a contribution: architecture, art, colours, enjoyment, ethics, heritage, imagination, learning, social skills, singularity, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2036118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036118", "title": "Cultural lag", "text": "Cultural lag\n\nThe term cultural lag refers to the notion that culture takes time to catch up with technological innovations, and that social problems and conflicts are caused by this lag. Subsequently, cultural lag does not only apply to this idea only, but also relates to theory and explanation. It helps by identifying and explaining social problems to predict future problems.\n\nAs explained by James W. Woodward, when the material conditions change, changes are occasioned in the adaptive culture, but these changes in the adaptive culture do not synchronize exactly with the change in the material culture, this delay is the culture lag. The term was coined by sociologist William F. Ogburn in his 1922 work \"Social change with respect to culture and original nature.\" His theory of cultural lag suggests that a period of maladjustment occurs when the non-material culture is struggling to adapt to new material conditions. This resonates with ideas of technological determinism. That is it can presuppose that technology has independent effects on society at large. However it does not necessarily assign causality to technology. Rather cultural lag focuses examination on the period of adjustment to new technologies. \n\nAccording to Ogburn, cultural lag is a common societal phenomenon due to the tendency of material culture to evolve and change rapidly and voluminously while non-material culture tends to resist change and remain fixed for a far longer period of time. Due to the opposing nature of these two aspects of culture, adaptation of new technology becomes rather difficult. This distinction between material and non-material culture is also a contribution of Ogburn's 1922 work on social change. \n\nCultural lag creates problems for a society in a multitude of ways. The issue of cultural lag tends to permeate any discussion in which the implementation of some new technology is a topic. For example, the advent of stem cell research has given rise to many new, potentially beneficial medical technologies; however these new technologies have also raised serious ethical questions about the use of stem cells in medicine. Cultural lag is seen as a critical ethical issue because failure to develop broad social consensus on appropriate applications of modern technology may lead to breakdowns in social solidarity and the rise of social conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9020225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9020225", "title": "Cultural policy", "text": "Cultural policy\n\nCultural policy is the government actions, laws and programs that regulate, protect, encourage and financially (or otherwise) support activities related to the arts and creative sectors, such as painting, sculpture, music, dance, literature, and filmmaking, among others and culture, which may involve activities related to language, heritage and diversity. The idea of cultural policy was developed at UNESCO in the 1960s. Generally, this involves governments setting in place processes, legal classifications, regulations, legislation and institutions (e.g., galleries, museums, libraries, opera houses, etc.) which promote and facilitate cultural diversity and creative expressions in a range of art forms and creative activities. Cultural policies vary from one country to another, but generally they aim to improve the accessibility of arts and creative activities to citizens and promote the artistic, musical, ethnic, sociolinguistic, literary and other expressions of all people in a country. In some countries, especially since the 1970s, there is an emphasis on supporting the culture of Indigenous peoples and marginalized communities and ensuring that cultural industries (e.g., filmmaking or TV production) are representative of a country's diverse cultural heritage and ethnic and linguistic demographics. \n\nCultural policy can be done at a nation-state level, at a sub-national level (e.g., U.S. states or Canadian provinces), at a regional level or at a municipal level (e.g., a city government creating a museum or arts centre). Examples of cultural policy-making at the nation-state level could include anything from funding music education or theatre programs at little to no cost, to hosting corporate-sponsored art exhibitions in a government museum, to establishing legal codes (such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service’s 501(c)(3) tax designation for not-for-profit enterprises) and creating political institutions (such as the various ministries of culture and departments of culture and the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the Arts in the United States), arts granting councils, and cultural institutions such as galleries and museums. Similar significant organisations in the United Kingdom include the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), and Arts Council England.\n\nThroughout much of the twentieth century, many of the activities that compose cultural policy in the 2010s were governed under the title of \"arts policy\". Arts policy includes direct funding to artists, creators and art institutions and indirect funding to artists and arts institutions through the tax system (e.g., by making donations to arts charities tax deductible). However, as Kevin Mulcahy has observed, \"cultural policy encompasses a much broader array of activities than were addressed under arts policy. Whereas arts policy was effectively limited to addressing aesthetic concerns (e.g., funding art galleries and opera houses), the significance of the transformation to cultural policy can be observed in its demonstrable emphases on cultural identity, valorization of indigineity [Indigenous people's culture] and analyses of historical dynamics (such as hegemony and colonialism).\" A general trend in Western industrialized nations is a shift, since the 1970s and 1980s, away from solely supporting a small number of relatively elite, professionalized art forms and institutions (e.g., Classical music, painting, sculpture, art galleries) to also supporting amateur and community cultural and creative activities (e.g., community theatre) and cultural forms which were not considered part of the Western canon by previous generations (e.g., traditional music such as blues, World music, and so on).\n\nPrior to the twentieth century, the arts were typically supported by the patronage of the church, aristocrats such as kings and queens, and wealthy merchants. During the nineteenth century, artists increased their use of the private marketplace to earn revenue. For example, the composer Beethoven put on public concerts for which admission was charged. During the twentieth century, governments began to take over some of the arts patronage roles. Governments' first efforts to support culture were typically the establishment of archives, museums and libraries. Over the twentieth century, governments established a range of other institutions, such as arts councils and departments of culture. The first departments of culture typically supported the major arts that are part of the Western canon, such as painting and sculpture, and the major performing arts (Classical music and theatre).\n\nIn the twentieth century, Western governments in the U.K., Canada, Australia, New Zealand and many European nations developed arts policy measures to promote, support and protect the arts, artists and arts institutions. These governments' arts policy initiatives generally had two aims: supporting excellence in the arts and broadening access to the arts by citizens. An example of an arts policy initiative that supports excellence would be a government grant program which provides funding to the highest-achieving artists in the country. A concrete example would be a literary prize of $100,000 for the best fiction authors from the country, as selected by a panel of top experts. An example of an arts policy initiative that aims at increasing access to the arts would be a music in the schools program funded by the government. A concrete example would be a program which funded an orchestra or jazz quartet and paid them to play free concerts in elementary schools. This would enable children from lower- and middle-income families to hear live music. \n\nThe two goals, supporting excellence and broadening access, are often trade-offs, as any increase in emphasis on one policy objective typically has an adverse effect on the other goal. To give an example, if a hypothetical country has a $12 million per year grant program for orchestras in the country, if the government focuses on the goal of supporting musical excellence, it may decide to provide $4 million per year to the three top orchestras in the country, as determined by a panel of independent professional music critics, conductors and music professors. This decision would strongly support the goal of enhancing excellence, as funding would only go to the top musical groups. However, this approach would only enable citizens in three cities to have access to professional orchestras.\n\nOn the other hand, if the government was focusing on broadening access to symphony concerts, it might direct the independent panel to pick 12 orchestras in the country, with the stipulation that only one orchestra per city be selected. By proving $1 million per year to 12 orchestras in 12 cities, this would enable citizens from 12 cities in the country to see live orchestra shows. However, by funding 12 orchestras, this would mean that funding would go to ensembles that do not meet the highest standards of excellence. Thus, excellence and broadening access are often trade-offs.\n\nCultural policy, while a small part of the budgets of even the most generous of governments, governs a sector of immense complexity. It entails “a large, heterogeneous set of individuals and organizations engaged in the creation, production, presentation, distribution, and preservation of and education about aesthetic heritage, and entertainment activities, products and artifacts”. A cultural policy necessarily encompasses a broad array of activities and typically involves public support for:\n\nSome governments may place policy areas from this list in other ministries or departments. For example, national parks may be assigned to an environment department, or public humanities may be delegated to an education department. \n\nSince culture is a public good (i.e., contributes a public value to society for which it is hard to exclude non-payers, as all of society benefits from arts and culture) and something that is generally viewed as a merit good, governments have pursued programs to promote greater accessibility. In this way of thinking, significant aesthetic works such as paintings and sculptures should be made broadly available to the public. In other words, “high culture” should not be the exclusive preserve of a particular social class or of a metropolitan location. Rather, the benefits of the highest reaches of cultural excellence should be made in an egalitarian manner; national cultural treasures should be accessible without regard to the impediments of class circumstances, educational attainment or place of habitation. A democratic state cannot be seen as simply indulging the aesthetic preferences of a few, however enlightened, or of overtly infusing art with political values. Consequently, a democratic cultural policy must articulate its purposes in ways that demonstrate how the public interest is being served. These purposes have often been expressed as involving either the creation of cultural democracy or the democratization of culture.\n\nThe objective of cultural democratization is the aesthetic enlightenment, enhanced dignity, and educational development of the general citizenry. “Dissemination was the key concept with the aim of establishing equal opportunity for all citizens to participate in publicly organized and financed cultural activities”. To further this goal, performances and exhibitions are low cost; public art education promotes equality of aesthetic opportunity; national institutions tour and perform in work places, retirement homes and housing complexes.\n\nAs indicated earlier, the “democratization of culture” is a top-down approach that promulgates certain forms of cultural programming that are deemed to be a public good. Clearly, such an objective is open to criticism for what is termed cultural elitism; that is, the assumption that some aesthetic expressions are inherently superior - at least as determined by a cognoscenti concerned with the acquisition of cultural capital. “The problem with this policy [is] that, fundamentally, it intend[s] to create larger audiences for performances whose content [is] based on the experience of society’s privileged groups. In sum, it has… taken for granted that the cultural needs of all society’s members [are] alike”. The objective of cultural democracy, on the other hand, is to provide for a more participatory (or populist) approach in the definition and provision of cultural opportunities.\n\nThe coupling of the concept of democratization of culture to cultural democracy has a pragmatic as well as a philosophical component. Cultural patronage in democratic governments is markedly different from patronage by wealthy individuals or corporations. Private or politically paramount patrons are responsible only to themselves and are free to indulge in their tastes and preferences. Democratic governments, on the other hand, are responsible to the electorate and are held accountable for their policy decisions.\n\nThe two objectives just discussed - dissemination of high culture and participation in a broader range of cultural activities - evoke a related debate about the content of public culture: “elitist” or “populist.” \nProponents of the elitist position argue that cultural policy should emphasize aesthetic quality as the determining criterion for public subvention. This view is typically supported by the major cultural organizations, creative artists in the traditionally defined field of the fine arts, cultural critics, and the well-educated, well-to-do audiences for these art forms. Ronald Dworkin terms this the “lofty approach,” which “insists that art and culture must reach a certain degree of sophistication, richness, and excellence in order for human nature to flourish, and that the state must provide this excellence if the people will not or cannot provide it for themselves”. Advocates of the elitist position generally focus on supporting the creation, preservation and performance of works of the Western canon, a group of artworks that are viewed as the best artistic and cultural products of Western society.\n\nBy contrast, the populist position advocates defining culture broadly and inclusively and making this culture broadly available. The populist approach emphasizes a less traditional and more pluralist notion of artistic merit and consciously seeks to create a policy of cultural diversity. With a focus on personal enhancement, the populist’s position posits very limited boundaries between amateur and professional arts activities. Indeed, the goal is to provide opportunities for those outside the professional mainstream. To give an example, whereas an elite approach advocates support for professional musicians, particularly those from Classical music, a populist approach would advocate support for amateur, community singers and musicians.\n\n“Proponents of populism are frequently advocates of minority arts, folk arts, ethnic arts, or counter-cultural activities” as Kevin V. Mulcahy said. Cultural “elitists,” on the other hand, argue in support of excellence over amateurism and favor an emphasis on aesthetic discipline over “culture as everything.” There are “two key tensions for national cultural policy between the goals of excellence versus access, and between government roles as facilitator versus architect”.\nKevin V. Mulcahy argued that in effect, elitism is cultural democracy as populism is to the democratization of culture. Unfortunately, there has been a tendency to see these positions as mutually exclusive, rather than complementary. “Elitists” are denounced as “high brow snobs” advocating an esoteric culture which focuses on art music and the types of art seen in museums and galleries; populists are dismissed as “pandering philistines” promoting a trivialized and commercialized culture, as they endorse the value of popular music and folk art. However, these mutual stereotypes belie complementariness between two bookends of an artistically autonomous and politically accountable cultural policy. There is a synthesis that can be termed a “latitudinarian approach” to public culture; that is, one that is aesthetically inclusive and broadly accessible.\n\nSuch a public-cultural policy would remain faithful to the highest standards of excellence from a broad range of aesthetic expressions while providing the widest possible access to people from different geographic locales, socio-economic strata, and educational background, as Dr. Mulcahy said. In conceiving of public policy as an opportunity to provide alternatives not readily available in the marketplace, public cultural agencies would be better positioned to complement the efforts of the private sector rather than duplicate their activities. Similarly, cultural agencies can promote community development by supporting artistic heritages that are at a competitive disadvantage in a cultural world that is increasingly profit-driven. In sum, excellence should be viewed as the achievements of greatness from a horizontal, rather than a vertical, perspective and a cultural policy as supporting the totality of these varieties of excellence.\n\nThese attitudes about a public cultural responsibility stand in marked contrast to much of the rest of the world, where culture is a question of historic patrimony, or the national identities of peoples, whether in independent states or regions within more powerful states. Inevitably, sensitive issues are involved in any discussion of culture as a public policy. However, given the demands in a democratic system that public policies show a return to the taxpayer, cultural policy has frequently argued for support on the basis of utility. It can be argued that there is a parity between the state’s responsibility for its citi’ social-economic-physical needs and their access to culture and opportunities for artistic self-expression. However, the aesthetic dimension of public policy has never been widely perceived as intuitively obvious or politically imperative. Accordingly, the cultural sector has often argued its case from the secondary, ancillary benefits that result from public support for programs that are seemingly only aesthetic in nature. Cultural policy is not typically justified solely on the grounds that it is a good-in-itself, but rather that it yields other good results.\n\nThe future of cultural policy would seem to predict an increasingly inexorable demand that the arts “carry their own weight” rather than rely on a public subsidy to pursue “art for art’s sake”. Kevin V. Mulcahy dubbed this “cultural Darwinism” is most pronounced in the United States where public subsidy is limited and publicly supported aesthetic activities are expected to demonstrate a direct public benefit. Non-American cultural institutions are less constrained by the need to maintain diversified revenue streams that demand high levels of earned income and individual and corporate donations to compensate for limited government appropriations.\n\nOn the other hand, cultural institutions everywhere are increasingly market-driven in their need for supplementary funds and as a justification for continued public support. The American model of an essentially privatized culture is increasingly attractive to governments seeking to curtail their cultural subsidies. In a system of mixed funding, public culture can nurture the arts groups and cultural activities that contribute to individual self-worth and community definition even if counting for less in the economic bottom-line. At root, a cultural policy is about creating public spheres that are not dependent upon profit motives nor validated by commercial values. As political democracy is dependent upon the existence of civil society and socio-economic pluralism, cultural policy stands as an essential public commitment in realizing these fundamental preconditions.\n\nOne of the available and yet underappreciated tools in cultural policy at the national level is the reduction of VAT rates for cultural goods and services. Economic theory can be used to explain how reduced fiscal rates are expected to decrease prices and increase quantities of consumed cultural goods and services. Fiscal policy can be an important part of cultural policy, in particular the VAT rate discounts on cultural consumption, yet it receives less attention than deserved.\n\nAt the international level UNESCO is in charge of cultural policy. Contact information for ministries of culture and national arts councils in 160 countries is available from the website of the International Federation of Arts Councils and Culture Agencies (IFACCA). On a local scale, subnational (e.g., state or provincial governments), city and local governments offer citizens and local authorities the opportunity to develop arts and culture with the Agenda 21 for Culture.\n\nCultural policy research is a field of academic inquiry that grew out of cultural studies in the 1990s. It grew out of the idea that cultural studies should not only be critical, but also try to be useful. In the 2010s, there are many departments of Cultural Policy Studies around the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13144407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13144407", "title": "Cultural practice", "text": "Cultural practice\n\nCultural practice generally refers to the manifestation of a culture or sub-culture, especially in regard to the traditional and customary practices of a particular ethnic or other cultural group. In the broadest sense, this term can apply to any person manifesting any aspect of any culture at any time. However, in practical usage it often refers to the traditional practices developed within specific ethnic cultures, especially those aspects of culture that have been practiced since ancient times.\n\nThe term is gaining in importance due to the increased controversy over \"rights of cultural practice\", which are protected in many jurisdictions for indigenous peoples and sometimes ethnic minorities. It is also a major component of the field of cultural studies, and is a primary focus of international works such as the United Nations declaration of the rights of indigenous Peoples.\n\nCultural practice is also a subject of discussion in questions of cultural survival. If an ethnic group retains its formal ethnic identity but loses its core cultural practices or the knowledge, resources, or ability to continue them, questions arise as to whether the culture is able to actually survive at all. International bodies such as the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues continually work on these issues, which are increasingly at the forefront of globalization questions.\n\n\nThe real question of what qualifies as a legitimate cultural practice is the subject of much legal and ethnic community debate. The question arises in controversial subject areas such as genital mutilation, indigenous hunting and gathering practices, and the question of licensing of traditional medical practitioners.\n\nMany traditional cultures acknowledge members outside of their ethnicity as cultural practitioners, but only under special circumstances. Generally, the knowledge or title must be passed in a traditional way, such as family knowledge shared through adoption, or through a master of that practice choosing a particular student who shows qualities desired for that practice, and teaching that student in a hands-on manner, in which they are able to absorb the core values and belief systems of the culture. The degree to which these non-ethnic practitioners are able to exercise \"customary and traditional\" rights, and the degree to which their practice is acknowledged as valid, is often a subject of considerable debate among indigenous and other ethnic communities, and sometimes with the legal systems under which these communities function. The difference between bona fide non-native cultural practitioners and cultural piracy, or cultural appropriation, is a major issue within the study of globalization and modernization.\n\nThe evolution of traditional cultures is a subject of much discussion in legal, scholarly, and community forums. It is generally accepted that all cultures are to some degree in a continual state of sociocultural evolution. However, major questions surround the legitimacy of newly evolved cultural expressions, especially when these are influenced by modernization or by the influence of other cultures. Also, there is significant debate surrounding the source of evolution: for example, an indigenous community may accept the use of store-bought materials in the creation of traditional arts, but may reject requirements to apply for a permit for certain gathering purposes; the central difference being that one is an \"internal\" cultural evolution, while the other is \"externally\" driven by the society or legal body that surrounds the culture.\n"}
{"id": "21944476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21944476", "title": "Culture gap", "text": "Culture gap\n\nA culture gap is any systematic difference between two cultures which hinders mutual understanding or relations. Such differences include the values, behavior, education, and customs of the respective cultures. \nAs international communications, travel, and trade have expanded, some of the communication and cultural divisions have lessened. Books on how to handle and be aware of cultural differences seek to prepare business people and travelers. Immigrants and migrant laborers need to learn the ways of a new culture. Tourists can also be confronted with variants in protocols for tipping, body language, personal space, dress codes, and other cultural issues. Language instructors try to teach cultural differences as well.\n\nA \"legal culture\" is a system of laws and precedents peculiar to a nation, region, religion, or other organized group. A culture gap occurs when incompatible or opposing systems might be applied to the same situation or assumed by the parties. Legal constructs such as contracts and corporations are not uniform across cultures. In some cases, such a gap is intentionally sought by one party, as in forum shopping for a more favorable legal framework or in libel tourism, by which speech protected in one jurisdiction may be actionable in another.\n\nA \"generation gap\" occurs when the experiences and attitudes of one generation differ significantly from those of another. The world wars contributed to generation gaps in several nations. The term first saw widespread use in contrasting the Baby Boomer generation with their parents. The \"Youth culture\" of adolescents and teenagers seeking to stake out their own identity and independence from their parents often results in a cultural divide. Younger generations have experienced different technologies, freedoms and standards of propriety.\n\nCommunication between and collaboration among scientific disciplines is sometimes hindered by use of different paradigms or competition between the desires to describe a simple explanatory framework and elucidate fine details. The framework of the questions to which each field lends itself may differ, leading to frustration and wasted effort.\n\nThe education culture is the different education people receive in their life. A culture gap occurs when people with different cultures sit together and take the same class. Different cultures behave differently towards the teacher both in class and after class. Differences can be noticed in assessment method and the direction method of the class.\n\nAsian students focus on books and exercises more than European and American students, who are willing to raise questions in the classes. The cultural gap in education is due to the different education traditions in different places.\n\nFor example, Asian students receive exam-oriented education, but European and American students receive a very different, freer education and are both expected to challenge their teachers and strongly encouraged to challenge the teachers in class.\n\nIn both China and Japan, the education system normally usually uses exams to show a student's ability. In American and Britain, students grade instructors according to ability.\n\nBoth systems have advantages and disadvantages but form a cultural gap between people. Different ways of thinking and analyzing things makes students view things very differently.\n\n"}
{"id": "48403782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48403782", "title": "Cultureme", "text": "Cultureme\n\nA cultureme is any portion of cultural behavior apprehended in signs of symbolic value that can be broken down into smaller units or amalgamated into larger ones. A cultureme is a \"cultural information-bearing unit\", the contents of which are recognizable by a group of people. Culturemes are the bridge between linguistic units and culture.\n\nTheir usage can be seen in cultural expressions, phraseologisms, jokes, slogans, literature, religion, folklore, sociology, anthropology, etc. All of which are subcultures in a culture system. Culturemes of this nature have historical relevance that when translated or explained result in a miscommunication and misunderstanding. \n\nThe notion of cultureme is being increasingly used in translation studies and other disciplines. It is a recently used concept that is yet to be defined and distinguished from others, such as phraseme, idiom, symbol, cultural word, etc.\n\nFernando Poyatos breaks down the features of a cultureme into four phases. These phases analysis the broadest of culturemes to the most particular aspects of culturemes.\n\nBasic culturemes are the broadest of culturemes. They characterize the initial semblance of a culture. Basic culturemes are separated into two cultural \"realms,\" urban and rural, and two domains: exterior and interior. Basic culturemes begin with urban and rural realms because of their dichotomy in cultural identity and displays of social interactions. Within either cultures, there are exteriors (what is observed from the outside) and interiors (what is observed from the inside of buildings or establishments that are not seen from an outdoors perspective). The main divisions of culturemes are: urban-exterior, urban-interior, rural-exterior, and rural-interior.\n\nThe significance of basic culturemes is to give a general sense of surroundings. For instance,\n\n\"in \"North America\" (United States and Canada): the larger size of many automobiles, the summery sound and smell of lawn mowing, the smell of city bus exhausts, the basic separation of the 'downtown' business and residential areas in the small town or village, the sirens of their police cars, the smell of hamburger and French fries of many eating establishments, the unique drugstore smell, the 'Licensed' signs in many second-rate restaurants (indicating a cultural attitude towards drinking\"\n\nPrimary culturemes exist in the phase when acculturation occurs, in which one's culture is becoming more complex. The basic four culturemes are subcategorized into environmental (cultural settings) and behavioral (behaviors of people and their interactions). These culturemes are a result of recognizing cultural patterns and \"experiencing it through mere observation or systemic learning.\" \n\nCulturemes are further broken down into settings, in which a specific culture is exemplified. These includes cultures in the school, the park, the bar, etc. These are secondary culturemes. Phase three is the point where the cultures identified in phase two begin to interact; interrelationships are seen among different cultural systems and values.\n\nPhase four delves deeper into human senses, analyzing to the fullest extent possible. The completion of phase four allows one to identify the cultureme's cultural system and subculture. Knowing the cultural system and subculture are important as it helps to navigate through other identifiable systems within the culture.\n\nTranslating a cultureme can be challenging, as connotations are sometimes very strong. For instance: the Spanish word \"alcázar\" means \"the castle\", \"palace\" or \"fortress\", but, as it is of Arabic origin, it recalls eight centuries of history (Al Andalus), which cannot be easily translated into English, so the translator must adopt a crucial decision: either choose the English word \"fortress\" and lose all the historical and cultural connotations, or use the loan word alcazar.\n\nA language may have various cultures and various languages may share the same culture. Cultures may differ in conceptualization that may in turn affect how thoughts are conveyed in their languages. The asymmetry of language complicates the matter of providing a linguistically and culturally sound equivalent of a cultureme in another language. The complex relationship of language and culture is significant in giving culturemes their intended value. Dictionaries further complicate cross-cultural gaps of meaning because without the collaborative effort of all cultures, it is impossible to define the significance of words that may be culturemes in the dictionary. Though, slowly, interactive and multimedia dictionaries have become extensive in information that lessen the bridge across languages and cultures.\n\nCulturemes are translated in several ways:\n\nIn translating, the inability to convey cultural meaning strips a cultureme of its \"cultureme\" title and it simply becomes an ambiguous word. Culture is classified into three categories: Norms, Ideas, and Materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18984987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18984987", "title": "Eastern world", "text": "Eastern world\n\nThe term Eastern world refers to various cultures or social structures and philosophical systems depending on the context, most often including at least part of Asia or geographically the countries and cultures east of Europe, the Mediterranean Region and Arab world, specifically in historical (pre-modern) contexts, and in modern times in the context of Orientalism. \n\nThe term is usually not used by people in this region itself, since this Eastern world is a varied, complex and dynamic region, hard to generalize, and although these countries and regions have many common threads running through them, historically they never needed to define themselves collectively against another entity, real or superficial.\n\nThe term originally had a literal geographic meaning, referring to the eastern part of the Old World, contrasting the cultures and civilizations of Asia with those of Europe (the \"Occident\" or Western world). Traditionally, this includes all of Central, North and East Asia (the Far East), Greater Middle East, Southeast Asia and South Asia (the Indian subcontinent). \n\nConceptually, the boundary between east and west is cultural, rather than geographical, as a result of which Australia is typically grouped in the \nWest, while Islamic nations and much of the former Soviet Union are, regardless of location, grouped in the East. Other than Asia and some parts of Africa, Europe has successfully absorbed almost all of the societies of Oceania, and the Americas into the Western world, Turkey, the Philippines,\nIsrael, and Japan, which are geographically located in the Eastern world, are considered at least partially westernized due to the cultural influence of Europe.\n\nAlthough the concept of a united Asian people and not mean Asian race is even more debatable due to the fact that most of the world link the identity of Asian only to the people of South, East and Southeast Asia and so regions like Western Asia that who even though see themselves as part of the Eastern world such as the Arab nations of Western Asia, Israel, Turkey, Iran, and the ethnic groups that come along with these countries do not identify as Asian. \n\nAnother reason why a Pan-Asian identity is a flawed work in progress concept compared to the mass unity found in the continents of Europe and Africa is the fact that Asia is the most racially and ethnically diverse continent in the world that differs very widely among and within its regions with many different cultures, environments, economics, historical ties and government systems whose people have an even further pan-continental belief of nationalistic, cultural, and ethnic individualism many of whom believe came out of the imperialistic colonization of the continent by foreign Western powers back in colonial times and because of this overt sense individualism across the continent once a specific group(s) is labeled something many groups within Asia will have a hard time identifying with the same label. Most of the people of Asia prefer to identify with their individual nations rather than with their continent, region, or each other and these attitudes can be found throughout the continent.\n\nThe division between 'East' and 'West' is a product of European cultural history, and of the distinction between European Christendom and the cultures beyond it to the East. With the European colonization of the Americas the East/West distinction became global. The concept of an Eastern, \"Indian\" (Indies) or \"Oriental\" sphere was emphasized by ideas of racial as well as religious and cultural differences. Such distinctions were articulated by Westerners in the scholarly tradition known as Orientalism and Indology. An intriguing fact to be noted is that Orientalism has been the only Western concept that was about a unified Eastern world and not about any specific region(s), but rather all of Asia together.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the term \"Eastern world\" was sometimes used as an extension of Eastern bloc, connoting the Soviet Union, China and their communist allies, while the term \"Western world\" often connoted the United States and its NATO allies such as the United Kingdom.\n\nThe concept is often another term for the Far East – a region that bears considerable cultural and religious commonality. Eastern philosophy, art, literature, and other traditions, are often found throughout the region in places of high importance, such as popular culture, architecture and traditional literature. The spread of Buddhism and Hindu Yoga is partly responsible for this.\n\nEastern culture has developed many themes and traditions. Some important ones are:\n"}
{"id": "6185783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6185783", "title": "Edmund Leach", "text": "Edmund Leach\n\nSir Edmund Ronald Leach (7 November 1910 – 6 January 1989) was a British social anthropologist.\n\nLeach was born in Sidmouth, Devon, the youngest of three children and the son of William Edmund Leach and Mildred Brierley. His father owned and was manager of a sugar plantation in northern Argentina. In 1940 Leach married Celia Joyce who was then a painter and later published poetry and two novels. They had a daughter in 1941 and a son in 1946.\n\nLeach was educated at Marlborough College and Clare College, Cambridge, where he graduated with a BA with honours in Engineering in 1932.\n\nAfter leaving Cambridge University, Leach took a four-year contract in 1933 with Butterfield and Swire in China, serving in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Chungking (now Chongqing), Tsingtao (now Qingdao), and Peking (now Beijing). He found out after his contract expired that he did not like the business atmosphere and never again was going to sit on an office stool. He intended to return to England by way of Russia on the Trans-Siberian Railway, but increasing political turmoil in Russia convinced him otherwise. While in Peking, Leach had a chance encounter with Kilton Stewart, a psychiatrist, former-Mormon missionary, and published author who invited him on a trip to the island of Botel Tobago off the coast of Formosa. And so, on his way home Leach spent several months among the Yami of Botel Tobago, an island off the coast of Formosa. Here he took ethnographic notes and specifically focused his efforts on local boat design. This work resulted in a 1937 article in the anthropology journal \"Man\".\n\nHe returned to England and studied social anthropology at the London School of Economics with Raymond Firth who introduced him to Bronisław Malinowski. He was an active member of Malinowski's \"famous seminar\". In 1938, Leach went to Iraq (Kurdistan) to study the Kurds, which resulted in \"Social and Economic Organization of the Rowanduz Kurds\". However, he abandoned this trip because of the Munich Crisis. He wrote: \"I’ve got an enormous amount of ability at almost anything, yet so far I’ve made absolutely no use of it… I seem to be a highly organized piece of mental apparatus for which nobody else has any use\" (D.N.B. 258).\n\nIn 1939 he was going to study the Kachin Hills of Burma, but World War II intervened. Leach then joined the Burma Army, from the fall of 1939 to summer 1945, where he achieved the rank of Major. During his time in Burma, Leach acquired superior knowledge of Northern Burma and its many hill tribes. In particular, he grew very familiar with the Kachin people, even serving as commander of the Kachin irregular forces. This resulted in the publication of the \"Jinghpaw Kinship Terminology: An Experiment in Ethnographic Algebra\" in 1945.\n\nAfter he left the Army in 1946, he returned to the London School of Economics to complete his dissertation under the supervision of Raymond Firth. In spring of 1947 he received a Ph.D. in anthropology. His 732-page dissertation was based on his time in Burma and titled \"Cultural change, with special reference to the hill tribes of Burma and Assam\". Later that same year, at the request of Sir Charles Arden Clark, the then Governor of Sarawak (then under British Colonial rule) and a referral by Raymond Firth, the British Colonial Social Science Research Council invited Leach to conduct a major survey of the local peoples. The resulting 1948 report, \"Social Science Research in Sarawak\" (later published in 1950), was used as a guide for many well-known subsequent anthropological studies of region. In addition to the report, Leach produced five additional publications from this field work. Upong returning from his fieldwork in Borneo, Leach became a lecturer at LSE.\n\nIn 1951, Leach won the Curl Essay Prize for his essay \"The Structural Implications of Matrilateral Cross-Cousin Marriage,\" which drew on his extensive data on the Kachin to make important theoretical points as it related to kinship theory.\n\nIn 1953, he became a lecturer at Cambridge University, and promoted to Reader in 1957.\n\nAlong with his wife, Celia, Leach spent a year from 1960 to 1961 at the Center for Advanced Study of Behavioral Studies in Palo Alto, California. Here he met Roman Jakobson, the Russian linguist, popularizer of Saussurean structural linguistics, and a major influence on the theoretical thinking of Levi-Strauss, leading to his structural anthropology.\n\nIn 1972 receiving a personal Chair. He was elected provost of King's College, Cambridge in 1966 and retired in 1979; President of the Royal Anthropological Institute (1971–1975); a Fellow of the British Academy (from 1972) and was knighted in 1975.\n\nLeach spanned the gap between British structural-functionalism (exemplified by Radcliffe-Brown and Malinowski), and French structuralism (exemplified by Levi-Strauss). Despite being a central interpreter of Levi-Strauss' work, producing several introductory works on Levi-Strauss' theoretical perspective, Leach considered himself \"at heart, still a 'functionalist'\".\n\nHis book \"Lévi-Strauss\" was translated into six languages and ran three editions. His turn of phrase produced memorable quotes, such as this on Lévi-Strauss:\"The outstanding characteristic of [Lévi-Strauss's writing], whether in French or English, is that it is difficult to understand; his sociological theories combine baffling complexity with overwhelming erudition. Some readers even suspect that they are being treated to a confidence trick\".\n\nLeach's work on Lévi-Strauss is often relied on by other authors. For example, in Richard Wrangham's (2009) book \"\", he relies on Leach in describing Lévi-Strauss's analysis of cooking in relation to human culture.\n\nLeach's first book was \"Political Systems of Highland Burma\" (1954); it challenged the theories of social structure and cultural change. Throughout, Leach was \"fiercely critical of generalisations from one society to a narrative about 'politics' in so-called 'primitive societies'\".\n\nHis second book was \"Pul Eliya, a Village in Ceylon\" (1961), where he directed his attention to theories of kinship as ideal systems. Leach's interest in kinship was first exemplified by his 1951 article (which won the Curl Essay Prize), and it was here that he first cites Levi-Strauss, disagreeing with several aspects of the latter's kinship theory outlined in \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\". Leach applied his analysis of kinship to his disagreement with Lévi-Strauss in \"Pul Eliya\", introducing Levi-Strauss's work into British social anthropology in doing so.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38703024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38703024", "title": "Encyclopedia of Hinduism", "text": "Encyclopedia of Hinduism\n\nEncyclopedia of Hinduism, 1st ed., 2012, is a comprehensive, multi-volume, English language encyclopedia of Hinduism, comprising \"\", a Sanskrit phrase, meaning \"the eternal law\", or the \"eternal way\", that is used to refer to Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism. It is a 7,184 page, 11-volume publication with full-color illustrations of temples, places, thinkers, rituals and festivals. \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" is an inspiration and dream project of Swami Chidanand Saraswati, President of Parmarth Niketan and India Heritage Research Foundation. Under preparation for 25 years, it has been edited by Dr. Kapil Kapoor with contribution from over 2000 scholars.\n\nThe encyclopaedia provides conceptual perspective and a general understanding of the different facets of Hinduism. It does not confine itself to religion alone, and has in it entries on art, history, language, literature, philosophy, polity, sciences, and women's studies. The editorial introduction records:\n\nOn 3–4 April 2010, a preview and blessings ceremony for the \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" was held at Parmarth Niketan, attended by the Dalai Lama, M.M. Swami Gurusharananand, Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Sant Shri Rameshbhai Oza, Swami Ramdev, Sant Shri Morari Bapu and other religious leaders as well as top political leaders, including Shri L.K. Advani and then-Chief Minister of Uttarakhand Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, and IHRF board members and trustees.\n\nThe International Edition of the \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" was launched at the University of South Carolina on 26 September 2013.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\" was presented to the President of India Shri Pranab Mukherjee on 23 June 2014.\n\nThe idea was conceived by Swami Chidanand Saraswati, president of Parmarth Niketan Ashram, at a Hindu-Jain Temple in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1987. Subsequently, in November of the same year, the India Heritage Research Foundation was formed to execute the idea of preparing an authoritative, comprehensive and up-to-date \"Encyclopedia of Hinduism\". Dr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, Professor Emeritus in Religious Studies at University of Virginia was appointed the Chief Editor.\n\nOver the next five years, Swami Chidanand Saraswati and Dr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao assembled an international team of scholars. In 1998, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Prime Minister of India at the time, spoke effusively in praise of the project:\n\nIn early 2006, Dr. Kapil Kapoor, Professor of English and Concurrent Professor of Sanskrit Studies who had retired as rector for Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi the previous year, was appointed chief editor of the project.\n\nThe first volume of the encyclopedia contains a 44-page foreword by Dr. Karan Singh. In the opening paragraph, he writes:\n\nThe closing comments of Dr. Singh's forward begin with the following note:\n\nIndrajit Hazra, writing for \"Hindustan Times\", said its \"entries are crisp, provide background and foreground, and come with a bibliography.\" The review goes on to add:\n\nHazra concludes his review by calling the encyclopedia \"a startlingly good treasure trunk for anyone interested in the history of ideas to dip into.\" Former Home Minister of India L.K. Advani called the work \"a landmark publication.\"\n"}
{"id": "18984969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18984969", "title": "Encyclopedia of India", "text": "Encyclopedia of India\n\nThe Encyclopedia of India is a four-volume encyclopedia on Indian history and culture under editor-in-chief Stanley Wolpert. The series was published by Gale (Cengage) in November 2005 under .\n\nThe \"Library Journal\" has described Wolpert's work as \"outstanding\" \n\n"}
{"id": "51207248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51207248", "title": "Farid Matuk", "text": "Farid Matuk\n\nFarid Matuk is an American poet and educator, born to a Peruvian father and Syrian mother in Peru. He writes in both English and Spanish, and his Spanish translations have appeared in \"Kadar Koli,\" \"Translation Review\", \"Mandorla\", and \"Bombay Gin\". His poems have appeared in \"Denver Quarterly\", \"Flag + Void\", \"Iowa Review\", and \"Poetry\" and abroad in \"White Wall Review\" (Canada), \"Critical Quarterly\" (UK), and \"Poem: International English Language Quarterly\" (UK). He is currently Associate Professor of English and Creative Writing at the University of Arizona. His book \"This Isa Nice Neighborhood (Letter Machine, 2010)\" was the recipient of an Honorable Mention in the 2011 Arab American Book Awards. and was included in The Poetry Society of America's New American Poets series. \"My Daughter La Chola (Ahsata, 2013)\" received an Honorable Mention in the 2014 Arab American Book Awards. My Daughter La Chola was also named among the best books of 2013 by \"The Volta\" and by The Poetry Foundation while selections from its pages have been anthologized in \"The Best American Experimental Poetry, 2014\", \"The &Now Awards: The Best Innovative Writing Vol. 3\", and in \"Angels of the Americlypse: An Anthology of New Latino@ Writing\". He serves as poetry editor for \"Fence\" and on the editorial board for the Creative Writing Studies book series at Bloomsbury. Matuk is the recipient of both the Ford Fellowship and Fulbright Fellowship. The University of Arizona Press published his second full-length collection, \"The Real Horse\", in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "6267538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6267538", "title": "Forefathers' Day", "text": "Forefathers' Day\n\nForefathers' Day is a holiday celebrated in Plymouth, Massachusetts, on December 22. It is a commemoration of the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers in Plymouth, Massachusetts, on December 21, 1620. It was introduced in Plymouth, Massachusetts, in 1769.\n\nForefathers Day' is celebrated every year by the Old Colony Club, established in 1769 \"to honor the forefathers\". The celebration begins at 6:00 AM with a march by members to the top of Cole's Hill next to Massasoit's statue, followed by a reading of a proclamation honoring the forefathers and a ritual firing of the club's cannon. \nThe Old Colony Club and the Mayflower Society both include a succotash dinner as part of their celebration. Sauquetash was recorded as a part of the first Thanksgiving. Unlike later versions of succotash, in Plymouth succotash is served as a broth containing large pieces of fowl and meat that are sliced at the table. \n\nWhen the 22nd falls on a Sunday, the Old Colony Club celebrates Forefathers Day' on the following Monday. \n\nThere is some good-hearted dispute between the Old Colony Club and the Mayflower Society. The simple fact of the celebration falling on separate days permits members of both societies to participate in both celebrations. In adjusting the date to the Gregorian calendar, the anniversary was erroneously established on December 22 instead of December 21.\n\n"}
{"id": "26223298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26223298", "title": "Generation text", "text": "Generation text\n\nGeneration text is a term referring to those members of society who have grown up with cell phones from a young age. Furthermore, it can be applied to adolescents and teenagers who feel that they are unable to function without a cell phone.\n\nThe term \"generation text\" has been created by several people independently. Dr. Michael Osit published a book in 2008 called \"Generation Text\".\nA second invention of the word occurred in 2009 at a Lights concert in Winnipeg, Canada by Ian Scott. While at the concert, Scott observed that many of the teenagers were either talking on their cell phones, text messaging, or videoing concert footage using their phones. Also noticing that they appeared to be all of one specific generation, he coined the term \"generation text\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56698888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56698888", "title": "Habis", "text": "Habis\n\nHabis (from the Cynete language meaning fawn) is a legendary king of the Spanish region of Tartessos.\n\nAccording to legend, Habis's story began when his mother was stung by a bee. Her father, the king of Tartessos, hurried to heal her. As he knelt to soften her wound with his mouth, a passion came over both, thus procreating the baby. Due to the shame of having committed incest, the king ordered the child to be abandoned on the prairies outside the kingdom. Eventually the boy was raised by the deer in there, acquiring deer features. He was later found and recognized as the true heir to the kingdom, and later accordingly named.\n"}
{"id": "24809099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24809099", "title": "Heroes of the Environment (2008)", "text": "Heroes of the Environment (2008)\n\nHeroes of the Environment is a list published in \"Time\" magazine. After the inaugural list of 2007, the next list was published in September 2008. The list contains 30 entries, individuals or groups that have contributed substantially to the preservation of environment, and is divided into four categories: Leaders & Visionaries, Moguls & Entrepreneurs, Activists and Scientists & Innovators.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37360538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37360538", "title": "Human interactions with insects", "text": "Human interactions with insects\n\nHuman interactions with insects include both a wide variety of uses, whether practical such as for food, textiles, and dyestuffs, or symbolic, as in art, music, and literature, and negative interactions including serious damage to crops and extensive efforts to eliminate insect pests. \n\nAcademically, the interaction of insects and society has been treated in part as cultural entomology, dealing mostly with \"advanced\" societies, and in part as ethnoentomology, dealing mostly with \"primitive\" societies, though the distinction is weak and not based on theory. Both academic disciplines explore the parallels, connections and influence of insects on human populations, and vice versa. They are rooted in anthropology and natural history, as well as entomology, the study of insects. Other cultural uses of insects, such as biomimicry, do not necessarily lie within these academic disciplines.\n\nMore generally, people make a wide range of uses of insects, both practical and symbolic. On the other hand, attitudes to insects are often negative, and extensive efforts are made to kill them. The widespread use of insecticides has failed to exterminate any insect pest, but has caused resistance to commonly-used chemicals in a thousand insect species.\n\nPractical uses include as food, in medicine, for the valuable textile silk, for dyestuffs such as carmine, in science, where the fruit fly is an important model organism in genetics, and in warfare, where insects were successfully used in the Second World War to spread disease in enemy populations. One insect, the honey bee, provides honey, pollen, royal jelly, propolis and an anti-inflammatory peptide, melittin; its larvae too are eaten in some societies. Medical uses of insects include maggot therapy for wound debridement. Over a thousand protein families have been identified in the saliva of blood-feeding insects; these may provide useful drugs such as anticoagulants, vasodilators, antihistamines and anaesthetics.\n\nSymbolic uses include roles in art, in music (with many songs featuring insects), in film, in literature, in religion, and in mythology. Insect costumes are used in theatrical productions and worn for parties and carnivals.\n\nCulture consists of the social behaviour and norms found in human societies and transmitted through social learning. Cultural universals in all human societies include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing. The concept of material culture covers physical expressions such as technology, architecture and art, whereas immaterial culture includes principles of social organization, mythology, philosophy, literature, and science. This article describes the roles played by insects in human culture so defined.\n\nEthnoentomology developed from the 19th century with early works by authors such as Alfred Russel Wallace (1852) and Henry Walter Bates (1862). Hans Zinsser's \"classic\" \"Rats, Lice and History\" (1935) showed that insects were an important force in human history. Writers like William Morton Wheeler, Maurice Maeterlinck, and Jean Henri Fabre described insect life and communicated their meaning to people \"with imagination and brilliance\". Frederick Simon Bodenheimer's \"Insects as Human Food\" (1951) drew attention to the scope and potential of entomophagy, and showed a positive aspect of insects. Food is the most studied topic in ethnoentomology, followed by medicine and beekeeping.\n\nIn 1968, claimed cultural entomology as a branch of insect studies, in a review of the roles insects played in folklore and culture including religion, food, medicine and the arts. In 1984, Charles Hogue covered the field in English and from 1994 to 1997, Hogue's \"The Cultural Entomology Digest\" served as a forum on the field. Hogue argued that \"Humans spend their intellectual energies in three basic areas of activity: surviving, using practical learning (the application of technology); seeking pure knowledge through inductive mental processes (science); and pursuing enlightenment to taste a pleasure by aesthetic exercises that may be referred to as the \"humanities.\" Entomology has long been concerned with survival (economic entomology) and scientific study (academic entomology), but the branch of investigation that addresses the influence of insects (and other terrestrial Arthropoda, including arachnids and myriapods) in literature, language, music, the arts, interpretive history, religion, and recreation has only become recognized as a distinct field through Schimitschek's work.\nHogue set out the boundaries of the field by saying: \"The narrative history of the science of entomology is not part of cultural entomology, while the influence of insects on general history would be considered cultural entomology.\" He added: \"Because the term \"cultural\" is narrowly defined, some aspects normally included in studies of human societies are excluded.\"\n\nDarrell Addison Posey, noting that the boundary between cultural entomology and ethnoentomology is difficult to draw, cites Hogue as limiting cultural entomology to the influence of insects on \"the essence of humanity as expressed in the arts and humanities\". Posey notes further that cultural anthropology is usually restricted to the study of \"advanced\", industrialised, and literate societies, whereas ethnoentomology studies \"the entomological concerns of 'primitive' or 'noncivilized' societies\". Posey states at once that the division is artificial, complete with an unjustified us/them bias. Brian Morris similarly criticises the way that anthropologists treat non-Western attitudes to nature as monadic and spiritualist, and contrast this \"in gnostic fashion\" with a simplistic treatment of Western, often 17th century, mechanistic attitude. Morris considers this \"quite unhelpful, if not misleading\", and offers instead his own research into the multiple ways that the people of Malawi relate to insects and other animals: \"pragmatic, intellectual, realist, practical, aesthetic, symbolic and sacramental.\"\n\nThe Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MEA) report 2005 defines ecosystem services as benefits people obtain from ecosystems, and distinguishes four categories, namely provisioning, regulating, supporting, and cultural. A fundamental tenet is that a few species of arthropod are well understood for their influence on humans (such as honeybees, ants, mosquitoes, and spiders). However, insects offer ecological goods and services. The Xerces Society calculates the economic impact of four ecological services rendered by insects: pollination, recreation (i.e. \"the importance of bugs to hunting, fishing, and wildlife observation, including bird-watching\"), dung burial, and pest control. The value has been estimated at $153 billion worldwide. As the ant expert E. O. Wilson observed: \"If all mankind were to disappear, the world would regenerate back to the rich state of equilibrium that existed ten thousand years ago. If insects were to vanish, the environment would collapse into chaos.\" A Nova (TV Series) segment on the American Public Broadcasting Service framed the relationship with insects in an urban context: \"We humans like to think that we run the world. But even in the heart of our great cities, a rival superpower thrives ... These tiny creatures live all around us in vast numbers, though we hardly even notice them. But in many ways, it is they who really run the show. \"The Washington Post\" stated: \"We are flying blind in many aspects of preserving the environment, and that's why we are so surprised when a species like the honeybee starts to crash, or an insect we don't want, the Asian tiger mosquito or the fire ant, appears in our midst. In other words: Start thinking about the bugs.\"\n\n \nHuman attitudes toward insects are often negative, reinforced by sensationalism in the media. This has produced a society that attempts to eliminate insects from daily life. For example, nearly 75 million pounds of broad-spectrum insecticides are manufactured and sold each year for use in American homes and gardens. Annual revenues from insecticide sales to homeowners exceeded $450 million in 2004. Out of the roughly a million species of insects described so far, not more than 1,000 can be regarded as serious pests, and less than 10,000 (about 1%) are even occasional pests. Yet not one species of insect has been permanently eradicated through the use of pesticides. Instead, at least 1,000 species have developed field resistance to pesticides, and extensive harm has been done to beneficial insects including pollinators such as bees.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Warsaw Pact countries launched a widespread war against the potato beetle, blaming the introduction of the species from America on the CIA, demonising the species in propaganda posters, and urging children to gather the beetles and kill them.\n\nEntomophagy is the eating of insects. Many insects are considered a culinary delicacy in some societies around the world, and Frederick Simon Bodenheimer's \"Insects as Human Food\" (1951) drew attention to the scope and potential of entomophagy, but the practice is uncommon and even taboo in other societies. Sometimes insects are considered suitable only for the poor in the third world, but in 1975 Victor Meyer-Rochow suggested that insects could help ease global future food shortages and advocated a change in western attitudes towards cultures in which insects were appreciated as a food item. P.J. Gullan and P.S. Cranston felt that the remedy for this may be marketing of insect dishes as suitably exotic and costly to make them acceptable. They also note that some societies in sub-Saharan Africa prefer caterpillars to beef, while Chakravorty et al. (2011) point out that food insects (highly appreciated in North-East India) are more expensive than meat. The economics, i.e., the costs involved collecting food insects and the money earned through the sale of such insects, have been studied in a Laotian setting by Meyer-Rochow et al. (2008). In Mexico, ant larvae and Corixid water boatman eggs are sought out as a form of caviar by gastronomes. In Guangdong, water beetles fetch a high enough price for these insects to be farmed. Especially high prices are fetched in Thailand for the giant water bug \"Lethocerus indicus\".\n\nInsects used in food include honey bee larvae and pupae, mopani worms, silkworms, Maguey worms, Witchetty grubs, crickets, grasshoppers and locusts. In Thailand, there are 20,000 farmers rearing crickets, producing some 7,500 tons per year.\n\nInsects have been used medicinally in cultures around the world, often according to the Doctrine of Signatures. Thus, the femurs of grasshoppers, which were said to resemble the human liver, were used to treat liver ailments by the indigenous peoples of Mexico. The doctrine was applied in both Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and in Ayurveda. TCM uses arthropods for various purposes; for example, centipede is used to treat tetanus, seizures, and convulsions, while the Chinese Black Mountain Ant, \"Polyrhachis vicina\", is used as a cure all, especially by the elderly, and extracts have been examined as a possible anti-cancer agent. Ayurveda uses insects such as Termite for conditions such as ulcers, rheumatic diseases, anaemia, and pain. The Jatropha leaf miner's larvae are used boiled to induce lactation, reduce fever, and soothe the gastrointestinal tract. In contrast, the traditional insect medicine of Africa is local and unformalised. The indigenous peoples of Central America used a wide variety of insects medicinally. Mayans used Army ant soldiers as living sutures. The venom of the Red harvester ant was used to cure rheumatism, arthritis, and poliomyelitis via the immune reaction produced by its sting. Boiled \"silkworm\" pupae were taken to treat apoplexy, aphasy, bronchitis, pneumonia, convulsions, haemorrhages, and frequent urination.\n\nHoney bee products are used medicinally in apitherapy across Asia, Europe, Africa, Australia, and the Americas, despite the fact that the honey bee was not introduced to the Americas until the colonization by Spain and Portugal. They are by far the most common medical insect product both historically and currently, and the most frequently referenced of these is honey. It can be applied to skin to treat excessive scar tissue, rashes, and burns, and as an eye poultice to treat infection. Honey is taken for digestive problems and as a general health restorative. It is taken hot to treat colds, cough, throat infections, laryngitis, tuberculosis, and lung diseases. Apitoxin (honey bee venom) is applied via direct stings to relieve arthritis, rheumatism, polyneuritis, and asthma. Propolis, a resinous, waxy mixture collected by honeybees and used as a hive insulator and sealant, is often consumed by menopausal women because of its high hormone content, and it is said to have antibiotic, anesthetic, and anti-inflammatory properties. Royal jelly is used to treat anaemia, gastrointestinal ulcers, arteriosclerosis, hypo- and hypertension, and inhibition of sexual libido. Finally Bee bread, or bee pollen, is eaten as a generally health restorative, and is said to help treat both internal and external infections. One of the major peptides in bee venom, Melittin, has the potential to treat inflammation in sufferers of Rheumatoid arthritis and Multiple sclerosis.\n\nThe rise of antibiotic resistant infections has sparked pharmaceutical research for new resources, including into arthropods.\n\nMaggot therapy uses blowfly larvae to perform wound-cleaning debridement.\n\nCantharidin, the blister-causing oil found in several families of beetles described by the vague common name Spanish fly has been used as an aphrodisiac in some societies.\n\nBlood-feeding insects like ticks, horseflies, and mosquitoes inject multiple bioactive compounds into their prey. These insects have long been used by practitioners of Eastern Medicine to prevent blood clot formation or thrombosis, suggesting possible applications in scientific medicine. Over 1280 protein families have been associated with the saliva of blood feeding organisms, including inhibitors of platelet aggregation, ADP, arachidonic acid, thrombin, PAF, anticoagulants, vasodilators, vasoconstrictors, antihistamines, sodium channel blockers, complement inhibitors, pore formers, inhibitors of angiogenesis, anaesthetics, AMPs and microbial pattern recognition molecules, and parasite enhancers/activators.\n\nInsects play an important role in biological research. Because of its small size, short generation time and high fecundity, the common fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" was selected as a model organism for studies of the genetics of higher eukaryotes. \"D. melanogaster\" has been an essential part of studies into principles like genetic linkage, interactions between genes, chromosomal genetics, evolutionary developmental biology, animal behaviour and evolution. Because genetic systems are well conserved among eukaryotes, understanding basic cellular processes like DNA replication or transcription in fruit flies helps scientists to understand those processes in other eukaryotes, including humans. The genome of \"D. melanogaster\" was sequenced in 2000, reflecting the fruit fly's important role in biological research. 70% of the fly genome is similar to the human genome, supporting the Darwinian theory of evolution from a single origin of life.\n\nSome hemipterans are used to produce dyestuffs such as carmine (also called cochineal). The scale insect \"Dactylopius coccus\" produces the brilliant red-coloured carminic acid to deter predators. Up to 100,000 scale insects are needed to make a kilogram (2.2 lbs) of cochineal dye.\n\nA similarly enormous number of lac bugs are needed to make a kilogram of shellac, a brush-on colourant and wood finish. Additional uses of this traditional product include the waxing of citrus fruits to extend their shelf-life, and the coating of pills to moisture-proof them, provide slow-release or mask the taste of bitter ingredients.\n\nKermes is a red dye from the dried bodies of the females of a scale insect in the genus \"Kermes\", primarily \"Kermes vermilio\". \"Kermes\" are native to the Mediterranean region, living on the sap of the Kermes oak. They were used as a red dye by the ancient Greeks and Romans. The kermes dye is a rich red, and has good colour fastness in silk and wool.\n\nInsect attributes are sometimes mimicked in architecture, as at the Eastgate Centre, Harare, which uses passive cooling, storing heat in the morning and releasing it in the warm parts of the day. The target of this piece of biomimicry is the structure of the mounds of termites such as \"Macrotermes michaelseni\" which effectively cool the nests of these social insects. The properties of the Namib desert beetle's exoskeleton, in particular its wing-cases (elytra) which have bumps with hydrophilic (water-attracting) tips and hydrophobic (water-shedding) sides, have been mimicked in a film coating designed for the British Ministry of Defence, to capture water in arid regions.\n\nSilkworms, the caterpillars and pupae of the moth \"Bombyx mori\", have been reared to produce silk in China from the Neolithic Yangshao period onwards, c. 5000 BC. Production spread to India by 140 AD. The caterpillars are fed on mulberry leaves. The cocoon, produced after the fourth moult, is covered with a continuous filament of the silk protein, fibroin, gummed together with sericin. In the traditional process, the gum is removed by soaking in hot water, and the silk is then unwound from the cocoon and reeled. Filaments are spun together to make silk thread. Commerce in silk between China and countries to its west began in ancient times, with silk known from an Egyptian mummy of 1070 BC, and later to the ancient Greeks and Romans. The silk road leading west from China was opened in the second century AD, helping to drive trade in silk and other goods.\n\nThe use of insects for warfare may have been attempted in the Middle Ages or earlier, but was first systematically researched by several nations during the twentieth century. It was put into practice by the Japanese army's Unit 731 in attacks on China during the Second World War, killing almost 500,000 Chinese people with fleas infected with plague and flies infected with cholera. Also in the Second World War, the Germans explored the use of Colorado beetles to destroy enemy potato crops. During the Cold War, the US Army considered using yellow fever mosquitoes to attack Soviet cities.\n\nInsects have appeared in mythology around the world from ancient times. Among the insect groups featuring in myths are the bee, butterfly, cicada, fly, dragonfly, praying mantis and scarab beetle. Scarab beetles held religious and cultural symbolism in Old Egypt, Greece and some shamanistic Old World cultures. The ancient Chinese regarded cicadas as symbols of rebirth or immortality. In the \"Homeric Hymn to Aphrodite\", the goddess Aphrodite retells the legend of how Eos, the goddess of the dawn, requested Zeus to let her lover Tithonus live forever as an immortal. Zeus granted her request, but, because Eos forgot to ask him to also make Tithonus ageless, Tithonus never died, but he did grow old. Eventually, he became so tiny and shriveled that he turned into the first cicada.\n\nIn an ancient Sumerian poem, a fly helps the goddess Inanna when her husband Dumuzid is being chased by \"galla\" demons. Flies also appear on Old Babylonian seals as symbols of Nergal, the god of death and fly-shaped lapis lazuli beads were often worn by many different cultures in ancient Mesopotamia, along with other kinds of fly-jewellery. The Akkadian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" contains allusions to dragonflies, signifying the impossibility of immortality.\n\nAmongst the Arrernte Aborigines of Australia, honey ants and witchety grubs served as personal clan totems. In the case of the San bushmen of the Kalahari, it is the praying mantis which holds much cultural significance including creation and zen-like patience in waiting.\n\nInsects feature in folklore around the world. In China, farmers traditionally regulated their crop planting according to the Awakening of the Insects, when temperature shifts and monsoon rains bring insects out of hibernation. Most \"Awakening\" customs are related to eating snacks like pancakes, parched beans, pears, and fried corn, symbolizing harmful insects in the field.\n\nIn the Great Lakes region of the United States, there is an annual Woollybear Festival that has been celebrated for over 40 years. The larvae of the species \"Pyrrharctia isabella\" (commonly known as the Isabella Tiger moth), with their 13 distinct segments of black and reddish-brown, have the reputation in common folklore of being able to forecast the coming winter weather.\n\nThere is a common misconception that cockroaches are serious vectors of disease, but while they can carry bacteria they do not travel far, and have no bite or sting. Their shells contain a protein, arylphorin, implicated in asthma and other respiratory conditions.\n\nMany people believe the urban myth that the daddy longlegs Opiliones have the most poisonous bite in the spider world, but that the fangs are too small to penetrate human skin. This is untrue on several counts. None of the known species of harvestmen have venom glands; their chelicerae are not hollowed fangs but grasping claws that are typically very small and definitely not strong enough to break human skin.\n\nIn Japan, the emergence of fireflies and rhinoceros beetles signify the anticipated changing of the seasons.\n\nIn the Brazilian Amazon, members of the Tupí–Guaraní language family have been observed using \"Pachycondyla commutata\" ants during female rite-of-passage ceremonies, and prescribing the sting of \"Pseudomyrmex\" spp. for fevers and headaches.\n\nThe red harvester ant \"Pogonomyrmex californicus\" has been widely used by natives of Southern California and Northern Mexico for hundreds of years in ceremonies conducted to help tribe members acquire spirit helpers through hallucination. During the ritual, young men are sent away from the tribe and consume large quantities of live, unmasticated ants under the supervision of an elderly member of the tribe. Ingestion of ants should lead to a prolonged state of unconsciousness, where dream helpers appear and serve as allies to the dreamer for the rest of his life.\n\nBoth the symbolic form and the actual body of insects have been used to adorn humans in ancient and modern times. A recurrent theme for ancient cultures in Europe and the Near East regarded the sacred image of a bee or human with insect features. Often referred to as the bee \"goddess\", these images were found in gems and stones. An onyx gem from Knossos (ancient Crete) dating to approximately 1500 BC illustrates a Bee goddess with bull horns above her head. In this instance, the figure is surrounded by dogs with wings, most likely representing Hecate and Artemis – gods of the underworld, similar to the Egyptian gods Akeu and Anubis.\n\nBeetlewing art is an ancient craft technique using iridescent beetle wings practiced traditionally in Thailand, Myanmar, India, China and Japan. Beetlewing pieces are used as an adornment to paintings, textiles and jewelry. Different species of metallic wood-boring beetle wings were used depending on the region, but traditionally the most valued were those from beetles belonging to the genus Sternocera. The practice comes from across Asia and Southeast Asia, especially Thailand, Myanmar, Japan, India and China. In Thailand beetlewings were preferred to decorate clothing (shawls and Sabai cloth) and jewellery in former court circles.\n\nThe Canadian entomologist C.H. Curran's 1945 book, \"Insects of the Pacific World\", noted women from India and Sri Lanka, who kept 1 1/2 inch long, iridescent greenish coppery beetles of the species \"Chrysochroa ocellata\" as pets. These living jewels were worn on festive occasions, probably with a small chain attached to one leg anchored to the clothing to prevent escape. Afterwards, the insects were bathed, fed, and housed in decorative cages. Living jewelled beetles have also been worn and kept as pets in Mexico.\n\nButterflies have long inspired humans with their life cycle, color, and ornate patterns. The novelist Vladimir Nabokov was also a renowned butterfly expert. He published and illustrated many butterfly species, stating:\n\n\"I discovered in nature the nonutilitarian delights that I sought in art. Both were a form of magic, both were games of intricate enchantment and deception.\"\n\nIt was the aesthetic complexity of insects that led Nabokov to reject natural selection.\n\nThe naturalist Ian MacRae writes of butterflies:\n\n\"... the animal is at once awkward, flimsy, strange, bouncy in flight, yet beautiful and immensely sympathetic; it is painfully transient, albeit capable of extreme migrations and transformations. Images and phrases such as \"kaleidoscopic instabilities,\" \"oxymoron of similarities,\" \"rebellious rainbows,\" \"visible darkness\" and \"souls of stone\" have much in common. They bring together the two terms of a conceptual contradiction, thereby facilitating the mixing of what should be discrete and mutually exclusive categories ... In positing such questions, butterfly science, an inexhaustible, complex, and finely nuanced field, becomes not unlike the human imagination, or the field of literature itself. In the natural history of the animal, we begin to sense its literary and artistic possibilities.\"\n\nThe photographer Kjell Sandved spent 25 years documenting all 26 characters of the Latin alphabet using the wing patterns of butterflies and moths as \"The Butterfly Alphabet\".\n\nIn 2011, the artist Anna Collette created over 10,000 individual ceramic insects at Nottingham Castle, \"Stirring the Swarm.\" Reviews of the exhibit offered a compelling narrative for Cultural Entomology: \"the unexpected use of materials, dark overtones, and the straightforward impact of thousands of tiny multiples within the space. The exhibition was at once both exquisitely beautiful and deeply repulsive, and this strange duality was fascinating.\"\n\nThe Ancient Greek playwright Aeschylus has a gadfly pursue and torment Io, a maiden associated with the moon, watched constantly by the eyes of the herdsman Argus, associated with all the stars: \"Io: Ah! Hah! Again the prick, the stab of gadfly-sting! O earth, earth, hide, the hollow shape—Argus—that evil thing—the hundred-eyed.\" William Shakespeare, inspired by Aeschylus, has Tom o'Bedlam in \"King Lear\", \"Whom the foul fiend hath led through fire and through flame, through ford and whirlpool, o'er bog and quagmire\", driven mad by the constant pursuit. In \"Antony and Cleopatra\", Shakespeare similarly likens Cleopatra's hasty departure from the Actium battlefield to that of a cow chased by a gadfly.\nH. G. Wells introduced giant wasps in his 1904 novel \"The Food of the Gods and How It Came to Earth\", making use of the newly discovered growth hormones to lend plausibility to his science fiction.\nLafcadio Hearn's essay \"Butterflies\" analyses the treatment of the butterfly in Japanese literature, both prose and poetry. He notes that these often allude to Chinese tales, such as of the young woman that the butterflies took to be a flower. He translates 22 Japanese Haiku poems about butterflies, including one by the Haiku master Matsuo Bashō, said to suggest happiness in springtime: \"Wake up! Wake up!—I will make thee my comrade, thou sleeping butterfly.\"\n\nThe novelist Vladimir Nabokov was the son of a professional lepidopterist, and was interested in butterflies himself. He wrote his novel \"Lolita\" while travelling on his annual butterfly-collection trips in the western United States. He eventually became a leading lepidopterist. This is reflected in his fiction, where for example \"The Gift\" devotes two whole chapters (of five) to the tale of a father and son on a butterfly expedition.\n\nHorror films involving insects, sometimes called \"big bug movies\", include the pioneering 1954 \"Them!\", featuring giant ants mutated by radiation, and the 1957 \"The Deadly Mantis\".\n\n\"The Far Side\", a newspaper cartoon, has been used by professor of Michael Burgett as a teaching tool in his entomology class; \"The Far Side\" and its author Gary Larson have been acknowledged by biologist Dale H. Clayton his colleague for \"the enormous contribution\" Larson has made to their field through his cartoons.\n\nThe \"Flight of the Bumblebee\" was written by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, in 1899–1900, as part of his opera, \"The Tale of Tsar of Saltan\". The piece is one of the most recognizable pieces in classical composition. The bumblebee in the story is a prince who has been transformed into an insect so that he can fly off to visit his father. The play upon which the opera was based – written by Alexandr Pushkin – originally had two more insect themes: the Flight of the Mosquito and the Flight of the Fly.\n\nThe Hungarian composer Béla Bartók explained in his diary that he was attempting to depict the desperate attempts to escape of a fly caught in a cobweb in his piece \"From the Diary of a Fly, for piano (Mikrokosmos Vol. 6/142)\".\n\nThe jazz musician and philosophy professor David Rothenberg plays duets with singing insects including cicadas, crickets, and beetles.\n\nIn astronomy, constellations named after arthropods include the zodiacal Scorpius, the scorpion, and Musca, the fly, also known as Apis, the bee, in the deep southern sky. Musca, the only recognised insect constellation, was named by Petrus Plancius in 1597.\n\n\"The Bug Nebula\", also called \"The Butterfly Nebula\", is a more recent discovery. Known as NGC 6302 is one of the brightest and most popular stars in the universe – popular in that its features draw the attention of a lot of researchers. It happens to be located in the Scorpius constellation. It is perfectly bipolar, and until recently, the central star was unobservable, clouded by gas, but estimated to be one of the hottest in the galaxy – 200,000 degrees Fahrenheit, perhaps 35 times hotter than our Sun.\n\nThe honey bee played a central role in the cosmology of the Mayan people. The stucco figure at the temples of Tulum known as \"Ah Mucen Kab\" – the Diving Bee God – bears resemblance to the insect in the Codex Tro-Cortesianus identified as a bee. Such reliefs might have indicated towns and villages that produce honey. Modern Mayan authorities say the figure also have a connection to modern cosmology. Mayan mythology expert Migel Angel Vergara relates that the Mayans held a belief that bees came from Venus, the \"Second Sun.\" The relief might be indicative of another \"insect deity\", that of Xux Ex, the Mayan \"wasp star.\" The Mayan embodied Venus in the form of the god Kukulkán (also known as or related to Gukumatz and Quetzalcoatl in other parts of Mexico), Quetzalcoatl is a Mesoamerican deity whose name in Nahuatl means \"feathered serpent\". The cult was the first Mesoamerican religion to transcend the old Classic Period linguistic and ethnic divisions. This cult facilitated communication and peaceful trade among peoples of many different social and ethnic backgrounds. Although the cult was originally centered on the ancient city of Chichén Itzá in the modern Mexican state of Yucatán, it spread as far as the Guatemalan highlands.\n\nBee and other insect costumes are worn in a variety of countries for parties, carnivals and other celebrations.\n\nOvo is an insect-themed production by the world renowned Canadian entertainment company Cirque du Soleil. The show looks at the world of insects and its biodiversity where they go about their daily lives until a mysterious egg appears in their midst, as the insects become awestruck about this iconic object that represents the enigma and cycles of their lives. The costuming was a fusion of arthropod body types blended with superhero armour. Liz Vandal, the lead costume designer, has a special affinity for the world of the insect:\n\nThe Webby award-winning video series \"Green Porno\" was created to showcase the reproductive habits of insects. Jody Shapiro and Rick Gilbert were responsible for translating the research and concepts that Isabella Rossellini envisioned into the paper and paste costumes which directly contribute to the series' unique visual style. The film series was driven by the creation of costumes to translate scientific research into \"something visual and how to make it comical.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10137476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10137476", "title": "Immigrant generations", "text": "Immigrant generations\n\nThe term first-generation may refer either to a person who has immigrated to a new country and been naturalized, or to the children of such an immigrant. The term second-generation consequently may refer to either the children or the grandchildren of such an immigrant. The terms are used interchangeably because of the ambiguity between them.\n\nAccording to the Merriam-Webster's Dictionary a \"First-generation\" is\n\nThe term first-generation, as it pertains to a person's nationality or residency in a country, has two incompatible meanings:\n\nThis ambiguity is captured and corroborated in \"The Oxford English Dictionary\"s definition of \"generation\":\n\nThere is no universal consensus on which of these meanings is always intended.\n\nThe term 1.5 generation or 1.5G refers to individuals who immigrate to a new country before or during their early teens. They earn the label the \"1.5 generation\" because they bring with them or maintain characteristics from their home country, meanwhile engaging in assimilation and socialization with their new country. Oftentimes, in the case of small children, a battle of linguistic comprehension occurs between their academic language and the language spoken at home. Their identity is, thus, a combination of new and old culture and tradition. Sociologist Ruben Rumbaut was among the first to use the term to examine outcomes among those arriving in the United States before adolescence, but since then the term has expanded to include foreign students, as well as other unique individuals.\n\nDepending on the age of immigration, the community where they settle, extent of education in their native country, and other factors, 1.5 generation individuals identify with their countries of origin to varying degrees. However, their identification is affected by their experiences growing up in the new country. 1.5G individuals are often bilingual and find it easier to assimilate into local culture and society than people who immigrate as adults.\nMany 1.5 generation individuals also, become bi-cultural, combining both cultures - culture from the country of origin with the culture of the new country.\n\nThe term \"second-generation\" extends the concept of \"first-generation\" by one generation. As such, the term exhibits the same type of ambiguity as \"first-generation,\" as well as additional ones.\n\nLike \"first-generation immigrant,\" the term \"second-generation\" can refer to a member of either:\n\nIn the United States, among demographers and other social scientists, \"second generation\" refers to the U.S.-born children of foreign-born parents.\n\nThe term \"second-generation immigrant\" attracts criticism due to it being an oxymoron. Namely, critics say, a \"second-generation immigrant\" is not an immigrant, since being \"second-generation\" means that the person is born in the country and the person's \"parents\" are the immigrants in question. Generation labeling immigrants is further complicated by the fact that immigrant generations may not correspond to the genealogical generations of a family. For instance, if a family of two parents and their two adult children immigrate to a new country, members in both generations of this family may be considered \"first generation\" by the former definition, as both parents and children were foreign-born, adult, immigrants. Likewise, if the two parents had a third child later on, this child would be of a different immigrant generation from that of its siblings. For every generation, the factor of mixed-generation marriages further convolutes the issue, as a person may have immigrants at several different levels of his or her ancestry.\n\nThese ambiguities notwithstanding, generation labeling is frequently used in parlance, news articles , and reference articles without deliberate clarification of birthplace or naturalization. It may or may not be possible to determine, from context, which meaning is intended.\n\nWhen demographers and other social scientists in the United States use the term \"second generation,\" they usually refer to people with one foreign-born parent. Likewise, Statistics Canada defines second generation persons as those individuals who were born in Canada and had at least one parent born outside\nCanada. Some researchers have begun to question whether those with one native-born parent and those with no native-born parents should be lumped together, with evidence suggesting that there are significant differences in identities and various outcomes between the two groups. For instance, patterns of ethnic identification with the majority ethnic group and the heritage ethnic group differ between the 1.0, 2.0, and 2.5 generations, such that there is greater polarization between the two identities in the 1.0 generation (i.e., identifying as Canadian implies dis-identifying as a member of the heritage ethnic community and vice versa ), a lack of a relation between the two identities in the 2.0 generation, and a positive association between the two identities for the 2.5 generation (i.e., implying that the two identities are compatible and possibly hybridized) \n\nRubén G. Rumbaut has coined the terminology \"1.75 generation\" and \"1.25 generation\" immigrants, for children who are closer to birth or full adulthood when they immigrate. Children who arrive in their early childhood (ages 0 to 5) are referred to as 1.75 generation immigrants since their experiences are closer to a true 2nd-generation immigrant who was born in the country they live in: they retain virtually no memory of their country of birth, were too young to go to school to learn to read or write in the parental language in the home country, typically learn the language of the country they immigrate to without an accent and are almost entirely socialized there. Children who arrive in their adolescent years (ages 13–17) are referred to as 1.25 generation immigrants because their experiences are closer to the first generation of immigrants adults than to the native born second generation.\n\nMost immigrant youth tends to have higher academic accomplishment at all levels, at times even having greater levels of post-secondary education than their parents and grandparents. In order to explain this phenomenon, there are several factors that are noticeable:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4886629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4886629", "title": "Jake the Alligator Man", "text": "Jake the Alligator Man\n\nJake the Alligator Man is an alleged half-man, half-alligator creature on display in apparently mummified condition at Marsh's Free Museum, a tourist trap located at 409 South Pacific Avenue in Long Beach, Washington. He was acquired by the Marshes for $750 in 1967 from an antique store.\n\nA postcard image was used by the \"Weekly World News\" on November 9, 1993 for front-page article, \"Half-human, half-alligator discovered in Florida swamp.\" The periodical subsequently reported on his escape from captivity, killing of a Miami man, and giving birth.\n\nJake has acquired a cult following in Northwestern popular culture. His 75th birthday party is held annually in early August on the peninsula, and features events such as a bachelor party, car show, bridal contest, and live music. Bumper stickers featuring the oddity can be commonly seen throughout Washington and Oregon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4176073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4176073", "title": "Jamal Watson", "text": "Jamal Watson\n\nJamal Watson is a writer and columnist whose work is regularly featured in \"Diverse: Issues in Higher Education\" and \"The Root\". In 2001, Watson reported that Harvard Law School Professor Charles Ogletree and attorney Johnnie Cochran were planning a lawsuit on behalf of the descendants of African slaves.\n\nWatson has also written for a variety of other publications including the \"Washington City Paper, The Baltimore Sun\" and \"USA Today.\" He holds a teaching appointment in American Studies at the State University of New York.\n\nAs a critic, Watson is frequently a guest on WNYC radio, an affiliate of National Public Radio and has appeared on Fox News' Hannity and Colmes and Nightline. He is featured in Dick Morris' best-selling book, \"Condi vs. Hillary\" and has been quoted in a handful of other books and publications. He is completing a full-length biography of the Reverend Al Sharpton which was scheduled to be published in Fall 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "218197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218197", "title": "Johnny Reb", "text": "Johnny Reb\n\nJohnny Reb or Johnny Rebel is the national personification of the Southern states of the United States, or less generally, the Confederacy during the American Civil War. Patriots used Johnny Reb and his Union counterpart Billy Yank to symbolize the common soldiers in the American Civil War of the 1860s.\n\nJohnny Reb is usually pictured in gray wool uniform with the typical kepi-style forage cap made of wool broadcloth with a rounded, flat top, cotton lining, and leather visor. He is often shown with his weapons and with the Confederate flag.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11581752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11581752", "title": "Lying-in", "text": "Lying-in\n\nLying-in is the term given to the European forms of postpartum confinement, the traditional practice involving long bed rest after giving birth. The term and the practice it describes are old-fashioned or archaic, but it used to be considered an essential component of the postpartum period, even if there were no medical complications during childbirth.\n\nA 1932 publication refers to lying-in as ranging from two weeks to two months. It also does not suggest \"Getting Up\" (getting out of bed post-birth) for at least nine days and ideally for 20 days. Care was provided either by her female relatives (mother or mother-in-law), or, for those who could afford it, by a temporary worker called the monthly nurse. These weeks ended with the re-introduction of the mother to the community in the Christian ceremony of the churching of women. When lying-in was a more common term, it was used in the names of several maternity hospitals, for example the General Lying-In Hospital in London.\n\nWomen received congratulatory visits from friends and family during the period, and among many traditional customs around the world the \"desco da parto\" was a special form of painted tray presented to the mother in Renaissance Florence. The many scenes painted on these trays show female visitors bringing presents, received by the mother in bed, while other women tend to the baby. No fixed term of lying-in is recommended in Renaissance manuals on family life (unlike in some other cultures), but it appears from documentary records that the mother was rarely present at the baptism, in Italian cities usually held within a week of the birth at the local parish church, normally a few minutes' walk from any house. \n\nIn art, the immensely popular scene of the \"Birth of Jesus\" technically shows the Virgin Mary, who reclines on a couch in most medieval examples, lying-in, but in famously un-ideal conditions. More ideal images of lying-in in well-off households are represented in the subjects, also popular, of the \"Birth of the Virgin\" and \"Birth of John the Baptist\". These are generally given contemporary settings, and differ little from other images that are purely secular, especially those on \"desci da parto\".\n"}
{"id": "57483945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57483945", "title": "Mainzed", "text": "Mainzed\n\nmainzed ([maɪ̯nt͡sed]; acronym for Mainz Centre for Digitality in the Humanities and Cultural Studies) is a joint initiative of six scientific institutions to promote digital methodology in the humanities and cultural sciences in Mainz, Germany.\nIt was founded in the context of the academic annual celebration of the Academy of Sciences and Literature Mainz on 6 November 2015.\nPartners of mainzed are the Academy of Sciences and Literature Mainz (ADW), the Mainz University of Applied Sciences (HS Mainz), the Institute for Historical Regional Studies at the University of Mainz (IGL), the Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz (JGU), the Leibniz Institute of European History Mainz (IEG) and the Romano-Germanic Central Museum Mainz – Archaeological research institute (RGZM).\n\nmainzed is based on different long-term cooperations between various institutions in Mainz. The research and development institution for digital humanities of the Academy of Sciences and Literature Mainz, \"Digitale Akademie\", was founded in 2009 and is connected to the Institute of Historical Regional Studies at the University of Mainz, the Leibniz Institute of European History and the universities of Mainz. Since 1997, the Romano-Germanic Central Museum Mainz and the i3mainz – Institute for Spatial Information and Surveying Technology have operated the \"Competence Centre for Spatial Information Technology in the Humanities\" at the Mainz University of Applied Sciences. In autumn 2013, the informal \"Network DHMainz\" was created with the help of the Mainz Research Alliance. The network was responsible for the preparation of the Digital Humanities Day 2014 in Mainz where first drafts were made for the continuation of the initiative.\n\nmainzed was founded in order to accompany and practically implement the transformation of the humanities and cultural studies in the course of digitisation in Mainz.\nmainzed works in research, the support of research, qualification and transfer. Furthermore, it constitutes a social research infrastructure by offering a network of scientific exchange with regard to the development of projects and research foci for scientists of all qualification levels.\n\nRange of competences represented in the network:\n\n\nmainzed developed the inter-university master’s degree program \"Digital Methods in the Humanities and Cultural Studies\" in terms of organization and concept. Since 2016, each winter term 24 students have been able to begin the course of studies comprising four semesters provided that they have a bachelor’s degree in the humanities, cultural studies or with a focus in computer science.\nThe head of this degree program and director of mainzed Kai-Christian Bruhn received the academy price of the federal state Rhineland-Palatinate on 5 December 2017 in recognition of his interdisciplinary work in teaching and research.\n\nmainzed is initiator of many events promoting the dialogue with the public. An example of this is the fishbowl discussion about the topic \"digitalität und diversität – die Geisteswissenschaften im Jahr 2026\" that took place in 2016. Mainzed has organised similar annual events with national and international guest lecturers like Mercedes Bunz and Joscha Bach.\n\nmainzed is organised into an executive board composed of the founding director Kai-Christian Bruhn as well as his deputy Klaus Pietschmann, a scientific advisory board with representatives of the partner institutions and an executive office managed by Anne Klammt.\n\n"}
{"id": "618928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618928", "title": "Monoculturalism", "text": "Monoculturalism\n\nMonoculturalism is the policy or process of supporting, advocating, or allowing the expression of the culture of a single social or ethnic group. It generally stems from beliefs within the dominant group that their cultural practices are superior to those of minority groups. In this context, it may also involve the process of assimilation whereby other ethnic groups are expected to adopt the culture and practices of the dominant ethnic group. Monoculturalism, in the context of cultural diversity, is the opposite of multiculturalism.\nRather than the suppression of different ethnic groups within a given society, sometimes monoculturalism manifests as the active preservation of a country's national culture via the exclusion of external influences. Japan, China, South Korea, and North Korea are examples of this form of monoculturalism. However it may also be the result of less intentional factors such as geographic isolation, historical racial homogeneity, or political isolation. For instance, some European countries such as Finland are still effectively monocultural because of the people's shared culture and ethnicity.\n\nThe idea of monoculturalism can be expanded to that of ethnocentrism. Ethnocentrism being the idea that one's ethnic background is superior to that of others. A feeling of superiority is one that can project mono-cultural ideals in an attempt to justify intrinsic ways of thinking. In nations with a majority of the population being native, ethnocentrism is blindly put upon those of other cultural backings. The idea of ethnocentrism being combined with monoculturalism yields many examples from history. Most obvious is the Holocaust, but further from that is any instance of genocide or simple racism. In defining genocide you can find the correlation it has with monoculturalism, and how it can be a resultant of mono-cultural, as well as, ethnocentric thinking.\n\nIn many of the genocides practiced throughout history, some of them were based on ethnic supremacy. Ethnic supremacy is assumed by one group within a culture, following some distinct action by an external group or from one of the ethnic groups. With European intervention in places like Rwanda, social institutions worked to socially construct an ethnic inferiority, distinguishing the Hutu's and Tutsi's from one another and causing what would be one of the most horrific demonstrations of genocide in modern history.\n\nA similar example to that of the Rwandan Genocide was the ongoing civil war in Burma. The civil war spanned from a constitution that granted Burma their independence from England, in which a group of leaders created conditions that didn't involve many of Burma's Ethnic Minorities, and instigated a fight from them. Many of these ethnic minorities in Burma, including the Karen, have been significantly displaced by the military junta and placed into refugee camps in bordering nations. The remaining ethnic minorities have been living in poor conditions, and have been met by a variety of human rights abuses.\n\nGlobalization involves the free movement of goods, capital, services, people, technology and information throughout the world. It also involves the international integration of potentially very different countries through the adoption of the same or similar world views, ideologies, and other aspects of culture. Marsella argues that this is monoculturalism on a grand scale. Potentially it could lead to the suppression and loss of different ethnic cultures on a global scale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18345", "title": "Outline of literature", "text": "Outline of literature\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to literature:\n\nLiterature – prose, written or oral, including fiction and non-fiction, drama, and poetry. \"See also: outline of poetry.\"\n\nLiterature can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\nOral literature\n\n\nNon-fiction\n\nFiction\n\n\nHistory of literature\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35036752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35036752", "title": "Outline of the humanities", "text": "Outline of the humanities\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the humanities:\n\nHumanities – academic disciplines that study the human condition, using methods that are primarily analytical, critical, or speculative, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.\n\nThe humanities can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of humanities journals\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57062676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57062676", "title": "Portrayal of female bodies in Chinese contemporary art", "text": "Portrayal of female bodies in Chinese contemporary art\n\nPortrayal of female bodies in Chinese contemporary art has become a lot more diverse as women artists start to rise in China. Many contemporary Chinese women artists have employed the use of female bodies as the subject of their artworks. From the ancient and imperial period of China until early the 19th century, women's body images in Chinese art were predominantly portrayed through male artists' lenses. As a result, female bodies were often misrepresented. With the arrival of modernism in Chinese contemporary art, women now have more influences in the field of visual arts. Chinese women artists employ unconventional artistic expressions in order to speak about their experiences of being a female and an artist in a patriarchal society. Although the Chinese visual art field has been more inclusive in the recent decades, women artists’ representation in major art exhibitions is still significantly less than male artists. Therefore, artists and curators have made a joint effort to devote certain art exhibitions to just Chinese women artists.\n\nTraditionally, female bodies were only valued as carriers for the family bloodline. In traditional paintings, nude women were a taboo for the artists. As a result, the portrayal of women's bodies was formulaic, always with slim figures, usually leaning on another object or have a slightly bent posture to further emphasize their delicate bodies.\n\nFemale images would also demonstrate ideal qualities of women at that time. Aside from feminine beauty and charm, she should also possess the virtues of subordinating herself in a Confucian patriarchal society. Therefore, women in these ancient paintings all wore long silk skirts that came down to the ankles. They could only show the part of their body above their chest. Their appearance, combined with their slender body figures, showed the submissive and demure qualities, which was desirable for male audiences.\n\nA drastic change in ideal femininity occurred in 1966 and 1967 when the Cultural Revolution in China took place. The Cultural Revolution, led by Mao Zedong, denounced the traditional image of women's inferiority and calls for a women's liberation in the new China. Propaganda tools, such as performance art, films, and posters, strongly supported this movement and effectively constructed and broadcast a new female identity. Feminine beauty was no longer characterized by delicate figures, but instead by masculinized images of women. For example, \"Iron girls\" represented the permissible appearances of women in the 1970s. They should not wear anything that showed their female curves. Moreover, women were encouraged to dress like men and go to work like men did, given that Mao called for a \"gender erasure\" in order to make \"Chinese women in new China.\"\n\nSimilar to \"Iron Girls,\" \"Strong Women\" images were popularized through mass media, such as cartoons and local newspapers. Their appearance was defined by masculinized traits: tanned skin tone, sturdy figures, and blue and black work uniforms. Feminine features, like smooth skin and hands, were seen as something to be ashamed of because they were expected to be contributing to the nation's economy like men did.\n\nIn her installation series, \"Trauma\", Hung Liu portrays a bound-foot woman. Foot binding was practiced among Chinese women from the Song dynasty up until the early 20th century. Women would wrap their feet tightly in order to keep them small, which was characterized as a feminine beauty at the time. In Liu's installation pieces, she repeatedly shows an emotionless woman with her naked feet. As a result of the foot binding cultural, these women had deformed feet.\n\nFeng Jiali is famous for her oil painting of explicit images of female bodies. A series of her paintings depict young, school-aged Chinese girls, usually skimpily dressed in the bath or laying in bed. The girls in her paintings almost always look directly at the viewers, some innocent-looking, some with a confrontational gaze.\n\nAnother series of her works involves photographs of her pregnant body. By revealing her own pregnant body fearlessly in front of the camera, she challenges the traditional views of pregnant body as something private and a mean to continue the family line, favoring boys over girls, and following the one-child policy. Because pregnant nude is normally not defined as the ideal beauty found in female bodies, Feng’s photo collage expresses another aspect of being a woman. She desired to express the hardships and anxieties of being pregnant, which contradicts with the conventional, sacred portrayal of childbirth by many male artists.\n\nCai Jin, another contemporary oil painter, also challenges the traditional taboos of nudity in ancient Chinese art history. Unlike Feng Jiali, however, Cai articulates female bodies in a semi-abstract way by using organic elements in her paintings. A series of her paintings depict women's bodies shaped like banana tree leaves. Unlike many conventional portrayals of the female body that serves in the interest of male audiences, Cai painted the bodies like decomposed flesh, which is then metamorphosed into dripping, red, banana leaves.\n\nTraditionally, plants, especially flowers, are associated with femininity. However, Cai made a modern twist on this subject and made it into a somewhat unpleasant-looking and distorted image, rejecting the stereotypical delicate women and flowers association. Like how Feng declared that pregnant bodies can be art too, Cai had made an assertion that although women's bodies aren't always going to be maintained in a perfect way, they can still become a form of art.\n\nIn \"Opening of the Great Wall\", He Chengyao presented her own naked body in a public space in 2001 and took a series of photographs of herself. The photographs documented her walking confidently with her upper body being nude. She held her bright red bra on her right hand and tied her sweater around the waist. She had a deadpan expression on her face and a confident posture as she walks toward the camera. The photo was taken on the Great Wall of China, which is one of the most popular scenic spots in Beijing, China.\n\nDespite the fact that she was surrounded by many curious tourists, He still maintained a confident look. She had also spontaneously joined in an installation by a male artist, H.A. Schult, which was exhibited on the Great Wall at the same time. Whether intended or not, she had made her appearance as a Chinese women artist in the mainstream of male art production. Furthermore, although her piece took place in 2001, women's nudity in public spaces was still considered taboo at the time.\n\nHe Chengyao completed this performance art piece in 2004 at the Shanghai Doland Museum of Modern Art, which combined the themes of body and identity. As the title of the piece suggested, He Chengyao performed a series of exercises in front of a large group of audiences, while her naked body was tightly wrapped with tape. Her movement caused the tape to be ripped apart one by one. She also wrapped her self with the sticky side of the tape out, which made her body parts stuck together and making it increasingly harder to perform the exercise.\n\nXiang Jing is a Beijing-based sculptor. She is best known for her depiction of realistic nude women sculptures. One of her sculptures, \"Your Body\", portrays a nude and bald woman slumping in a chair with her legs spread open. There's a prominent scar on the right side of her abdomen. She has sagging breasts, belly fat rolls, and blank expression on her face. None of these qualities fall under the expectation of the ideal female body.\n\nThough efforts have been made in order to make the visual art field more inclusive, women's artworks have still been underrepresented in major exhibitions. In the late 1980s, when the first major Chinese Art exhibition took place, only five women, out of sixty-seven artists and participants, were included in the show. While artists from mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong, were being recognized for their diverse identities, women artists' participation in this first Chinese exhibition were not acknowledged.\n\nSimilarly, in the traveling exhibition, \"Transience: Chinese Experimental Art at the End of Twentieth Century\" in 1998, only three women artists presented their artworks. The curator of this exhibition, Wu Hung, intended to provide a platform for experimental Chinese art to take place. However, it appears that women's innovative artistic expressions were still being excluded and didn't gain as many recognition as male Chinese artists have had.\n\nThe issue of unequal representation among male and female Chinese artists did receive some attention from the public. As a result, curators and artists have made a joint effort to devote certain exhibition and publications solely for female artists.\n\n\"Century Women\" was one of the first exhibitions dedicated to Chinese women artists. It intended to raise awareness on female experiences, roles, subject matters, and most importantly, art practices through the perspective of women living in contemporary Chinese society. In addition to providing a platform to showcase artworks made by Chinese women, it also exhibited photos and documents showing women's art production in China. More than seventy artists participated in this exhibition and presented over five hundred pieces of artworks\n\nThis exhibition was held concurrently around the world, such as China, Singapore, Germany, and the United States, to spread pan-Asian feminist artworks. Specifically, the show in New York, \"Against the Tide (1998),\" featured five female artists who were born in China and grew up during the Cultural Revolution. Cai Jin, who also participated in this show, presented her Banana Plant series in the show, which is a suggestive form of presenting female nude bodies in a public space.\n\nList of Chinese women artists\n"}
{"id": "38928070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38928070", "title": "Puppy pregnancy syndrome", "text": "Puppy pregnancy syndrome\n\nPuppy pregnancy syndrome is a psychosomatic illness in humans brought on by mass hysteria.\n\nThe syndrome is thought to be localized to villages in several states of India, including West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, and Chhattisgarh, and has been reported by tens of thousands of individuals. It is far more prevalent in areas with little access to education.\n\nPeople suffering from this condition believe that shortly after being bitten by a dog, puppies are conceived within their abdomen. This is said to be especially likely if the dog is sexually excited at the time of the attack. Victims are said to bark like dogs, and have reported being able to see the puppies inside them when looking at water, or hear them growling in their abdomen. It is believed that the victims will eventually die – especially men, who will give birth to their puppies through the penis.\n\nWitch doctors offer oral cures, which they claim will dissolve the puppies, allowing them to pass through the digestive system and be excreted \"without the knowledge of the patient\".\n\nDoctors in India have tried to educate the public about the dangers of believing in this condition. Most sufferers are referred to psychiatric services, but in rare instances patients fail to take anti-rabies medication in time, thinking that they have puppy pregnancy syndrome and thus the witch doctor's medicine will cure them. This is further compounded by witch doctors stating that their medicine will fail if sufferers seek conventional treatment.\n\nSome psychiatrists believe that the syndrome meets the criteria for a culture-bound disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "1046243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1046243", "title": "Reciprocity (cultural anthropology)", "text": "Reciprocity (cultural anthropology)\n\nIn cultural anthropology, reciprocity refers to the non-market exchange of goods or labour ranging from direct barter (immediate exchange) to forms of gift exchange where a return is eventually expected (delayed exchange) as in the exchange of birthday gifts. It is thus distinct from the true gift, where no return is expected. Reciprocity is said to be the basis of most non-market exchange. David Graeber argues, \"as currently used, 'reciprocity' can mean almost anything. It is very close to meaningless.\"\n\nWhen the exchange is immediate, as in barter, it does not create a social relationship. When the exchange is delayed, it creates both a relationship as well as an obligation for a return (i.e. debt). Hence, some forms of reciprocity can establish hierarchy if the debt is not repaid. The failure to make a return may end a relationship between equals. Reciprocal exchanges can also have a political effect through the creation of multiple obligations and the establishment of leadership, as in the gift exchanges (Moka) between Big Men in Melanesia. Some forms of reciprocity are thus closely related to redistribution, where goods and services are collected by a central figure for eventual distribution to followers.\n\nMarshall Sahlins, a well-known American cultural anthropologist, identified three main types of reciprocity (generalized, balanced and negative) in the book \"Stone Age Economics\" (1972). Reciprocity was also the general principal used by Claude Lévi-Strauss to explain the \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949), in one of the most influential works on kinship theory in the post-war period.\n\nAnnette Weiner argued that the \"norm of reciprocity\" is deeply implicated in the development of Western economic theory. Both John Locke and Adam Smith used the idea of reciprocity to justify a free market without state intervention. Reciprocity was used, on the one hand, to legitimize the idea of a self-regulating market; and to argue how individual vice was transformed into social good on the other. Western economic theorists starting with the eighteenth century Scots economists Sir James Steuart and Smith differentiated pre-modern natural (or self-subsistent) economies from civilized economies marked by a division of labour that necessitated exchange. Like early sociologist Émile Durkheim, they viewed natural economies as characterized by mechanical solidarity (like so many peas in a pod) whereas the civilized division of labour made producers mutually dependent upon one another resulting in organic solidarity. These oppositions solidified by the late nineteenth century in the evolutionary idea of primitive communism marked by mechanical solidarity as the antithesis and alter ego of Western \"Homo economicus\". It is this armchair anthropology opposition that originally informed modern anthropological debate when Malinowski sought to overturn the opposition and argue that archaic societies are equally regulated by the norm of reciprocity and maximizing behaviour.\n\nThe concept was key to the debate between early anthropologists Bronislaw Malinowski and Marcel Mauss on the meaning of \"Kula exchange\" in the Trobriand Islands off Papua New Guinea during the First World War. Malinowski used Kula exchange to demonstrate the apparently random gift-giving was in fact a key political process by which non-state political leadership spanning a vast archipelago was established. Gift-giving, he argued, was not altruistic (as it supposedly is in our society) but politically motivated for individual gain. Marcel Mauss theorized the impetus for a return as \"the spirit of the gift,\" an idea that has provoked a long debate in economic anthropology on what motivated the reciprocal exchange. Claude Lévi-Strauss, drawing on Mauss, argued there were three spheres of exchange governed by reciprocity: language (exchange of words), kinship (exchange of women), and economics (exchange of things). He thus claimed all human relationships are based on the norm of reciprocity. This claim has been disputed by anthropologists Jonathan Parry, Annette Weiner, and David Graeber amongst others.\n\nMarshall Sahlins has emphasized that non-market exchange is constrained by social relationships. That is, exchange in non-market societies is less about acquiring the means of production (whether land or tools) and more about the redistribution of finished goods throughout a community. These social relationships are largely kinship based. His discussion of types of reciprocity is located within what he calls the \"domestic mode of production.\" His typology of reciprocity thus refers to \"cultures lacking a political state, and it applies only insofar as economy and social relations have not been modified by the historic penetration of states.\" Paul Sillitoe has extended the analysis of reciprocity in these conditions, arguing that the type of reciprocity found will depend upon which sphere of production is being examined. The production of subsistence goods is under the control of domestic units and hence marked by generalized reciprocity. Wealth objects – by their nature from outside – are competitively exchanged to acquire status, but no one is able to control their production and hence centralize power.\n\nIn these circumstances, reciprocal exchange can be divided in two types: dyadic back-and-forth exchange (reciprocity), and pooling (redistribution). Pooling is a system of reciprocities. It is a \"within\" group relationship, whereas reciprocity is a \"between\" relationship. Pooling establishes a centre, whereas reciprocity inevitably establishes two distinct parties with their own interests. While the most basic form of pooling is that of food within the family, it is also the basis for sustained community efforts under a political leader.\n\nReciprocity, in contrast, is a dyadic exchange covering a range of possibilities, depending on individual interests. These interests will vary according to the social distance of the parties. A range of kinds of reciprocity can thus be sketched out, according to Sahlins:\n\n\nThis typology of reciprocal exchange was developed by Sahlins in relation to the domestic mode of production (i.e. 'stone age economics') and hence should be contrasted with the 19th century armchair conceptions of 'primitive communism.' Within this same domestic mode of production, the degree of social distance – kinship in particular – affects the kind of reciprocity. Since kinship is the major way in which these societies are organized, nonkin (strangers) are viewed negatively. A general model of reciprocity must recognize that the closeness of the kin tie will vary according to the type of kinship system. In so far as kinship also determines residence, kinship closeness may also translate into spatial closeness. Hence one finds generalized reciprocity within the household-kinship group, balanced reciprocity within a spatial community, and negative reciprocity with outsiders (i.e. outside the community). The kind of reciprocity reflects the moral nature of the social relationship, hence morality is not universal, but dependent on social distance. Sahlins' model thus views reciprocity as socially, morally and economically structured and \"the structure is that of kinship-tribal groups\" not a universalizing moral ethic.\n\nWith rank comes privileges. However, in traditional societies \"social inequality is more the organization of economic equality. Often, in fact, high rank is only secured or sustained by o'ercrowing generosity.\" Rank is usually generational, with elders having seniority, but still held by the bounds of close kinship. Generalized reciprocity by such elders may be a \"starting mechanism\" for more general hierarchy, by placing many in the giver's debt. This leads to the question, \"when does reciprocity give way to redistribution.\" Sahlins argues that chiefly redistribution is not different in principle and nothing but a highly organized form of kinship-rank reciprocity.\n\nDavid Graeber argues, in contrast, that balanced gift exchange and market exchange have more in common than normally assumed. Since both are balanced, the social relationship created through the sense of debt and obligation is constantly in danger of being ended by the return gift/exchange. He thinks it better to contrast\n\n\nThe alliance theory (or general theory of exchanges) is the name given to the structural method of studying kinship relations. It finds its origins in Claude Lévi-Strauss's \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949). According to Levi-Strauss, the universal prohibition of incest pushes human groups towards exogamy where certain categories of kin are forbidden to marry. The incest taboo is thus a negative prescription; without it, nothing would push men to go searching for women outside of their inner kinship circle, or vice versa. In a process akin to the division of labour which makes exchange necessary, one's daughter or sister is offered to someone outside a family circle, and starts a circle of exchange of women: in return, the giver is entitled to a woman from the other's intimate kinship group. Thus the negative prescriptions of the prohibition have positive counterparts. The idea of the alliance theory is thus of a reciprocal or a generalized exchange which founds affinity, just as economic exchange due to the division of labour resulted in organic solidarity. This global phenomena takes the form of a \"circulation of women\" which links together the various social groups in one whole: society. Lévi-Strauss emphasizes this a system of generalized exchange based on indirect reciprocity. A generalized system does not involve a direct or balanced dyadic exchange and hence presupposes an expansion of trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "11181082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11181082", "title": "Revisionism (fictional)", "text": "Revisionism (fictional)\n\nIn analysis of works of fiction, revisionism denotes the retelling of a conventional or established narrative with significant variations which deliberately \"revise\" the view shown in the original work. For example, the film \"Dances with Wolves\" may be regarded as a revisionist western because it portrays Native Americans sympathetically instead of as the savages of traditional westerns. \nMany original works of fantasy appear to retell fairy tales in a revisionist manner. The genre of \"Arthurian literature\" includes innumerable variations from themes of the classic tales of King Arthur. It is debatable whether any particular examples set out to create a revised view.\n\n"}
{"id": "163282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163282", "title": "Ricky Gervais", "text": "Ricky Gervais\n\nRicky Dene Gervais (; born 25 June 1961) is an English stand-up comedian, actor, writer, producer, director and singer. \n\nGervais worked initially in the music industry, attempting a career as a pop star in the 1980s as the singer of the new wave act Seona Dancing and working as the manager of the then-unknown band Suede before turning to comedy. Gervais appeared on \"The 11 O'Clock Show\" on Channel 4 between 1998 and 2000. In 2000, he was given a Channel 4 talk show, \"Meet Ricky Gervais\", and then achieved greater mainstream fame a year later with his BBC television series \"The Office\". It was followed by \"Extras\" in 2005. He co-wrote and co-directed both series with Stephen Merchant. In addition to writing and directing the shows, he played the lead roles of David Brent in \"The Office\" and Andy Millman in \"Extras\". He reprised his role as Brent in the comedy film \"Life on the Road\". \n\nGervais began his stand-up career in the late 1990s. He has performed five multi-national stand-up comedy tours, and wrote the \"Flanimals\" book series. Gervais, Merchant and Karl Pilkington created the podcast, \"The Ricky Gervais Show\", which has spawned various spin-offs starring Pilkington and produced by Gervais and Merchant.\n\nHe has also starred in the Hollywood films \"Ghost Town\", and \"Muppets Most Wanted\", and wrote, directed and starred in \"The Invention of Lying\" and the Netflix released \"Special Correspondents\". He hosted the Golden Globe Awards in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2016, and appears on the game show \"Child Support\".\n\nGervais has won seven BAFTA Awards, five British Comedy Awards, two Emmy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards and the 2006 Rose d'Or, as well as a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination. In a 2004 poll for the BBC, he was named the third most influential person in British culture. In 2007, he was voted the 11th greatest stand-up comic on Channel 4's 100 Greatest Stand-Ups and again in the updated 2010 list as the 3rd greatest stand-up comic. In 2010, he was named on the \"Time 100\" list of the world's most influential people.\nGervais was born at Battle Hospital in Reading. He was raised in Whitley, along with brother Larry (born 1945), sister Marsha (born 1948), and brother Robert (born 1950). His father, Lawrence Raymond \"Jerry\" Gervais (1919–2002), a Franco-Ontarian from Pain Court, Ontario, emigrated to the UK whilst on foreign duty during the Second World War and worked as a labourer and hod carrier. He met Gervais' mother, Eva Sophia (\"née\" House; 1925–2000), who was English, during a blackout; they settled in Whitley. She died, aged 74, of lung cancer.\n\nHe attended Whitley Park Infants and Junior Schools, and received his secondary education at Ashmead Comprehensive School; after a spell as a gardener at the University of Reading, he moved on to University College London in 1980. He intended to study biology but changed to philosophy after two weeks, and earned an upper second-class honours degree in the subject. During his time at UCL, he met Jane Fallon, with whom he has been in a relationship since 1982.\n\nIn 1983, during his final year as a student at UCL (University College London), Gervais and college friend Bill Macrae formed the new wave pop duo, Seona Dancing. They were signed by London Records, which released two of their singles—\"More to Lose\" and \"Bitter Heart\". The songs failed to chart inside the UK top 75. Despite not being successful in the UK, Seona Dancing did manage to score a hit in the Philippines with \"More to Lose\". He also worked as the manager for Suede before they became successful in the 1990s.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais performed a live tour as David Brent along with a band under the name \"Foregone Conclusion\". Gervais and the band performed songs written under the Brent character including songs such as \"Equality Street\" and \"Free Love Freeway\". Gervais also produced a series of YouTube videos under the title 'Learn Guitar with David Brent', featuring acoustic guitar versions of nine songs.\n\nIn 2016, as part of the \"Life on Road\" film promotion, Gervais published the \"David Brent Songbook\" containing 15 songs. These were also recorded for the album \"Life on the Road\", under the name of David Brent and Foregone Conclusion.\n\nGervais worked as an assistant events manager for the University of London Union (ULU), then moved from ULU to a job as head of speech at the alternative radio station Xfm. Needing an assistant, Gervais interviewed the first person whose \"curriculum vitae\" he saw. It belonged to Stephen Merchant. In 1998 Gervais was made redundant when the station was taken over by the Capital Radio group. Around this time he was also a regular contributor to Mary Anne Hobbs' Radio 1 show, performing vox pop interviews in unlikely locations.\n\nAfter the first series of \"The Office\", Gervais and Merchant returned to Xfm in November 2001 for a Saturday radio show. This was when the pair first worked with Karl Pilkington, who produced the shows and later collaborated with them on their series of podcasts. In October 2017, Gervais began hosting the weekly radio show \"Ricky Gervais Is Deadly Sirius\" on Sirius XM.\n\nOn 5 December 2005, \"Guardian Unlimited\" began offering free weekly podcasts, including \"The Ricky Gervais Show\" featuring Gervais, Merchant, and Karl Pilkington. Throughout January and February 2006 the podcast was consistently ranked the number-one podcast in the world; it appeared in the 2007 Guinness World Record for the world's most-downloaded podcast, having gained an average of 261,670 downloads per episode during its first month. Two more series—each with six podcasts—were released between February and September 2006.\n\nIn late 2006, three more free podcasts were released. Together called \"The Podfather Trilogy\", they debuted individually at Halloween, Thanksgiving and Christmas. These three were known by Ricky and Steve as \"The Fourth Season\". In October 2007 another free full-length podcast was released through iTunes; this podcast was originally given out for free during a performance of Gervais' \"Fame\" stand-up tour in London. On 25 November 2007 Gervais, Merchant and Pilkington released another free full-length podcast, which lasted just over an hour.\n\nIn August 2008, Gervais, Merchant and Pilkington recorded their fifth season of audiobooks, totaling 4 chapters, which were released on 16 September 2008. These audiobooks were described as the 'guide to...' series, covering several topics. As of May 2011, there are 12 \"Guides\" in total: Medicine, Natural History, Arts, Philosophy, The English, Society, Law & Order, The Future, The Human Body, The Earth, The World Cup 2010, and Comic Relief. The conversations typically begin on topic, but constantly stray away from the topic at hand.\n\nGervais has contributed to the BAFTA-winning \"The Sketch Show\" (ITV), penning several sketches. His mainstream-TV debut came in September 1998 as part of Channel 4's \"Comedy Lab\" series of pilots. His one-off show \"Golden Years\" focused on a David Bowie–obsessed character called Clive Meadows.\n\nGervais then came to much wider national attention with an obnoxious, cutting persona featured in a topical slot that replaced Ali G's segments on the satirical Channel 4 comedy programme \"The 11 O'Clock Show\" in early 1999, in which his character used as many expletives as was possible and produced an inordinate amount of politically incorrect statements. Among the other regular featured comedians on the show was Mackenzie Crook, later a co-star of \"The Office\". Two years later, Gervais went on to present his own comedy chat show for Channel 4 called \"Meet Ricky Gervais\"; it was poorly received and has since been mocked by Gervais himself.\n\nThroughout this time, Gervais also wrote for the BBC sketch show \"Bruiser\" and \"The Jim Tavare Show.\"\n\n\"The Office\" started when Stephen Merchant, while on a BBC production course, had to make his own short film. In August 1999 he made a docu-soap parody, set in an office, with help from Ash Atalla, who was shown a 7-minute video called 'The Seedy Boss'. Thus David Brent was created. Merchant passed this tape on to the BBC's Head of Entertainment Paul Jackson at the Edinburgh Fringe, who then passed it on to Head of Comedy Jon Plowman, who eventually commissioned a full-pilot script from Merchant and Gervais.\n\nThe first six-episode series of \"The Office\" aired in the UK in July and August 2001 to little fanfare or attention. Word-of-mouth, repeats, and DVDs helped spread the word, building up momentum and anticipation for the second series, also comprising six episodes. Following the success of \"The Office\" second series, Gervais was named the most powerful person in TV comedy by \"Radio Times\".\n\nIn 2004, \"The Office\" won the Golden Globes for Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy and Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy for Gervais, who said in a 2015 BBC interview that the award was the gateway to America for him.\n\n\"The Office\" brand has since been remade for audiences in , France, Germany, Quebec, Brazil and the United States. Gervais and Merchant are producers of the American version, and they also co-wrote the episode \"The Convict\" for the show's third season. Gervais has said that the episode \"Training\" is his favourite, where Brent plays his guitar and sings.\n\n\"Extras\" had its debut on the BBC on 21 July 2005; directed by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, the sitcom ran for twelve episodes and starred Gervais as Andy Millman, a background artist. Millman is more self-aware and intentionally humorous than Gervais' \"The Office\" character David Brent. Guest stars on the first series of \"Extras\" include Ross Kemp, Les Dennis, Patrick Stewart, Vinnie Jones, Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Stiller, Kate Winslet and Francesca Martinez. A second series began on 14 September 2006 in the UK and featured appearances by Daniel Radcliffe, Dame Diana Rigg, Orlando Bloom, Sir Ian McKellen, Chris Martin, Keith Chegwin, Robert Lindsay, Warwick Davis, Ronnie Corbett, Stephen Fry, Richard Briers, Patricia Potter, Sophia Myles, Moira Stuart, David Bowie, Kate Winslet, Robert De Niro and Jonathan Ross.\nA Christmas special of \"Extras\" aired on 27 December 2007 in the UK and on 16 December 2007 in the US, featuring guest appearances by George Michael, Clive Owen, Gordon Ramsay, Jonathan Ross and David Tennant.\n\nGervais was influenced by \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", in making \"Extras\", particularly in the format of celebrities making fools of themselves or subverting their public personas.\n\nIn 2007, Gervais won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series for his portrayal of Andy Millman in the second series of \"Extras\". As Gervais was not present at the awards ceremony, the trophy was accepted on his behalf by Steve Carell, the actor who starred as regional manager Michael Scott – the counterpart to Gervais' David Brent – on the American adaptation of \"The Office\".\n\n\"The Guardian\"s Chris Tryhorn explained the \"few gripes\" he had with \"Extras\", \"particularly in the second series\". \"You can forgive Gervais a certain arrogance after the success of \"The Office\", but...\" He remarks on the confused tone of the series, taking in the clash between the broad comedy of characters Barry (Shaun Williamson) and Darren (Stephen Merchant), and the apparent parody of this style with \"When The Whistle Blows\", and \"given their total indulgence of Gervais, the BBC is portrayed as interfering, its comedy department run by a rather crudely stereotyped gay couple\".\n\n\"The Ricky Gervais Show\" is an animated TV show that debuted on US cable network HBO on 19 February 2010. In the UK, the first series began airing on 23 April 2010 on Channel 4. The show was developed using original podcast recordings from \"The Ricky Gervais Show\" starring Gervais, Stephen Merchant, and Karl Pilkington. After receiving a loyal and enthusiastic following in the US, cable channel HBO recommissioned the show for a second series, which aired in 2011, and a third series which started airing in April 2012.\n\n\"Life's Too Short\" began airing on BBC Two on 10 November 2011. Gervais and Stephen Merchant would write this observational sitcom from an idea by Warwick Davis. It is described by Gervais as being about \"the life of a showbiz dwarf\" and as \"a cross between \"Extras\" and \"The Office\"\". The show stars actor Davis playing a fictionalized version of himself, as well as Gervais and Merchant. Premium cable channel HBO, who co-produced the series with the BBC, had the US rights and began airing the series on 19 February 2012.\n\n\"An Idiot Abroad\" is a travel documentary produced by Gervais and Merchant where a reluctant Pilkington travels around the world, while his reactions to people and places is recorded. Occasionally, Gervais and Merchant call him to surprise him with a new place to visit or a task to do. Pilkington reports back to them and mostly complains about the situation he is in. Gervais said there is no planning, a camera crew follows his friend around recording many hours of film which Gervais edits down to about an hour each episode.\n\nTo date two series and a Christmas special have aired, series one involves Pilkington visiting the Seven Wonders of the World, in the second show he chooses to complete tasks from a bucket list provided by Gervais and in the special Warwick Davis joins Pilkington on a journey following Marco Polo's route from Italy to China.\n\nIn November 2011, Gervais filmed in London a 35-minute pilot episode for a potential comedy-drama series called \"Derek\", which aired on Channel 4 on 12 April 2012. The pilot is solely written and directed by Gervais and features him in the title role of Derek Noakes, a 49-year-old retirement home worker, who \"loves animals, Rolf Harris, Jesus, \"Deal or No Deal\", \"Million Pound Drop\" and \"Britain's Got Talent\". The character first appeared in a 2001 Edinburgh Festival Fringe sketch as an aspiring comedian who loves animals and still lives with his mother. Gervais' co-host Karl Pilkington makes his acting debut as Derek's friend and facilities-caretaker Dougie who also works in the retirement home. British comedian Kerry Godliman plays Derek's best friend Hannah and David Earl plays Kev.\n\nGervais said that the series is about \"kindness [being] more important than anything else\". He added \"It's about the forgotten – everyone's forgotten. It's all these arbitrary people who didn't know each other, and they're in there now because they're in the last years of their life. And it's about the people who help them, who themselves are losers and have their own problems. It's about a bunch of people with nothing, but making the most of it, and they're together.\" He chose to set the sitcom in a retirement home after he watched \"Secret Millionaire\" – \"It was always these people with huge problems who were helping other people. I thought about having Derek help old people because no one cares about old people in this country... I think it's perfect for now.\"\n\nChannel 4 commissioned a full series of \"Derek\" that aired in early 2013. Derek was recommissioned for a second series which premiered on 23 April 2014. \"Derek\" ended with a one-off final special, broadcast on Channel 4 in the UK 22 December 2014.\n\nGervais began his stand-up career in the late 1990s; his first successful show took place at the Cafe Royal, as part of the 2001 Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Titled \"Rubbernecker\", the show also featured Jimmy Carr, Robin Ince and Stephen Merchant.\n\nGervais later toured the UK in 2003 with his stand-up show \"Animals\". The \"Politics\" tour followed a year later. Both of these shows were recorded for release on DVD and television broadcast. The third part of the themed live trilogy, \"Fame\", took place in 2007. It started in Glasgow in January and ended in Sheffield in April. Blackpool reported selling out of tickets within 45 minutes of them going on sale.\n\n\"Newsnight Review\"'s panel saw \"Animals\" during its Bloomsbury run and covered it in January 2003. They were not favourable, with \"Private Eye\" editor Ian Hislop saying it was \"cobbled together...banal...a bit flat\". After this, Gervais closed each show by calling Hislop an \"ugly little pug-faced cunt\".\n\n\"Fame\" was the subject of some controversy in January 2007 when Gervais told a story, ostensibly about how people will do anything to become famous, referring to the murder of prostitutes in Ipswich.\n\nGervais' fourth show was entitled \"Science\", and commenced with an eleven-date tour in August 2009 at the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre in Glasgow. The DVD for \"Science\" was released on 15 November 2010.\nIn November 2009 he headlined the sixth annual New York Comedy Festival at Carnegie Hall.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais announced that his next stand up show will be called \"Humanity\". In December 2014, he said he was too busy to do his tour due to producing two films.\n\nIn May 2016, Gervais was back doing stand up in London, starting with some low key warm-ups with cast members from \"Derek\". He said, \"Finally, I'm going to do some stand-up. The first in about six years if you don't count hosting the Golden Globes.\"\n\nHe continued his \"Humanity\" show throughout 2017 and into 2018; appearing at SF Sketchfest as part of the tour, which devoted a night in honor of the comedian, alongside comedic legend and mentor Christopher Guest.\n\nHis next tour and Netflix special was announced in 2018.\n\nOne of the first animations Gervais voiced was the character of Penguin in Robbie the Reindeer's \"Legend of the Lost Tribe\".\n\nGervais guest-starred in an episode of \"The Simpsons\" entitled \"Homer Simpson, This Is Your Wife\". He is the only British comic to write and star in a \"Simpsons\" episode. The episode was the highest rated in Sky One's history; it revolved around the angle that Gervais was the episode's sole writer (and the first guest star on the show to also receive a writing credit for the episode of his appearance). Gervais clarified the extent of his input in a joint interview (with Christopher Guest) for \"Dazed and Confused\" magazine (January 2006): \"No, all I did was put down a load of observations on an email and they made it look like a \"Simpsons\" script. I'm going to get the credit, but I think everyone in the industry knows it was a joint effort\". Asked in a separate interview about how his idea for the episode (in which Homer swaps Marge on a game show) came about, Gervais replied: \"I've always been fascinated with reality game shows but I think it was my girlfriend's idea. We watch \"Celebrity Big Brother\" at the moment, we watch \"I'm a Celebrity, Get Me out of Here...\" we watch all those reality TV shows – \"The Office\" came out of those docu-soaps\". Gervais, a longstanding \"Simpsons\" fan, presented a segment to mark the show's 20th anniversary on BBC Two's \"The Culture Show\" on 16 June 2007.\n\nIn 2012, Gervais made a guest appearance on \"Family Guy\" in the episode titled \"Be Careful What You Fish For\". In the episode, Gervais plays a dolphin named Billy Finn who gives Peter Griffin a Mercedes-Benz hood ornament, Peter half-heartedly promises a favor to him. Soon, Billy moves to Quahog but outstays his welcome at Peter's. Peter tries to reunite Billy with his ex-wife in hopes that he will return to the ocean. The episode also featured Lucy Davis. Both Gervais and Davis starred together in \"The Office\".\n\nGervais had a cameo role in Simon Pegg's and Jessica Hynes's sitcom \"Spaced\", as Dave, an estate agent who mistakenly placed the advertisement for a property for a couple that turns out to be the premise of the show.\n\nIn season 8 episode 6 \"The Hero\" of the HBO series \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", Gervais was a guest at Larry David's dinner table. He played a version of himself, an egocentic self-promoting actor that annoyed David's character who was desperate for attention.\n\nGervais has also guest-starred on \"Alias\" (appearing in the third-season episode \"Façade\") as Daniel Ryan, a former Royal Navy bomb-disposal specialist turned rogue Irish Republican Army bomb-maker.\n\nHe also made guest appearances on \"Sesame Street\".\n\nLouis C.K. had Gervais play Dr. Ben, his doctor on two episodes of his series \"Louie\". Gervais would break into his trademark hysterical laugh every time his character made Louie the butt of a joke.\n\nEarly in 2015, Gervais guest starred in \"Galavant\", a four-week comedy mini-series, as Xanax the magician. The show aired on ABC and Gervais got to show off his singing skills.\n\nGervais made a cameo appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\" in a \"Digital Short\" during which he joked that \"The Office\" was adapted from a Japanese programme of the same name (with Steve Carell reprising his role as Michael Scott). The sketch re-creates scenes from the American and British pilot episode with Japanese elements (although in an exaggerated way). \"It's funny\", Gervais laughs at the end, \"because it's racist\".\n\nGervais hosted the 67th, 68th, 69th and 73rd Golden Globe Awards, his appearance in 2010 made him the first master of ceremonies since 1995. He stated: \"I have resisted many other offers like this, but there are just some things you don't turn down.\" His performance as host received a mixed response with positive reviews from the \"New York Daily News\" and the Associated Press, but also some negative comments from \"The Hollywood Reporter\".\n\nHis 2011 hosting of the awards was controversial for his edgy jokes that were at the expense of many of the nominees, similar to the New York Friars Club roast style jokes. His jibes were described as setting \"a corrosive tone\" by one critic, though some celebrities were seen crying from laughter, leaving the overall reaction to be 'mixed'. Gervais responded, \"They are my friends, but I had to play the outsider.\"\n\nGervais was a guest judge on Jerry Seinfeld's NBC show \"The Marriage Ref\" alongside Larry David and Madonna.\n\n\"Talking Funny\", which first aired on 28 April 2011, starred Gervais and fellow standup comedians Louis C.K., Chris Rock, and Jerry Seinfeld, they had an informal round-table discussion on standup comedy. This one off HBO special was well received by critics & audience alike.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais guest starred in \"David Blaine: Real or Magic,\" a television special where Blaine proceeded to run a large needle through his forearm in front of Gervais.\n\nIn January 2006, Gervais interviewed Larry David in a one-off special, \"Ricky Gervais Meets... Larry David\". On 25 and 26 December of the same year Channel 4 aired similar specials in which he interviewed the actor/comedian Christopher Guest and comedian Garry Shandling. There are no plans for further episodes of \"Meets...\", although editions with John Cleese and Matt Groening were recorded in 2006 for broadcast in 2007. A source claimed, \"The Shandling experience put him off for good\".\n\nIn January 2009, Gervais was a guest on BravoTV \"Inside the Actors Studio\" season 15 with James Lipton, where at one point of the interview he answered Lipton's question as David Brent his character from \"The Office\". Brent obliged the audience by singing his song \"Freelove Freeway\" with a guitar supplied to him by Lipton.\n\nGervais has been on \"The Late Show with David Letterman\" 26 times. In 2008, he helped Letterman read out the Late Show Top Ten List, Top Ten Stupid Things Americans Say To Brits. In mid 2014, upon hearing that Letterman was up for retirement, Gervais jokingly tried to discourage him by suggesting they go on a road trip where they would spend all their money.\n\"The Graham Norton Show\" based in UK has invited Gervais many times over the years. He has been on Norton's couch with Stephen Merchant, the co-creator & co-writer of \"The Office\", to promote \"Cemetery Junction\". Another time, he was there to talk about his series \"Life's Too Short\" and Johnny Depp who was there to promote his own film was also present.\n\nGervais is one of two featured comedians (the other being Katt Williams) in the video game \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" who performs at the Split Sides comedy club on the virtual stand-up stage and as an interviewee on the in game radio station \"We Know The Truth\". For the stand-up bit a special 3-minute act was written, recorded and fully motion-captured.\n\nGervais released a children's book in 2004, \"Flanimals\" (illustrated by Rob Steen), which depicted nonsense animals. After the success of this book, he released its sequel \"More Flanimals\" in 2005, with \"Flanimals of the Deep\" coming the next year. A new Flanimals book, \"\", was released in October 2007. \"Flanimals: Pop Up\" was also published in 2009. There is a wide range of \"Flanimals\" merchandise available, including dolls and gift cards.\n\n\"The Office\" scripts have been released in book form, with Series 1 issued in 2002, and the remaining episodes following in 2003. \"Extras: The Illustrated Scripts: Series 1 & 2\" has been released, as well.\n\n\"The World of Karl Pilkington\" presented by Gervais and Merchant. These were essentially transcripts of Xfm shows podcasts and featured illustrations by Pilkington.\n\nGervais' film career has included small roles as the voice of a pigeon Bugsy, in 2005's \"Valiant\", as a studio executive in 2006's \"For Your Consideration\", as museum director Dr. McPhee in 2006's \"Night at the Museum\" and its sequels \"\" and \"\", and as \"Ferdy the Fence\" in the 2007 film \"Stardust\".\n\nGervais starred in \"Ghost Town\" as a dentist who sees spirits, and was in Lowell, Massachusetts during May 2008 filming his next project, \"The Invention of Lying\", which he starred in along with, Jennifer Garner, Rob Lowe and Louis C.K.. The social comedy, was co-written and co-directed by Gervais and Matt Robinson.\n\nGervais and co-writer Stephen Merchant made a film called \"Cemetery Junction\", set in 1970s Britain, about class, love and fulfilment. The film was released in April 2010.\n\nGervais directed and starred in, \"Special Correspondents\", which began filming in May 2015. The comedy stars Eric Bana as a journalist and Gervais as his assistant. They pretend to report news from a war torn country but in actuality they are safe in New York. The film was released on Netflix. Gervais directed and starred in the 2016 film \"\", a mockumentary following David Brent, a character first seen in \"The Office\" series, as he lives his dream of being a rockstar. On 5 November 2015 Gervais signed up to play Ika Chu, a villainous cat, in an animated film \"Blazing Samurai\". The movie is about a dog Hank played by Michael Cera who wants to be a warrior and fights with Ika Chu for the town of Kakamucho.\n\nOn 2 July 2005, Gervais appeared at the Live 8 event held in London's Hyde Park, where he performed his famous dance.\n\nOn 1 July 2007, Gervais performed at the Concert for Diana in Wembley Stadium, a music event celebrating the life of Princess Diana 10 years after her death. Towards the end of the event—after a pre-recorded introduction from Ben Stiller—Gervais appeared along with fellow \"Office\" star Mackenzie Crook. They performed \"Free Love Freeway\", a song previously heard in the fourth episode of series one of \"The Office\". Due to a technical problem, Gervais then had to fill time until he was able to re-introduce Elton John to close the show, so he did the David Brent dance again, as well as singing the \"Little Fat Man\" song as performed by David Bowie in episode two of the second series of \"Extras\".\n\nIn July 2007, following Gervais' appearance at the memorial concert for the Princess of Wales, \"The Guardian\" ran a column by \"Daily Mirror\" television critic Jim Shelley entitled \"Call Me Crazy... But Has Ricky Gervais Lost It?\", where he described Gervais as a \"tiresome embarrassment\". The following week, \"The Guardian\" noted that Gervais had responded with \"an exhilaratingly foul-mouthed tirade\" on his website, concluding with the sentence \"yes I am resting on my fucking laurels you cunt!\" In this video, Gervais mocked Jim Shelley typing the words \"resting on his laurels\" as Gervais jokingly lashed out by stating that he was resting on his laurels and that he was not going to make another show for television, quipping: \"What's the point? What is there to beat?\"\n\nGervais lives between Hampstead and New York City with his partner, producer and author Jane Fallon, whom he has been with since 1982. He says they chose not to marry because \"there's no point in us having an actual ceremony before the eyes of God because there is no God\" or have children because they \"didn't fancy dedicating 16 years of our lives. And there are too many children, of course\".\n\nGervais is a staunch supporter of gay rights and has praised the introduction of same sex marriage in England and Wales, calling it \"a victory for all of us\" and stated \"anything that promotes equality, promotes progress.\" He added: \"You can't take equality 'too far'.\"\n\nHe identifies as an atheist and a humanist, and states he abandoned Christianity at the age of eight. In December 2010, he wrote an editorial for \"The Wall Street Journal\" defending his atheism. He is a patron of Humanists UK, a British charity which promotes the humanist worldview and campaigns for a secular state and on human rights issues.\n\nGervais is a music fan and has stated that his hero is David Bowie, and his favourite song \"Letter to Hermione\". He has also stated that his first experience of a live music gig was watching Iggy Pop. In 2013, he wrote that Lou Reed was \"one of the greatest artists of our time\" following his death.\n\nHe is a UFC fan saying \"I love the UFC and I can't get enough of it.\"\n\nIn June 2017, Gervais endorsed Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn in the 2017 UK general election. He tweeted: \"OK. I'm not telling you how to vote, but this is a fact. The only vote that will keep Theresa May out is a vote for @jeremycorbyn. Cheers.\"\n\nHe joined Twitter in December 2009 when he first hosted the 66th Golden Globes. After a two-year hiatus, he returned in September 2011. In 2012, Gervais won a Shorty Award for Lifetime Achievement for his popular presence on social media. As of March 2015 he was followed by 7 million fans whom he calls 'Twonks'.\n\nHe uses social media to promote his work to his fans. After 10 years Gervais brought back his character Brent on his YouTube channel in a web series \"Learn Guitar with David Brent\". Gervais uses many ways to promote his new series, for example for \"Derek\", he posts contests or questions for his fans.\n\nGervais uses social media to raise awareness of animal welfare. He tweets links to petitions to rescue animals from captivity, he highlights the plight of animals being used for testing, and he encourages people to adopt dogs instead of buying them from breeders. Gervais won the Genesis Award from the Humane Society in March 2015 for his contribution to raising awareness for animal welfare on social media.\n\nIn 2014, he was named most influential London Twitter user.\n\nIn 2002, Gervais took part in a charity boxing match against Grant Bovey, for the UK charity telethon Comic Relief. He was trained for the three-round contest by famous boxing trainer brothers Frank and Eugene Maloney, at their Fight Factory gymnasium. It was the second televised charity boxing match, the first being Bob Mortimer against Les Dennis. The fight was televised by the BBC, and Gervais came out on top by a split decision verdict. He donated his £5,000 prize money to the training of a Macmillan nurse who specialised in cancer support.\n\nGervais is a supporter of animal rights and has stated that he will leave his fortune to animal charities. He has spoken out against fox hunting and bullfighting, and wrote to then British Prime Minister Gordon Brown urging him to stop the use of black bear fur as caps for the Foot Guards.\n\nIn 2013, Gervais was named Person of the Year by PETA for his work on curbing animal abuse. For PETA Gervais voiced a rabbit and Pink played an alligator in an awareness advertisement. Gervais named an Asian black bear, also known as a moonbear, Derek after his character Derek Noakes from his series \"Derek\". In December 2013, Gervais bought a $1000 cake shaped like a moonbear to raise funds for Animal Asia. Gervais is active in the prevention of illegal wildlife trade; he supported the handing over of ivory trinkets to the Metropolitan police in London.\n\nIn 2015, Gervais donated a signed acoustic guitar to help raise funds for Story Book Farm Primate Sanctuary in Ontario, Canada, with a special call-out to Pockets Warhol. The guitar which was signed by Gervais was purchased by Danny Young from the United Kingdom who has since had the guitar signed by several celebrities in order to raise further funds for the Story Book Farm Primate Sanctuary. Celebrities who signed the guitar include: Brian May, Will Ferrell, Bryan Cranston, Dhani Harrison, Peter Frampton, Ricky Warwick and Steve Cutts.\n\nIn 2017, Gervais was awarded the Lord Houghton Award for Service to Animal Welfare from Animal Defenders International.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52831478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52831478", "title": "Scene and sequel", "text": "Scene and sequel\n\nScene and sequel are two types of written passages used by authors to advance the plot of a story. \"Scenes\" propel a story forward as the character attempts to achieve a goal. \"Sequels\" provide an opportunity for the character to react to the scene, analyze the new situation, and decide upon the next course of action.\n\nThe concept of a scene in written fiction has evolved over many years. Dwight V. Swain, in \"Techniques of the Selling Writer\" (1965) defined a \"scene\" as a unit of conflict, an account of an effort to attain a goal despite opposition. According to Swain, the functions of a scene are to provide interest and to move the story forward. The structure of a scene, as described by Swain, is (1) goal, (2) conflict, (3) disaster.\n\nIn \"The Art of Fiction\" (1983), John Gardner described a scene as having an unbroken flow of action without a lapse of time or leap from one setting to another. Over the years, other authors have attempted to improve on the definition of \"scene\", and to explain its use and structure.\n\nIn addition to defining a scene, Swain described a \"sequel\" as a unit of transition that links two scenes, adding that a sequel functions to translate disaster into goal, telescope reality, and control tempo. Swain also described the structure of a sequel as (1) reaction, (2) dilemma, and (3) decision. Other authors have attempted to improve on the definition of a \"sequel\" and to explain its use and structure.\n\nRather than viewing scenes and sequels as distinct types of passages, some authors express the concept as two types of scenes: proactive and reactive.\n\nSwain defined, described, and explained scene and sequel as if they were separate entities, but then he explained that they must complement each other, linking together smoothly into a story. He went on to observe that\n\n\nThe \"structural units of fiction writing\" comprise all fiction.\n\nPassages of writing may be classified into four groups: (1) scenes, (2) sequels, (3) passages that are \"neither\" scenes nor sequels, and (4) passages that include elements of \"both\" scenes and sequels. Examples of passages that are neither scenes nor sequels include \"fragments\" of scenes or sequels and passages of narration, description, or exposition. An example of a passage that includes elements of both scenes and sequels is the \"problem-solving passage\", common in mystery and detective stories.\n\nScenes may be classified by their position within the story (such as an opening scene or a climax scene). A scene may be classified by the fiction-writing mode that dominates its presentation (as in an action scene or a dialogue scene). Some scenes have specialized roles (such as flashback scenes and flashforward scenes).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4228181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4228181", "title": "Stateless society", "text": "Stateless society\n\nA stateless society is a society that is not governed by a state, or, especially in common American English, has no government. In stateless societies, there is little concentration of authority; most positions of authority that do exist are very limited in power and are generally not permanently held positions; and social bodies that resolve disputes through predefined rules tend to be small. Stateless societies are highly variable in economic organization and cultural practices.\n\nWhile stateless societies were the norm in human prehistory, few stateless societies exist today; almost the entire global population resides within the jurisdiction of a sovereign state. In some regions nominal state authorities may be very weak and wield little or no actual power. Over the course of history most stateless peoples have been integrated into the state-based societies around them.\n\nSome political philosophies, particularly anarchism, consider the state an unwelcome institution and stateless societies the ideal.\n\nIn archaeology, cultural anthropology and history, a stateless society denotes a less complex human community without a state, such as a tribe, a clan, a band society or a chiefdom. The main criterion of \"complexity\" used is the extent to which a division of labor has occurred such that many people are permanently \"specialized\" in particular forms of production or other activity, and depend on others for goods and services through trade or sophisticated reciprocal obligations governed by custom and laws. An additional criterion is population size. The bigger the population, the more relationships have to be reckoned with.\n\nEvidence of the earliest known city-states has been found in ancient Mesopotamia around 3700 BC, suggesting that the history of the state is less than 6,000 years old; thus, for most of human prehistory the state did not exist.\n\nGenerally speaking, the archaeological evidence suggests that the state emerged from stateless communities only when a fairly large population (at least tens of thousands of people) was more or less settled together in a particular territory, and practiced agriculture. Indeed, one of the typical functions of the state is the defense of territory. Nevertheless, there are exceptions: Lawrence Krader for example describes the case of the Tatar state, a political authority arising among confederations of clans of nomadic or semi-nomadic herdsmen.\n\nCharacteristically the state functionaries (royal dynasties, soldiers, scribes, servants, administrators, lawyers, tax collectors, religious authorities etc.) are mainly not self-supporting, but rather materially supported and financed by taxes and tributes contributed by the rest of the working population. This assumes a sufficient level of labor-productivity per capita which at least makes possible a \"permanent\" surplus product (principally foodstuffs) appropriated by the state authority to sustain the activities of state functionaries. Such permanent surpluses were generally not produced on a significant scale in smaller tribal or clan societies.\n\nThe archaeologist Gregory Possehl has argued that there is no evidence that the relatively sophisticated, urbanized Harappan civilization, which flourished from about 2,500 to 1,900 BC in the Indus region, featured anything like a centralized state apparatus. No evidence has yet been excavated locally of palaces, temples, a ruling sovereign or royal graves, a centralized administrative bureaucracy keeping records, or a state religion—all of which are elsewhere usually associated with the existence of a state apparatus.\n\nSimilarly, in the earliest large-scale human settlements of the stone age which have been discovered, such as Çatal Höyük and Jericho, no evidence was found of the existence of a state authority. The Çatal Höyük settlement of a farming community (7,300 BC to circa 6,200 BC) spanned circa 13 hectares (32 acres) and probably had about 5,000 to 10,000 inhabitants.\n\nModern state-based societies regularly pushed out stateless indigenous populations as their settlements expanded.\n\nUncontacted peoples may be considered remnants of prehistoric stateless societies. To varying extents they may be unaware of and unaffected by the states that have nominal authority over their territory.\n\nSome political philosophies consider the state undesirable, and thus consider the formation of a stateless society a goal to be achieved.\n\nA central tenet of anarchism is the advocacy of society without states. The type of society sought for varies significantly between anarchist schools of thought, ranging from extreme individualism to complete collectivism.\n\nIn Marxism, Marx's theory of the state considers that in a post-capitalist society the state, an undesirable institution, would be unnecessary and wither away. A related concept is that of stateless communism, a phrase sometimes used to describe Marx's anticipated post-capitalist society.\n\nAnthropologists have found that social stratification is not the standard among all societies. John Gowdy writes, \"Assumptions about human behaviour that members of market societies believe to be universal, that humans are naturally competitive and acquisitive, and that social stratification is natural, do not apply to many hunter-gatherer peoples.\"\n\nThe economies of stateless agricultural societies tend to focus and organize subsistence agriculture at the community level, and tend to diversify their production rather than specializing in a particular crop.\n\nIn many stateless societies, conflicts between families or individuals are resolved by appealing to the community. Each of the sides of the dispute will voice their concerns, and the community, often voicing its will through village elders, will reach a judgment on the situation. Even when there is no legal or coercive authority to enforce these community decisions, people tend to adhere to them, due to a desire to be held in esteem by the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "1767492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767492", "title": "Steven Shaviro", "text": "Steven Shaviro\n\nSteven Shaviro (; born April 3, 1954) is an American academic, philosopher and cultural critic whose areas of interest include film theory, time, science fiction, panpsychism, capitalism, affect and subjectivity. He earned a PhD from Yale in 1981. \n\nHis most widely read book is \"Doom Patrols\", a \"theoretical fiction\" that outlines the state of postmodernism during the early 1990s, using poetic language, personal anecdotes, and creative prose. He has also written extensively about music videos as an artform.\n\nAdditionally, Shaviro has written a book about film theory, \"The Cinematic Body\", which examines the dominance of Lacanian tropes in contemporary academic film theory. According to Shaviro, the use of psychoanalysis has mirrored the actions of a cult, with its own religious texts (essays by Freud and Lacan).\n\nShaviro's book \"Connected, Or, What It Means to Live in the Network Society\", appeared in 2003. A later book, \"Without Criteria: Kant, Whitehead, Deleuze, and Aesthetics\" was published in May 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43598725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43598725", "title": "Three Great Tenjin Shrines", "text": "Three Great Tenjin Shrines\n\nThe Three Great Tenjin Shrines (日本三大天神) are a group of three Shinto shrines dedicated to Tenjin, the deified form of the scholar-courtier Sugawara no Michizane. They are traditionally enumerated as:\n\n"}
{"id": "316424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316424", "title": "Three Kingdoms of Korea", "text": "Three Kingdoms of Korea\n\nThe concept of the Three Kingdoms of Korea () refers to the three kingdoms of Baekje (백제), Silla (신라) and Goguryeo (고구려). Goguryeo was later known as Goryeo (고려), from which the modern name \"Korea\" is derived. The Three Kingdoms period was defined as being from 57 BC to 668 AD (but there existed about 78 tribal states in the southern region of Korean peninsula and relatively big states like Okjeo, Buyeo, and Dongye in its northern part and Manchuria).\n\nThe three kingdoms occupied the entire Korean Peninsula and most of Manchuria, located in present-day China and Russia. The kingdoms of Baekje and Silla dominated the southern half of the Korean Peninsula and Tamna, whereas Goguryeo controlled the Liaodong Peninsula, Manchuria and the northern half of the Korean Peninsula. Baekje and Goguryeo shared founding myths and originated from Buyeo.\n\nIn the 7th century, allied with China under the Tang dynasty, Silla unified the Korean Peninsula for the first time in Korean history, forming a united Korean national identity for the first time. After the fall of Baekje and Goguryeo, the Tang dynasty established a short-lived military government to administer parts of the Korean peninsula. However, as a result of the Silla–Tang Wars (≈670–676), Silla forces expelled the Protectorate armies from the peninsula in 676. The following period is known as the Unified Silla or Later Silla (668–935).\n\nSubsequently, Dae Joyeong, a former Goguryeo general, founded Balhae in the former territory of Goguryeo after defeating the Tang dynasty at the Battle of Tianmenling.\n\nThe predecessor period, before the development of the full-fledged kingdoms, is sometimes called Proto–Three Kingdoms period.\n\nMain primary sources for this period include \"Samguk Sagi\" and \"Samguk Yusa\" in Korea, and the \"Eastern Barbarians\" section (東夷傳) from the \"Book of Wei\" (魏書) of the \"Records of the Three Kingdoms\" in China.\n\nBeginning in the 7th century, the name \"Samhan\" became synonymous with the Three Kingdoms of Korea. The \"Han\" in the names of the Korean Empire, \"Daehan Jeguk\", and the Republic of Korea (South Korea), \"Daehan Minguk\" or \"Hanguk\", are named in reference to the Three Kingdoms of Korea.\n\nAccording to the Samguk Sagi and Samguk Yusa, Silla implemented a national policy, \"Samhan Unification\" (), to integrate refugees and migrants from Baekje and Goguryeo. In 1982, a memorial stone dating back to 686 was discovered in Cheongju with an inscription: \"The Three Han were unified and the domain was expanded.\" During the Later Silla period, the concepts of Samhan as the ancient confederacies and the Three Kingdoms of Korea were merged. In a letter to an imperial tutor of the Tang dynasty, Choe Chiwon equated Byeonhan to Baekje, Jinhan to Silla, and Mahan to Goguryeo. By the Goryeo period, Samhan became a common name to refer to all of Korea. In his Ten Mandates to his descendants, Wang Geon declared that he had unified the Three Han (Samhan), referring to the Three Kingdoms of Korea. Samhan continued to be a common name for Korea during the Joseon period and was widely referenced in the Annals of the Joseon Dynasty.\n\nIn China, the Three Kingdoms of Korea were collectively called Samhan since the beginning of the 7th century. The use of the name Samhan to indicate the Three Kingdoms of Korea was widespread in the Tang dynasty. Goguryeo was alternately called Mahan by the Tang dynasty, as evidenced by a Tang document that called Goguryeo generals \"Mahan leaders\" () in 645. In 651, Emperor Gaozong of Tang sent a message to the king of Baekje referring to the Three Kingdoms of Korea as Samhan. Epitaphs of the Tang dynasty, including those belonging to Baekje, Goguryeo, and Silla refugees and migrants, called the Three Kingdoms of Korea \"Samhan\", especially Goguryeo. For example, the epitaph of Go Hyeon (), a Tang dynasty general of Goguryeo origin who died in 690, calls him a \"Liaodong Samhan man\" (). The History of Liao equates Byeonhan to Silla, Jinhan to Buyeo, and Mahan to Goguryeo.\n\nThe name \"Three Kingdoms\" was used in the titles of the Korean histories \"Samguk Sagi\" (12th century) and \"Samguk Yusa\" (13th century), and should not be confused with the Chinese Three Kingdoms.\n\nThe Three Kingdoms was founded after the fall of Wiman Joseon, and gradually conquered and absorbed various other small states and confederacies. After the fall of Gojoseon, the Han dynasty established four commanderies in present\nLiaoning. Three fell quickly to the Samhan, and the last was destroyed by Goguryeo in 313.\n\nThe nascent precursors of Baekje and Silla expanded within the web of statelets during the Proto Three Kingdoms Period, and Goguryeo conquered neighboring state like Buyeo in Manchuria and chiefdoms in Okjeo, Dongye which occupied the northeastern Korean peninsula. The three polities made the transition from walled-town state to full-fledged state-level societies between 1st – 3rd century AD.\n\nAll three kingdoms shared a similar culture and language. Their original religions appear to have been shamanistic, but they were increasingly influenced by Chinese culture, particularly Confucianism and Taoism. In the 4th century, Buddhism was introduced to the peninsula and spread rapidly, briefly becoming the official religion of all three kingdoms.\n\nGoguryeo emerged on the north and south banks of the Yalu (Amrok) River, in the wake of Gojoseon's fall. The first mention of Goguryeo in Chinese records dates from 75 BC in reference to a commandery established by the Chinese Han dynasty, although even earlier mentions of \"Guri\" (구리) may be of the same state. Evidence indicates Goguryeo was the most advanced, and likely the first established, of the three kingdoms.\n\nGoguryeo, eventually the largest of the three kingdoms, had several capitals in alternation: two capitals in the upper Yalu area, and later Nangrang (\"Lelang\" in Chinese) which is now part of Pyongyang. At the beginning, the state was located on the border with China; it gradually expanded into Manchuria and destroyed the Chinese Lelang commandery in 313. The cultural influence of the Chinese continued as Buddhism was adopted as the official religion in 372.\n\nGoguryeo was a highly militaristic state; it was a powerful empire and one of the great powers in East Asia. The state was at its zenith in the fifth century, during the rule of King Gwanggaeto the Great and his son King Jangsu, and particularly during their campaign against China in Manchuria. For the next century or so, Goguryeo was the dominant nation in Chinese Manchuria and the Korean peninsula. Goguryeo eventually occupied the Liaodong Plains in Manchuria and today's Seoul area. Gwanggaeto achieved a loose unification of the Three Kingdoms of Korea.\n\nGoguryeo controlled not only Koreans but also Chinese and Tungusic tribes in Manchuria and North Korea. After the establishment of the Sui Dynasty and later the Tang Dynasty in China, the estate continued to aggress China and Korean Silla and Baekje until conquered by allied Silla–Tang forces in 668. Most of its territory was absorbed by Tang Dynasty China and the territory of former Baekje was absorbed by Korean Silla.\n\nBaekje was founded as a member of the Mahan confederacy. Two sons of the founder of Goguryeo are recorded to have fled a succession conflict, to establish Baekje around the present Seoul area.\n\nBaekje absorbed or conquered other Mahan chiefdoms and, at its peak in the 4th century, controlled most of the western Korean peninsula. Buddhism was introduced to Baekje in 384 from Goguryeo, which Baekje welcomed.\n\nBaekje was a great maritime power; its nautical skill, which made it the Phoenicia of East Asia, was instrumental in the dissemination of Buddhism throughout East Asia and continental culture to Japan. Baekje played a fundamental role in transmitting cultural and material developments to ancient Japan, including Chinese written characters, Chinese and Korean literature, technologies such as ferrous metallurgy and ceramics, architectural styles, sericulture and Buddhism.\n\nBaekje exerted its political influence on Tamna, a kingdom that ruled Jejudo. Baekje maintained a close relationship with and extracted tribute from Tamna. Baekje's religious and artistic culture influenced Goguryeo and Silla.\n\nBaekje was once a great military power on the Korean Peninsula, especially during the time of Geunchogo, but was critically defeated by Gwanggaeto and declined.\n\nIn the late 5th century, under attack from Goguryeo, the capital of Baekje was moved south to Ungjin (present-day Gongju) and later further south to Sabi (present-day Buyeo).\n\nAccording to Korean records, in 57 BC, Seorabeol (or Saro, later Silla) in the southeast of the peninsula unified and expanded the confederation of city-states known as Jinhan. Although \"Samguk Sagi\" records that Silla was the earliest-founded of the three kingdoms, other written and archaeological records indicate that Silla was likely the last of the three to establish a centralized government.\n\nSilla was the smallest and weakest of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, but it used cunning diplomatic means to make opportunistic pacts and alliances with the more powerful Korean kingdoms, and eventually Tang China, to its great advantage.\n\nRenamed from Saro to Silla in 503, the kingdom annexed the Gaya confederacy (which in turn had absorbed Byeonhan earlier) in the first half of the 6th century. Goguryeo and Baekje responded by forming an alliance. To cope with invasions from Goguryeo and Baekje, Silla deepened its relations with the Tang Dynasty, with her newly gained access to the Yellow Sea making direct contact with the Tang possible. After the conquest of Goguryeo and Baekje with her Tang allies, the Silla kingdom drove the Tang forces out of the peninsula and occupied the lands south of Pyongyang.\n\nThe capital of Silla was Seorabeol (now Gyeongju; \"Seorabeol\", \"서라벌\", is hypothesized to have been the ancient Korean term for \"capital\"). Buddhism became the official religion in 528. The remaining material culture from the kingdom of Silla including unique gold metalwork shows influence from the northern nomadic steppes, differentiating it from the culture of Goguryeo and Baekje where Chinese influence was more pronounced.\n\nOther smaller states or regions existed in Korea before and during this period:\nAllied with China under the Tang dynasty, Silla conquered Goguryeo in 668, after having already conquered Gaya in 562 and Baekje in 660, thus ushering in the North-South states period with Later Silla to the south and Balhae to the north, when Dae Jo-young, a former Goguryeo military officer, revolted against Tang Chinese rule and began reconquering former Goguryeo territories.\n\nArchaeologists use theoretical guidelines derived from anthropology, ethnology, analogy, and ethnohistory to the concept of what defines a state-level society. This is different from the concept of state (\"guk\" or Sino ko: 國, walled-town state, etc.) in the discipline of Korean History. In anthropological archaeology the presence of urban centres (especially capitals), monumental architecture, craft specialization and standardization of production, ostentatious burials, writing or recording systems, bureaucracy, demonstrated political control of geographical areas that are usually larger in area than a single river valley, etc. make up some of these correlates that define states.\nAmong the archaeology sites dating to the Three Kingdoms of Korea, hundreds of cemeteries with thousands of burials have been excavated. The vast majority of archaeological evidence of the Three Kingdoms Period of Korea consists of burials, but since the 1990s there has been a great increase in the archaeological excavations of ancient industrial production sites, roads, palace grounds and elite precincts, ceremonial sites, commoner households, and fortresses due to the boom in salvage archaeology in South Korea.\n\nRhee and Choi hypothesize that a mix of internal developments and external factors lead to the emergence of state-level societies in Korea. A number of archaeologists including Kang demonstrate the role of frequent warfare in the development of peninsular states.\n\nSome individual correlates of complex societies are found in the chiefdoms of Korea that date back to c. 700 BC (e.g. see Igeum-dong, Songguk-ri). However, the best evidence from the archaeological record in Korea indicates that states formed between 300 BC and 300/400 AD. However, archaeologists are not prepared to suggest that this means there were states in the BC era. The correlates of state-level societies did not develop as a package, but rather in spurts and starts and at various points in time. It was some time between 100–400 AD that individual correlates of state societies had developed to a sufficient number and scale that state-level societies can be confidently identified using archaeological data.\n\nLee Sung-joo analyzed variability in many of the elite cemeteries of the territories of Silla and Gaya polities and found that as late as the 2nd century there was intra-cemetery variation in the distribution of prestige grave goods, but there was an absence of hierarchical differences on a regional scale between cemeteries. Near the end of the 2nd century AD, interior space in elite burials increased in size, and wooden chamber burial construction techniques were increasingly used by elites. In the 3rd century, a pattern developed in which single elite cemeteries that were the highest in status compared to all the other cemeteries were built. Such cemeteries were established at high elevations along ridgelines and on hilltops. Furthermore, the uppermost elite were buried in large-scale tombs established at the highest point of a given cemetery. Cemeteries with 'uppermost elite' mounded burials such as Okseong-ri, Yangdong-ri, Daeseong-dong, and Bokcheon-dong display this pattern.\n\nLee Sung-joo proposed that, in addition to the development of regional political hierarchies as seen through analysis of burials, variation in types of pottery production gradually disappeared and full-time specialization was the only recognizable kind of pottery production from the end of the 4th century A.D. At the same time the production centers for pottery became highly centralized and vessels became standardized.\n\nCentralisation and elite control of production is demonstrated by the results of the archaeological excavations at Songok-dong and Mulcheon-ni in Gyeongju. These sites are part of what was an interconnected and sprawling ancient industrial complex on the northeast outskirts of the Silla capital. Songok-dong and Mulcheon-ri are an example of the large-scale of specialized factory-style production in the Three Kingdoms and Unified Silla Periods. The site was excavated in the late 1990s, and archaeologists found the remains of many production features such as pottery kilns, roof-tile kilns, charcoal kilns, as well as the remains of buildings and workshops associated with production.\n\nSince the establishment of Goguryeo, its early history is well attested archaeologically: The first and second capital cities, Jolbon and Gungnae city, located in and around today's Ji'an, Jilin. In 2004, the site was designated as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Since 1976, continuing archaeological excavations concentrated in the southeastern part of modern Gyeongju have revealed parts of the so-called \"Silla Wanggyeong\" (Silla royal capital). A number of excavations over the years have revealed temples such as Hwangnyongsa, Bunhwangsa, Heungryunsa, and 30 other sites. Signs of Baekje's capitals have also been excavated at the Mongchon Fortress and the Pungnap Fortress in Seoul.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284678", "title": "Tourist trolley", "text": "Tourist trolley\n\nA tourist trolley, also called a road trolley, is a rubber-tired bus designed to resemble an old-style streetcar or tram. The vehicles are usually fueled by diesel, or sometimes compressed natural gas.\n\nThe name refers to the American English usage of the word \"trolley\" to mean an electric streetcar. As these vehicles are not actually trolleys, and to avoid confusion with trolley buses, the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) refers to them as \"trolley-replica buses\".\n\nTourist trolleys are used by both municipal and private operators. Municipal operators may mix tourist trolleys in with the regular service bus fleet to add more visitor interest or attract attention to new routes. In many cities tourist trolleys are used as circulators. Tourist trolleys are also run by private operators to carry tourists to popular destinations.\n\nIn San Francisco, tourist trolleys mimic the city's famous cable cars.\n\nTourist trolleys sometimes operate in places which also have streetcars. For example, tourist trolleys operate in Philadelphia, which also has actual trolley service.\n\nNotable operators of tourist-trolley buses:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35922455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35922455", "title": "Water marble nail", "text": "Water marble nail\n\nWater marble nails are a nail art technique involving dropping nail lacquers into clear water and creating a pattern on the water surface, the pattern is then transferred to the nails.\n\nThe water marble nail technique was originally developed by professional nail technicians in Japanese nail salons. In the 1990s, it was popularized by commercial publications released by shopping centers in Chiba, Japan. In 2010, water marble nail art was adapted to use acrylic artificial nails and gels.\n\nThe water marble nail technique has gained popularity across the globe through features in magazines, websites, polish makers and videos.\n\nThere are two main types of water marble nail art methods: free-dragging and free-dropping. Free-dragging is more common.\n\nDragged patterns range from simple circular shapes to complicated drawings. Patterns such as marble, hearts/peacocks, animals, flowers, leaves, parallel lines, psychedelics, spiderwebs, and random patterns in the style of designer Emilio Pucci are generally performed with nail lacquers and some kind of tool.\n\nDropped patterns range from colored shapes to complicated drawings such as spirals and geometric designs. The free patterns are created by colored drops of nail lacquer. For free-dropping, lacquer colors are dropped straight or diagonally onto the water. The pattern floats on the surface of the water.\n\nWater marble nail art requires clean water, nail lacquers for free-dropping, and a stick for drawing patterns. Before patterns are created, the nails are painted with a light-colored nail polish that establishes a good contrast with the colors chosen to create the water marble. Some techniques use a matte coat to provide contrast and maintain an even look.\n\nAfter the base coat has dried, tape is put around the fingers to gather the excess nail polish after the marbling. One or two drops of colored lacquer are chosen for the design and are added to a cup of clean water. The drops will create a circle on the water surface. The next color is added on top of the circle created by the previous drop. The resulting pattern is ready for application to the nail, but it can still be modified with a stick or toothpick to create different shapes. The nail is dipped into the pattern on the water and kept under water as a Q-tip is used to \"grab\" the remaining polish.\n"}
{"id": "17367962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17367962", "title": "Woodcraft", "text": "Woodcraft\n\nThe term woodcraft — or woodlore — denotes skills and experience in matters relating to living and thriving in the woods—such as hunting, fishing, and camping—whether on a short- or long-term basis. Traditionally, woodcraft pertains to subsistence lifestyles, with implications of hunting-gathering. In more recent times, and in developed countries, it relates more to either outdoor recreationalism or survivalism. \n\nWhether traditional or modern, \"woodcraft\" may be roughly equated to the phrase \"living off the land\".\n\nA partial list of recreational woodcraft techniques might include knowledge of wildlife behavior, identifying and utilizing wild plants and animals (especially for food), camp cooking, orienteering (including hiking skills and use of a map and compass), fire making (including procurement of firewood), selecting and preparing a campsite, lashing and knot techniques, the use of tents and wilderness first aid. \n\nThe Scouting movement has adopted woodcraft techniques as a core skill set known as scoutcraft.\n\nIn the United States, woodcraft techniques in a military context are taught as part of SERE (Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape) training.\n\nTraditional woodcraft has particular importance in American folklore, especially that relating to the early American frontier.\n\nIn the UK, the Woodcraft Folk are an organisation founded on the principles of woodcraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32977", "title": "Writing", "text": "Writing\n\nWriting is a medium of human communication that represents language and emotion with signs and symbols. In most languages, writing is a complement to speech or spoken language. Writing is not a language, but a tool used to make languages be read. Within a language system, writing relies on many of the same structures as speech, such as vocabulary, grammar, and semantics, with the added dependency of a system of signs or symbols. The result of writing is called \"text\", and the recipient of text is called a \"reader\". Motivations for writing include publication, storytelling, correspondence, record keeping and diary. Writing has been instrumental in keeping history, maintaining culture, dissemination of knowledge through the media and the formation of legal systems.\n\nAs human societies emerged, the development of writing was driven by pragmatic exigencies such as exchanging information, maintaining financial accounts, codifying laws and recording history. Around the 4th millennium BC, the complexity of trade and administration in Mesopotamia outgrew human memory, and writing became a more dependable method of recording and presenting transactions in a permanent form. In both ancient Egypt and Mesoamerica, writing may have evolved through calendric and a political necessity for recording historical and environmental events.\n\nH.G. Wells argued that writing has the ability to \"put agreements, laws, commandments on record. It made the growth of states larger than the old city states possible. It made a continuous historical consciousness possible. The command of the priest or king and his seal could go far beyond his sight and voice and could survive his death\".\n\nThe major writing systems—methods of inscription—broadly fall into five categories: logographic, syllabic, alphabetic, featural, and ideographic (symbols for ideas). A sixth category, pictographic, is insufficient to represent language on its own, but often forms the core of logographies.\n\nA logogram is a written character which represents a word or morpheme. A vast number of logograms are needed to write Chinese characters, cuneiform, and Mayan, where a glyph may stand for a morpheme, a syllable, or both—(\"logoconsonantal\" in the case of hieroglyphs). Many logograms have an ideographic component (Chinese \"radicals\", hieroglyphic \"determiners\"). For example, in Mayan, the glyph for \"fin\", pronounced \"ka\", was also used to represent the syllable \"ka\" whenever the pronunciation of a logogram needed to be indicated, or when there was no logogram. In Chinese, about 90% of characters are compounds of a semantic (meaning) element called a \"radical\" with an existing character to indicate the pronunciation, called a \"phonetic\". However, such phonetic elements complement the logographic elements, rather than vice versa.\n\nThe main logographic system in use today is Chinese characters, used with some modification for the various languages or dialects of China, Japan, and sometimes in Korean despite the fact that in South and North Korea, the phonetic Hangul system is mainly used.\n\nA syllabary is a set of written symbols that represent (or approximate) syllables. A glyph in a syllabary typically represents a consonant followed by a vowel, or just a vowel alone, though in some scripts more complex syllables (such as consonant-vowel-consonant, or consonant-consonant-vowel) may have dedicated glyphs. Phonetically related syllables are not so indicated in the script. For instance, the syllable \"ka\" may look nothing like the syllable \"ki\", nor will syllables with the same vowels be similar.\n\nSyllabaries are best suited to languages with a relatively simple syllable structure, such as Japanese. Other languages that use syllabic writing include the Linear B script for Mycenaean Greek; Cherokee; Ndjuka, an English-based creole language of Surinam; and the Vai script of Liberia. Most logographic systems have a strong syllabic component. Ethiopic, though technically an abugida, has fused consonants and vowels together to the point where it is learned as if it were a syllabary.\n\nAn alphabet is a set of symbols, each of which represents or historically represented a phoneme of the language. In a perfectly phonological alphabet, the phonemes and letters would correspond perfectly in two directions: a writer could predict the spelling of a word given its pronunciation, and a speaker could predict the pronunciation of a word given its spelling.\n\nAs languages often evolve independently of their writing systems, and writing systems have been borrowed for languages they were not designed for, the degree to which letters of an alphabet correspond to phonemes of a language varies greatly from one language to another and even within a single language.\n\nIn most of the writing systems of the Middle East, it is usually only the consonants of a word that are written, although vowels may be indicated by the addition of various diacritical marks. Writing systems based primarily on marking the consonant phonemes alone date back to the hieroglyphs of ancient Egypt. Such systems are called \"abjads\", derived from the Arabic word for \"alphabet\".\n\nIn most of the alphabets of India and Southeast Asia, vowels are indicated through diacritics or modification of the shape of the consonant. These are called \"abugidas\". Some abugidas, such as Ethiopic and Cree, are learned by children as syllabaries, and so are often called \"syllabics\". However, unlike true syllabaries, there is not an independent glyph for each syllable.\n\nSometimes the term \"alphabet\" is restricted to systems with separate letters for consonants and vowels, such as the Latin alphabet, although abugidas and abjads may also be accepted as alphabets. Because of this use, Greek is often considered to be the first alphabet.\n\nA featural script notates the building blocks of the phonemes that make up a language. For instance, all sounds pronounced with the lips (\"labial\" sounds) may have some element in common. In the Latin alphabet, this is accidentally the case with the letters \"b\" and \"p\"; however, labial \"m\" is completely dissimilar, and the similar-looking \"q\" and \"d\" are not labial. In Korean hangul, however, all four labial consonants are based on the same basic element, but in practice, Korean is learned by children as an ordinary alphabet, and the featural elements tend to pass unnoticed.\n\nAnother featural script is SignWriting, the most popular writing system for many sign languages, where the shapes and movements of the hands and face are represented iconically. Featural scripts are also common in fictional or invented systems, such as J.R.R. Tolkien's Tengwar.\n\nHistorians draw a sharp distinction between prehistory and history, with history defined by the advent of writing. The cave paintings and petroglyphs of prehistoric peoples can be considered precursors of writing, but they are not considered true writing because they did not represent language directly.\n\nWriting systems develop and change based on the needs of the people who use them. Sometimes the shape, orientation, and meaning of individual signs changes over time. By tracing the development of a script, it is possible to learn about the needs of the people who used the script as well as how the script changed over time.\n\nThe many tools and writing materials used throughout history include stone tablets, clay tablets, bamboo slats, papyrus, wax tablets, vellum, parchment, paper, copperplate, styluses, quills, ink brushes, pencils, pens, and many styles of lithography. The Incas used knotted cords known as quipu (or khipu) for keeping records.\n\nThe typewriter and various forms of word processors have subsequently become widespread writing tools, and various studies have compared the ways in which writers have framed the experience of writing with such tools as compared with the pen or pencil.\n\nBy definition, the modern practice of history begins with written records. Evidence of human culture without writing is the realm of prehistory. The Dispilio Tablet (Greece), Jiahu symbols (China) and Tărtăria tablets (Romania), which have been carbon dated to the 6th millennium BC, are recent discoveries of the earliest known neolithic writings.\n\nWhile neolithic writing is a current research topic, conventional history assumes that the writing process first evolved from economic necessity in the ancient Near East. Writing most likely began as a consequence of political expansion in ancient cultures, which needed reliable means for transmitting information, maintaining financial accounts, keeping historical records, and similar activities. Around the 4th millennium BC, the complexity of trade and administration outgrew the power of memory, and writing became a more dependable method of recording and presenting transactions in a permanent form.\n\nArchaeologist Denise Schmandt-Besserat determined the link between previously uncategorized clay \"tokens\", the oldest of which have been found in the Zagros region of Iran, and the first known writing, Mesopotamian cuneiform. In approximately 8000 BC, the Mesopotamians began using clay tokens to count their agricultural and manufactured goods. Later they began placing these tokens inside large, hollow clay containers (bulla, or globular envelopes) which were then sealed. The quantity of tokens in each container came to be expressed by impressing, on the container's surface, one picture for each instance of the token inside. They next dispensed with the tokens, relying solely on symbols for the tokens, drawn on clay surfaces. To avoid making a picture for each instance of the same object (for example: 100 pictures of a hat to represent 100 hats), they 'counted' the objects by using various small marks. In this way the Sumerians added \"a system for enumerating objects to their incipient system of symbols\".\n\nThe original Mesopotamian writing system (believed to be the world's oldest) was derived around 3600 BC from this method of keeping accounts. By the end of the 4th millennium BC, the Mesopotamians were using a triangular-shaped stylus pressed into soft clay to record numbers. This system was gradually augmented with using a sharp stylus to indicate what was being counted by means of pictographs. Round-stylus and sharp-stylus writing was gradually replaced by writing using a wedge-shaped stylus (hence the term cuneiform), at first only for logograms, but by the 29th century BC also for phonetic elements. Around 2700 BC, cuneiform began to represent syllables of spoken Sumerian. About that time, Mesopotamian cuneiform became a general purpose writing system for logograms, syllables, and numbers. This script was adapted to another Mesopotamian language, the East Semitic Akkadian (Assyrian and Babylonian) around 2600 BC, and then to others such as Elamite, Hattian, Hurrian and Hittite. Scripts similar in appearance to this writing system include those for Ugaritic and Old Persian. With the adoption of Aramaic as the 'lingua franca' of the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–609 BC), Old Aramaic was also adapted to Mesopotamian cuneiform. The last cuneiform scripts in Akkadian discovered thus far date from the 1st century AD.\n\nOver the centuries, three distinct Elamite scripts developed.\nProto-Elamite is the oldest known writing system from Iran. In use only for a brief time (c. 3200–2900 BC), clay tablets with Proto-Elamite writing have been found at different sites across Iran. The Proto-Elamite script is thought to have developed from early cuneiform (proto-cuneiform). The Proto-Elamite script consists of more than 1,000 signs and is thought to be partly logographic.\n\nLinear Elamite is a writing system attested in a few monumental inscriptions in Iran. It was used for a very brief period during the last quarter of the 3rd millennium BC. It is often claimed that Linear Elamite is a syllabic writing system derived from Proto-Elamite, although this cannot be proven since Linear-Elamite has not been deciphered. Several scholars have attempted to decipher the script, most notably and .\n\nThe Elamite cuneiform script was used from about 2500 to 331 BC, and was adapted from the Akkadian cuneiform. The Elamite cuneiform script consisted of about 130 symbols, far fewer than most other cuneiform scripts.\n\nCretan hieroglyphs are found on artifacts of Crete (early-to-mid-2nd millennium BC, MM I to MM III, overlapping with Linear A from MM IIA at the earliest). Linear B, the writing system of the Mycenaean Greeks, has been deciphered while Linear A has yet to be deciphered. The sequence and the geographical spread of the three overlapping, but distinct writing systems can be summarized as follows: Cretan hieroglyphs were used in Crete from c. 1625 to 1500 BC; Linear A was used in the Aegean Islands (Kea, Kythera, Melos, Thera), and the Greek mainland (Laconia) from c. 18th century to 1450 BC; and Linear B was used in Crete (Knossos), and mainland (Pylos, Mycenae, Thebes, Tiryns) from c. 1375 to 1200 BC.\n\nThe earliest surviving examples of writing in China—inscriptions on so-called \"oracle bones\", tortoise plastrons and ox scapulae used for divination—date from around 1200 BC in the late Shang dynasty. A small number of bronze inscriptions from the same period have also survived.\nHistorians have found that the type of media used had an effect on what the writing was documenting and how it was used.\n\nIn 2003, archaeologists reported discoveries of isolated tortoise-shell carvings dating back to the 7th millennium BC, but whether or not these symbols are related to the characters of the later oracle-bone script is disputed.\n\nThe earliest known hieroglyphic inscriptions are the Narmer Palette, dating to c. 3200 BC, and several recent discoveries that may be slightly older, though these glyphs were based on a much older artistic rather than written tradition. The hieroglyphic script was logographic with phonetic adjuncts that included an effective alphabet.\n\nWriting was very important in maintaining the Egyptian empire, and literacy was concentrated among an educated elite of scribes. Only people from certain backgrounds were allowed to train to become scribes, in the service of temple, pharaonic, and military authorities. The hieroglyph system was always difficult to learn, but in later centuries was purposely made even more so, as this preserved the scribes' status.\n\nThe world's oldest known alphabet appears to have been developed by Canaanite turquoise miners in the Sinai desert around the mid-19th century BC. Around 30 crude inscriptions have been found at a mountainous Egyptian mining site known as Serabit el-Khadem. This site was also home to a temple of Hathor, the \"Mistress of turquoise\". A later, two line inscription has also been found at Wadi el-Hol in Central Egypt. Based on hieroglyphic prototypes, but also including entirely new symbols, each sign apparently stood for a consonant rather than a word: the basis of an alphabetic system. It was not until the 12th to 9th centuries, however, that the alphabet took hold and became widely used.\n\nIndus script refers to short strings of symbols associated with the Indus Valley Civilization (which spanned modern-day Pakistan and North India) used between 2600 and 1900 BC. In spite of many attempts at decipherments and claims, it is as yet undeciphered. The term 'Indus script' is mainly applied to that used in the mature Harappan phase, which perhaps evolved from a few signs found in early Harappa after 3500 BC, and was followed by the mature Harappan script. The script is written from right to left, and sometimes follows a boustrophedonic style. Since the number of principal signs is about 400–600, midway between typical logographic and syllabic scripts, many scholars accept the script to be logo-syllabic (typically syllabic scripts have about 50–100 signs whereas logographic scripts have a very large number of principal signs). Several scholars maintain that structural analysis indicates that an agglutinative language underlies the script.\n\nIn 2001, archaeologists discovered that there was a civilization in Central Asia that used writing c. 2000 BC. An excavation near Ashgabat, the capital of Turkmenistan, revealed an inscription on a piece of stone that was used as a stamp seal.\n\nThe Proto-Sinaitic script, in which Proto-Canaanite is believed to have been first written, is attested as far back as the 19th century BC. The Phoenician writing system was adapted from the Proto-Canaanite script sometime before the 14th century BC, which in turn borrowed principles of representing phonetic information from Hieratic, Cuneiform and Egyptian hieroglyphs. This writing system was an odd sort of syllabary in which only consonants are represented. This script was adapted by the Greeks, who adapted certain consonantal signs to represent their vowels. The Cumae alphabet, a variant of the early Greek alphabet, gave rise to the Etruscan alphabet and its own descendants, such as the Latin alphabet and Runes. Other descendants from the Greek alphabet include Cyrillic, used to write Bulgarian, Russian and Serbian, among others. The Phoenician system was also adapted into the Aramaic script, from which the Hebrew and the Arabic scripts are descended.\n\nThe Tifinagh script (Berber languages) is descended from the Libyco-Berber script, which is assumed to be of Phoenician origin.\n\nA stone slab with 3,000-year-old writing, known as the Cascajal Block, was discovered in the Mexican state of Veracruz and is an example of the oldest script in the Western Hemisphere, preceding the oldest Zapotec writing by approximately 500 years. It is thought to be Olmec.\n\nOf several pre-Columbian scripts in Mesoamerica, the one that appears to have been best developed, and the only one to be deciphered, is the Maya script. The earliest inscription identified as Maya dates to the 3rd century BC. Maya writing used logograms complemented by a set of syllabic glyphs, somewhat similar in function to modern Japanese writing.\n\nThe Incas had no known script. Their quipu system of recording information—based on knots tied along one or many linked cords—was apparently used for inventory and accountancy purposes and could not encode textual information.\n\nThree stone slabs were found by Romanian archaeologist Nicolae Vlassa, in the mid-20th century (1961) in Tărtăria (present-day Alba County, Transylvania), Romania, ancient land of Dacia, inhabited by Dacians, which were a population who may have been related to the Getaes and Thracians.\nOne of the slabs contains 4 groups of pictographs divided by lines. Some of the characters are also found in Ancient Greek, as well as in Phoenician, Etruscan, Old Italic and Iberian.\nThe origin and the timing of the writings are disputed, because there are no precise evidence in situ, the slabs cannot be carbon dated, because of the bad treatment of the Cluj museum. There are indirect carbon dates found on a skeleton discovered near the slabs, that certifies the 5300–5500 BC period.\n\nIn the 21st century, writing has become an important part of daily life as technology has connected individuals from across the globe through systems such as e-mail and social media. Literacy has grown in importance as a factor for success in the modern world. In the United States, the ability to read and write are necessary for most jobs, and multiple programs are in place to aid both children and adults in improving their literacy skills. For example, the emergence of the writing center and community-wide literacy councils aim to help students and community members sharpen their writing skills. These resources, and many more, span across different age groups in order to offer each individual a better understanding of their language and how to express themselves via writing in order to perhaps improve their socioeconomic status.\n\nOther parts of the world have seen an increase in writing abilities as a result of programs such as the World Literacy Foundation and International Literacy Foundation, as well as a general push for increased global communication.\n\n\n"}
