{"id": "52070652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52070652", "title": "1990 October Revolution Parade", "text": "1990 October Revolution Parade\n\nThe 1990 October Revolution Parade was the last parade commemorating the 1917 October Revolution during the Soviet Union's existence. It celebrated the 73rd anniversary of the revolution. It was the first and last parade attended by Mikhail Gorbachev in his position as President of the Soviet Union. At the chimes of the Kremlin Clock, Gorbachev gave an address to the nation. It would be the first and last time a Soviet leader made an address on Lenin's Mausoleum during an October Revolution parade. After the anthem was played, the commander of the parade Colonel General Nikolai Kalinin reported to the parade inspector Marshal of the Soviet Union Dmitry Yazov. Providing the music for the parade was the head of the central orchestra of the Moscow Military District, Major General Nikolai Mikhailov.\n\nAt the front of the parade was the limousine carrying the commander of the parade Colonel General Nikolai Kalinin.\n\nMassed Bands\n\nGround Column\n\nMobile Column\n\nRevolution Day parades and celebrations were also held in the following USSR republics and cities:\nThe parade location in Kiev was changed from Khreshchatyk Street to Victory Square by order of the Kiev City Council.\n\nAt 11:00 AM, an hour after the parade began, an attempt to kill President Gorbachev was made by Alexander Shmonov. The two bullets he fired missed and he was tackled to the ground by crowds of demonstrators. Shmonov was the last would-be-assassin of the Soviet period before the USSR's dissolution in 1991. He was sent to forced treatment which took a heavy toll on his mental state. Three weeks prior to the parade, Shmonov bought a double-barreled hunting rifle. He took out his rifle and was spotted immediately by the police, and as he was taking aim, an officer ran over and jerked the rifle by the barrel as the crowd jumped on him. Soviet Central television did not broadcast the assassination attempt and resumed its regular broadcasting at 11:25 AM.\n"}
{"id": "21166642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21166642", "title": "2008–09 Keynesian resurgence", "text": "2008–09 Keynesian resurgence\n\nFollowing the global financial crisis of 2007–08, there was a worldwide resurgence of interest in Keynesian economics among prominent economists and policy makers. This included discussions and implementation of economic policies in accordance with the recommendations made by John Maynard Keynes in response to the Great Depression of the 1930s—most especially fiscal stimulus and expansionary monetary policy.\n\nFrom the end of the Great Depression until the early 1970s, Keynesian economics provided the main inspiration for economic policy makers in Western industrialized countries. The influence of Keynes's theories waned in the 1970s, due to stagflation and critiques from Friedrich Hayek, Milton Friedman, Robert Lucas, Jr. and other economists, who were less optimistic about the ability of interventionist government policy to positively regulate the economy or otherwise opposed to Keynesian policies. From the early 1980s to 2008, the normative consensus among economists was that attempts at fiscal stimulus would be ineffective even in a recession, and such policies were only occasionally employed by the governments of developed countries.\n\nIn 2008, a rapid shift of opinion took place among many prominent economists in favour of Keynesian stimulus, and, from October onward, policy makers began announcing major stimulus packages, in hopes of heading off the possibility of a global depression. By early 2009 there was widespread acceptance among the world's economic policy makers about the need for fiscal stimulus. Yet by late 2009 the consensus among economists began to break down. In 2010 with a depression averted but unemployment in many countries still high, policy makers generally decided against further fiscal stimulus, with several citing concerns over public debt as a justification. Unconventional monetary policy continued to be used in attempts to raise economic activity. By 2016, increasing concerns had arisen that monetary policy was reaching the limit of its effectiveness, and several countries began to return to fiscal stimulus.\n\nMacroeconomic policy focuses on high level government decisions which affect overall national economies rather than lower level decisions concerning markets for particular goods and services.\n\nKeynes was the first economist to popularize macroeconomics and also the notion that governments can and should intervene in the economy to alleviate the suffering caused by unemployment. Before the Keynesian Revolution that followed Keynes's 1936 publication of his \"General Theory\", the prevailing orthodoxy was that the economy would naturally establish full employment. So successful was the revolution that the period spanning the aftermath of World War II to about 1973 has been referred to as the \"Age of Keynes\". Stagnating economic performance in the early 1970s successfully shattered the previous consensus for Keynesian economics and provided support for a counter revolution. Milton Friedman's monetarism school was prominent in displacing Keynes' ideas both in academia and from the practical world of economic policy making.\n\nFor an overview on the different perspectives concerning optimal balance between public and private power in the economy, see liberal, realist & Marxist. For more detail on specific systems of thought relevant to debate on this fiscal policy see Keynesian economics, Monetarism, the Austrian School, New classical macroeconomics, Real business-cycle theory, and New Keynesian economics. A key common feature of the anti-Keynesian schools of thought is that they argued for policy ineffectiveness or policy irrelevance. Although the theoretical justifications vary, the various schools all hold that government intervention will be much less effective than Keynes had believed, with some advocates even claiming that in the long run interventionist policy will always be counterproductive.\n\nKeynesian economics followed on from the Keynesian Revolution. In contrast to the recent resurgence of Keynesian policy making, the revolution initially comprised a shift change in theory. There had been several experiments in policy making that can be seen as precursors for Keynes' ideas, most notably President Franklin D. Roosevelt's famous \"New Deal\" in the United States. These experiments had been influenced more by morals, geopolitics and political ideology than by new developments in economics, even though Keynes had found some support in the US for his ideas about counter-cyclical public works policy as early as 1931.\n\nAccording to Gordon Fletcher, Keynes' \"General Theory\" provided a conceptual justification for New Deal-type policies which was lacking in the established economics of the day. This was immensely significant, as in the absence of a proper theoretical underpinning there was a danger that \"ad hoc\" policies of moderate intervention would be overtaken by extremist solutions, as had already happened in much of Europe. However, Keynes did not agree with all aspects of the New Deal; he considered that the almost immediate revival of business activity after the program's launch could only be accounted for by dangerous-to-rely-on psychological factors, such as the boost to confidence effected by Roosevelt's inspiring oratory.\n\nWhile working on his \"General Theory\", Keynes wrote to George Bernard Shaw \"I believe myself to be writing a book on economic theory which will largely revolutionize, not I suppose at once but in the course of the next ten years – the way the world thinks about economic problems ... I don't merely hope what I say, in my own mind I'm quite sure\". Keynes's ideas quickly became established as the new foundations for mainstream economics, and also as a leading inspiration for industrial nations economic policy makers from about 1941 to the midseventies, especially in the English speaking countries. The 1950s and 1960s period, when Keynes's influence was at its peak, to many appeared in retrospect to have been a golden age.\n\nAt that time, in contrast to the decades before WWII, the industrialized world and much of the developing world enjoyed high growth, low unemployment and an exceptionally low frequency of economic crises. In late 1965 \"Time\" magazine ran a cover article with the title inspired by Milton Friedman's statement, later associated with Richard Nixon, \"We are all Keynesians now\". The article described the exceptionally favourable economic conditions then prevailing, and reported that \"Washington's economic managers scaled these heights by their adherence to Keynes's central theme: the modern capitalist economy does not automatically work at top efficiency, but can be raised to that level by the intervention and influence of the government.\" The article also states that Keynes was one of the three most important economists ever, and that his \"General Theory\" was more influential than the \"magna opera\" of his rivals – Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\" and Karl Marx's \"Das Kapital\".\n\nA swelling tide of criticism of Keynesian economics, most notably from Milton Friedman, a leading figure of monetarism, and the Austrian School's Friedrich Hayek, was unleashed by the stagflation of the 1970s. A series of events that contributed to this economic situation included Richard Nixon's imposition of wage and price controls on 15 August 1971 and unilateral cancellation of the Bretton Woods system in 1972, his ceasing the direct convertibility of the United States dollar to gold, as well as the 1973 oil crisis and the recession that followed.\n\nIn 1976, Robert Lucas of the Chicago school of economics introduced the Lucas critique, which called into question the logic behind Keynesian macroeconomic policy making. The new classical economics became the dominant school in macroeconomics. By the mid-1970s, policy makers were beginning to lose their confidence in the effectiveness of government intervention in the economy. In 1976 British Prime Minister James Callaghan said that the option of “spending our way out of recession” no longer exists.\nIn 1979, the election of Margaret Thatcher as prime minister brought monetarism to British economic policy. In the US, the Federal Reserve under Paul Volcker adopted similar policies of monetary tightening in order to control inflation.\n\nIn the world of practical policy-making as opposed to economics as an academic discipline, the monetarist experiments in both the US and the UK in the early 1980s were the pinnacle of anti-Keynesian and the rise of perfect competition influence. The strong form of monetarism being tested at this time asserted that fiscal policy is of no effect, and that monetary policy should only try to target the money supply to control inflation, without attempting to target real interest rates. This was in contrast to the Keynesian view that monetary policy should target interest rates, which it held could influence unemployment.\n\nMonetarism succeeded in bringing down inflation, but at the cost of unemployment rates in excess of 10%, causing the deepest recession seen in the developed countries since the end of the Great Depression and severe debt crises in the developing world. Contrary to monetarist predictions, the relationship between the money supply and the price level proved unreliable in the short- to medium-term. Another monetarist prediction not borne out in practice was that the velocity of money did not remain constant, in fact it dropped sharply. The US Federal Reserve began increasing the money supply above monetarist-advised thresholds with no effect on inflation, and discarded monetarism in 1984. The Bank of England likewise abandoned its sterling M3 money targeting in October 1985.\n\nBy 1999, the 1997 Asian financial crisis and the harsh response by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) had already caused free market policies to be at least partially discredited in the eyes of developing world policy makers. The developing world as a whole stopped running current account deficits in 1999, largely as a result of government interventions to devalue the countries' currencies, which would help build foreign reserves to protect against future crises and help them enjoy export led growth rather than just rely on market forces.\n\nFor the advanced economies, while there was much talk of reforming the international financial system after the Asian crises, it was not until the market failure of the 2000 dot-com bubble that there was a significant shift away from free market policies. In America there was a return by the government of George W. Bush to a moderate form of Keynesian policy, with interest rates lowered to ease unemployment and head off recession, along with a form of fiscal intervention with emergency tax cuts to boost spending.\nIn Britain, Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown had gone on record saying \"the real challenge was to interpret Keynes's insights for the modern world.\"\n\nYet American and British policy makers continued to ignore many elements of Keynesian thinking such as the recommendation to avoid large trade imbalances and to reduce government deficits in boom years. There was no general global return to Keynesian economics in the first 8 years of the 2000s. European policy became slightly more interventionist after the start of the 21st century, but the shift in a Keynesian direction was smaller than was the case for the US and the UK. However, continental Europeans had not generally embraced free market thinking as wholeheartedly as had the English-speaking world in the 1980s and 1990s. Japan had been using moderate Keynesian policies in the nineties, and switched to neoliberalism with the government of Junichirō Koizumi in 2001–06.\n\nFor the first half of the 2000s, free-market influences remained strong in powerful normative institutions like the World Bank, the IMF, and in prominent opinion-forming media such as the \"Financial Times\" and \"The Economist\".\nThe Washington Consensus view that current account imbalances do not matter continued even in the face of a ballooning US deficit, with mainstream academic opinion only turning to the view that the imbalances are unsustainable by 2007. Another notable anti-Keynesian view that remained dominant in US and UK policy making circles was the idea that markets work best if they are unregulated.\n\nIn the world of popular opinion, there had been an upsurge in vocal but minority opposition to the raw free market, with anti-globalization protests becoming increasingly notable after 1998. By 2007, there had been bestsellers promoting Keynesian or at least pro-mixed economy policies: Naomi Klein's \"The Shock Doctrine\" and Song Hongbing's \"Currency Wars\".\n\nIn the academic world, the partial shift towards Keynesian policy had gone largely unnoticed.\n\nIn the wake of the financial crisis of 2007–08 and the search for a way out of the crisis, a worldwide move toward Keynesian deficit financing and general resurgence of Keynesian policies resulted in a new economic consensus, which involved reassessment or even reversal of normative judgments on a number of topics. The Keynesian view receiving most attention has been fiscal stimulus, applied by numerous states as a response to the Great Recession. The IMF managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn advocated for global fiscal stimulus already in January 2008.\n\nGordon Brown built support for fiscal stimulus among global leaders at September's UN General Assembly, after which he secured George Bush's agreement for the first G20 leaders summit. In late 2008 and 2009 fiscal stimulus packages were widely launched across the world, with packages in G20 countries averaging at about 2% of GDP, with a ratio of public spending to tax cuts of about 2:1. The stimulus in Europe was notably smaller than in large G20 countries elsewhere. Other areas where opinion has shifted back towards a Keynesian perspective include:\n\n\n\nIn March 2008, leading free-market journalist Martin Wolf, chief economics commentator at the \"Financial Times\", announced the death of the dream of global free-market capitalism, and quoted Josef Ackermann, chief executive of Deutsche Bank, as saying \"I no longer believe in the market's self-healing power.\" Shortly afterward economist Robert J. Shiller began advocating robust government intervention to tackle the financial crisis, citing Keynes. Macro economist James K. Galbraith used the 25th Annual Milton Friedman Distinguished Lecture to launch a sweeping attack against the consensus for monetarist economics and argued that Keynesian economics were far more relevant for tackling the emerging crises.\n\nMuch discussion among policy makers reflected Keynes's advocacy of international coordination of fiscal or monetary stimulus, and of international economic institutions such as the IMF and World Bank, which he had helped to create at Bretton Woods in 1944, and which many argued should be reformed at a \"new Bretton Woods\". This was evident at the G20 and APEC meetings in Washington, D.C., and Lima, Peru in November 2008, and in coordinated reductions of interest rates by many countries in November and December 2008. IMF and United Nations economists and political leaders such as British Prime Minister Gordon Brown advocated a coordinated international approach to fiscal stimulus.\n\nWorld Bank's President Robert Zoellick advocated that all developed countries pledge 0.7 percent of their stimulus package to a vulnerability fund for assisting developing countries. Donald Markwell and others argued that the absence of an effective international approach in the spirit of Keynes would risk a return of economic causes of international conflict, which Keynes had identified back in the 1930s.\n\nThe first nation to announce a substantial fiscal stimulus was Great Britain, with Chancellor Alistair Darling referring to Keynes as he unveiled plans for fiscal stimuli to head off the worst effects of recession. These measures were later described by Ed Balls as the first time a postwar British government had been able to meet a recession with a \"classic Keynesian response\".\nIn his autobiography published in 2011, Darling recounts how his response to the crisis was \"influenced hugely by Keynes's thinking, indeed, as were most other governments\" \n\nDarling's stimulus announcement was swiftly followed by a similar declaration from China, and over the next few weeks and months from European countries, the U.S. and other countries across the world.\n\nIn a speech on 8 January 2009, President Elect Barack Obama unveiled a plan for extensive domestic spending to combat recession, further reflecting Keynesian thinking. The plan was signed by him on 17 February 2009. There had been extensive debate in US Congress concerning the necessity, adequacy, and likely effects of the package, which was cut from $819 to $787 billion during its passage through the Senate.\n\nOn 21 January 21, 2010, the Volcker Rule was endorsed by President Obama. It was a proposal by US economist Paul Volcker to restrict banks from making speculative investments that do not benefit their customers. Volcker had argued that such speculative activity played a key role in the recent worldwide financial crisis. Plans for a new $180 billion stimulus plan were announced by Obama in September 2010.\n\nA renewed interest in Keynesian ideas was not limited to Western countries and stimulus plans were a common response to the crisis from nations across the globe. Stimulus packages in Asia were on a par with those in Europe and America. In a speech delivered in March 2009 entitled \"Reform the International Monetary System\", Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China, revived Keynes's idea of a centrally managed global reserve currency. Dr Zhou argued that it was unfortunate that Keynes's bancor proposal was not accepted at Bretton Woods in the 1940s. He argued that national currencies were unsuitable for use as global reserve currencies as a result of the Triffin dilemma – the difficulty faced by reserve currency issuers in trying to simultaneously achieve their domestic monetary policy goals and meet other countries' demand for reserve currency. Zhou proposed a gradual move towards adopting IMF special drawing rights (SDRs) as a centrally managed global reserve currency.\nZhou's view was echoed in June 2009 by the IMF and in September was described by the \"Financial Times\" as the boldest statement of the year to come from China.\n\nIn a widely read article on dollar hegemony published in \"Asia Times Online\" on 11 April 2002, Henry C.K. Liu asserted that \"The Keynesian starting point is that full employment is the basis of good economics. It is through full employment at fair wages that all other economic inefficiencies can best be handled, through an accommodating monetary policy.\" Liu also advocated denominating Chinese exports in Chinese currency (RMB), as a step to free China from the constraints of excessive reliance on the dollar.\n\nAccording to Anatole Kaletsky, Keynesian stimuli were rapidly followed by \"revivals of growth in one country after another, roughly in proportion to the size of the various stimulus plans.\"\n\nChina was one of the first nations to launch a substantial fiscal stimulus package, estimated at $586 billion spread over two years, and in February 2009 the \"Financial Times\" reported that both government officials and private investors were seeing signs of recovery, such as rises in commodity prices, a 13% rise in the Chinese stock market over a period of 10 days, and a big increase in lending – reflecting the government's success in using state-owned banks to inject liquidity into the real economy.\n\nReviewing events from 2010, economics commentator John Authers found that the stimulus and associated expansionary monetary policy had a dramatic effect in reviving the Chinese economy. The Shanghai index had been falling sharply since the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, but the decline was halted when news of the planned stimulus leaked in late October. The day after the stimulus was officially announced, the Shanghai index immediately rose by 7.3%, followed by sustained growth.\nSpeaking at the 2010 Summer Davos, Premier Wen Jiabao also credited the stimulus for good performance of the Chinese economy over the past two years.\n\nAs late as April 2009, central bankers and finance ministers remained cautious about the overall global economy, but by in May the \"Financial Times\" was reporting that according to a package of leading indicators there were signs that recovery was imminent in Europe too, after a trough in March. The US was one of the last major economies to implement a major stimulus plan, and the slowdown there looked set to continue for at least a few more months.\nThere was also a rise in business and consumer confidence across most of Europe, and especially in the emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia and India.\n\nIn June, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) reported improvements in global economic outlook, with an overall growth forecast for 2010. The OECD gave the credit to stimulus plans, which they warned should not be rolled back too swiftly.\nThe IMF also reported a better than expected global economic outlook in July, though warning that the recovery is likely to be slow. They credited the \"unprecedented\" global policy response and echoed the OECD in urging leaders to avoid complacency and not to unwind recession fighting fiscal and monetary policies too soon.\n\nIn a widely syndicated article published in August 2009, Paul Krugman announced that the world had been saved from the threat of a second great depression, thanks to \"Big Government\".\nThe US economy emerged from recession in the third quarter of 2009, which the \"Financial Times\" credited to the stimulus measures.\nIn November, the managing director of the IMF Dominique Strauss-Kahn repeated the warning against terminating the stimulus measures too soon. The \"Financial Times\", however, reported that significant differences had emerged even within Europe, with senior members of the European Central Bank expressing concern about the risk of delaying the exit for too long.\n\nOn 8 December 2009, President Obama unveiled what the \"Financial Times\" described as a \"second stimulus plan\" for additional job creation\nusing approximately $200 billion of unused funds that had been pre-approved for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. In the same speech he expressed the view that the initial stimulus had already saved or created 1.6 million jobs.\nIn an article looking back at 2009, economist Arvind Subramanian wrote in the \"Financial Times\" that economics had helped to redeem itself by providing advice for the policy responses that successfully prevented a global slide into depression, with the fiscal policy stimulus measures taking their \"cue from Keynes\".\n\nIn July 2010 economics journalist Robin Harding wrote for the \"Financial Times\" that most American economists are in agreement regarding the large influence of the US stimulus on the economy, though he mentioned high-profile dissenters such as Robert Barro and John B. Taylor.\nBarro's arguments against the effectiveness of the stimulus have been addressed by Keynesian economics professor J. Bradford DeLong.\n\nA July 2010 paper by Moody's Investors Service's chief economist Mark Zandl and former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Alan Blinder predicted that the US recession would have been far worse without the government intervention. They calculate that in the absence of both a monetary and fiscal response, unemployment would have peaked at about 16.5% instead of about 10%, the peak to trough GDP decline would have been about 12% instead of 4%. Despite the lack of deficit spending, without the intervention the 2010 and 2011 US federal budget deficit was forecast to be almost two times larger, due to the predicted collapse of tax receipts.\n\nIn August 2010, a report from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office found the US stimulus to have boosted growth by as much as 4.5%. House of Representatives Minority Leader John Boehner expressed skepticism about the report's accuracy.\nIn March 2011, citing studies on the effectiveness of fiscal stimulus from several dozen economists and international bodies, David Romer told the IMF that \"we should view the question of whether fiscal stimulus is effective as settled.\"\n\nIn 2009 there were several books published by economists advocating a further shift towards Keynesian thinking. The authors advocated further reform in academic economics,\npolicy making\nand even the public's general ethics.\nTheoretical arguments regarding the relative merits of free market versus mixed economy policies do not always yield a clear conclusion. In his 2009 book \"\", economic historian Lord Skidelsky has a chapter comparing the performance of the world economy between the \"golden age\" period of 1951–73, when Keynesian policies were dominant, with the Washington Consensus period of 1981–2008, when free market policies were adopted by leading governments. Samuel Brittan of the \"Financial Times\" called this part of the book the key chapter for the practically inclined reader.\nUsing data from the IMF, Skidelsky finds superior economic performance on a whole range of metrics, except for inflation where he says there was no significant difference.\n\nSkidelsky suggests the high global growth during the golden age was especially impressive given that during that period Japan was the only major Asian economy enjoying high growth – the exceptional growth of China and other Asian emerging economies, raising the global average, happened later. He also comments that the golden age, compared with other periods, was substantially more stable. Martin Wolf found that in 1945–71 (27 years) the world saw only 38 financial crises, whereas in 1973–97 (24 years) there were 139.\n\nSkidelsky also reports that inequality was generally decreasing during the golden age, whereas since the Washington Consensus was formed it has been increasing. He notes that South America has been an exception to the general rise in inequality – since the late 1990s inequality has been falling there, which James K. Galbraith explains as likely due to the region's early \"retreat from neoliberal orthodoxy\".\n\nIn his 2009 book \"The Keynes Solution\", post-Keynesian economist Paul Davidson makes another historical case for the effectiveness of Keynesian policy, referring to the experience of the United States during the Great Depression. He notes how economic growth and employment levels increased for four successive years as the New Deal policies were pursued by President Roosevelt. When government spending was cut back in 1937 due to concerns about the budget deficit, all the gains were lost in one year, and growth only resumed after spending increased again from 1938, as a response to growing acceptance of deficit spending in a recession and later due to World War II. For Davidson, this experience validates the view that Keynesian policy has the power to deliver full employment and prosperity for a government's entire labor force. Davidson also wrote that both price stability and employment in the Keynesian age were superior even to the classical gold standard era that was terminated by World War I.\n\nOn 8 November 2008, Paul Davidson and Henry C.K. Liu co-authored an open letter to world leaders attending the November 15 White House summit on financial markets and world economy, urging reconsideration of Keynes' analytical system that contributed to the golden age of the first quarter century after World War II. The letter, signed by many supporting economists, advocates a new international financial architecture based on an updated 21st century version of the Keynes Plan originally proposed at Bretton Woods in 1944.\n\nThe letter ends by describing this new international financial architecture as aiming to create (1) a new global monetary regime that operates without currency hegemony, (2) global trade relationships that support rather than retard domestic development and (3) a global economic environment that promotes incentives for each nation to promote full employment and raise wages for its labor force.\n\nA marked shift towards Keynesian thinking took place among prominent economists. Some, such as Paul Krugman, James Galbraith and Brad Delong, were already Keynesians, but in 2008 began to get considerably more attention for their advocacy of Keynesian policy. Others, such as Richard Posner and Martin Feldstein, had previously been associated with anti-Keynesian thinking, yet by 2009 publicly converted to Keynesian economics, which made considerable impact on other economists. Posner's 2009 book, \"A Failure of Capitalism\", was a critique of laissez-faire capitalism and its ideologues.\n\nThis shift towards Keynesian thinking was widely shared by many politically active economists across the world. In the years leading up to the resurgence, Germany had been home to some of the most outspoken critics of Keynesianism, yet according to economist Sebastian Dullien writing in December 2008, \"important voices in the German economic profession are now calling for a large stimulus package, passed as quickly as possible\".\n\"The New York Times\" reported that in the March 2008 annual meeting of the American Economic Association, economists had remained hostile or at least sceptical about the government’s role in enhancing the market sector or mitigating recession with fiscal stimulus. But already during the January 2009 meeting virtually everyone voiced their support for such measures.\n\nThere were a few high-profile known dissenter economists, such as Robert Barro and Eugene Fama, but in 2008 and early 2009 their objections had little influence on the mainstream debate. A dissenter from Germany had been Stefan Homburg, who in January 2009 complained \"I simply cannot understand how so many economics professors have done a complete U-turn. Have they all gone mad?\"\n\nAmong the less publicly prominent economists, who tend to debate only with their fellows and write mainly in technical journals, a substantial shift in opinion was less obvious. Speaking in March 2009, Galbraith stated that he had not detected any changes among academic economists, nor a re-examination of orthodox opinion in the journals.\n\nUntil 2008, the consensus among most mainstream economists was that fiscal stimulus did not work. New Keynesians and New Classical economists had previously agreed monetary policy was sufficient for most downturns and the two schools of thought debated only technicalities. The extent of the recession made the New Keynesians re-evaluate the potential of large stimulus, and their debates with New Classical economists, who often opposed stimulus entirely, became substantive. Some economists (primarily post-Keynesians) accused the New Keynesian system of being so integrated with pro-free market neo-classical influences that the label 'Keynesian' in this case could be considered a misnomer.\n\nThe 2008 financial crisis has led economists to pay greater attention to Keynes's original theories. In February 2009, Robert Shiller and George Akerlof argued in their book \"\" that the current US stimulus package was too small, because it did not take into account loss of confidence or do enough to restore the availability of credit. In a September 2009 article for \"The New York Times\", on the lessons economists should learn from the crisis, Paul Krugman urged economists to move away from neoclassical models and employ Keynesian analysis:\nBy mid-2010, interest in Keynes' ideas was still growing within academia, even though the apparent consensus among prominent economists had fractured and the revival in Keynesian policy making had to some degree stalled.\n\nIn October 2011 journalist John Cassidy noted the large number of new books that had recently come out about Keynes, including from leading universities such as Cambridge and MIT, with more books due to come out towards the end of that year.\n\nKeynesian ideas also attracted considerable criticism in this time period. While from late 2008 to early 2010 there was broad consensus among international leaders concerning the need for coordinated stimulus, the German administration initially stood out in their reluctance to fully embrace Keynesian policy. In December 2008, Finance Minister Peer Steinbrück of Germany criticised Gordon Brown's advocacy of Keynesian stimulus, saying \"The switch from decades of supply-side politics all the way to a crass Keynesianism is breathtaking.\" However, by the end of January 2009 Germany had announced a second stimulus plan which, relative to GDP, was larger than Britain's.\nGeorge Osborne, at the time shadow British chancellor, opposed a return to Keynesian policy from as early as October 2008, saying \"even a modest dose of Keynesian spending\" could act as a \"cruise missile aimed at the heart of recovery.\"\n\nCritics argued that Keynesian policy would be counter-productive – for the reasons of being inflationary, creating more income disparity, and causing consumers to rein in their spending even more as they anticipated future tax increases.\nIn 2009, more than 300 professional economists, led by three Nobel laureates in economics, James M. Buchanan, Edward C. Prescott, and Vernon L. Smith, signed a statement against more government spending, arguing that \"Lower tax rates and a reduction in the burden of government are the best ways of using fiscal policy to boost growth.\"\n\nRobert Barro, an economics professor at Harvard University (author of the 1974 Ricardian equivalence hypothesis postulating that government stimuli are inefficient in a perfect market), argued that US stimulus spending might be unwise because of one of the factors the US stimulus package depended on for its effectiveness, the \"multiplier effect\". The fiscal multiplier, required to be over the value of one for the effect to take place, was in practice close to zero – not 1.5 as he said the Obama team were assuming – which means the extra employment generated by the stimulus would be cancelled out by less output and investment in the private sector.\nA group of German economists had also argued that the size of the multiplier effect was overestimated, while the Memorandum Group of German Economics Professors claimed the opposite and demanded a larger stimulus.\n\nEconomist Edward Prescott (author of the real business-cycle model that post-Keynesians hold failed to forecast the crisis) and economist Eugene Fama argued that stimulus plans are unlikely to have a net positive effect on employment, and may even harm it. Economist Jeffrey Sachs doubted a positive effect because the stimulus and associated policies \"may work in the short term but they threaten to produce still greater crises within a few years\".\nIn a June 2010 article, referring to the cooling of enthusiasm for further stimulus found among policy makers at the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit, Sachs declared that Keynesian economics is facing its “last hurrah”.\n\nThere have also been arguments that the Great Recession of the early 21st century was caused not by excessively free markets but by the remnants of Keynesian policy. Luigi Zingales of the University of Chicago argued that \"Keynesianism is just a convenient ideology to hide corruption and political patronage\". In February 2009, Alan Reynolds, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, acknowledged the Keynesian resurgence, but stated that evidence from various studies suggest Keynesian remedies will be ineffective and Keynesian advocates appear to be driven by blind faith. In 2009, historian Thomas Woods, an adherent to the Austrian school of economics, published the book \"Meltdown\", which places blame for the crisis on government intervention and points to the Federal Reserve as the primary culprit behind the financial calamity.\n\nProfessor John Bellamy Foster, a sociologist, questioned whether the resurgence had been truly Keynesian in character. He suggested those few economists he regards as genuinely progressive, such as James Galbraith, were now far from the centre of government. He also asserted that it is Karl Marx, not Keynes, that society should look to for a full solution to economic problems.\n\nAccording to Henry Farrell and John Quiggin, by late 2009 the previous apparent consensus for Keynesian policy among prominent economists began to dissolve into \"dissensus\". There was no reversal to the previous free market consensus, but the apparent unity of the previous year had gone. In part this was due to objections from anti-Keynesians like Robert Barro attracting wider attention, in part to the intervention of elite economists who had previously kept out of the debate (specifically from the ECB, but also others, including Jeffery Sachs). The lack of consensus among expert opinion made policy makers vulnerable to calls for abandonment of Keynesian policy in favour of fiscal consolidation.\n\nIn April 2010 a communiqué from the Washington meeting of finance ministers called for continuation of the stimulus policies until the recovery is firmly entrenched with strong private sector activity, though it accepted that some countries had already begun to exit from the policies. By mid-2010, the earlier global consensus for ongoing Keynesian stimulus had fractured, mirroring the \"dissensus\" that had emerged among prominent economists.\n\nEspecially in Europe, there was an increase in rhetoric calling for immediate fiscal tightening, following events such as the Greek debt crisis and the displacement of the UK Labour government with a coalition dominated by the Conservatives after the May 2010 elections. While some high level officials, particularly from the US and India, continued advocating sustained stimulus until the global recovery is better established, a communiqué from the G20, issued after their June 2010 meeting of finance ministers in Busan, welcomed the trend towards fiscal consolidation rather than further deficit financed stimulus. The G20 did reiterate that forceful government intervention had been the correct response in 2008 and 2009. Then IMF managing director Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who had been a leading advocate for stimulus spending from as early as January 2008, said he was comfortable with the reversal.\n\nEuropean political leaders embarked on substantial austerity drives. In July 2010, leading European economic policy maker Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the ECB, stated that it was time for all industrial nations to stop stimulating and start tightening. Keynesian economists and Keynes biographer Lord Skidelsky contested the move to implement cuts given the still fragile economy.\nIn a July 2010 article, \"Financial Times\" columnist Philip Stephens argued that recent events show the markets to have re-established themselves as leading influences on western economic policy, while Brad DeLong wrote that he considered himself and fellow Keynesians to have lost the argument for fiscal stimulus.\n\nIn April 2011, Professor Patrick Dunleavy wrote that the resurgence has caused a \"backlash against the State\", starting in America with movements like the Tea Party and later spreading to Europe. He also stated it is likely that ideological wars between rival economic world views have returned for good.\nIn September, Steven Rattner opined that the 2012 US presidential election was shaping up to be a contest between the economic policies of Keynes and Friedrich Hayek - \"a clash of ideologies the likes of which America has not seen in decades.\" Republican candidates openly praised Hayek and Ludwig von Mises. According to Rattner, while the Democrats economic strategy remained largely based on Keynes, the economist's name was now rarely mentioned; \"Keynes\" had become an almost politically toxic word due to the extensive criticism of the 2009 Keynesian stimulus. Rattner refers to the work of Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi, which determined that the 2009 US stimulus saved about 8.5 million jobs, and with Obama's third stimulus, a $450 billion \"Jobs plan\" was projected to create 1.9 million jobs in 2012.\nAlso in September, President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso called for additional fiscal policy to boost economic growth, while recognizing many European countries did not at that time have the capability to launch a substantial stimulus program. German Chancellor Angela Merkel rejected the idea of further stimulus.\n\nBy November 2011, efforts to pass Obama's American Jobs Act had been rejected by the US Congress.\nIn Britain, in November David Cameron made a speech in which he recognized a deteriorating economic outlook, but said those arguing for traditional fiscal stimulus were \"dangerously wrong\".\nSimon Cox, Asia economics editor for \"The Economist\", predicted that while China might face future economic challenges, the incoming leaders expected to take over the top positions in late 2012 ( Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang ) were far less likely than their predecessor to respond with Keynesian policies.\n\nAlso in November, \"The Courageous State\" book was released by the anti-tax evasion campaigner Richard Murphy, calling for a revival of the Keynesian resurgence, which he argues is the best economic policy for the interests of ordinary people. Murphy sees the resurgence as having faded out by late 2009. Influential figures that had come out against Keynesian policy, even from left of center politics, include the UK Labour Party's Maurice Glasman, whose favorite economist is Hayek, and the diplomat Carne Ross, who asserted that no form of centralized authority can meet the problems of the modern world, arguing for an anti-statist form of participatory democracy instead.\n\nIn January 2012, Philip Stephens repeated his earlier view that the markets once again have decisive influence on economic policy making, also noting a decline in the public's trust in government in both Europe and the US, along with greater concern over public debt.\nIn March however, while accepting that the resurgence had stalled, Paul Krugman expressed optimism about the long term prospects of achieving a lasting shift towards Keynesianism in both mainstream economics and policy making.\nIn May, Krugman published the book \"End this Depression Now!\", where he repeated his calls for greater use of fiscal stimulus, though according to the \"Financial Times\" his proposals were both \"modest\" and \"cautious\", reflecting the resistance to such measures since the end of resurgence.\n\nIn June Krugman and Richard Layard launched \"A manifesto for economic sense\", where they call for greater use of stimulatory fiscal policy to reduce unemployment and boost growth.\nBy mid-2012, with the ongoing Euro crisis and persistent high unemployment in the US, there had been renewed consideration of stimulus policies by European and American policy makers, but no return to the pro-stimulus consensus that existed in 2009. After the 2012 G8 summit, leaders issued a statement recognising the range of opinions concerning the best measures to strengthen their economies.\n\nIn January 2013, Japan's recently elected conservative government announced a ten trillion yen Keynesian stimulus package, which was to include public works and create an expected 600,000 new jobs.\nBut at the same time the \"Financial Times\" published Wolfgang Münchau's article \"US joins misguided pursuit of austerity\", as the great power was abandoning the relatively stimulatory policy it had adopted prior to 2013, repeating, in the author's view, Europe's mistake.\nIn July 2013, Philip Mirowski wrote that not only had the Keynesian resurgence subsided, but the rival economic orientation of neoliberalism had emerged from the financial crisis stronger than ever.\n\nIn May 2016, three IMF economists published new research findings and criticized some of the fundamental assumptions of the neoliberal doctrine. They warned that austerity policies could do more harm than good because of their social costs – increased inequality, which \"in turn hurts the level and sustainability of growth\". Speaking of capital account liberalization, that is unrestricted movement of capital across international borders (\"openness\") and fiscal consolidation, meaning policies to reduce fiscal deficits and debt levels (\"austerity\"), they wrote: \"Since both openness and austerity are associated with increasing income inequality, this distributional effect sets up an adverse feedback loop. The increase in inequality engendered by financial openness and austerity might itself undercut growth, the very thing that the neoliberal agenda is intent on boosting. There is now strong evidence that inequality can significantly lower both the level and the durability of growth\". Additionally, they recommended actively combating inequality by redistributing wealth via taxes and government spending, noting \"the evidence of the economic damage from inequality suggests that policymakers should be more open to redistribution than they are\" and \"the fear that such policies will themselves necessarily hurt growth is unfounded\".\n\nBy October 2016 there had been recent increases in fiscal stimulus for many countries, along with calls for this return to fiscal stimulus and demand management policies to increase further, or at least for further research into clarifying the scope for such policies to be effective. Sources for these calls included the IMF, Janet Yellen and senior Whitehouse economist Jason Furman. While some economists and government policy makers remain sceptical, Martin Sandbu for the Financial Times said a return to Keynes original positive views about demand management is underway. Sandbu calls this \"paleo-Keynesianism\" to differentiate from \"new Keynesianism\" thinking which had relatively little to say in favour of state intervention in the economy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52682401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52682401", "title": "2016 Russian Defence Ministry Tupolev Tu-154 crash", "text": "2016 Russian Defence Ministry Tupolev Tu-154 crash\n\nOn 25 December 2016, a Tupolev Tu-154 jetliner of the Russian Defence Ministry crashed into the Black Sea shortly after taking off from Sochi International Airport, Russia, while en route to Khmeimim Air Base, Syria. All 92 passengers and crew on board, including 64 members of the Alexandrov Ensemble choir of the Russian Armed Forces, were killed. The aircraft had flown from Chkalovsky Airport and had landed at Sochi to refuel.\n\nThe aircraft involved was a Tupolev 154B-2, tail number RA-85572, msn 83A-572, which had been in operation since 1983, and had flown for about 7,000 hours before the crash.\n\nThe Tupolev had taken off at 05:27 () from the Black Sea resort city of Sochi, Russia, where it had landed to refuel, bound for Syria. Two minutes after takeoff, the aircraft crashed into the Black Sea, from the coast. Wreckage was found at a depth of . All 92 people on board were killed.\n\nOf the 92 passengers and crew on board, 64 were members of the Alexandrov Ensemble choir, the official choir of the Russian Armed Forces, including its director Valery Khalilov. The members of the Ensemble were travelling from Moscow to the Russian military base at Khmeimim near Latakia, Syria, to take part in New Year celebrations.\n\nThe passenger list also included Russian humanitarian worker Elizaveta Glinka, the Director of the Department of Culture for the Russian Ministry of Defence Anton Gubankov, seven soldiers (besides Khalilov), nine journalists (three each from Channel One Russia, NTV, and Zvezda), and two civilian officials.\n\nImmediately after the crash, the Investigative Committee of Russia launched a criminal case to probe the cause.\n\nBy 27 December, the cockpit voice and flight data recorders had been located, and both were later recovered and sent to Moscow for analysis. By 28 December, the bodies of 18 people had been recovered from the sea. On 29 December, a third recorder, which backs up data from the CVR and FDR, was found, which, despite being damaged, could have revealed more information.\n\nOne Russian official downplayed the possibility of a terrorist attack as the cause of the crash, focusing more on the possibility of mechanical or human error. Following the crash, all Tupolev Tu-154 aircraft in Russia were grounded.\n\nA bright flash was purportedly caught on surveillance cameras along the Sochi coastline before the crash. Witnesses told reporters the plane appeared to experience trouble in gaining altitude, turned 180 degrees, started descending and crashed into the sea.\n\nOn 27 December it was reported that an investigative source had told the Interfax news agency that Russian investigators believed a fault with the aircraft flaps had caused the crash. The Life.ru news portal was reported to have obtained a recording of the last words of one of the pilots: \"Commander, we are going down.\" There was no official confirmation.\n\nOn 29 December it was announced by the Flight Safety Service of the Russian Ministry that a preliminary analysis of data from the cockpit voice recorder showed that no explosion had occurred on board.\n\nOn 16 January the Interstate Aviation Committee, the civil authority in aviation accident investigation, announced that its representative would participate in the investigation.\n\nOn 19 January Interfax reported that, during the underwater search, remains had also been found of a Soviet Douglas A-20 Havoc/DB-7 Boston bomber, supplied from the U.S. through the Lend-Lease agreement, which crashed on 15 November 1942.\n\nOn 31 May 2017, Russia's \"Kommersant\" said all the evidence pointed to the pilot, Maj Roman Volkov having suffered from somatogravic illusion. Analysis of the flight data suggested that the pilot had \"lost his bearings and ignored his instruments, believing that the jet was climbing too sharply.\" Tiredness was thought to be a factor. Experts said that he was already feeling unwell on the ground and had trouble getting the plane on to the correct runway.\n\nRussia observed a national day of mourning on 26 December, at the declaration of President Vladimir Putin. The victims were buried in the Federal Military Memorial Cemetery in Mytishchinsky District in Moscow Oblast.\n\nOn 28 December, French satirical weekly magazine \"Charlie Hebdo\" published several cartoons mocking the tragedy. In response, a Russian Defense Ministry spokesman said: \"If such, I dare say, 'artistry' is the real manifestation of 'Western values', then those who hold and support them are doomed\".\n\nRussian opposition journalist Arkady Babchenko wrote on Facebook that he had \"no sympathy, no pity\" for any of the victims.\n\n"}
{"id": "24253813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24253813", "title": "2 States: The Story of My Marriage", "text": "2 States: The Story of My Marriage\n\n2 States: The Story of My Marriage commonly known as 2 States is a 2009 novel written by Chetan Bhagat. It is the story about a couple coming from two different states in India, who face hardships in convincing their parents to approve of their marriage. Bhagat wrote this novel after quitting his job as an investment banker. This is his fourth book after \"Five Point Someone\", \"One Night @ the Call Center\" and \"The Three Mistakes of My Life\".\n\n2 States: The Story of My Marriage is partly autobiographical. The story is about a couple, Krish and Ananya, who fall from two different states of India, Punjab and Tamil Nadu respectively, are deeply in love and want to get married.\n\nThe story begins in the IIM Ahmedabad mess hall, where Krish, a Punjabi boy from Delhi sights a beautiful girl, Ananya, a Tamilian from Chennai, quarreling with the mess staff about the food. Ananya was tagged as the \"Best girl of the fresher batch\". They become friends within a few days and decide to study together every night. In the mean time, they become romantically involved. They both get jobs, and have serious plans for their wedding. At first Krish tries to convince his girlfriend Ananya's parents and at last convinces them by helping Ananya's father to do his first PowerPoint Presentation, her brother, Manju, by giving him IIT tuition and later convinces her mom by asking her to sing in a concert organised by Krish's off City at CitiBank. She is convinced as her biggest dream of singing at a big concert comes true. Then they try to convince Krish's mom. But the problem is Krish's mother's relatives who don't quite like this. They say that Krish should not marry a Tamilian but end up agreeing with them when Ananya tries to help one of Krish's cousin to get married and succeeds to do so. Krish has had a hatred on his father. He never shares his feelings or doesn't share a harmonious bonding with him. Now as they have convinced both their parents they now try to introduce each other's parents. They go to Goa. But this dream of theirs end as Ananya's parents finds something fishy between Krish's mom and him. Ananya's family end up deciding that Krish and Ananya will not marry each other. Krish started becoming workaholic and started living badly. But, at last, Krish's father, who was like an enemy for Krish, helps Krish and Ananya to get married as he convinces Ananya's family well. Now Krish realizes his Dad's love for him. They really do very hard to convince each other's parents and finally make it. It is narrated in a first person point of view in a humorous tone, often taking digs at both Tamil and Punjabi cultures . The novel ends with Ananya giving birth to twin boys. He says that the babies belong to a state called 'India'; with a thought to end inequality.\n\nWhen a film adaptation of the novel was first announced, it was to be directed by Siddharth Anand and the lead roles were played by Arjun Kapoor and Alia Bhatt. The music to be composed by Vishal-Shekhar. However, the project was called off due to creative differences over script.\n\nLater, it was announced that the screen adaptation of 2 States would be produced by Sajid Nadiadwala with Shahrukh Khan and Priyanka Chopra in the lead roles and Vishal Bhardwaj would be directing the movie.\n\nHowever, since Shahrukh Khan did not want to appear in back to back romantic movies, the director had to look at other options. It was later declared that Imran Khan will be playing the male lead in the movie. But then, due to clash of dates, Imran and Priyanka had to opt out of the movie as well. After a lot of brainstorming, it was finally confirmed by producers Karan Johar and Sajid Nadiadwala that Arjun Kapoor and Alia Bhatt will be seen playing the lead pair in the movie. Amrita Singh and Ronit Roy were cast as Arjun Kapoor's parents and Revathy and Shiv Kumar Subramaniam were cast as Alia Bhatt's parents.\n\nThis movie was released on 18 April 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "43738059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738059", "title": "75th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "75th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 75th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as Worldcon 75, was held 9–13 August 2017 at the Helsinki Exhibition and Convention Centre in Helsinki, Finland. This location was selected in August 2015 by the members of the 73rd World Science Fiction Convention in Spokane, Washington.\n\nThe convention chair was Jukka Halme, and the vice-chairs were Karo Leikomaa and Colette H. Fozard.\n\nThe Guests of Honour for Worldcon 75 were Swedish author and translator John-Henri Holmberg, Jamaican author Nalo Hopkinson, Finnish author Johanna Sinisalo, French artist and illustrator Claire Wendling (absent due to illness), and American author Walter Jon Williams.\n\nThe following committees announced bids to host the 75th World Science Fiction Convention and filed all of the required paperwork before the February 2015 filing deadline:\n\nA bid for New York City in 2017 was floated for several years but dropped before reaching the commitment stage. The Montreal bid was originally announced for 2019 but shifted to the earlier date in 2013.\n\nThe 2017 site selected by the voters was announced during Sasquan's third World Science Fiction Society business meeting, on Saturday, August 22, 2015. With 1363 votes out of 2625 valid ballots, Helsinki won on the first ballot and will operate as \"Worldcon 75\". DC17 ran second with 878 votes. Montreal third with 228, and Nippon fourth with 120. Sites receiving write-in votes included Night Vale, Minneapolis in '73. Gallifrey, and All of the Above.\n\nAt the end of the convention, organizers announced a total attendance of 7,119, out of a total of 10,616 memberships and day passes sold, making Worldcon 75 the second-largest Worldcon to date and the largest ever held outside North America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54937143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54937143", "title": "79th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "79th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 79th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon) will take place in 2021.\n\nThe site of the convention will be chosen by members of the 77th World Science Fiction Convention from the set of bids for hosting it. As of August 2017, the following committees have announced bids for hosting the convention:\n\n\nThe awards will be announced at the convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "42187421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42187421", "title": "Accident data recorder", "text": "Accident data recorder\n\nThe accident data recorder (ADR, German commonly abbr.: UDS, also accident (data) writer), in Switzerland also \"Restwegaufzeichnungsgerät\" (abbr.: RAG), is an independent electronic device that records before, during, and after a traffic accident relevant data and thus resembles a flight recorder.\n\nIt can be installed in motor vehicles (cars, trucks, buses, motorcycles, trams, and special vehicles) on a voluntary basis in order to obtain more accurate information about the events in an accident. In some countries there are regulations for mandatory installation in different vehicles. The accident data recorder constantly records various data of the vehicle (such as speed, direction of travel, longitudinal and transverse vehicle acceleration, status of the lights, turn signals and braking, etc.) and records them for some time before they are automatically cleared.\n\nIn the case of an accident (this is detected by a strong acceleration of the vehicle as a result of an impulse), certain periods of time (usually in the two-digit seconds range) remain permanently stored before and after an event. This makes it much easier to reconstruct events after an accident, so that if necessary the question of fault can be clarified.\n\nMany vehicles of authorities (such as police or ambulance) are equipped with it, as it often comes to disputes with collisions during driving with blues and twos about compliance with regulations. A side effect of vehicles equipped with UDS is that drivers behave more cautiously on the road. According to a survey by the EU Transport Commission, UDS users experienced a 20 to 30 percent decline in traffic accidents.\n\nThe accident data recorder is often used by experts or institutions in crash tests as a measuring device.\n\nThe installation (also later) costs about 700 euros and can lead to a deduction for some insurance policies. The accident data recorder can be read by an expert via interface cable. The accident data recorder (older generations) has a switch with which the driver can delete the stored data immediately after an accident so as not to burden himself with the later question of guilt. However, this feature may be disabled, for example for use in company vehicles.\n\nAccident data recorders work to measure the accelerations, depending on the equipment in two or three spatial directions, with micromechanical sensors. Often several sensor systems with different resolutions are used in order to be able to log the driving dynamic processes on the one hand and the collision dynamics themselves on the other. Higher-class systems also offer a possibility for measuring the rotational movements as well as the vehicle speed. The latter can e.g. be calculated from the signal of the vehicle's wheel speed sensor. The recording of any signals that are available on the vehicle's own CAN bus, is possible with higher-class devices as well as the detection of a GPS signal for position and speed determination. Depending on the manufacturer, about 20 to 30 s are recorded before and 10 to 15 s after an event.\n\nAre known today (as of 2018) in the German-speaking countries essentially two suitable for retrofitting accident data recorder. Blacktrack Ltd. offers a low-cost solution, which is mainly used by the insurance industry (e.g. AXA Winterthur in Switzerland). By contrast, the UDS-AT developed by the company consortium Peter Systemtechnik GmbH and Kast GmbH offers extended possibilities of recording and integration into a vehicle.\n\nResidual path recording devices (RAG) from Mobatime AG are external devices that rely on existing on-board signals (distance, speed, operating states of status inputs) and store them in a ring buffer for at least the last 12 km. In contrast to an accident data recorder, they do not have their own measuring sensors.\n\nReading out the data of an accident data recorder requires special software.\n\nThe evaluation and interpretation of measurement data of a traffic accident require special knowledge in the areas of vehicle dynamics, accident reconstruction, metrology and last but not least the accident data storage technology itself. For UDS there is a separate order area for expert witnesses in Germany.\n\nThe picture on the right shows the (unprocessed) data curves of a real accident recorded with a UDS. The measured accelerations, the speed and various status channels are plotted over time. It can be seen, for example, that vehicle special signals were switched on prior to the collision and the driver was previously still applying the brake.\n\nThe nowadays known accident data recorder was invented by Mannesmann Kienzle GmbH, which applied for a patent in 1992. The development began in Germany in the early 1980s with the two companies MBB and Kienzle, who pursued different concepts. In general, the black box was taken as a model, which was developed in the early 1950s in Australia by David Warren. Already in 1973, General Motors applied for a patent for a \"vehicle crash recorder\". Mannesmann Kienzle delivered the first accident data recorder in early 1993.\n\nIn motorsport, accident data recorders (ADR) must be used in various series as specified by the FIA. Starting with the 2015 season, the use of an ADR in the Formula 4 championship was compulsory. In the higher series, the use has been mandatory for some time. In addition to the data of the acceleration sensors mounted on the vehicle, the loads on the driver are also measured with an in-ear accelerometer.\n\nDue to the higher speeds in formula sports compared to road traffic, the sensors have a measuring range of ± 150 g with a resolution of 0.1 g. 2 s are recorded before an event. With an event duration of 30 s, 10 events can be stored.\n\nBoth in a flight recorder and in a UDS, the constantly recorded data runs in a ring buffer. However, the flight recorder usually records for longer periods of 17 to 25 hours. In contrast, the UDS only saves a few seconds before and after an event is triggered (e.g. collision) permanently.\n\nThe term \"drive data recorder\" is generally understood to mean a continuous and permanently available recording of data and signals during the operation of a vehicle, independently of an accident. Such systems are often used in locomotives or trams. Often, however, an electronic logbook is referred to as drive data recorder. Dashcams are sometimes referred to as drive data recorder or \"video event data recorder\" (VEDR).\nA so-called \"Event Data Recorder\" (EDR) is not an accident data recorder in the sense of an autonomous, more or less vehicle-independent device, since an EDR is usually an additional electronic module in an existing control device (e.g. from the Airbag) in a car. EDRs rely exclusively on on-board signals, while UDS have their own inertial sensors. Vehicles with airbag systems store accident-relevant data (impact accelerations, belt buckle conditions, seat positions, trip times) in the internal memory of the tripping electronics. However, the data size varies depending on the manufacturer and only extends over a few seconds or fractions. NHTSA regulations call for uniform data sets for all systems manufactured from 2010 onwards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "862954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862954", "title": "Adrian Legg", "text": "Adrian Legg\n\nAdrian Legg is an English guitar player who has been called \"impossible to categorize\". He plays custom guitars that are a hybrid of electric and acoustic, and his fingerstyle picking technique has been acknowledged by the readers of \"Guitar Player\" who voted Legg the \"best acoustic fingerstyle\" player four years in a row (1993–1996).\n\nFrom his early start as a bench technician customising electric guitars, Legg moved into guitar instruction, publishing books and videos on guitar technique. In 1996 and 1997, Legg shared the stage with acclaimed guitar experts Joe Satriani, Eric Johnson and Steve Vai as part of the G3 tour. Vai called Legg \"Uncle Adrian\" and Satriani said of Legg's musicianship \"He's simply the best acoustic guitar player I've ever heard. I don't know anyone else who can create such a cascade of beautiful notes... Adrian plays like he's got hammers for fingers.\"\n\nLegg was born 16 May 1948 in Hackney, east London. He studied the oboe as a child but in teenage years his interest shifted to the guitar.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Legg won both the composition and performance sections of a competition run by the now defunct Guitar magazine, published by Musical New Services of Denmark Street, which led to his being asked to contribute articles to the magazine. From then on, his technical flair produced a stream of articles in UK music press in the 1970s and early 1980s, culminating in the Kaye and Ward book \"Customising Your Electric Guitar\", 1981. He spent from 1979 to 1981 as a technician at Rose Morris Ltd., who then handled Marshall amplification, Ovation Guitar and Takamine Guitars, and designed original and well-reviewed passive circuits for the then relaunched Vox guitars. In 1990, he was involved in the prototyping and launch of the highly successful Trace Acoustic amplifiers, and continues to maintain technical relationships with the musical instrument industry.\n\nFrom a 1983 promotional flyer (Technopickers) from Spindrift Records; Having demonstrated Ovation guitar for a number of years and with sessions with Tom Robinson, a tour with Richard Thompson and appearing on Radio One's in Concert programme all have helped established Adrian.\n\nLegg's first US release, \"Guitars and Other Cathedrals\" in 1990, pleased guitar fans. Over the years, he's played at the Montreux Jazz Festival and toured with Richard Thompson, David Lindley, Joe Satriani, Eric Johnson and as part of the G3 Tour featuring Satriani, Johnson and Favored Nations founder Steve Vai. For G3, Legg served as an opening act in 1996 and a headlining act in 1997. An infrequent singer, Legg helped with vocal duties on the collaborative G3 performance of \"Red House\" by Jimi Hendrix.\n\nHe's also shared the wealth of his talent and experience with teaching DVDs, videos and books. In recent years, he has also been a commentator-at-large for National Public Radio's \"All Things Considered\", and even more recently, regular listeners have heard his guitar versions of the show's theme music.\n\nLegg plays fingerstyle guitar, mixing an alternating-bass style with harmonics, banjo-peg retuning and single or double-string bending. Often he will play a piece entirely in arpeggios similar to a classical guitar style. He makes extensive use of altered tunings and capos.\n\nLegg has said that his true home is onstage. \"Playing live is the whole point... Everyone makes a journey, an effort; we all come together – me, the audience, the people who run the venue – to share this wonderful, universal, human emotional interaction. This is where music lives.\"\n\nA significant part of a performance by Legg is the wryly funny storytelling patter he uses between songs, some of these stories included on \"Adrian Legg Live\" (2017). His distinctive wit is also in written evidence everywhere from his liner notes to his tablature books.\n\nLegg included the use of modeling technology and MIDI for fingerstyle guitar on his 2004 album \"Inheritance\", which features extensive use of guitar synthesisers and modeled guitar sounds. This stands in contrast to the more acoustic sound of \"Guitar Bones\".\n\nIn an interview with Frets, a Guitar Player publication, Adrian listed some of the signal processors and effects that he utilizes to shape his acoustic tone. This included several notable effects boxes such as the Effectrode PC-2A compressor, a Wampler Pedals Black '65 Overdrive, and an Effeectrode Helios fuzz. Adrian is also endorsed by Neunaber Audio and is currently using a Neunaber Audio Immerse Reverberator for his reverb needs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13191781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13191781", "title": "Alexander of Abonoteichus", "text": "Alexander of Abonoteichus\n\nAlexander of Abonoteichus ( \"Alexandros ho Abonoteichites\"), also called Alexander the Paphlagonian ( CE), was a Greek mystic and oracle, and the founder of the Glycon cult that briefly achieved wide popularity in the Roman world. The contemporary writer Lucian reports that he was an utter fraud – the god Glycon was supposedly constructed out of a glove puppet. The vivid narrative of his career given by Lucian might be taken as fictitious but for the corroboration of certain coins of the emperors Lucius Verus and Marcus Aurelius and of a statue of Alexander, said by Athenagoras to have stood in the forum of Parium.. There is further evidence from inscriptions.\n\nLucian describes him as having swindled many people and engaged, through his followers, in various forms of thuggery. The strength of Lucian's venom against Alexander is attributed to Alexander's hate of the Epicureans. Lucian admired the works of Epicurus, a eulogy of which concludes the piece, and whether or not Alexander was the master of fraud and deceit as portrayed by Lucian, he may not have been too different from other oracles of the age, when a great deal of dishonest exploitation occurred in some shrines.\n\nNot much is known about the early life of Alexander. He apparently worked in travelling medicine shows around Greece and might have been a prophet of the goddess Soi or a follower of Apollonius of Tyana. In Lucian, his partner in profession is given as one Cocconas of Byzantium. After a period of instruction in medicine by a doctor who also, according to Lucian, was an impostor, in about 150 CE he established an oracle of Aesculapius at his native town of Abonoteichus (\"femin\".: Ἀβωνότειχος; later Ionopolis), on the Euxine, where he gained riches and great prestige by professing to heal the sick and reveal the future.\n\nSometime before 160 CE Alexander formed a cult around the worship of a new snake-god, Glycon, and headquartered it in Abonoteichus. Having circulated a prophecy that the son of Apollo was to be born again, he contrived that there should be found in the foundations of the temple to Aesculapius, then in course of construction at Abonoteichus, an egg in which a small live snake had been placed. In an age of superstition no people had so great a reputation for credulity as the Paphlagonians, and Alexander had little difficulty in convincing them of the second coming of the god under the name of Glycon. A large tame snake with a false human head, wound round Alexander's body as he sat in a shrine in the temple, gave \"autophones\", or oracles unasked. The numerous questions asked of the oracle were answered by Alexander in metrical predictions. In his most prosperous year he is said to have delivered nearly 80,000 replies, concerning bodily, mental, and social afflictions, for each of which he received a drachma and two oboli.\n\nHealing instructions were commonly combined with oracles, but Alexander did more; he instituted mysteries like those of Eleusis. Through the cult Alexander achieved a certain level of political influence – his daughter married Publius Mummius Sisenna Rutilianus, the governor of the Roman province of Asia. He found believers from Pontus to Rome through pretended arts of soothsaying and magic and was revered and consulted as a prophet by many notable individuals of his age. During the plague of 166 a verse from the oracle was used as an amulet and was inscribed over the doors of houses as a protection and an oracle was sent, at Marcus Aurelius' request, by Alexander to the Roman army on the Danube during the war with the Marcomanni, declaring that victory would follow on the throwing of two lions alive into the river. The result was a great disaster and Alexander had recourse to the old quibble of the Delphic oracle to Croesus for an explanation.\n\nHis main opponents were Epicureans and Christians. Lucian's account of Alexander represents the Christians—along with the Epicureans—as the special enemies and as the principal objects of his hate: Epicureans had too little religion or superstition to give in to a religious pretender; and the Christian faith was too deep-rooted to dream of any communion with Alexander.\n\nLucian's own close investigations into Alexander's methods of fraud led to a serious attempt on his life. The whole account gives a graphic description of the inner working of one among the many new oracles that were springing up at this period. Alexander had remarkable beauty and the striking personality of the successful charlatan, and must have been a man of considerable intellectual abilities and power of organization. His usual methods were those of the numerous oracle-mongers of the time, of which Lucian gives a detailed account: the opening of sealed inquiries by heated needles, a neat plan of forging broken seals, and the giving of vague or meaningless replies to difficult questions, coupled with a lucrative blackmailing of those whose inquiries were compromising.\n\nAlexander died of gangrene of the leg in his seventieth year.\n\nScholars have described Alexander as an oracle who perpetrated a hoax to deceive gullible citizens, or as a false prophet and charlatan who played on the hopes of simple people. He was said to have \"made predictions, discovered fugitive slaves, detected thieves and robbers, caused treasures to be dug up, healed the sick, and in some cases actually raised the dead\". Sociologist Stephen A. Kent, in a study of the text, compares Lucian's Alexander to the \"malignant narcissist\" in modern psychiatric theory, and suggests that the \"behaviors\" described by Lucian \"have parallels with several modern cult leaders.\" Ian Freckelton has noted at least a surface similarity between Alexander and David Berg, the leader of a contemporary religious group, the Children of God.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21312107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21312107", "title": "Barack Obama in comics", "text": "Barack Obama in comics\n\nBarack Obama has appeared as a character in comic books published by a number of publishing companies, sometimes appearing as a realistic fictionalized version of himself and sometimes as a spoof.\n\nObama made his first appearance as a comic book character in July 2007 in \"Licensable BearTM\" No. 4 by Nat Gertler, where he appeared as a U.S. Senator. The comic only had a print-run of 1,050 issues. A year later, in September 2008, Obama appeared in Erik Larsen’s \"Savage Dragon\" No. 137. This issue featured a variant cover which showed Obama with the Savage Dragon, who proclaims that he is endorsing him for president. The issue sold out four print runs. A month later, the comic was followed up by \"Presidential Material: Barack Obama\" by Jeff Mariotte and in November 2008 with \"Obama: The Comic Book\" by Rod Espinosa.\n\nIn November 2008, two things led to an explosion in popularity of the Obama comic book character. One of Obama's advisers gave an interview to journalist Jon Swaine of \"The Daily Telegraph\" titled, \"Barack Obama: The 50 facts you might not know.\" In the interview, it emerged that Obama collects \"Spider-Man and Conan the Barbarian.\" Then later that month, on November 4, 2008, Obama became the first African-American to be elected President of the United States.\n\nWhen Marvel Comics discovered the president-elect was an avid collector of Spider-Man comics, they decided to have Obama the comic book character be put on the cover of their \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" No. 583 (January 2009), for the story \"Spidey Meets the President!\" written by Zeb Wells. This particular release proved extremely popular and sold out in a matter of minutes. A day after the release, the edition was sold for $300 on eBay. Prior to the Spider-Man story, the president-elect was featured in Secret Invasion #8; this is the first appearance of president-elect Barack Obama in a Marvel comic.\n\nObama the comic book character has been put on the cover and pages of many other comics including \"Savage Dragon\" No. 145 (February 2008) by Erik Larsen and \"Youngblood\" No. 8 (February 2008) by Rob Liefeld. The \"Savage Dragon\" No. 145 had a special edition variant only offered at the WonderCon 2009 in San Francisco in March 2009 (only 1,500 were produced). On the cover, Barack Obama can be seen holding an American flag and punching Osama Bin Laden in the face.\n\nBarack Obama is the subject of graphic novel \"Barack Hussein Obama\" by Steven Weissman. In this, President Obama and his cast of characters (Secretary Clinton, VP Joe Biden, his family) experience life in a parallel universe.\n\nBarack Obama has also appeared in Archie Comics Veronica #199, and Archie #616 and #617.\n\nPresident Obama was in the Flashpoint Storyline of DC comics of 2011. He discusses the earth members of The Green Lantern Corp with Amanda Waller.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25905154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25905154", "title": "Bernhard, schavuit van Oranje", "text": "Bernhard, schavuit van Oranje\n\nBernhard, schavuit van Oranje (English title: Bernhard, scoundrel of Orange) is a Dutch television program depicting the more than only turbulent life of a prince consort. It is a compelling drama concerning a man who tries to be himself, but must survive deep crises, finally to see the real meaning of love. Within the Dutch royal family there is actually no more talked about character than Prince Bernhard of Lippe-Biesterfeld. Whether it concerns Greet Hofmans, extramarital affairs, or Lockheed, Prince Bernhard faced a lot of scandals throughout the course of his life. Besides this he was, and is a person, loved by many as a war hero. A man of extremes. In four parts Prince Bernhard tells the tale of his life. Not only through the spyglass, but especially to his grandson's wife, Princess Máxima of the Netherlands, who will be soon the Queen next to Prince Willem-Alexander. In a way, she takes the same position as Prince Bernhard did in his life. In their conversations and discussions it becomes clear how much they are different, but also how much they are the same. For Princess Máxima this is sometimes very confronting. The tale drags us throughout the course of the Prince's life, from Soestdijk, his beloved German Reckenwalde, Berlin, London, Argentina and Canada.\n"}
{"id": "12848824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12848824", "title": "Bingo Crosbyana", "text": "Bingo Crosbyana\n\nBingo Crosbyana is a 1936 Merrie Melodies cartoon short directed by Friz Freleng, and notable for its title song, composed by Sanford Green and with lyrics by Irving Kahal.\n\nThe plot revolves around a group of fun-loving anthropomorphic insects which have taken over a kitchen. The female insects promptly become enthralled by a crooning show-off of a fly, Bingo Crosbyana, \"the crooning hit of all Havana\", a caricature of the singer Bing Crosby, who incurs the jealous resentment of their boyfriends. Bingo, however, literally shows his colors (yellow) when a spider invades the kitchen, leaving Bingo to cower in fear inside a roll of wax paper. After the boyfriends team up to trap the spider on a sheet of fly paper, Bingo emerges from the wax paper roll and attempts to resume his braggadocio, only to be put in his place decisively.\n\n\"Bingo Crosbyana\" was one of two Warner Bros. cartoons (along with \"Let It Be Me\") which Bing Crosby initiated lawsuits to suppress because they portrayed him in what Crosby considered a defamatory light. In this case, he objected to his portrayal as a vainglorious coward and to the imitation of his voice.\n\nAccording to The Hollywood Reporter, Paramount Pictures was suing Warner Bros. alongside Crosby. Their law firm wanted the distribution of the film to cease. Apparently they lost their case. \n\n"}
{"id": "13853212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13853212", "title": "Bob Parker (mayor)", "text": "Bob Parker (mayor)\n\nSir Robert John Parker (born 13 January 1953) is a former New Zealand broadcaster and politician. He served as Mayor of Christchurch from 2007 to 2013.\n\nParker grew up in the Christchurch suburbs of Heathcote Valley and Somerfield. He attended Christchurch South Intermediate and Cashmere High School. He studied an intermediate year in zoology at the University of Canterbury before undertaking casual work.\n\nParker got his first job on radio, in Nelson. His broadcasting career then took him to Christchurch, Wellington and then Auckland. He was the associate producer and original host (1984–1996) of the New Zealand version of the \"This is Your Life\" series after he purchased the New Zealand television rights for the show from Ralph Edwards Productions in California. He returned to Christchurch in 1992.\n\nParker's local government career spanned more than two decades. He first became politically active when he filled a councillor vacancy on the Banks Peninsula District Council in 1994. Having lived in Akaroa for several years, he served as mayor of Banks Peninsula District for two terms (2001–2006). He favoured amalgamation of the district with Christchurch City and led a high profile and controversial campaign leading to a poll in 2005. Amalgamation with the City was supported by 65% of the Peninsula's voters Amalgamation took place on 3 March 2006, at which Parker, after winning a by-election, became a Christchurch city councillor, and the sole Banks Peninsula representative on the council.\n\nIn 2006 Parker was elected as the independent chair of the Greater Christchurch Urban Development Strategy. This saw the bringing together of four local councils—Christchurch, Selwyn, Waimakariri and the Canterbury Regional Council—for a major planning undertaking based on creating a sustainable growth plan for the greater Christchurch area. The Strategy was adopted in 2007 by all of the member councils and is today the basis for all spatial planning in the greater Christchurch area.\n\nIn October 2007, Parker successfully stood in the local government elections for the Christchurch mayoralty, after the retirement of Garry Moore. He received 47,033 votes, with Megan Woods (32,821) and Jo Giles (14,454) in the election contested by ten candidates.\n\nParker announced in 2009 that he would seek re-election at the 2010 Christchurch mayoral election.\n\nDespite being the incumbent, he initially polled behind his major challenger until the large 2010 Canterbury earthquake on 4 September 2010. His high-profile handling of the civil emergency was widely praised, and polls taken later showed him taking the lead. It was announced on 9 October that Parker had been re-elected for a second term with 68,245 of the votes to Jim Anderton's 51,566 based on 98% of the votes counted.\n\nParker was the incumbent mayor at the time of the September 2010 Canterbury earthquake. During the days following the quake, he worked with Civil Defence, the police and the New Zealand Army to get the city back up and running. In October 2010, Christchurch band The Bats and many others played at a free earthquake relief concert in Hagley Park in front of about 140,000 people. Parker joined The Bats for the performance and played guitar.\n\nBefore the earthquake, some polls had Parker trailing Anderton but his high profile since 4 September and cool handling of the earthquake's aftermath won him widespread praise and the support of voters who overwhelmingly backed him to run the city for a second term.\n\nParker was the media face of the recovery efforts in the aftermath of the February 2011 Christchurch earthquake, working with the police and the army and rescue squads, as well as answering the media's questions.\n\nOn 18 March 2011, Parker addressed the national Christchurch memorial service at Hagley Park of Christchurch in the presence of Prince William, Prime Minister John Key, Dame Malvina Major, Hayley Westenra, ChristChurch Cathedral Choir, dignitaries, international rescue teams and tens of thousands of New Zealanders.\n\nAfter the February earthquake the New Zealand Government brought in a special act of Parliament, The Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Act, which essentially passed ultimate responsibility for the rebuilding of post-quake Christchurch to the Government. The Council was given the task of preparing a new plan to rebuild the central business district of the city. The project, chaired by Parker, was titled \"share an idea\". It won international acclaim for the Council, including the international \"Co Creation\" award - the first time this award had been granted outside of Europe.\n\nOutrage was expressed at the Council, after Christchurch City Council CEO Tony Marryatt was given a near $70,000 pay rise in 2011. A protest was held at the City Council Building on 1 February 2012. Approximately 4000 citizens turned up to protest the decision of the City Council, and to call for a mid-term election.\n\nIn April 2013 when the government announced the cost of the rebuild was going to be as much as $40 billion, Parker said it was \"no surprise\", and welcomed the extra investment as being \"good for GDP\".\nIn mid-June 2013, Minister for Earthquake Recovery Gerry Brownlee revealed in a press conference that International Accreditation New Zealand (IANZ) had written to Christchurch City Council threatening to revoke its accreditation for issuing building consents. This caught Parker by surprise, as he knew nothing of this threat, and he criticised Brownlee for not communicating with him before the press conference; Parker famously labelled Brownlee's practice a \"media missile\". Brownlee and Parker had at times a strained relationship, with the government taking an increasing amount of control in local decision making.\n\nIn July 2013, Parker announced on \"Campbell Live\" he would not be running for re-election in the 2013 Christchurch mayoral elections, citing exhaustion and not having the required energy for a third term as mayor. He stated that although staff had assured him they would satisfy the requirements of the consenting process the accreditation had been withdrawn; as this had happened on \"his watch\" as Mayor he felt he should take responsibility for the loss.\n\nIn July 2013 an editorial in \"The Press\" noted that a tribute paid to Parker by the Prime Minister of New Zealand John Key was \"well deserved\". The Prime Minister in a speech to the Local Government New Zealand organisation in 2013 stated that Parker's \"commitment to the city during its darkest hours will be his legacy\".\n\nIn the 2014 New Year Honours, Parker was appointed a Knight Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to local-body affairs and the community. An editorial in \"The Press\" stated that Parker had \"fronted the media coverage of the two disasters and the ensuing civil emergencies to local and international media. His calm leadership throughout the emergency periods were noted for providing reassurance and hope to the people of Christchurch.\"\n\n\nParker has three sons from his first marriage, plus three grandchildren. His second marriage is to Joanna Nicholls-Parker.\n"}
{"id": "2375697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2375697", "title": "Cantarella (manga)", "text": "Cantarella (manga)\n\nCantarella is the story of Cesare Borgia, an Italian aristocrat during the Renaissance. In the manga, Cesare's father Rodrigo Borgia, a Cardinal, sells his infant son's soul to the Devil as part of a deal that will one day make him Pope (Rodrigo will become Pope with the name of Alexander VI). Cesare is consequently shunned by his father, who is unable to see him as anything but an agent of darkness and reminder of his sin. Increasingly alienated, Cesare eventually comes to rely on the dark powers within himself. He becomes obsessed with the idea of conquest, and is aided in his political machinations by the assassin Don Michelotto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57646099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57646099", "title": "Christian Rath", "text": "Christian Rath\n\nChristian Rath (October 22, 1831-February 14, 1920) was a German-American soldier and businessman. Among his duties as an officer in the U.S. Army was to act as the executioner for several of the conspirators in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.\n\nRath was born to Johann Adam and Anna Marie (Schlee) Rath in Pfalzgrafenweiler, Landkreis Freudenstadt, Baden-Württemberg, in modern Germany. At the age of 18, he left home to participate in the revolutionary movement sweeping the region at that time.\n\nAt the age of 19, he emigrated to the United States. He served in the United States Navy for a brief time, and then settled in Jackson, Michigan.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the American Civil War, Rath enlisted in the 17th Michigan Volunteer Infantry Regiment.\n\nWhile detailed to the staff of Major General John F. Hartranft, Rath was assigned various duties related to the executions by hanging of Mary Surratt, Lewis Paine, David Herold, and George Atzerodt on July 7, 1865, due their guilty verdicts stemming from the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. These duties included making and hanging the nooses, giving the command for the prisoners to be hung, and arranging for their bodies to be put into coffins and buried.\n\nRath was discharged from the Union Army on July 19, 1865, twelve days after his participation in the execution, and returned to his home in Jackson, Michigan.\n"}
{"id": "42060869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42060869", "title": "Computer.com", "text": "Computer.com\n\nComputer.com was a short-lived dot-com company founded in 1999. After spending half of its $7 million in venture capital on ads during Super Bowl XXXIV, it was sold to Office Depot in 2000. It is significant as a case study for business historians and others interested in the dot-com bubble.\n\nPrior to 1999, the domain computer.com was owned by Gary Kremen, who sold it for $500,000. In 1999, Mike Ford and Mike %22Zappy%22 Zapolin founded Computer.com as a general-purpose website to teach people about various aspects of computing. After raising $7 million in venture capital, Computer.com partnered with an advertising agency to create three Super Bowl advertisements six weeks before the game started. Initially, they were dismayed, as due to their late entry, their time slot was located at the end of the game, at the two-minute warning. However, thanks to the closely contested game, the advertisement became one of the highest-rated of all time.\n\nAfter Super Bowl XXXIV, the company secured \"an additional $2 million in a second round of funding.\" In late 2000, the company was sold to Office Depot.\n\nIt is unclear whether Computer.com ever turned a profit or delivered any kind of actual service to consumers.\n\n"}
{"id": "37589387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37589387", "title": "Cornish language revival", "text": "Cornish language revival\n\nThe Cornish language revival () is an ongoing process to revive the use of the Cornish language of Cornwall, United Kingdom. The Cornish language's disappearance began to hasten during the 13th century, but its decline began with the Anglo-Saxon invasions of the 4th and 5th centuries. The last reported person to have full knowledge of a traditional form of Cornish, John Davey, died in 1891. The revival movement started in the late 19th century as a result of antiquarian and academic interest in the language, which was already extinct, and also as a result of the Celtic revival movement. In 2009, UNESCO changed its classification of Cornish from \"extinct\" to \"critically endangered\", seen as a milestone for the revival of the language.\n\nDuring the 19th century the Cornish language was the subject of antiquarian interest and a number of lectures were given on the subject and pamphlets on it were published. In 1904, the Celtic language scholar and Cornish cultural activist Henry Jenner published \"A Handbook of the Cornish Language\". The publication of this book is often considered to be the start of the current revival movement. The spelling in this book was based on that used when Cornish was last a community language in the 18th century.\n\nThe first project to codify Cornish spelling and provide a regular orthography for the revived language was that of Robert Morton Nance who outlined his work in \"Cornish for All\" in 1929. Unlike the Late Cornish-based work of Jenner, Nance's orthography, called Unified Cornish, was based mainly on the Middle Cornish of the 14th and 15th centuries. Nance believed that this period represented a high point for Cornish literature. As well as presenting a standardised spelling system, Nance also extended the attested vocabulary with forms based largely on Breton and Welsh, and published a dictionary of Unified Cornish in 1938. Nance's purist approach favoured older 'Celtic' forms rather than the historically more recent forms deriving from Middle and Early Modern English.\n\nNance's work became the basis of revived Cornish and his orthography was the only one in use for most of the 20th century. However, as the focus shifted from written to spoken Cornish, Nance's stiff, archaic formulation of the language seemed less suitable for a spoken revival. Also, Nance's phonology lacked some distinctions which later research showed must have existed in traditional Cornish. Unified Cornish is still in use by some speakers who, while acknowledging its shortcomings, feel it has served well for the first decades of the revival.\n\nIn 1986, in response to dissatisfaction with Unified Cornish, Ken George undertook a study of the sounds of Cornish and devised a new orthography, \"Kernewek Kemmyn\" or \"Common Cornish\", based on his research. Like Unified Cornish, Kernewek Kemmyn retained a Middle Cornish base but implemented an orthography that aspired to be as phonemic as possible. George argued that this much closer relationship between sounds and writing would make Cornish much easier to teach and learn.\n\nIn 1987, after one year of discussion, the Cornish Language Board agreed to adopt it. Its adoption by the Cornish Language Board caused a division in the Cornish language community, especially since people had been using Nance's old system for many years and were unfamiliar with the new one. While it was adopted by a majority of Cornish speakers (various estimates put it at around 55–80%), it came under fierce criticism by academic linguists for its phonological base, as well as those who found its novel orthography too different from traditional Cornish spelling conventions.\n\nIn 1995, \"Kernewek Kemmyn\" was itself challenged by Nicholas Williams who in his book \"Cornish Today\" listed 26 major flaws in \"Kernewek Kemmyn\". As an alternative, Williams devised and proposed a revision of Unified Cornish, called Unified Cornish Revised (or UCR). UCR built on Unified Cornish, making the spellings regular while keeping as close as possible to the orthographic practices of the medieval scribes. In common with Kernewek Kemmyn, UCR made use of Tudor and Late Cornish prose materials unavailable to Nance. A comprehensive English-Cornish dictionary of Unified Cornish Revised was published in 2000 and sold enough copies to merit a second edition. A response to the criticisms in \"Cornish Today\" appeared soon after in \"Kernewek Kemmyn – Cornish for the Twenty First Century\" by Ken George and Paul Dunbar. A counter-reply to the latter appeared in 2007.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Richard Gendall, who had worked with Nance, published a new system based on the works of the later Cornish writers of the 17th and 18th centuries, just before to the language died out. This variety, called Modern Cornish, also known as Late Cornish, uses later, somewhat simpler grammatical constructions and a vocabulary and spelling that was more influenced by English. The orthography has undergone a number of changes. The main body promoting Modern Cornish is Cussel an Tavas Kernuak.\n\nIn practice these different written forms did not prevent Cornish speakers from communicating with each other effectively. However, the existence of multiple orthographies was unsustainable with regards to using the language in education and public life, as no single orthography had ever achieved a wide consensus. Following the recognition in 2002 of Cornish under Part II of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, and the subsequent establishment of the Cornish Language Partnership, the need for consensus became more urgent. In response to this, the Partnership initiated a process to agree on a standard form for use in education and public life.\n\nIn 2007 an independent Cornish Language Commission consisting of sociolinguists and linguists from outside of Cornwall was formed to review the four existing forms (Unified, UCR, Late Cornish and Kemmyn) and consider whether any of these existing orthographies might be suitable for adoption as a standard form of Cornish, or whether a new fifth form should be adopted. Two groups made proposals of compromise orthographies:\n\nThe SWF process eventually decided that the existing orthographies were too contentious to be considered and that a new compromise orthography that all groups could support was needed.\n\nOn 9 May 2008, the Cornish Language Partnership met with the specification for the Standard Written Form as the main item on the agenda. All four Cornish language groups, Unified Cornish, Unified Cornish Revised, Kernewek Kemmyn and Modern Cornish were represented at this meeting. Reactions to the proposed orthography were mixed from the various language groups, Kowethas an Yeth Kernewek, Cussel an Tavaz Kernûak, Kesva an Taves Kernewek and Agan Tavas, but the majority wanted resolution and acceptance. The Cornish Language Partnership said that it would 'create an opportunity to break down barriers and the agreement marked a significant stepping stone in the Cornish language'.\n\nThe vote to ratify the SWF was carried and on 19 May 2008 it was announced that the orthography had been agreed on. Eric Brooke, chairman of the Cornish Language Partnership, said: \"This marks a significant stepping-stone in the development of the Cornish language. In time this step will allow the Cornish language to move forward to become part of the lives of all in Cornwall.\" The fourth and final Standard Written Form draft was generated on 30 May 2008.\n\nOn 17 June 2009, the bards of the Gorseth Kernow, under the leadership of Grand Bard Vanessa Beeman adopted, by overwhelming majority and after two decades of debate, to adopt the SWF for their ceremonies and correspondence. From the earliest days under Grand Bards Henry Jenner and Morton Nance, Unified Cornish had been used for the Gorseth ceremony.\n\n\"Kernowek Standard\" (Standard Cornish) is a proposed set of revisions to the SWF. It is based on the initial proposal (called \"Kernowak Standard\" and now designated KS1) for the SWF, developed by a group called UdnFormScrefys. After the publication of the SWF specification, members of this group established a new group, Spellyans, to identify shortcomings in the SWF and propose solutions for consideration when the SWF is reviewed in 2013. The orthography resulting from the application of these revisions, Kernowek Standard, has been used in a number of books, including an edition of the Bible and a comprehensive grammar, \"Desky Kernowek\".\n\nThis table compares the spelling of some Cornish words in different orthographies (Unified Cornish, Unified Cornish Revised, Kernewek Kemmyn, Revived Late Cornish, the Standard Written Form, and Kernowek Standard).\n"}
{"id": "51190725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51190725", "title": "Cumbia Ninja", "text": "Cumbia Ninja\n\nCumbia Ninja is a Colombian supernatural, mystery-thriller television series created for Fox by Andrés Gelós and produced by Nelson Martínez and María Gowland. The series premiered on Fox on September 5, 2013, and the first season concluded on November 13, 2013. In January 2014, Fox renewed the series for a second season which aired from October 2, 2014. The series is produced by Fox Networks Group and Fox Telecolombia.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nThe first season focuses on Juana Carbajal and Hache. Juana Carbajal is a rich teenager and daughter of prominent businessman Victor Carbajal. She is a girl who has led a life of money without needs, including an overprotective mom. When her family is killed by gunmen sent by her own uncle Leon Carbajal, she must then live with her nanny Elba who rescues her, the only survivor of the slaughter, changing her name to Nieves and her image completely, to look like a street teenager. Hache is a young man with dreams of being a singer who lives in La Colina, a poor neighborhood, and full of problems between rival gangs. He is found by Willy Vega, a manager of talented people at the concert Pin-Piranhas and decides to return him into the great leader of a new band that would replace the Pin-Piranhas after a serious accident: Cumbia Ninja, consisting of Chopín, keyboardist; BitBox, bassist; Karate, guitarist; and Tomb, drummer; Hache being the vocalist. The day of the concert (and also the day of the murder of Carbajal), his brother Chico, gang leader of El Cruce, is murdered, and Hache should assume the role of leader of the gang, but between the mission to lead his new band and lead the gang becomes hard for a bit. His first song in honor of Chico, made the Dragon Sungaku wake after thousand years of being dormant under the Chinese house on the hill. Hache and Nieves meet, and a great love is born, despite the jealousy of Chopín who is also in love with her. Nieves seeps into the house of her uncle, Leon, to find evidence that he was the one who killed or ordered the killing of her family, and Hache, meanwhile, rivaling the leader of the enemy gang, Salmon, which suspected he has something to do with the death of his brother. Nieves is discovered by Ítalo a confidant of Leon, who falls for her. Italo, discovering the affair Nieves and Hache, decide to get to Nieves at all costs, thus signifying the death of several people by him. Salmon, his girlfriend and his partner Talita Jhon Alex, discover the secret under the Chinese cottage of Xiang Wu, the teacher and mentor of Cumbia Ninja, and Sungakus keeper. After several events, Nieves decides to leave to go with Italo. Hache, who convinces going to teIl her is dying and locked to her best friend, Ursula, leaving heartbroken Hache. Master Wu finally makes known to Sungaku Cumbia Ninja, saying that trouble is brewing and that they must protect the dragon with their lives, it is a secret that must not fall into the wrong ears.\n\nThe second season focuses on Leon Carbajal and the precious secret of El Dorado. Leon, the villain of the story, along with Italo seek the secret of Dorado to become richer and in turn take revenge on The Hill. Juana, to save her best friend Ursula from the clutches of Italo, will have to reveal her true identity and at the same time pretend that lost memory. This causes Hache Juana doubt and think if it was it true everything they had lived together. Juana has to live with her Uncle Leo but still looking for evidence to incriminate him as the murderer of her family, who later also serve to shed light on the death of Chico. The Cumbia Ninja will have a new manager, Felix Villalba, who will replace Willy this go with Ursula away from Ítalo. But Felix has a split personality and a dark secret that only tries to sink the band. Sungaku teaches Cumbia Ninja \"Five Impossible Beats,\" which will have to use against the enemy. Juana face a struggle between the thirst for revenge and her heart. Hache lead El Cruce more than ever and finally end 2200 once and for all, mainly salmon, and find out that Jane never lost his memory and that he has always been in his mind and that he loves. He also learns of the relationship Chico's death with the death of the family of Juana, mainly with Victor. Jhon Alex die betrayed by Talita, who proclaimed himself as the owner of La Colina, but Carmenza, mowed fury and suffering of knowing that Talita killed his son Chico, will put an end to the leader of the 2200. The remaining gang members Domis of 2200 bands, they will make a peace deal and will join El Cruce, and will help Hache to give their final battle against Italo, who has kidnapped Juana. On the day of the Battle of the Bands, the Ninja Cumbia are disqualified when confronted with a major problem: Leo is the pyramid, but falls into the ambush of Juana and Hache, who along with Sungaku, they make Carbajal get their comeuppance. The Cumbia Ninja give a great concert at La Cima with the rival gang, Globulin. Finally, Leo is arrested, and Jane and Hache distance themselves again. Felix, he starts preparing his revenge on the hill, but mainly against Sungaku.\n\nThe third season focuses on the ancestral fight between the Dragon and the Jaguar. A year after the death of Chico, La Colina is at peace. The Cumbia Ninja become as great music idols, now having Jessica as a member of the band after BitBox left. Hache still feel that the neighborhood, the band and especially Sungaku still expect more from him. But since he left to go to Juana and nothing interests him, not even music. Hache feels responsible for everything that has been happening. In turn, it did not get peace Juana expected. His time at La Colina left her broken inside and return to his previous life is not enough. Without love and revenge that boost to go ahead, Juana lost in the excesses of wealthy heiress, endangering his life. Juana is in a stage of much self-destruction and an identity crisis, but eventually will find a guide, someone who will help you move forward: Felix, which will advise pursue revenge for the death of his family She is telling him that everything was not guilty of Leon, but the secret of Sungaku. Leon will rot in prison until the power of Balam will help to be respected there. Italian finally awakens after being helped by Felix, and seek revenge on the Ninja Cumbia, mainly Hache. Now a hidden power appears from the shadows and both come to discover the truth of the mysterious force that caused tragic events in La Colina and also to Carbajal, the force that makes opponents. Felix Juana will train with the power of Jaguar to become his successor. In turn, Wu Xiang Hache will train with the power of the Dragon for the battle ahead. Leon will have its deserved and will be killed in prison after betraying Balam. It will reveal that Felix is actually the ancient enemy of the Dragon Sungaku, the Jaguar Balam, after this murder Xiang Wu. Balam appear for a final battle, a confrontation is inevitable but the only ones who can save the fate of La Colina be Juana and Hache. They decide to end it all and to achieve last game where the forces of the Dragon and the Jaguar they leave forever, thus obtaining Balam death at the hands of Italo paddling. Finally, everything ends, and then scatter the ashes of Wu Xiang, Hache and Juana leave to live a happy life together.\n\n\n\nIn January 2015, Fox announced the cast of the series including actors Brenda Asnicar and Ricardo Abarca were. The first season series premiered on September 5, 2013, and ended on November 28, 2013, with 13 episodes aired on Thursdays. In a prinicipio it was scheduled only 13 episodes. But due to the success, Fox decided to renew the series for a second season.\n\n\"Cumbia Ninja\" is the first scripted original series on FOX. The series creator and showrunner Andrés Gelós, who also directed the pilot and other episodes.\n\nThe first part of the second season began on October 2, 2014, and ended on November 20, 2014, with eight episodes aired. The second part was scheduled to begin on January 22, 2015, until March 19, 2015. But according to Fox, there was a change of plans and then announced that the second part aired from March 2015.\n\nOn December 3, 2014, Fox confirmed the third season of the series and began filming on January 15, 2015. The third season premiered on October 29, 2015, and ended on December 17, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "57882268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57882268", "title": "Cumero Fire", "text": "Cumero Fire\n\nThe Cumero Fire was a wildfire burning southeast of Sasabe, Arizona, on the US-Mexico border in the Coronado National Forest in Arizona in the United States. The fire was reported on July 5 and burned . As of July 8, the fire was 80 percent contained. The cause of the fire is under investigation.\n\nSmoke from the Cumero Fire was first spotted on July 5 southeast of Sasabe, Arizona, along the US-Mexico border. The fire was burning in grass south of Cumero Mountain, with the majority of the fire on US land. Fire crews immediately focused on fire suppression. The fire threatened Garcia Ranch and cell phone communication towers. That evening, temporary flight restrictions were put in place. Coronado National Forest was put under evacuation warnings. \n\nOn July 6, the fire had reached and was 40 percent contained. Of that acreage, was on US land. The majority of fire activity remained on the mountain, with fire suppression and containment being the focus. The next day, July 7, the fire had expanded into Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nAs of July 8, the Cumero Fire had burned and was 80 percent contained. \n\nThe Cumero Fire burned on the international border of the United States and Mexico, impacting ranch lands, recreational areas, transportation, and cell tower equipment in the area. A temporary flight restriction was put in place for the fire impacted area on July 5. \n"}
{"id": "541223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541223", "title": "Dead on arrival", "text": "Dead on arrival\n\nDead on arrival (DOA), also dead in the field and brought in dead (BID) indicates that a patient was found to be already clinically dead upon the arrival of professional medical assistance, often in the form of first responders such as emergency medical technicians, paramedics, or police.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, first responders must consult verbally with a physician before officially pronouncing a patient deceased, but once cardiopulmonary resuscitation is initiated, it must be continued until a physician can pronounce the patient dead.\n\nWhen presented with a patient, medical professionals are required to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) unless specific conditions are met which allow them to pronounce the patient as deceased. In most places, these are examples of such criteria:\n\nThis list may not be a comprehensive picture of medical practice in all jurisdictions or conditions. For example, it may not represent the standard of care for patients with terminal diseases such as advanced cancer. In addition, jurisdictions such as Texas permit withdrawal of medical care from patients who are deemed unlikely to recover. \n\nRegardless of the patient, a pronouncement of death must always be made with absolute certainty and only after it has been determined that the patient is not a candidate for resuscitation. This type of decision is rather sensitive and can be difficult to make.\n\nLegal definitions of death vary from place to place; for example, irreversible brain-stem death, prolonged clinical death, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25498357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25498357", "title": "Diary", "text": "Diary\n\nA diary is a record (originally in handwritten format) with discrete entries arranged by date reporting on what has happened over the course of a day or other period. A personal diary may include a person's experiences, thoughts, and/or feelings, excluding comments on current events outside the writer's direct experience. Someone who keeps a diary is known as a diarist. Diaries undertaken for institutional purposes play a role in many aspects of human civilization, including government records (e.g. \"Hansard\"), business ledgers, and military records. In British English, the word may also denote a preprinted journal format.\n\nToday the term is generally employed for personal diaries, normally intended to remain private or to have a limited circulation amongst friends or relatives. The word \"journal\" may be sometimes used for \"diary,\" but generally a diary has (or intends to have) daily entries, whereas journal-writing can be less frequent.\n\nAlthough a diary may provide information for a memoir, autobiography or biography, it is generally written not with the intention of being published as it stands, but for the author's own use. In recent years, however, there is internal evidence in some diaries (e.g. those of Ned Rorem, Alan Clark, Tony Benn or Simon Gray) that they are written with eventual publication in mind, with the intention of self-vindication (pre- or posthumous) or simply for profit.\n\nBy extension the term diary is also used to mean a printed publication of a written diary; and may also refer to other terms of journal including electronic formats (e.g. blogs).\n\nThe word \"diary\" comes from the Latin \"diarium\" (\"daily allowance,\" from \"dies\" \"day\"). The word \"journal\" comes from the same root (\"diurnus\" \"of the day\") through Old French \"jurnal\" (modern French for \"day\" is \"jour\").\n\nThe earliest use of the word refers to a book in which a daily record was written was in Ben Jonson's comedy \"Volpone\" in 1605.\n\nThe oldest extant diaries come from Middle Eastern and East Asian cultures, although the even earlier work \"To Myself\" (Τὰ εἰς ἑαυτόν), today known as the \"Meditations\", written in Greek by the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius in the second half of the 2nd century AD, already displays many characteristics of a diary. Pillowbooks of Japanese court ladies and Asian travel journals offer some aspects of this genre of writing, although they rarely consist exclusively of diurnal records. The scholar Li Ao (9th century AD), for example, kept a diary of his journey through southern China.\n\nIn the medieval Near East, Arabic diaries were written from before the 10th century. The earliest surviving diary of this era which most resembles the modern diary was that of Ibn Banna' in the 11th century. His diary is the earliest known to be arranged in order of date (\"ta'rikh\" in Arabic), very much like modern diaries.\n\nThe precursors of the diary in the modern sense include daily notes of medieval mystics, concerned mostly with inward emotions and outward events perceived as spiritually important (e.g. Elizabeth of Schönau, Agnes Blannbekin, and perhaps also, in the lost vernacular account of her visions, Beatrice of Nazareth).\n\nFrom the Renaissance on, some individuals wanted not only to record events, as in medieval chronicles and itineraries, but also to put down their own opinions and express their hopes and fears, without any intention to publish these notes. One of the early preserved examples is the anonymous \"Journal d'un bourgeois de Paris\" that covers the years 1405–49, giving subjective commentaries on the current events. Famous 14th- to 16th-century Renaissance examples, which appeared much later as books, were the diaries by the Florentines Buonaccorso Pitti and Gregorio Dati and the Venetian Marino Sanuto the Younger. Here we find records of even less important everyday occurrences together with much reflection, emotional experience and personal impressions.\n\nIn 1908 the Smythson company created the first featherweight diary, enabling diaries to be carried about.\n\nMany diaries of notable figures have been published and form an important element of autobiographical literature.\n\nSamuel Pepys (1633–1703) is the earliest diarist who is well known today; his diaries, preserved in Magdalene College, Cambridge, were first transcribed and published in 1825. Pepys was amongst the first who took the diary beyond mere business transaction notation, into the realm of the personal. Pepys' contemporary John Evelyn also kept a notable diary, and their works are among the most important primary sources for the English Restoration period, and consist of eyewitness accounts of many great events, such as the Great Plague of London, and the Great Fire of London.\n\nThe practice of posthumous publication of diaries of literary and other notables began in the 19th century. As examples, the \"Grasmere Journal\" of Dorothy Wordsworth (1771–1855) was published in 1897; the Journals of Fanny Burney (1752–1840) were published in 1889; the diaries of Henry Crabb Robinson (1776–1867) were published in 1869.\n\nAmong important U.S. Civil War diaries are those of George Templeton Strong, a New York City lawyer, and Mary Chesnut, the wife of a Confederate officer. The diary of Jemima Condict, living in the area of what is now West Orange, New Jersey, includes local observations of the American Revolutionary War.\n\nSince the 19th century the publication of diaries by their authors has become commonplace – notably amongst politicians seeking justification but also amongst artists and litterateurs of all descriptions. Amongst late 20th-century British published political diaries, those of Richard Crossman, Tony Benn and Alan Clark are representative, the latter being more indiscreet in the tradition of the diaries of Chips Channon. In Britain in the field of the arts notable diaries were published by James Lees-Milne, Roy Strong and Peter Hall.\n\nOne of the most famous modern diaries, widely read and translated, is the posthumously published \"The Diary of a Young Girl\" by Anne Frank, who wrote it while in hiding during the German occupation of Amsterdam in the 1940s. Otto Frank edited his daughter's diary and arranged for its publication after the War. Many edits were made before the diary was published in other countries. This was due to the sexually explicit material, which also led to some libraries banning the book.\n\nThe writing of diaries was also often practiced from the 20th century onwards as a conscious act of self-exploration (of greater or lesser sincerity) – examples being the diaries of Carl Jung, Aleister Crowley and Anaïs Nin. Among important diaries by 20th-century literary figures are those of Franz Kafka, Edmund Wilson and the French writer Paul Léautaud (1872–1956). The self-reflective \"\" written by Saint Faustina contains accounts of her visions and conversations with Jesus.\n\nA strong psychological effect may arise from having an audience for one's self-expression, even if this is the book one writes in, only read by oneself – particularly in adversity. Anne Frank went so far as to address her diary as \"Kitty.\" Friedrich Kellner, a court official in Nazi Germany, thought of his diary as a weapon for any future fight against tyrants and terrorism, and named it \"Mein Widerstand,\" \"My Opposition\". Victor Klemperer was similarly concerned with recording for the future the tyrannies and hypocrisies of Nazi Germany and of its East German successor state in his diaries. In none of these cases, however, did the authors anticipate early – or indeed any – publication.\n\nAs internet access became commonly available, many people adopted it as another medium in which to chronicle their lives with the added dimension of an audience. The first online diary is thought to be Claudio Pinhanez's \"Open Diary,\" published at the MIT Media Lab website from 14 November 1994 until 1996. Other early online diarists include Justin Hall, who began eleven years of personal online diary-writing in 1994, Carolyn Burke, who started publishing \"Carolyn's Diary\" on 3 January 1995, and Bryon Sutherland, who announced his diary \"The Semi-Existence of Bryon\" in a USENET newsgroup on 19 April 1995.\n\nThe internet has also served as a way to bring previously unpublished diaries to the attention of historians and other readers, such as the diary of Michael Shiner, a 19th-century slave who documented his life in Washington, D.C.\n\nWeb-based services such as Open Diary (started in October 1998) and LiveJournal (January 1999) soon appeared to streamline and automate online publishing, but growth in personal storytelling came with the emergence of blogs. While the format first focused on external links and topical commentary, widespread blogging tools were quickly used to create web journals. Recent advances have also been made to enable the privacy of internet diary entries. For example, some diary software now stores entries in an encrypted format, such as 256-bit AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) encryption, and others only permit access to the diary after correct PIN entry on a secure USB device.\n\nWith the popularization of mobile apps, diary or journaling apps have become available for iOS and Android. Proponents cite the following as primary reasons for journaling with digital applications: Ease and speed of typing; mobile portability; search capabilities; entry location, date, and other metadata from mobile phones; and, tags and other organizational features. Digital diaries also seem tailored towards shorter-form, in-the-moment writing, similar to user engagement with Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and other social media services.\n\nA personal organizer is a form of diary to list actions and tasks for the day are recorded in a log, often using symbols to differentiate and categorize items.\n\nA diet journal or food diary is a daily record of all food and beverage consumed as a means of tracking calorie consumption for the purpose of weight loss or other nutritional monitoring.\n\nA sleep diary or sleep log is a tool used in the diagnosis and treatment of sleep disorders or to keep track of dreams had in order to gain insight to the subconscious or for other further contemplating.\n\nThe German \"Tagebuch\" (\"day-book\") is normally rendered as \"diary\" in English, but the term encompasses workbooks or working journals as well as diaries proper. For example, the notebooks of the Austrian writer Robert Musil and of the German-Swiss artist Paul Klee are called \"Tagebücher\".\n\nA travel journal, travel diary, or road journal, is the documentation of a journey or series of journeys.\n\nA war diary is a regularly updated official record of a military unit's administration and activities during wartime maintained by an officer in the unit.\n\nThere are numerous examples of fictional diaries. One of the earliest printed fictional diaries was the humorous \"Diary of a Nobody\" by George Grossmith and his brother Weedon. 20th-century examples include radio broadcasts (e.g. \"Mrs. Dale's Diary\") and published books (e.g. the \"Diaries of Adrian Mole\"). Both prompted long-running satirical features in the magazine \"Private Eye\": the former entitled \"Mrs Wilson's Diary\" in reference to Mary Wilson, wife of Prime Minister Harold Wilson, the latter entitled \"The Secret Diary of John Major Aged 47¾\" and written as a pastiche of the Adrian Mole diaries from the perspective of the then-Prime Minister John Major. Another famous example of fictional diaries as prose is Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\". A modern example includes the \"Diary of a Wimpy Kid\" series where each book of the series is written in a first-person view of the main character, as if the book were an actual diary. Other examples are the \"Bert Diaries\" and the cellphone diaries in the Japanese manga and anime television series \"Future Diary\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12163566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12163566", "title": "Environmental emergency", "text": "Environmental emergency\n\nEnvironmental emergencies are defined as “sudden-onset disasters or accidents resulting from natural, technological or human-induced factors, or a combination of these, that causes or threatens to cause severe environmental damage as well as loss of human lives and property.” (UNEP/GC.22/INF/5, 13 November 2002.)\n\nFollowing a disaster or conflict, an environmental emergency can occur when people’s health and livelihoods are at risk due to the release of hazardous and noxious substances, or because of significant damage to the ecosystem. Examples include fires, oil spills, chemical accidents, toxic waste dumping and groundwater pollution. \n\nThe environmental risks can be acute and life-threatening. According to the International Disaster Database (EM-DAT), between 2003 and 2013, there were 380 industrial accidents reported, affecting 207 668 people and resulting in over US$22 million in losses. Climate change is having an unprecedented effect on the occurrence of natural disasters and the associated risk of environmental emergencies. With climate change already stretching the disaster relief system, future climate-related emergency events will generate increased and more costly demands for assistance.\nAll disasters have some environmental impacts. \n\nSome of these may be immediate and life-threatening – for example, when an earthquake damages an industrial facility, which in turn releases hazardous materials. In such cases these so-called ‘secondary impacts’ may cause as much damage as the initial causal factor. \n\nFor example, Typhoon Haiyan/Yolanda that struck the Philippines in November 2013, caused massive destruction and had a huge human toll but also generated a spill of around 800,000 litres of heavy oil, when a power barge ran aground in Estancia, Iloilo province, at the height of the typhoon. \n\nDisasters may also have longeOÑKL-term impacts. For example, natural disasters may cause long-term waste management or ecosystem damage.\n\nThe Environmental Emergencies Forum is a unique biennial international forum that brings together disaster managers and environmental experts from governments, UN agencies, industries, academies, NGOs and civil society to improve prevention, preparedness, response and overall resilience to environmental emergencies. It also provides guidance for the Joint UNEP/OCHA Environment Unit, which provides a Secretariat to the meeting. The most recent meeting was held in Norway in June 2015. The next meeting will be held in Nairobi in June 2017.\n\nThe Joint United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)/Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) Environment Unit (JEU): By pairing the UNEP’s technical expertise with OCHA’s humanitarian response network, the Joint UNEP/OCHA Environment Unit (JEU) mobilizes and coordinates a comprehensive response to environmental emergencies to protect lives, livelihoods, ecosystems and future generations. The JEU can be reached 24 hours/day, seven days/week, all year round and operates at the request of affected countries. The JEU can be called by member states when acute environmental risks to life and health as a result of conflicts, natural disasters and industrial accidents are suspected. \n\nThe JEU hosts the Environmental Emergencies Centre (www.eecentre.org), an online tool designed primarily to provide national responders with a one-stop-shop of all information relevant to the preparedness, prevention and response stages of an environmental emergency. \nWebsite: www.unocha/org/unep; www.eecentre.org\n\nThe biennial Green Star Awards recognize individuals, organizations, governments and companies who demonstrate achievements in prevention, preparedness and response to environmental emergencies. A joint initiative between Green Cross International, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), the Green Star Awards seeks to increase awareness of environmental emergencies by drawing attention to efforts made to prevent, prepare for and respond to such emergencies. \n\n"}
{"id": "40325907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40325907", "title": "Failure Magazine", "text": "Failure Magazine\n\nFailure Magazine is an online magazine which features stories about failure. The magazine was established in 2000 by Jason Zasky and his cousin. It is headquartered in New York City. The magazine turned its first profit in 2005. The magazine features a column called, \"This day in failure\".\n"}
{"id": "1922382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1922382", "title": "Fence (criminal)", "text": "Fence (criminal)\n\nA fence, also known as a receiver, mover, or moving man, is an individual who knowingly buys stolen goods in order to later resell them for profit. The fence acts as a middleman between thieves and the eventual buyers of stolen goods who may not be aware that the goods are stolen. As a verb, the word describes the behaviour of the thief in the transaction: \"The burglar fenced the stolen radio\". This sense of the term came from thieves' slang, first attested c. 1700, from the notion of such transactions providing a \"defence\" against being caught. The term remains in common use in all major dialects of modern English, all of which spell it with a \"c\" even though the source word in some dialects (particularly American English) is now spelled \"defense.\"\n\nThe fence is able to make a profit with stolen merchandise because he/she is able to secretly pay thieves a very low price for \"hot\" goods that cannot be easily sold on the open markets. The thieves who patronize the fence are willing to accept a low profit margin in order to reduce their risks by instantly \"washing their hands\" of the black market loot and disassociating themselves from the criminal act that procured it. After the sale, the fence recoups their investment by disguising the stolen nature of the goods (via methods such as repackaging and altering/effacing serial numbers) and reselling the goods as near to the white market price as possible without drawing suspicion. This process often relies on a legal business (such as a pawnshop, flea market or street vendor) in order to \"launder\" the stolen goods by intermixing them with legally-purchased items of the same type. Fencing is illegal in all countries, but legally proving a violation of anti-fencing laws can be difficult.\n\nThe fence is able to make a profit with stolen merchandise because he is able to pay thieves a very low price for stolen goods. Thieves agree to this because their alternatives may present a greater risk of the thief being caught. As well, selling stolen goods takes a great deal of time and effort (transaction costs), as the thief would have to try to contact a number of potential buyers and show them the merchandise. Some habitual thieves are so well known to police that if the thief were to attempt to sell any used goods, this would quickly draw the attention of law enforcement.\n\nThe fence then disguises the stolen nature of the goods, if possible, so that he or she can sell them closer to the market price. Depending on the stolen item, the fence may attempt to remove, deface, or replace serial numbers on the stolen item before reselling it. In some cases, fences will transport the stolen items to a different city to sell them, because this lessens the likelihood that the items will be recognized. For some types of stolen goods, fences disassemble the good and sell the individual parts, because the sale of parts is less risky. For example, a stolen car or bicycle may be disassembled so that the parts can be sold individually. Another tactic used by some fences is to retain stolen items for some time before selling them, which lessens the likelihood that the burglary victims or police will be actively looking for the items in auctions and pawnshops.\n\nFencing is often conducted through legal businesses. Some fences maintain a legitimate-seeming \"front\" through which they can sell stolen merchandise. Depending on the type of stolen merchandise a fence deals in, \"front\" businesses might be discount stores, used goods stores, a coin and gem store, auction house, flea market, or auto salvage yards. The degree of illicit activity in each \"front\" business may differ from fence to fence. While one fence's salvage yard may consist mainly of stolen auto parts, another fence's used goods store might consist mainly of legitimately purchased used goods, with the stolen merchandise acting as a minor, but profitable, sideline.\n\nThe prices fences pay thieves typically depend both on norms and on legitimate market rates for the items in question. Vulnerable sellers, such as drug addicts or casual thieves, may receive less than 20% of an item's value. Higher prices, sometimes as high as 50% of an item's value in a legal market, can be commanded by a professional thief, especially one who concentrates on valuable items. At the same time, fences will often take advantage of thieves by deceiving them about the value of an individual item and the relevant market conditions. For example, a fence may falsely tell a petty thief that the market for the type of good which the thief is selling is flooded with this type of merchandise, to justify paying out a lower price.\n\nResearch on fences shows that they view themselves as entrepreneurs, relying on networking with and patronage by prominent criminals to become successful in their word-of-mouth-based \"wheeling and dealing\". They occupy the middle ground between the criminal world (thieves, burglars and shoplifters) and the legitimate world (e.g., everyday people who purchase used goods). Some active fences go farther in their business, maintaining longstanding contacts and even teaching thieves how to practice their craft, whether by identifying specific products or by teaching them tools of the trade.\n\nThere are a number of different types of fences. One way of categorizing fences is by the type of good in which they trade, such as jewels, power tools, or electronics. Another way of categorizing fences is by their level of involvement in buying and selling stolen goods; for some, fencing is an occasional \"sideline\" activity, while it is an economic mainstay for others. At the lowest level, a hustler or drug dealer may occasionally accept stolen goods. At the highest level would be a fence whose main criminal income comes from buying and selling stolen items. At the broadest level, two tiers of fences can be distinguished. The lower level of fences are those who directly buy stolen goods from thieves and burglars. At a higher level are the \"master fences\", who do not deal with street-level thieves, but only with other fences.\n\nThe degree to which the purchasers of the stolen goods know or suspect that the items are stolen varies. If a purchaser buys a high-quality item for a low price, in cash, from a stranger at a bar or from the back of a van, there is a higher likelihood that the items may be stolen. On the other hand, if a purchaser buys the same high-quality item for the standard retail price from a used goods store, and obtains a proper receipt, the purchaser may reasonably believe that the item is not stolen (even if, in fact, it is a stolen item).\n\nThe fence, or receiver, is an old kind of criminal, historically attested in many countries and with deep and complex dynamics within society.\n\nReceiving was a widespread crime in Modern England and an increasingly crucial concern for the English government of that period. It involved many other kinds of activities and crimes, and it saw its peak in the early 18th century with the notorious Jonathan Wild. Receiving is intrinsically connected to theft, as receivers, by definition, buy previously stolen goods in order to make profit out of them later. When organised theft grew increasingly important in London thanks to largely supportive receivers, the establishment started to fight it off with new laws, often aimed at receivers: receiving was acknowledged as the very core of property crime.\n\nReceiving was not considered as a felony (crime) in common law until 1691, when fences became potential targets of charges as accessories to theft. This meant that in order to judge a suspected receiver, it was necessary to condemn the related thief first. Later laws further focused on receivers, especially the 1718 Transportation Act, which, together with other measures, made fences main felons and not simply accessories to other felonies. Nonetheless, it was not easy to prove that a dealer knowingly accepted stolen goods, especially without the related theft event being fully cleared out.\nProceedings stored in the Old Bailey Online archive where the offence category is receiving are 5664. Of these, 1973 have a verdict category of guilty.\n\nThe 1718 Transportation Act also made a felony of returning goods for a fee, revealing that by then, receiving had already been widely taken to the next stage: returning goods to their owner, for a fee, instead of selling them in the second-hand market. Thieves could act as go-betweens themselves, but go-betweens could raise some suspicions, while relying on receivers added a safety layer against effective prosecution. A victim of theft was often willing to pay in order to get his goods back, in order to spare himself further troubles and/or if the items taken had the potential to reveal unflattering details about his personal affairs. In addition to that, for many centuries, prosecution in England was entirely at the expense (of personal money, time and effort) of the prosecutor. Therefore, also considering the difficulty of actually proving receiving in courts, common people, especially shopkeepers, often preferred compounding, feeling that prosecuting was not worth it. This gave a considerable advantage to receivers.\n\nIn order to effectively act as go-betweens for compounding, or brokers, fences needed to personally know thieves or have ways to easily interact and bargain with them for a common benefit about compounding: nobody was in a better position to do so than thief-takers. Thief-takers grew increasingly notorious in England as a reward was introduced by the Crown for each successfully condemned criminal. Some of them, such as Anthony Dunn, publicly referred to as \"pretended Thiefe-taker\" in a 1707 document, used their social power as thief-takers as an advantage for receiving. Thief-takers were usually so involved with thieves and gangs of thieves that they could easily condemn them for the reward, or use this power to intimidate and command thieves to do their biddings: in exchange of clemency or protection from capture or condemnation, they could have thieves to steal under their command. Indeed, thief-takers could act as direct instigators, supporting their thieves with intelligence or offering them shelter at need (when convenient), and then act as receivers with the stolen goods. Through parallel occupations, receivers could feed their own business.\n\nConfirmation of how thief-taking and receiving were tightly connected could be seen in the career of Charles Hitchen, who was known as a thief-taker. He bought off the position of Under City Marshal through his wife's money in order to have one of the best positions amongst the thief-takers of the City. However, a vast part of his income actually came from the receiving activity related to the network of connections with London's underworld. Hitchen controlled this network through his official (that is to say, legal) position as a thief-taker.\n\nThe synergy between receiving, theft and corruption, as well as official activities such as thief-taking or pawnbroking was a huge dynamic bond where each element enhanced the others in a vicious circle.\n\nThe master of this powerful synergy of London underworld was Jonathan Wild, who rapidly replaced his previous master, Charles Hitchen, in 1713, and rapidly gained control of London's crime and the title of \"thief-taker general\". His power was due to his ruthless thief-taking and intimidation activities as well as a complex web of intelligence also built around the diffusion of newspapers. However, overly bold receiving was his undoing, as it grew so large and complex a matter to prompt the English government to promote further laws against receiving and related activities, such as the Transportation Act in 1718, also known as \"Jonathan Wild Act\", and its extension in 1720, which made returning goods for a fee a felony of the same importance and punishment as the crime (theft) related to the goods returned (which meant a capital offence in most cases, with raised potential reward for definitive evidence, from £40 to £140). Eventually, the government decided to directly take action against Wild through lawyers, succeeding in condemning and executing him in 1725.\n\nThere is no registered case of female fences of the same fame of Wild or Hitchen. However, women had active roles in both receiving and theft. Elizabeth Hitchen, Hitchen's wife, gave her inheritance money to her husband in order to buy the Under City Marshal office for his plans. Moreover, women could also be active fences. For example, Elizabeth Fisher managed her own receiving business in her husband's alehouse.\nProceedings stored in the Old Bailey Online archive where the offence category is receiving are 5664. Of these, 1858 have a defendant gender category of female.\n\nReceiving grew increasingly important in Early Modern society, and combined with the increasing interest of society on reading, it became the source for many writers, such as Daniel Defoe, with Moll Flanders and John Gay, with The Beggar's Opera. \nThese works reflect how receiving was conceived and portrayed by authors.\n\n\"Moll Flanders\" is a novel intended to narrate the whole life of its protagonist, referred to as Moll Flanders, but a relevant part of it is about her becoming a master thief. Moll's activity as a thief largely relied on the protection and support of her governess, who acted also as a receiver for the goods stolen by her affiliates. She is the one who buys Moll's stolen goods the first time, as Moll narrates \"I was now at a loss for a market for my goods,[...] At last I resolved to go to my old governess.\" Therefore, the governess character sealed Moll's fate as a thief, and eventually taught her the basics of thievery redirecting Moll to work with other senior thieves. With these events, Defoe shows how crucial as well as subtle receiving was in building the whole of crime activity in London.\n\nThe Governess is officially a pawnbroker, and she uses this legal business to recycle stolen goods into the secondary market. Sometimes, such as in the case of a silver inscribed mug stolen by Moll, she smelts metals, in order to avoid getting caught while re-selling. Along with receiving activity, she actively protects and support many criminals and thieves in order to secure a steady income to her activity.\n\nThe same governess goes on in protecting and offering refuge to her affiliates whenever possible, or recruiting thieves into small groups, always via middlemen, in order to protect their thieves' identities in case some of them were caught and willing to confess.\n\nShe is also a main intelligence source and often a direct instigator to theft such as in a case of fire in a well-off house in the neighbourhood (more vulnerable to theft because of the sudden emergency), and finally becomes a broker for goods stolen by Moll to a drunken gentleman. In that case, the amount gained is allegedly greater than what she would have gained by standard re-selling in the secondary market.\n\nThe Governess embodies female social cunning in London's underworld, from Defoe's point of view. She is a typical receiver of her time, and whereas many male receivers used thief-taking as an official business, she relies on pawnbroking.\n\nFencing is illegal almost everywhere, usually under a similar rationale as in the United States, where receipt of stolen property is a crime in every state, as well as a federal crime if the property crossed a state line. Occasionally federal agents will temporarily set up a false fence sting operation. Fencing is a common source of income for organized crime. In England and Wales, as in many U.S. states, the crime requires three elements: stolen property, the receiver's act of receiving or hiding it, and his knowledge of its stolen status.\n\nPawnbrokers have often been associated with fencing, though in many jurisdictions, government identification must be shown in order to pawn an item and police regularly check pawnshops for stolen goods and repossess any stolen items. While pawnbrokers do not like this characterization of their business, police efforts have indicated that some pawnbrokers are involved in fencing.\n\nE-fencing is the sale of items on the Internet that have been obtained illegally. It is an activity that criminals often mix with sales to pawnbrokers. The auction website eBay, being easy to reach for the average thief, is a popular location for e-fencing; customers reported more than eight thousand crimes from the website in 2008, many of which involved the sale of stolen property. Classified websites like Craigslist, AutoTrader.com, Pennysaver online, etc. are some of the Internet sources used for fencing goods online and circumventing the middleman fencer, in addition to a number of illegal darknet markets.\n\nE-fenced items may be shoplifted or otherwise stolen, alternatively they may be purchased using stolen credit cards or similar banking information. The latter practice is often intertwined with carding, which is the trafficking of thousands or even millions of stolen credit card numbers. The sale of stolen credit cards, which usually takes place on the darknet markets, is generally considered to be a form of e-fencing in its own right, and often plays a role in supplying the data used to purchase physical goods that may be either e-fenced themselves or fenced through more traditional means.\n\nCrime rings steal and/or use stolen financial information to pay for in-demand items from retailers and then sell them online, relying on the Internet's ability to reach buyers around the world and its anonymity; some theft rings even take pre-orders, confident that they can steal and/or fraudulently pay for whatever is currently in demand. In the United States, major retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target have advocated for federal legislation to combat Internet fencing. Proposals for such legislation have often proposed requiring major sales websites (e.g. eBay and Amazon.com) to retain some items' serial numbers and to release information to retailers about major sellers whom the retailers believe to be relying on stolen property. Such proposals have been opposed by the online retailers who would be required to maintain these records and take these actions.\n\nAn eBay spokesman has stated, \"Perhaps the dumbest place to try to fence stolen materials is on eBay,\" and news agencies have reported incidents of the police purchasing stolen property directly from thieves, leading to their capture. By early 2007, e-fencing had become a $37 billion business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24988652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24988652", "title": "Francop Affair", "text": "Francop Affair\n\nThe Francop Affair was a high seas incident on November 4, 2009 in which the Israeli Navy seized the cargo ship MV \"Francop\" in the eastern Mediterranean Sea and its cargo of hundreds of tons of weapons allegedly bound from Iran to Hezbollah. The incident is also known by its military operation name, Operation Four Species.\n\nIsraeli commanders had received intelligence reports that the ship was carrying weapons originating from Iran, which were to be transferred to Hezbollah. The ship was about off the coast of Israel, near Cyprus, when it was stopped.\n\nOn November 4, 2009, the ship was radioed by an Israeli Navy missile boat, which ordered it to halt and prepare for inspection. Shayetet 13 naval commandos then boarded the ship without resistance. The navy said that the crew was not aware of the purported smuggling and cooperated with the commandos. The commandos broke open the shipping containers and discovered crates of weapons and munitions hidden between sacks of polyethylene stacked along the openings and sides. A spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said the ship was carrying \"dozens of shipping containers, carrying numerous weapons, disguised as civilian cargo among hundreds of other containers on board\". After boarding, the Israeli navy directed the ship to the Israeli port of Ashdod where a thorough inspection was held.\n\nAccording to the IDF, the ship picked up the cargo in Damietta, Egypt; the cargo arrived in Egypt on a ship that sailed from Bandar Abbas, Iran on October 25. The ship was then set to sail to Limassol, Cyprus and then Latakia, Syria. The IDF suspects that the cargo was intended for Hezbollah, which fought Israel in the 2006 Lebanon War. Following the war, United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 forbade the shipments of arms to Hezbollah. In 2010, the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929 authorized states to seize items, including arms, that Iran is forbidden from exporting.\n\nAn Israeli naval chief said that the amount of weapons found is ten times more than that found during Operation Noah's Ark. The arms shipment weighed 320 tons and were held in containers marked with Iranian shipping codes.\n\nThe seized weaponry consisted of 9,000 mortar shells, 2,125 107-mm Katyusha rockets, 685 rocket fuses, 690 122-mm rockets, 21,100 F-1 fragmentation hand grenades, and 566,220 AK-47 rounds. The Israeli military said that the shipment was equivalent to about ten percent of Hezbollah's stocks. The arms shipment was the largest ever seized by Israel.\n\nOn November 5, 2009, ambassadors and diplomats from 44 countries, military attaches from 27 armies in the world, and the international media were invited by the IDF and the Foreign Ministry to show them the weapons and munitions seized from the \"Francop\" ship.\n\nPresident of Israel Shimon Peres said, \"Today the whole world can see the large gap between Syria and Iran's statements and their actual activities. The ship's arrest is not only of critical military importance, but also of political importance. Facts cannot be argued with.\" Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called it \" a war crime that the UN Security Council should have a special meeting over\".\n\nHezbollah made a statement to the press in which it denied \"any connection with the weapons which the Zionist enemy claims it seized aboard the \"Francop\" ship\". Palestinian Authority spokesperson Ghassan Khatib stated that \"Since the Israeli leadership and society are not ready for peace, they are using any pretext to shun peace obligations, and one is the issue of the Iranian shipment\".\n\nAn Iranian media source commentary claimed that \"Israeli propaganda\" was aimed at diverting attention from U.N. allegations of Israeli war crimes during the Gaza War. Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem said, \"Unfortunately, some official pirates in the seas, sometimes in the name of the navy, sometimes in the name of inspection, obstruct trade movement between Syria and Iran. This ship does not carry Iranian weapons to Syria and does not contain military material to manufacture weapons in Syria. This ship carries imported goods from Syria to Iran.\" After photos of the shipment was released by Israel the IRNA news agency claimed the shipping manifest from the \"Ministry of Sepah\" was forged citing that the Sepah ministry was renamed to \"Defense Ministry\" more than 20 years ago and that \"if a country plans to send a secret arms cargo to another, it will not brand the shipment with a full description\". In response the Israel MFA say that those 'Sepah' customs labels were found on some old crates of ammunition (7.62mm bullets, 122mm rockets and 106mm anti-tank shells).\n\n"}
{"id": "44891876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44891876", "title": "Greek austerity packages", "text": "Greek austerity packages\n\nThis article details the fourteen austerity packages passed by the Government of Greece between 2010 and 2017. These austerity measures were a result of the Greek government-debt crisis and other economic factors. All of the legislation listed remains in force.\n\nThe first austerity package was the first in a row of countermeasures to counter the Greek government-debt crisis. It was approved by the Hellenic Parliament in early 2010.\n\nThe purpose was to reduce the budget deficit. These measures preceded the First Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece known as \"momerandum\". It emerged after the promise of the Greek prime minister in the World Economic Forum of Davos, Switzerland. He promised that he would take measures to cut the deficit. The package was implemented on 9 February 2010 and was expected to save €0.8 billion; it included a freeze in the salaries of all government employees, a 10% cut in bonuses, as well as cuts in overtime workers, public employees and work-related travel.\nThe second austerity package was approved by the Hellenic Parliament in March 2010.\n\nOn 5 March 2010, amid new fears of bankruptcy, the Greek parliament passed the \"Economy Protection Bill\", which was expected to save another €4.8 billion. The measures include: 30% cuts in Christmas, Easter and leave of absence bonuses, a further 12% cut in public bonuses, a 7% cut in the salaries of public and private employees, a rise of VAT from 4.5% to 5%, from 9% to 10% and from 19% to 21%, a rise of the petrol tax to 15%, a rise in the taxes on imported cars of up to 10%–30%, among others.\n\nOn 23 April 2010, after realising the second austerity package failed to improve the country's economic position, the government requested that the EU/IMF bailout package be activated. Greece needed money before 19 May, or it would face a debt rollover of $11.3bn. The IMF had said it was \"prepared to move expeditiously on this request\".\n\nShortly after the European Commission, the IMF and ECB set up a tripartite committee (the Troika) to prepare an appropriate programme of economic policies underlying a massive loan. The Troika was led by Servaas Deroose, from the European Commission, and included also Poul Thomsen (IMF) and Klaus Masuch (ECB) as junior partners. In return the government agreed to implement further measures. \nThe third austerity package came with the signing of the First Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece known as First Memorandum with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the European Central Bank (ECB). It was announced in May 2010 and approved by the Hellenic Parliament in June 2010.\n\nOn 1 May 2010, Prime Minister George Papandreou announced a new round of austerity measures, which were described as \"unprecedented\". The proposed changes, which aimed to save through 2012, represented the biggest government overhaul in a generation. The bill was met with a nationwide general strike and massive protests, leaving three dead, dozens injured and 107 arrested.\n\nThe bill was submitted to Parliament on 4 May and approved on 6 May. Out of 160 MPs consisting the PASOK government majority, 157 MPs supported the bill, while 3 MPs abstained. ND, SYRIZA and KKE voted against the bill; however, Dora Bakoyianni of ND voted for the bill in principle and was subsequently expelled from ND. LAOS voted for the bill.\n\nFurther separate votes on 29 and 30 June were held to implement portions of the package.\n\nThe measures include:\n\n\nPublic pension reforms included:\n\n\n\nOn 2 May 2010, a loan agreement was reached between Greece, the other eurozone countries, and the International Monetary Fund. The deal consisted of an immediate in loans to be provided in 2010, with more funds available later. The first instalment covered of Greek bonds that became due for repayment.\n\nIn total, was agreed on. The interest for the eurozone loans is 5%, considered to be high for a bailout loan. The European Monetary Union loans would be \"pari passu\" and not senior like those of the IMF. The seniority of the IMF loans has no legal basis but is respected nonetheless. The loans should cover Greece's funding needs for the next three years (estimated at €30 billion for the rest of 2010 and €40 billion each for 2011 and 2012). According to EU officials, France and Germany demanded that their military dealings with Greece be a condition of their participation in the financial rescue. , the deficit was down 40% from the previous year.\nThe fourth austerity package, commonly called 'The Medium-term Programme' or 'The June 2011 measures', was approved by the Hellenic Parliament in June 2011.\n\nIn the midst of public discontent, massive protests and a 24-hour-strike throughout Greece, the parliament debated a new austerity bill, known in Greece as the \"mesoprothesmo\" (\"the mid-term [plan]\"). The government's intent to pass further austerity measures was met with discontent from within the government and parliament, but eventually passed with 155 votes in favour (a marginal 5-seat majority). Horst Reichenbach headed up the task force overseeing Greek implementation of austerity and structural adjustment.\n\nThe new measures included:\n\nOn 11 August 2011 the government introduced more taxes, this time targeted at people owning immovable property. The new tax, which was paid through the owner's electricity bill, affected 7.5 million Public Power Corporation accounts and ranged from 3 to 20 euros per square meter. The tax applied for 2011–2012 and was expected to raise €4 billion in revenue.\n\nOn 19 August 2011 the Greek Minister of Finance, Evangelos Venizelos, said that new austerity measures \"should not be necessary\". On 20 August 2011 it was revealed that the government's economic measures were still off track; government revenue went down by €1.9 billion while spending went up by €2.7 billion.\n\nOn a meeting with representatives of the country's economic sectors on 30 August 2011, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance acknowledged that some of the austerity measures were irrational, such as the high VAT, and that they were forced to apply them by the EU.\n\nThe fifth austerity package was aimed to ensure the 6th bailout instalment for Greece. The representatives of creditors required Greece to take new measures to limit state expenditures. That was one of the conditions so that the financing of Greek economy to continue normally. The new bill (called multi-bill) hit mostly civil servants and retirees. It was voted by the Greek parliament on 20 October 2011 amid protests. A man was killed during a demonstration at Syntagma Square. The major European countries then agreed on a reduction of Greek debt.\n\nThe package included:\nThe sixth austerity package was approved by the Hellenic Parliament in February 2012.\n\nIn October 2011, Papandreou got parliamentary backing for further austerity measures. These new measures would allow Greece to get an extra instalment of international loans, forming a second bailout package that would prevent a sovereign default and would allow the partial write-off of Greek debt, the so-called private sector involvement (PSI). As a result of this backing, the EU granted a \"quid pro quo\" of further austerity for a €100bn loan and a 50% debt reduction through PSI.\n\nWithin a week, Papandreou, backed unanimously by his cabinet, announced a referendum on the deal, sending shockwaves through financial markets. German chancellor Angela Merkel and French prime minister Nicolas Sarkozy then issued an ultimatum declaring that, unless the referendum approved the measures, they would withhold an overdue €6bn loan payment to Athens, money that Greece needed by mid-December. Papandreou cancelled the referendum the next day after the opposition New Democracy Party, agreed to back the agreement.\n\nOn 10 November Papandreou resigned following an agreement with the New Democracy party and the Popular Orthodox Rally to appoint a new prime minister to promulgate laws implementing the new measures that were agreed with the EU. The person chosen for this task was non-MP technocrat Lucas Papademos, former Governor of the Bank of Greece and former Vice-President of the European Central Bank; his appointment was criticised by left-wing parties and branded \"unconstitutional\". By contrast, three separate polls taken when Papademos assumed office revealed that around 75% of Greeks thought that temporary, emergency technocratic rule was \"positive\".\n\nThe EU insisted that whichever government was elected in 2012, it must honour the agreed upon EU-IMF austerity strategy. It thus demanded that Greek party-political leaders sign legally binding letters to this effect, as well as to any additional measures that might be required in future as part of the second rescue-package. Papademos argued in favour of signing, despite opposition from major pro-austerity factions in his government. Such letters would bind governments to austerity and structural adjustment through 2020. It was announced that the general election to replace Papademos' administration was to be delayed until April, or even May 2012 because more time was needed to finalise plans, as well as to complete negotiations over debt reduction.\n\nFinalising the deal on the 50% PSI debt write-off, required by the Troika as a condition for extending more aid, proved difficult in early 2012, given objections primarily from hedge funds. In an interview with \"The New York Times\", Papademos said that if his country did not receive unanimous agreement from its bondholders to voluntarily write down €100bn of Greek's €340bn debt, he would consider legislating to force bondholder losses, and that if things went well, Greeks could expect \"an end to austerity\" in 2013. Others believed that even the proposed 50% would not be enough to prevent a sovereign default.\n\nIn February, facing sovereign default, Greece needed more funds from the IMF and EU by 20 March, and was negotiating over a €130 billion lending package. On 10 February, the Greek cabinet approved the draft bill of a new austerity plan, which was calculated to improve the 2012 budget deficit with €3.3 billion (and a further €10 billion improvement scheduled for 2013 and 2014). The austerity plan includes:\n\nThe latest round of austerity measures meant that Greece would face at least another year of recession before the economy started to grow again. Foreign observers were shocked by both the cold-heartedness of German negotiators and a perceived lack of integrity from Greece not honoring its commitments.\n\nShowing disagreement, transport minister Makis Voridis from the Popular Orthodox Rally party, along with five deputy ministers from various ministries, resigned. On 11 February, Papademos warned of \"social explosion and chaos\" if the parliament did not approve the deal the next day. Speaking to members of Parliament before their vote, Papademos stated that if the majority voted against the austerity measures, the government would not be able to pay employee salaries. On 13 February, the Greek Parliament subsequently the measures 199 to 74. During the parliamentary debate, massive protests were witnessed in Athens that left stores looted and burned and more than 120 injured. The riot was one of the worst since 2010.\n\nDespite its position as one of the ruling parties, the Popular Orthodox Rally voted against the plan and withdrew from the government. Forty-three MPs from the other two ruling parties (social democratic PASOK and conservative New Democracy) also voted against the plan and were immediately expelled from their parties. This reduced the combined power of these two parties from 236 to 193 seats, still enough for a majority of the 300-seat parliament. The vote was a major precondition for the EU and IMF to jointly release the funds, which are supposed to cover all financial needs in 2012 and 2013, with the hope that Greece can start lending again at the private capital markets in 2014.\n\nThe determination of the Greek leaders to implement the new austerity package was however doubted. For example, Antonis Samaras (leader of New Democracy) talked about renegotiating the deal, despite voting for the package. Because of this uncertainty, Eurozone finance ministers demanded that Greek main politicians sign a written assurance for their continued support to implement the austerity package, both before and after any elections.\n\nAfter passing the package on 13 February, four other hurdles remained for Greece to receive the new €130 billion bailout loan:\n\nThe seventh austerity package was approved by the Hellenic Parliament in October 2012.\n\nSome of the main elements are: \n\nThe fiscal plan is an extension of the initial bailout package, as it contain the framework for €5.3bn of additional measures (primarily tax hikes) to be implemented in 2015–16 along with the €13.5bn of measures for 2013–14. The extension (and accompanying agreement) were to be covered in more details by a new bailout program in November 2012\n\nThe package and reforms were outlined in the second bailout agreement (March 2012). Initially, the package only dealt with those €13.5bn of measures (comprising €10bn spending cuts and €3.5bn tax hikes) for implementation in fiscal year 2013 and 2014. According to the implementation plan of the second bailout agreement, the measures were expected to have been passed by the Greek parliament in June 2012.\n\nThe passage of the austerity package was delayed due to political turmoil. Two parliamentary elections were held, on 6 May and 17 June. Subsequent political calls prompted by a worsened recession asked for a 2-year extension of the bailout programme, and for the politicians to settle the exact content of the measures. This was finalised on 29 October.\n\nAs of 1 October, the Troika and the government were negotiating a €13.5bn austerity package for 2013–14, of which €10bn was to be implemented as spending cuts and €3.5bn as tax hikes. The government's proposal was that the financial budget for 2013 should implement the first €7.3bn of spending cuts and €0.5bn of tax hikes; with the remaining cuts scheduled for 2014. According to earlier Troika statements, the report would depend on the level of ambition and seriousness of the government's measures and on the progress on structural reforms and privatisation.\n\nThe Troika on 2 October explained to the government that the points agreed to in the March 2012 bailout agreement had to be effected before the €31.5bn capital payment:\nThe Troika reportedly pushed for lower minimum wages and a 30% reduction of the compensation paid to dismissed employees. This proposal was rejected by the government. Another point of disagreement was whether 20,000 civil servants should be simply laid off (recommended by the Troika) or placed in a so-called \"labor reserve scheme\" at a reduced wage for two years before having their status re-evaluated (preferred by the government).\n\nOn 3 October sources from the Greek Ministry of Finance revealed that the Troika had asked the government to frontload the austerity package with measures of €9.3bn in 2013 with the remaining €4.2bn to be implemented in 2014. The Troika expected a slightly worse GDP decline in 2013 compared to the government forecast and that the economy subsequently would recover faster if the austerity package frontloaded its savings for 2013. According to \"Kathimerini\", the extra €0.6bn of increased savings in 2013 would most likely be found by removing all Christmas, Easter and summer bonus payments for civil servants, equal to €1000 per year for each civil servant.\n\nAccording to \"Kathemerini\"'s source, the Troika had also indicated they were willing to accept the large tranche of unspecified savings from structural reforms, if the government were ready to accept the frontload of the austerity package. IMF at the same time also called for a decision to liberalise the fuel sector, as their review report of the sector had concluded that Greeks on a yearly basis currently pay about $1bn more for fuel than they should.\n\nThe government attempted to sign a final deal with the Troika about the content and size of the austerity package and 2013 fiscal budget before the scheduled Eurogroup meeting on 8 October. If the Eurogroup approved the content of the negotiated deal, it would be submitted for a final approval by the European heads of state at the EU summit on 18 October. As the exact content of the package needed to be revealed before the Troika can reach its conclusion about the sustainbility of the Greek economy, it was expected this important report appear in the first half of November.\n\nOn 17 October the Troika released the following statement: \n\nResponding statements from the government indicated that an agreement about core elements had been agreed. Disagreement remained about labor market reforms, with the government still resisting direct layoffs or wage/pension cuts for public workers. Another outstanding point was that the government requested that the Troika finance a 2-year delay of the fiscal targets in the bailout plan, to avoid the need for the government to pass an additional austerity package (in addition to the €13.5bn) to reach the initial fiscal targets. It was likewise hoped that these additional disagreements could be settled during additional talks with headquarters.\n\nAt the EU summit on 19 October, it was announced the Eurogroup would arrange a conference call on 29 October to approve the final version of the austerity package, and provided this package subsequently was passed by the Greek parliament before 11 November, the Eurogroup was ready to make the decision at their ordinary meeting at 12 November to accept the release of the bailout funds.<name=\"Approval roadmap for Austerity package in Q4-2012\"></ref>\n\n\nThe crucial passage of the Labor market reform, Midterm fiscal plan 2013–16 and Fiscal budget 2013 resulted in the exclusion of several MPs from the three coalition parties. New Democracy lost 4 of 125, PASOK lost 7 of 26 and Democratic Left lost 3 of 14. The combined majority was reduced to 165/300 and that the majority for the two most reform-friendly parties was only 151 MPs.\n\nOn 7 November amidst protests of tens of thousands of people, the Greek parliament narrowly approved another austerity package worth €13.5 billion. Without the vote, the Troika warned, the next instalment of €31.5 billion in financial aid would not be granted. Samaras told MPs that this package was \"definitely the last\", though some commentators immediately disagreed.\n\nThe latest measures cut pension on average between 5% and 15% and increased the retirement age from 65 to 67. Wages of civil servants were cut again by up to 20%. Some workers from the public sector would lose as much as 30% of their salaries.\nThe eighth austerity package included two multi-bills.\n\nThe first multi-bill was approved by Greek parliament on 28 April, receiving 168 votes. The law provided mass layoff in the public sector, extended working hours for teachers and other provisions. It also provided a new tax for immovable property that would be defined later. The teachers reacted to the bill by declaring strikes. However, the government prohibited the strikes, proceeding to implement Civil mobilization.\n\nOn 17 July, the Greek Parliament approved an eighth austerity package to secure payment of its next €2.5 billion credit tranche. The laid off another 15,000 public employees, among them high school teachers, school guards and municipal policemen. Democratic Left (DIMAR) had withdrawn from the governing coalition in June. The package received 153 votes. The next day, a general ban on demonstrations was enacted and 4,000 police officers mobilized to avoid larger protests in the Greek capital during Schäuble's visit.\n\nThe ninth austerity package was approved by Parliament on 9 May with 150 votes. It included provisions about Greek economic policy during the following four years. The bill's title was \"Medium-term Fiscal Strategy plan 2015-2018\" and the relevant law is 4263/2014.\n\nThe bill froze wages and pensions until 2018. It cut public sector expenses, such as the Ministry of Health. It provided that the primary surplus in 2014 would be 2.3% of GDP (€4.19 billion) 5.3% (€11.585 billion) in 2018.\n\nThe parliament failed to elect a president and the Samaras Cabinet collapsed. The election took place on 25 January and the left-wing party Syriza won the election. The new government tried to adopt anti-austerity politics. In the first quarter of 2015 the Greek economy returned to recession. The deterioration of economy forced the government to accept another bailout, known as the Third Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece known as Third Memorandum. This bailout required a new austerity package.\n\nThe first round of measures was approved by the Greek parliament on 16 July 2015. The measures include:\nThe second set of measures passed on 23 July changed the Code of Civil Procedure.\nThe eleventh austerity package was voted by the Greek Parliament as part of the agreement between the Tsipras Government and the 'quartet' of creditors (the IMF, ECB, ESM and EU) for a third loan. The law contains two parts. The first was the loan agreement while the second contained the measures agreed to secure the first tranche of the new loan.\n\nIt was tabled by the government on 13 August 2015 and was approved by parliament on 14 August 2015 with 222 votes for and 64 against. It included provisions about Greek economic policy during the three next years. The bill's title was \"Ratification of the Financial Assistance Draft Contract by the ESM and provisions for the implementation of the Financing Agreement\".\n\nThe Government tabled the Bill containing the measures and the loan agreement in the afternoon of August 13 and requested that it be discussed under the extremely urgent Parliamentary procedure. The bill passed the committees on August 13 and was discussed in the plenary session between 2 am and 10 am of August 14. At 6 am, the MPs decided by vote to shorten the discussion, thus the vote was held earlier than envisioned by the Standing Orders regarding extremely urgent procedures, at 10 am.\n\nThe measures passed by this bill were the following:\n\nThe twelfth austerity package was passed as part of the agreement between the Tsipras Government and the 'quartet' of creditors (the IMF, ECB, ESM and EU) for a third loan. The first round of bills passed on 16 October 2015 with 154 votes.\n\nThe measures passed were:\n\nThe thirteenth austerity package is a part of the agreed measures between government and IMF, EU, ECM for an 86-billion-euro bailout. The package was voted upon in two rounds. The first round passed on 8 May with 153 votes amidst demonstrations.\n\nIt includes another €5.4 billion in pension cuts and tax reforms. The measures aim to achieve a 3.5 percent primary budget surplus target in 2018.\n\nThe first round of measures mostly affected pensions saving €3.6 billion. The measures voted on 8 May include:\n\nThe second round of measures included €1.8 billion in new taxes and the creation of a contingency spending cuts mechanism (cutter mechanism). The vote was on 22 May with 153 votes in favour.\n\nThe fourteenth package, the Medium-term Fiscal Strategy Framework 2018–2021, was approved on 18 May. It amended provisions of the thirteenth package. The extra measures were to support a debt deal. The measures were approved by the Syriza-ANEL coalition with 153 votes.\n\nThe measures include:\n"}
{"id": "5809131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5809131", "title": "Human hunting", "text": "Human hunting\n\nHuman hunting refers to humans being hunted and killed for other persons' revenge, pleasure, entertainment, sports or sustenance. There have been historical incidents of the practice being carried out during times of social upheaval. A 2016 report by Daniel Wright, senior lecturer in tourism at the University of Central Lancashire, predicts the hunting of the poor will become a hobby of the superrich in a future plagued by economic and ecological disasters and overpopulation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52231391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52231391", "title": "Inauguration of Donald Trump", "text": "Inauguration of Donald Trump\n\nThe inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States marked commencement of the four-year term of Donald Trump as President and Mike Pence as Vice President. An estimated 300,000–600,000 people attended the public ceremony held on Friday, January 20, 2017 on the West Front of the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe event was the 58th presidential inauguration. Held in Washington, D.C. from January 17 to 21, 2017, inaugural events included concerts, the swearing-in ceremony, a Congressional luncheon, parade, inaugural balls, and the interfaith inaugural prayer service.\n\nAdministered by Chief Justice of the United States John Roberts, the presidential oath was taken by Trump as his first task after becoming president at noon, in keeping with and the 20th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, with the vice presidential oath taken by Pence and administered by Associate Justice Clarence Thomas immediately preceding it. Trump was sworn in with his left hand on a pair of Bibles, his personal copy and the Lincoln Bible. The inauguration was accompanied by protests worldwide.\n\nThe inauguration marked the formal culmination of the presidential transition of Donald Trump that began when he won the U.S. presidential election on November 8, 2016 and became the President-elect. Trump and his running mate, Mike Pence, were formally elected by the Electoral College on December 19, 2016. The win was certified by an electoral vote tally by a joint session of Congress on January 6, 2017.\n\nUpon his inauguration, Trump became the first person to become President without any prior public sector experience. He is also the oldest person to assume the Presidency, as well as the wealthiest. His wife, Melania, is the second First Lady to be born outside the U.S. (after Louisa Adams), the first naturalized citizen to become First Lady, and the first born in the 1970s.\n\nThe inauguration was planned primarily by two committees: the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies and the 2017 Presidential Inaugural Committee. The election was scheduled for November 8, 2016, but the congressional committee began construction of the inaugural platform on September 21.\n\nA number of artists who were approached to perform refused, including Jennifer Holliday who was originally intended to perform, but withdrew herself from the program after further consideration.\n\nThe swearing-in ceremony and the inaugural luncheon for President-elect Trump and Vice President-elect Pence were planned by the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, a committee composed of United States Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, the committee chair, and Senate party leaders Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Chuck Schumer of New York, and House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin and House party leaders Kevin McCarthy of California and Nancy Pelosi of California. The committee was overseen by the U.S. Senate Committee on Rules and Administration.\n\nThe Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies chose the inaugural theme \"Uniquely American\" to highlight the inaugural ceremony as \"a uniquely American expression of our Constitutional system\" and stress the peaceful transition of power.\n\nThe Inauguration Committee released the full schedule of the January 20 inaugural events on December 21, 2016. Military support to the 58th inauguration was coordinated by Joint Task Force National Capital Region, providing musical military units, marching bands, color guards, ushers, firing details, and salute batteries.\n\nThe 2017 Presidential Inaugural Committee organized several other inauguration-related events at the direction of the President‑elect and Vice President‑elect of the United States, such as the concerts, parade, balls and prayer service. The chairman of the committee was Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a real estate investor and longtime Trump friend and ally, and the founder of Colony Capital. The co-chairs of the committee were Lewis M. Eisenberg and Roy Bailey. Committee members included casino magnates Sheldon Adelson and Miriam Adelson, Steve Wynn and Phil Ruffin, oil entrepreneur Harold Hamm, businesswoman Diane Hendricks, coal businessman Joe Craft, Gail Icahn, wife of Carl Icahn, and Woody Johnson, owner of the New York Jets. The committee reported raising over $100 million for the inauguration from donors.\n\nNews reports surfaced in April 2018 that the Special Counsel investigation is looking into the inaugural committee's finances. Prosecutors have questioned several Russian oligarchs, upon their arrival at a U.S. airport, about whether any Russian money was illegally funneled into the inauguration committee or the Trump campaign itself. Robert Mueller's team has questioned Barack and other witnesses, reportedly asking about \"donors with connections to Russia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar.\" Counterintelligence agents with the FBI began investigating this possibility immediately after the inauguration itself, their interest sparked by the large number of wealthy Russians who attended the inauguration and the special events that attended it.\n\nIn August 2018, American political consultant W. Samuel Patten, an associate of Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, pleaded guilty in federal court to failure to register as a foreign agent in connection with the illegal funneling of foreign funds to the presidential inauguration committee. Patten admitted to arranging a \"straw donation\" in which $50,000 was funneled from a Ukrainian businessman to a U.S. citizen to donate to the committee in exchange for four tickets to the inauguration. Patten also admitted to giving misleading testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee about the matter. In exchange for a recommendation of a lenient sentence, Patten pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with Special Counsel investigation led by Robert Mueller.\n\nIn court documents, prosecutors wrote that Patten formed a lobbying and consulting firm with a Russian national identified as \"Foreigner A\"; the firm was paid for work advising the Ukrainian Opposition Bloc party and some Bloc members, including \"a prominent Ukraine businessman identified only as 'Foreigner B.'\" The \"Washington Post\" and \"The New York Times\" identified Konstantin Kilimnik (a Manafort associate whom prosecutors allege is a Russian intelligence operative) as \"Foreigner A\" and Serhiy Lovochkin (a former aide to Viktor Yanukovych, the pro-Russian former president of Ukraine) as \"Foreigner B.\"\n\nOn Tuesday, January 17, then-President-elect Trump arrived in Washington, D.C. to attend what was titled the \"Chairman's Global Dinner,\" a high-profile dinner that was intended to serve as an introduction between foreign diplomats and the incoming Trump administration officials and appointees. The dinner was black tie and invitation-only, and was described by \"The Wall Street Journal\" as the most high-profile event preceding the inauguration, with both Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence addressing the gathering. The event was held at the Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium.\n\nRex Tillerson, Trump's choice to succeed John Kerry as Secretary of State, was in attendance, as well as former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani and National Security Advisor-designate Michael T. Flynn, and Israeli Ambassador Ron Dermer, according to reporters in attendance at the event. More than 200 foreign diplomats attended the event out of 500 total guests. During his speech to the group, Trump praised his choices thus far for Cabinet positions as well as his choice of Pence as his Vice President. According to \"The Boston Globe\" and the Associated Press, the menu included mustard black cod and filet mignon as entrees, and baked Alaska for dessert.\n\nOn the morning and afternoon of January 19, a day-long \"Voices of the People\" public concert was held at the Lincoln Memorial. The concert featured The King's Academy (West Palm Beach, Florida) Honor Choir, the Republican Hindu Coalition, the Montgomery Area High School Marching Band, Marlana Van Hoose, the Maury NJROTC Color Guard, the Pride of Madawaska, Webelos Troop 177, the Northern Middle School Honors Choir, the American Tap Company, the Everett High School Viking Marching Band, the TwirlTasTix Baton Twirling group, and three bagpipe groups.\n\nAfter returning home to New York City, Trump returned to Washington, D.C. on Thursday, January 19, arriving at Joint Base Andrews on a plane flown by the U.S. Air Force.\n\nTrump and Vice President-elect Pence attended a luncheon at Trump's hotel at the Old Post Office Pavilion, and afterwards, the official wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery, accompanied by his wife and family. Trump and Pence were escorted by Major General Bradley Becker at the ceremony. The Arlington National Cemetery is the final resting place of more than 400,000, mostly members of the armed forces, Medal of Honor recipients, and high ranking political officials.\n\nOn the evening of January 19, Trump hosted the \"Make America Great Again! Welcome Celebration,\" a concert for his supporters that were attending his inauguration the following day. The concert, held on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, featured performances by Lee Greenwood (who performed \"God Bless the USA\"), Toby Keith, 3 Doors Down, DJ Ravidrums, The Piano Guys, and The Frontmen of Country (Tim Rushlow, Larry Stewart, and Richie McDonald). Trump addressed his supporters at the end of the festivities, saying that the \"forgotten man and the forgotten woman will not be forgotten anymore\". Actor Jon Voight also spoke at the event, stating, \"We have been witness to a barrage of propaganda that left us all breathless with anticipation, not knowing if God could reverse all the negative lies against Mr. Trump, whose only desire was to make America great again.\" The concert concluded with a fireworks celebration.\n\nOn the morning of the inauguration, on January 20, after staying the night at the Blair House, the traditional house used by the incoming President-elect due to its proximity to the White House, Trump and his wife, Melania, and Mike Pence and his wife, Karen, attended a church service at St. John's Episcopal Church. The tradition dates back to James Madison, with every President since then attending the church service the morning of their inauguration. The service was led by Robert Jeffress, a Southern Baptist minister who campaigned for Trump during the election.\n\nAfter the church service, Trump and his wife went to the White House to meet with President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama. The Obamas greeted the Trumps, and Melania presented the couple with a gift. They then posed for photos in front of the White House press corps. The presentation of a gift was a tradition started by Michelle Obama when she presented George W. Bush and Laura Bush with a gift on the day of her husband's inauguration in 2009. Afterward, they held a tea reception inside the White House, along with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, and Mike Pence and his wife, Karen Pence. As per tradition, following the meeting between the President and the President-elect, they shared the Presidential motorcade limousine, and made their way to the Capitol for the inaugural ceremony.\n\nRoy Blunt commenced the inauguration ceremony at 11:41 a.m. with welcoming remarks about the nation's \"commonplace and miraculous\" tradition of a peaceful transition of power. Three religious figures delivered invocations, followed by the Missouri State University chorale performing an original work, \"Now We Belong\". After short remarks, Chuck Schumer ended his speech by asking everyone to stand for the swearing-in ceremony.\n\nPresident Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush, and former Vice Presidents Dan Quayle and Dick Cheney, along with their respective wives, attended the inauguration, including Hillary Clinton, who had been Trump's main opponent in the general election (Clinton was attending as a former First Lady, not as the losing candidate). George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush did not attend the inauguration due to health reasons.\n\nAt 11:54 a.m., Associate Justice Clarence Thomas swore in Mike Pence as the 48th Vice President of the United States, with Pence's hand on his personal Bible as well as the Bible of Ronald Reagan, the politician who inspired Pence to join the Republican Party. A performance of \"America the Beautiful\" by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir followed. At noon Trump became the 45th President of the United States, taking the oath of office with Chief Justice John Roberts. Trump was also sworn in using two Bibles, a Bible his mother gifted him and the historic Lincoln Bible. After the swearing-in, the Marine Band performed \"Hail to the Chief\" and Trump received the traditional 21-gun salute in his honor.\n\nTrump then delivered his 16-minute inaugural address of 1,433 words. The speech was the shortest inaugural address since Jimmy Carter's in 1977.\n\nIn late December 2016, Trump told visitors that he was writing the first draft of his inaugural address, citing previous inauguration speeches by John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan as inspirations. Trump \"insisted publicly that he wrote his own speech,\" although \"The Wall Street Journal\" and others reported that it had been written by Trump senior aides Stephen Miller and Steven Bannon.\n\nThe speech struck a tone that was both nationalist and populist, with suggestions of absolutism and distrust of democracy. The \"Los Angeles Times\" described the address as a \"a truncated version of Trump's campaign rally addresses, absent specific policy and big on a sense of anger at what he defined as a ruling class that has raided America for its own benefit.\" Historians and speechwriters termed the inaugural address as \"one of the most ominous\" in U.S. history, striking an unusually dark and bleak note. Former President George W. Bush reportedly referred to the speech as \"some weird shit\" after the ceremony concluded.\n\nTrump pledged to end what he referred to as \"American carnage,\" depicting the United States in a dystopian light—as a \"land of abandoned factories, economic angst, rising crime\"—while pledging \"a new era in American politics.\" After one year, the phrase \"American carnage\" has been said \"the dark heart of Trump's inauguration speech, was relentlessly mocked for its dark and despondent view of the state of the country\".\nFact-checking organizations, such as FactCheck.org, PolitiFact, and \"The Washington Post\"s Fact Checker noted that Trump's portrayal of the United States in decline \"did not always match reality.\" The fact-checking organizations noted, among other things, that the U.S. violent crime rate was far below its 1991 peak; that the U.S. economy had gained jobs for 75 consecutive months and that unemployment was significantly below its historical average; and participation in U.S. welfare programs had declined.\n\nIn the speech, Trump repeated his campaign-trail \"America First\" slogan in reference to economic and foreign policy issues. Trump's use of the phrase was controversial because of the slogan's association with U.S. isolationists who had opposed the American entry in World War II. Trump's decision \"not to make a strong case for the role of American power in shaping the outside world was a departure from the inaugural addresses of recent Republican presidents from Ronald Reagan to George W. Bush,\" and represented \"a sharp break with the internationalist vision of nearly every U.S. president of the past 100 years that troubled veteran foreign policy experts.\" Nevertheless, Trump's themes on foreign policy appealed \"to many Americans as well as to critics of Washington's bipartisan foreign policy establishment.\"\n\nThree religious leaders delivered benedictions following Trump's speech, bringing the total number of prayers during the ceremony to six, a record number. Reverend Franklin Graham; Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, Archbishop of New York; Reverend Dr. Samuel Rodriguez; Pastor Paula White; Rabbi Marvin Hier; and Bishop Wayne T. Jackson gave the benedictions. Jackie Evancho concluded the ceremony with a performance of the U.S. national anthem.\n\nAfter the inaugural ceremony, President Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and Second Lady Karen Pence escorted former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama to a departure ceremony on the east side of the U.S. Capitol. The Trumps exchanged remarks and bid farewell to the Obamas at the base of the helicopter that would transport them to Joint Base Andrews, and then returned to the steps of the Capitol building where they waved as the Obama's helicopter took off. Meanwhile, the Bidens took a limousine to Union Station where they boarded a train for Dover, Delaware. Before the luncheon and in keeping with tradition, President Trump signed his first presidential orders in the President's Room at the Capitol, and then signed the guest book for the luncheon.\nNext, Trump signed orders to officially present the nominations for his Cabinet and several sub‑Cabinet officials to the Senate for confirmation. His first bill that he signed into law was a waiver of the National Security Act of 1947 granted to him that allowed the nomination of retired General James Mattis to be nominated for the position of United States Secretary of Defense. The National Security Act of 1947 requires a seven-year waiting period before retired military personnel can assume the role of Secretary of Defense. Mattis became only the second Secretary of Defense to receive such a waiver, following George Marshall, who served under President Harry S. Truman. Following in tradition, Trump used various commemorative pens to sign the Cabinet nominations, and distributed them among the lawmakers and guests that had gathered. The pens are traditionally given as a gift to politicians or individuals touched by the action, or were instrumental in its implementation.\n\nTrump also signed a proclamation declaring his inauguration a National Day of Patriotic Devotion. In this he followed Barack Obama, who declared his a National Day of Renewal and Reconciliation, and previous declarations of periods of patriotism by such former presidents as Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.\n\nTrump was accompanied at the signing ceremony by his wife, and children, and several of his grandchildren, as well as the chairs of the Joint Congressional Inauguration Committee, including Senators Roy Blunt, Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer, and Congressional leaders Paul Ryan, Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi. During the ceremony, the lawmakers joked with President Trump, he handed pens to participants (e.g. Elaine Chao's nomination pen to Nancy Pelosi, Trump stating, because \"they were both women\") and then traded pens in an offer to give, not as an ask to receive (Nancy Pelosi gave Elaine Chao's nomination pen to Chao's husband, Mitch McConnell). The Trumps and Pences then attended an inaugural luncheon at the U.S. Capitol before traveling from there to the presidential reviewing stand at the White House to watch the parade.\nAs former President and Mrs. Obama began their journey to a vacation in California, the Trumps and Pences joined several congressional guests for the inaugural luncheon in National Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol. Guests included top Washington lawmakers as well as former presidents and vice presidents. During his formal address at the lunch, Trump asked those in attendance to give Hillary Clinton, his opponent during the 2016 election, a standing ovation.\n\nA luncheon at the U.S. Capitol has been part of the inaugural program since 1953 (before that time, the luncheon was usually held at the White House and hosted by the outgoing President and First Lady). The menu for the 2017 inaugural luncheon, which in the past has often featured dishes representative of the home states of the new President and Vice President, included more traditional dishes from around the country. The first course consisted of Maine lobster and Gulf shrimp with saffron sauce and peanut crumble, accompanied by a J. Lohr 2013 Arroyo Vista Chardonnay. The second dish contained Seven Hills Angus beef in dark chocolate and juniper jus with potato gratin, served with a Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon, and dessert included a chocolate soufflé and cherry vanilla ice cream with California Champagne. Since 1985, a painting has served as a backdrop for the head table. For the 2017 inaugural luncheon, the featured painting was George Caleb Bingham's \"The Verdict of the People\", which depicts a Missouri town and its citizens both celebrating and mourning the election victory of what historians say was a likely proslavery candidate.\n\nFollowing the luncheon, Trump, Pence, and their wives reviewed an honor guard of troops at the East Front of the U.S. Capitol before beginning the parade. The inaugural parade route ran along Pennsylvania Avenue, NW from the U.S. Capitol, ending at the north face of the White House. During most of the parade, President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump traveled in the armored limousine used by the President because of potential security threats. The President and First Lady exited their limousine twice, walking on Pennsylvania Avenue for portions of the parade, a longstanding custom. Vice President Pence and his wife Karen walked the parade route at several points with their children as well.\n\nThe parade lasted approximately two hours during the afternoon and early evening following the inaugural ceremony. Parade participants included more than 8,000 people, \"representing forty organizations including high school and university marching bands, equestrian corps, first responders, and veterans groups,\" according to the Joint Congressional Inauguration Committee. Each branch of the United States military was also represented.\n\nVice President Mike Pence invited several groups from Indiana to march in the parade in the Indiana section, including the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Drill Team, the Culver Military Academy, and the Columbus North High School marching band from Pence's native Columbus, Indiana. Shortly after the parade, Trump went to the Oval Office to sign his first executive orders as president, including an order to start the process of dismantling the Affordable Care Act.\n\nPresident Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump attended three official inaugural balls during the evening of January 20, 2017, titled \"Liberty and Freedom: The Official Presidential Inaugural Balls.\" Donald Trump wore a classic black tuxedo, with a white button up shirt, and a black bow tie, in keeping with tradition. Melania Trump wore a white, off-the-shoulder, sleeveless gown designed by French-American fashion designer Hervé Pierre. Pierre has also designed dresses for First Ladies Laura Bush, Hillary Clinton and Michelle Obama, and he has been styling for Melania Trump for several years. The dress featured a front slit, a ruffled accent and a thin red belt to cinch the waist.\n\nThe Liberty Ball, one of two official balls held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, was the first stop of the evening for the President and First Lady. The Trumps danced to their first song, which was chosen to be \"My Way\" by Frank Sinatra, and was performed by Erin Boheme, an American jazz singer. In an attempt to allow more access to the inaugural balls, the Presidential Inauguration Committee announced that they intended to make the inaugural balls the most affordable in recent history, offering $50 tickets to either the Liberty or Freedom Balls. The second ball that the Trumps attended was the Freedom Ball, also held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, and also featured a first dance to \"My Way\", as with the Liberty Ball.\nThe third ball that the President and First Lady attended was the Salute To Our Armed Services Ball, which took place at the National Building Museum. The ball was by invitation only, with free tickets being provided to \"active duty and reserve military, Medal of Honor recipients, wounded warriors, military families, veterans, and first responders,\" according to the Presidential Inauguration Committee. At the beginning of the ball, Trump and his wife, Melania, addressed the crowd of gathered service members, and then spoke via satellite with active duty soldiers in Bagram Airfield, Afghanistan. Trump thanked the active duty soldiers for the congratulations on his inauguration as Commander-in-chief. Tony Orlando and the Josh Weathers Band performed at the Armed Services Ball.\n\nIt is tradition for the President and First Lady, and the Vice President and Second Lady, to dance with military service members during the Armed Services Ball. A cover of the song \"I Will Always Love You\" by Whitney Houston was performed during the dance. President Trump danced with U.S. Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Catherine Cartmell of Newport, Rhode Island. Sgt. Angel Rodriguez, who danced with Second Lady Karen Pence, drew attention for his dancing style, spinning the Second Lady, which provoked playful laughter from Tiffany and Eric Trump. After the dance concluded, President Trump and Vice President Pence used a saber to cut the ceremonial military cake in order to honor the sacrifice and service of the members of the Armed Forces.\n\nOn January 21, President Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, Vice President Pence and Second Lady Karen Pence gathered at the Washington National Cathedral for a national day of prayer, a tradition dating back to the first President, George Washington. Among the parishioners were more than two dozen religious leaders from a variety of different faiths. Marlana VanHoose, a 20-year-old vocalist who was born with cytomegalovirus, performed at the ceremony, singing \"How Great Thou Art\". Melania Trump was visibly emotional during the performance, and led a standing ovation for her after she finished performing. The service began with call to prayer by the Reverend Rosemarie Duncan, Mikhail Manevich, a Jewish cantor, and Mohamed Magid, a Muslim imam. The clergy spoke of both compassion and diversity.\n\nBefore the event, federal and local agencies estimated turnout between 700,000 and 900,000. Trump predicted his inauguration having \"an unbelievable, perhaps record-setting turnout.\"\n\nThe US Park Service does not publish crowd estimates about events at the National Mall. Overhead imagery and statistics on public transportation ridership from the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA), which operates Metrorail, are therefore used to estimate crowd sizes.\n\nThe WMATA reported that 193,000 passengers rode the Metro before 11 a.m. on the day of Trump's inauguration, and 570,557 passengers during the entire day, noting that it was lower than the average weekday ridership of 639,000 passengers. \"USA Today\" reported on \"a notable number\" of empty seats along the parade route.\nCrowd counting experts cited by \"The New York Times\" estimated that about 160,000 people were in the National Mall areas in the hour leading up to Trump's speech. Crowd science professor Keith Still estimated the total attendance at 300,000 to 600,000 people, or one-third the estimated 1.1 million to 1.8 million people that attended Obama's 2009 inauguration – which set a record for the total number of people in the National Mall at any one given time, and which marked the inauguration of the nation's first African American president. CNN provided a gigapixel panorama of the area.\n\nNielsen ratings showed that TV viewership of the inauguration in the US was 30.6 million, more than Obama's second inauguration in 2013 (20.6 million), but less than Obama's first inauguration in 2009 (38 million) and Reagan's first in 1981 (42 million). Trump's inauguration became the most streamed Twitter video during the site's decade long history with more than 6.8 million views.\n\nIn a press conference on January 21, Sean Spicer, Trump's White House Press Secretary, stated that the crowd \"was the largest audience ever to witness an inauguration, period, both in person and around the globe\", and accused the media of reporting false crowd estimates to \"lessen the enthusiasm of the inauguration\". Spicer also stated that 420,000 people rode the Metro on the day of Trump's inauguration, and that only 317,000 rode on the day of Obama's. In fact, 570,557 Metro trips were taken on the day of Trump's inauguration, compared to 1.1 million on Obama's 2009 inauguration day and 782,000 on Obama's 2013 inauguration day. Ridership at 11 a.m. was 193,000, 513,000 and 317,000 respectively.\n\nNumerous sources highlighted the fact that Spicer's statements were incorrect, and many accused him of intentionally misstating the figures. In response, Donald Trump's counselor and spokesperson, Kellyanne Conway, in an interview with NBC's Chuck Todd, stated that Spicer merely presented \"alternative facts\". Todd responded by saying \"alternative facts are not facts. They're falsehoods.\"\n\nOn January 23, Spicer admitted his error concerning WMATA ridership levels, stating that he was relying on statistics given to him, but he stood by his claim that the inauguration was the most-viewed, stating he also included online viewership in addition to in-person and television in his estimates. Spicer's claim of the largest audience ever was still shown inaccurate as Nielsen reported 30.6 million viewers across 12 networks while Obama had 37.8 million and Ronald Reagan 41.8 million. As for online viewership, Spicer himself cited a figure of 16.9 million livestreams provided by CNN. However, CNN served nearly 27 million streams in 2009 for Obama's inauguration.\n\nThe incoming administration briefly shut down the Interior Department's Twitter accounts. The National Park Service's official Twitter account had re-tweeted two Tweets on \"omissions on policy areas\" on the White House website and Trump's and Obama's crowd sizes. An NPS spokesman issued an apology for \"mistaken RTs\".\n\nOn the morning following the inauguration, Trump telephoned acting National Park Service director Michael T. Reynolds and personally directed him to produce additional aerial photographs of the Inauguration Day crowds. Reynolds and the Park Service complied with the directive; the additional photos, however, \"did not prove Trump's contention that the crowd size was upward of 1 million.\" In September 2018, documents released from a Freedom of Information Act request showed that Reynolds and the National Park Service doctored photos of the inauguration, at the direction of the President, in an attempt to make the crowd size seem larger.\n\nIn September 2018, a government photographer admitted that he, at Trump's request, edited pictures of the inauguration to make the crowd appear larger: \"The photographer cropped out empty space 'where the crowd ended' for a new set of pictures requested by Trump on the first morning of his presidency, after he was angered by images showing his audience was smaller than Barack Obama's in 2009.\"\n\nAs of mid-December, there were 20 requests for demonstration permits for Trump's inauguration, including , and the Women's March on Washington, which took place the day after inauguration day. Supported by nearly 200 activist groups and organizations, and drawing an estimated three times as many participants as the inauguration, the Women's March demonstrated on racial and gender equality, affordable healthcare, abortion rights and voting rights.\n\nProtests occurred during the inauguration ceremonies in Washington, D.C. The vast majority of protesters, several thousand in all, were peaceful. DisruptJ20 protesters linked arms at security checkpoints and attempted to shut them down. Some elements of the protesters were black bloc groups and self described anarchists, and engaged in sporadic acts of vandalism, rioting, and violence. Six police officers sustained minor injuries, and at least one other person was injured.\n\nA total of 234 people were arrested and charged with rioting, launching controversial trials that gave rise to allegations that the government was overreaching. Ultimately, 21 defendants pleaded guilty, and every other defendant were either acquitted, or had charges dropped by prosecutors; the government failed to obtain a guilty verdict at any trial. In December 2017, the first six people to be tried in connection with the events of January 20 were acquitted by a jury of all charges. Twenty other defendants pleaded guilty and prosecutors dropped cases against 20 others. In January 2018, prosecutors dropped charges against 129 other defendants. In May 2018, prosecutors dropped charges against seven more defendants, after the court found that prosecution had intentionally made misrepresentations to the court and hidden exculpatory evidence from defendants in violation of the \"Brady\" rule, and prosecutors also reduced charges against others. Finally, in July 2018, the government dropped charges against all remaining defendants.\n\nSixty-seven Democratic U.S. Representatives declined to attend Trump's inauguration, citing \"what they described as his alarming and divisive policies, foreign interference in his election and his criticism of civil rights icon John Lewis, a congressman from Georgia\".\n\nThere were 16.63 million viewers of Trump taking the oath of office and giving his inaugural address on the three major cable news networks Fox, CNN, and MSNBC. The number of viewers for Obama in 2009 was more at 17.06 million and in 2013 less at 6.73 million. According to Nielsen data, there were 30.64 million people who viewed Trump's inauguration on the 12 networks that covered it live. The number of viewers for Obama's 2009 inauguration on the 18 networks that covered it live was more at 37.8 million. At Obama's 2013 inauguration, it was less at 20.55 million.\n\nLegend\nTotal cable TV viewers11:45 AM to 12:15 PM Eastern\nTotal cable TV viewers8:00 to 11:00 PM Eastern\nTotal television viewers11:00 AM to 4:00 PM Eastern\nSource:Adweek\n\nThe inaugural committee raised an unprecedented $107 million, twice the amount raised by any previous inauguration committee. Observers agree that the actual inauguration expenses would have been a fraction of that amount, and the advocacy group Public Citizen has been seeking to know what happened to the remaining funds. Committee officials said they were evaluating charities to give the remaining funds to. In September 2017 the committee said it had given $3 million to three separate hurricane rescue organizations. An unspecified amount had also been used for redecorating the White House and Vice President Mike Pence's Washington residence. Thomas Barrack, the committee chair, said that further information about charitable donations would be released in November 2017, but no such announcement was made. The inauguration committee reported having $2.8 million in the bank .\n\nAccording to a tax filing released on February 15, 2018, the committee donated $5 million to charity in 2017 - namely, the previously announced donations to hurricane relief, the White House Historical Association, and the Vice President's Residence Foundation. The majority of the committee's outlay - $57 million - went to four event planning companies. The largest amount, $26 million, went to a California firm called WIS Media Partners, which was created in December 2016 by a close friend and advisor to Melania Trump named Stephanie Winston Wolkoff. The committee reported nearly $15 million in administrative expenses, including $9.4 million for travel and $4.6 million for salaries and benefits for 208 employees.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40565294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40565294", "title": "International years of science", "text": "International years of science\n\nThe german Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) has hosted International Years of Science every year since 2007 with strategically important partner countries like China, Brazil and Russia as part of the German government's Internationalization Strategy. The aim is to strengthen long-term cooperation in education and research, be it through the expansion of university collaborations, the initiation of research and development projects, support for vocational education and training, or by intensifying cutting-edge research.\n\nIn order to achieve the goals of the International Science Years, the german BMBF and the corresponding ministry in the partner country invite research institutions and educational establishments to present their joint projects to the public, to strengthen exchange between young research talent and to launch new collaborations. Examples of activities which are eligible for funding include delegation visits, events, workshops, as well as ‘best practice’ projects which promote cooperation in education and research and in science and technology.\n\nThe key activities of the International Years of Science reflect the research agendas of the respective countries (the \"High-Tech Strategy\" in the case of Germany) and bilateral agreements on scientific and technological cooperation (STC Agreements). As the previous International Years of Science demonstrate, more and more attention is being given to global challenges of the future like climate and energy, health and nutrition, mobility, security and communication as well as the task of supporting innovation. This has resulted in ever closer interaction between policy-makers, science and industry.\n\nThe goals and activities of the International Science Years are publicized on their own dedicated websites aimed at experts and the general public, which include background information and project descriptions as well as calendars of events. The Years of Science are backed up by a wide-ranging publicity campaign sponsored by the BMBF. \n\nThe International Bureau of the BMBF at the German Aerospace Center (DLR) supports the BMBF in the coordination and communications activities of the International Years of Science. \n\n\nThe motto of the German-Egyptian Year of Science and Technology was 'Linking Scientific Masterminds'. It was jointly launched by the Research Ministers of both countries on 15 January 2007 in Cairo. Its aim was to bring together scientists, initiate joint research projects and launch bilateral research projects that would strengthen scientific cooperation well beyond 2007. Six research networks in the fields of materials sciences, water, renewable energy, biotechnology, health research and the arts and social sciences represented the core fields of the Year of Science. The application focus and industrial relevance of the bilateral projects in particular were strengthened. In addition, the involvement of new university and non-university partners in Egypt provided a broader basis for cooperation. Examples include the implementation of a German-Egyptian Research Fund (GERF) or the German University of Cairo (GUC). The German-Egyptian Year of Science and Technology and the more than 150 associated events were well received by scientists and scholars as well as the general public. These events included the opening ceremony in Cairo, the multimedia show \"Culturama\" in Berlin, the open day on the research vessel METEOR in Port Said, the centennial celebration of the German Archaeological Institute in Cairo, the exhibition “Egypt’s Sunken Treasures” in Bonn, and the exhibition of mummies and an accompanying academic programme at the Landesmuseum in Stuttgart. As a gateway to the Arab world, Egypt remains one of Germany's most important partner countries in the Middle East. The German University in Cairo opened a campus in Berlin in January 2013.\n\nThe aim of the German-Israeli Year of Science and Technology, which kicked off in Berlin on 8 April 2008, was to highlight the diversity and excellence of bilateral cooperation in science and to raise awareness in Israel about Germany as a key location for research. Special emphasis was given to cooperation between young scientists from both countries. The Year of Science provided new impetus, for example by focusing on application-oriented R&D collaborations and also by strengthening the humanities and social sciences. The establishment of the Minerva Humanities Center was a milestone in this process. Further key areas of the Year of Science and Technology were the medical sciences, security research and environmental research. In order to improve the prospects of young scientists and scholars and give them special support in the context of German-Israeli cooperation, the BMBF introduced the Award for Research Cooperation and Highest Excellence (ARCHES) for young researchers, which is now conferred on an annual basis. The application and selection procedure is administered by the Minerva Foundation. A major focus of the German-Israeli intergovernmental consultations held in 2012 was on the successful cooperation in cancer research and the start of collaboration in battery research and electrochemistry.\n\nThe slogan \"Together on the road to knowledge\" was the motto of the German-Chinese Year of Science and Education 2009/10, which took place from March 2009 to June 2010. German and Chinese players in science, education, politics and society came together at more than 200 events, workshops and delegation visits, which included the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting with young Chinese research talent in attendance, and the BMBF's participation in events jointly organized by Germany and China in Shenyang and Wuhan on the topic of \"sustainable urban development\" during the campaign “Germany and China – Moving Ahead Together\" (DuC), which attracted more than 300,000 visitors each. In addition, students and scientists gathered information on further activities of the Science Year, about German education and research institutions and research funding opportunities. In Germany the first ever “China Weeks” were held at 47 German universities to provide information about the partner country to the public and to draw attention to the potential of German-Chinese cooperation in higher education and research. A film contest was also launched during the Science Year. The BMBF provided funding worth some two million euros to German research projects with a focus on China. Key areas of the cooperation included cutting-edge research on climate, energy and health issues, as well as activities in the areas of vocational training and higher education. The first and second German-Chinese intergovernmental consultations (2011: Berlin; 2012: Beijing) raised cooperation between the two countries to a new level. In total, seven joint declarations on education and research topics were signed during the intergovernmental consultations. The range of topics in the cooperation between the BMBF and China in the higher education sector (students, graduate students, scientist exchanges, universities) and in vocational education and training was addressed in joint activities in various research disciplines such as innovation research, life sciences, environment/ecology, LED technologies, geosciences, marine research or cultural heritage.\n\nA large number of events in the field of science, research and education were held in Germany and Brazil from April 2010 to April 2011. The slogan \"sustainable:innovative\" guided Brazilian and German universities, research institutions, scientists and students as they came together to exchange information on a wide variety of issues related to sustainability and innovation and to launch new bilateral projects. The aim of these activities was to raise awareness of the diversity and excellence of German-Brazilian bilateral science cooperation and to give fresh impetus to scientific and technological cooperation. More than 100 events took place, including 60 'best practice' projects which received more than 1 million euros in funding from the BMBF. Highlights of the Science Year included the Brazil Week at Münster University, a road show in Brazil which showcased Germany as a location for research, the \"Eye of the Sky\" touring exhibition of the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and a promotional tour through Brazil to attract students to come to study in Germany. The German-Brazilian Year launched the foundation of an agricultural research laboratory at the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) under the umbrella of the Helmholtz Research Centre Jülich. Since 2012 the two institutions have been working in close cooperation in the field of plant breeding. A workshop on the topic \"Creating Value from Bio-Resources\", also held during the Science Year, marked the start of greater cooperation in this field of research. The cooperation is meant to help both countries in the development towards a bio-based economy.\n\nThe German-Russian Year's slogan \"Partnership of Ideas\" was the motto of more than 200 events held between May 2011 and May 2012. Priority areas included basic research in the field of physics, optical technologies, marine and polar research, information and communication technologies, biological research and biotechnology. A German-Russian collaboration in the area of vocational education and training (VET) led to the establishment of bilateral VET partnerships, and thanks to joint innovation partnerships research results were translated more efficiently into ready-for-market products. Special emphasis was given to the support of young talent: the qualifications of young scientists in both countries were enhanced through German-Russian exchange programmes and partnerships between institutions of higher education. Eighteen select German universities hosted \"Russia Weeks\" to raise awareness among students, scientists and the general public of the potential of German-Russian cooperation in the higher education sector. German and Russian scientific organizations, research institutions and universities and the ministries of both countries dedicated themselves to further strengthening ties in the areas of education, research and innovation and affirmed their intentions in a number of written agreements. \n\nThe Russia country campaign, which runs from 2012 to 2014 as part of the \"Promoting Innovation in Germany\" initiative under the umbrella of \"Research in Germany\", is a continuation of the German-Russian Year of Education, Science and Innovation 2011/2012. Its objective is to further strengthen bilateral cooperation between research and science organizations. The country campaign also supports the marketing projects of German research institutes and innovative businesses. The focus areas of the country campaign are optical technologies, nanotechnology, resource efficiency and health. At the German-Russian intergovernmental consultations in April 2013 both countries emphasized their close cooperation in polar and marine research. Research in this field focuses on the shrinking of the Arctic ice cap and on the reconstruction of the history of the climate over the past 3.6 million years.\n\nThe German-South African Year of Science brought together scientists from both countries under the slogan \"Enhancing Science Partnerships for Innovation and Sustainable Development\" to focus on seven thematic fields: climate change, bioeconomy, urbanization, health innovation, astronomy, social sciences & humanities, and human capital development. One of the most important focus areas of German-South African research activity during the Year of Science was and still is research on climate change, its causes and effects. Projects and workshops on the topic were organized which focussed on closed ecosystems, biodiversity, management of water resources or changes in soils. A total of 200 events took place during the year, including the first joint German-South African expedition to Antarctica on the research vessel Polarstern. The ministries of the two countries sponsored 41 projects in the framework of an ideas competition; contests at schools, summer schools, lecture series and specialist conferences were also held. The establishment of a joint research chair was agreed at the end of the Science Year which will be devoted to one of the seven thematic fields and located at one of South Africa's top universities. Furthermore, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation launched the ‘Neville Alexander Memorial Fund’ with support from the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). \n\n\nThe German-Egyptian Year of Science and Technology 2007\n\nThe German-Israeli Year of Science and Technology 2008\n\nGerman-Chinese Year of Science and Education 2009/10\n\nGerman-Brazilian Year of Science, Technology and Innovation 2010/11\n\nGerman-Russian Year of Education, Science and Innovation 2011/12\n\nGerman-South African Year of Science 2012/2013\n"}
{"id": "55579888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55579888", "title": "Iraq conflict (2003–present)", "text": "Iraq conflict (2003–present)\n\nThe Iraqi conflict (2003–present) is a long-running armed conflict that began with the 2003 invasion of Iraq by a United States-led coalition that toppled the government of Saddam Hussein. However, the conflict continued as an insurgency emerged to oppose the occupying forces and the post-invasion Iraqi government. The United States officially withdrew from the country in 2011, but became re-involved in 2014 at the head of a new coalition.\n\nThe main rationale for the invasion of Iraq was based on U.S. and U.K. allegations that Saddam Hussein was developing weapons of mass destruction and that he thus presented a threat to his neighbors and to the world community. The U.S. stated \"on November 8, 2002, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1441. All fifteen members of the Security Council agreed to give Iraq a final opportunity to comply with its obligations and disarm or face the serious consequences of failing to disarm. The resolution strengthened the mandate of the UN Monitoring and Verification Commission (UNMOVIC) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), giving them authority to go anywhere, at any time and talk to anyone in order to verify Iraq's disarmament.\"\n\nThroughout the early 2000s, the administrations of George W. Bush and Tony Blair worked to build a case for invading Iraq, culminating in the U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell's address to the Security Council one month before the invasion. Shortly after the invasion, the Central Intelligence Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, and other intelligence agencies largely discredited evidence related to Iraqi weapons as well as links to Al-Qaeda, and at this point the Bush and Blair administrations began to shift to secondary rationales for the war, such as the Hussein government's human rights record and promoting democracy in Iraq. Opinion polls showed that people of nearly all countries opposed a war without UN mandate and that the view of the United States as a danger to world peace had significantly increased. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan described the war as illegal, saying in an interview in 2004 that it was \"not in conformity with the Security Council.\"\n\nAccusations of faulty evidence and alleged shifting rationales became the focal point for critics of the war, who charge that the Bush administration purposely fabricated evidence to justify an invasion that it had long planned to launch. Supporters of the war claim that the threat from Iraq and Saddam Hussein was real and that it had later been established. The U.S. led the effort for \"the redirection of former Iraqi weapons of mass destruction (WMD) scientists, technicians and engineers to civilian employment and discourage emigration of this community from Iraq.\"\n\nThe invasion of Iraq lasted from 20 March to 1 May 2003 and signaled the start of the Iraq War, which was dubbed Operation Iraqi Freedom by the United States. The invasion consisted of 21 days of major combat operations, in which a combined force of troops from the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and Poland invaded Iraq and deposed the Ba'athist government of Saddam Hussein. The invasion phase consisted primarily of a conventionally fought war which included the capture of the Iraqi capital of Baghdad by American forces with the implicit assistance of the United Kingdom alongside Australia and Poland.\n\n160,000 troops were sent by the Coalition into Iraq, during the initial invasion phase, which lasted from 19 March to 9 April 2003. About 130,000 were sent from the USA alone, with about 28,000 British soldiers, Australia (2,000), and Poland (194). 36 other countries were involved in its aftermath. In preparation for the invasion, 100,000 U.S. troops were assembled in Kuwait by 18 February. The coalition forces also received support from Kurdish irregulars in Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nThe invasion was preceded by an airstrike on the Presidential Palace in Baghdad on 20 March 2003. The following day, coalition forces launched an incursion into Basra Province from their massing point close to the Iraqi-Kuwaiti border. While the special forces launched an amphibious assault from the Persian Gulf to secure Basra and the surrounding petroleum fields, the main invasion army moved into southern Iraq, occupying the region and engaging in the Battle of Nasiriyah on 23 March. Massive air strikes across the country and against Iraqi command and control threw the defending army into chaos and prevented an effective resistance. On 26 March, the 173rd Airborne Brigade was airdropped near the northern city of Kirkuk, where they joined forces with Kurdish rebels and fought several actions against the Iraqi Army to secure the northern part of the country.\n\nThe main body of coalition forces continued their drive into the heart of Iraq and met with little resistance. Most of the Iraqi military was quickly defeated and Baghdad was occupied on 9 April. Other operations occurred against pockets of the Iraqi army, including the capture and occupation of Kirkuk on 10 April, and the attack and capture of Tikrit on 15 April. Iraqi president Saddam Hussein and the central leadership went into hiding as the coalition forces completed the occupation of the country. On 1 May, an end of major combat operations was declared, ending the invasion period and beginning the military occupation period.\n\nInvading U.S.-led forces were unable to immediately fill the power vacuum caused by the sudden collapse of a highly centralized state authority, resulting in weeks of virtual anarchy. The rampant looting during this time period, and the inability of U.S.-led forces to control the situation, led to Iraqi resentment. Additionally, the unexpectedly quick implosion of Saddam Hussein's regime meant that the invading forces never engaged and decisively defeated his army in any major battle; the Iraqi army forces simply melted away, often with their weapons, back to their homes. Another cause of resentment was the lack of immediate humanitarian aid and reconstruction efforts for Iraqis suffering from the invasion, the long-term effects of the repression and mismanagement of the Saddam Hussein regime, and international sanctions. A number of factions felt suspicious of long-term American intentions; the conduct of some American soldiers also served to heighten tensions. The de-Ba'athification Commission set up by the Coalition Provisional Authority, the nature of selection of the Governing Council, and other policy decisions were interpreted by Sunni Arabs as actions intended to single out their community for discrimination; this encouraged the beginnings of sectarian tensions.\n\nIn May 2003, after the Iraqi conventional forces had been defeated and disbanded, the U.S. military noticed a gradually increasing flurry of attacks on U.S. troops in various regions of the so-called \"Sunni Triangle\", especially in Baghdad and in the regions around Fallujah and Tikrit. The U.S. military blamed the attacks on remnants of the Ba'ath Party and the Fedayeen Saddam militia. Tensions between U.S. forces and the residents of Fallujah were especially severe, with crowd riots and small skirmishes commonplace.\n\nMembers of insurgent groups came from a variety of sources. Former members of the security services of the Ba'ath regime, former military officers, and some other Ba'ath Party members are cited as members of insurgent groups; indeed, these elements formed the primary backbone of the nascent insurgency. Initially, most former members of the Ba'ath Party and former Iraqi soldiers expressed a willingness to compromise with the Coalition forces. However, many lost their jobs and pensions with the disbanding of the Iraqi army by Paul Bremer; this, and the unwillingness of the Coalition Provisional Authority to negotiate with former Ba'ath elements, provided impetus for the initial insurgency. While 80% of the army officers were Sunni, the rank and file of the regular army was 80% Shia. Prisoners let out of prison by Saddam Hussein before his disappearance provided another source both of insurgent recruits and of organized crime factions. Finally, as O'Hanlan says, the porous borders of Iraq and the subsequent foreign insurgents also bolstered the insurgency.\n\nResistance to U.S.-led forces would not for long be confined to the Sunni regions of Iraq. Between 2003 and 2004, Shiite dissatisfaction with the occupation, especially among the urban poor, had been gradually increasing for some of the same reasons it had been among the Sunnis: the perception that the Coalition had failed to deliver on its promises and a nationalist dissatisfaction with foreign occupation. Many young men without jobs or prospects and who had lost faith with the promises of the U.S. began to become drawn to Shiite religious radicalism, especially of the brand advocated by the cleric Muqtada al-Sadr. Sadr's distinguished family background, and his fiery anti-occupation rhetoric and calls for the implementation of Islamic law, caused him to emerge as the leader of this portion of Iraqi Shiite society. In June 2003, after being rejected from a spot on the Iraqi Governing Council, he had created a militia known as the Mahdi Army, whose mission he said was to help keep order and cleanse Iraq of \"evil.\" Since that point, the U.S. had regarded him as a threat, but was divided on whether or not to proceed with a crackdown. Eventually, as Sadr's rhetoric heated and his militia paraded through Sadr City in what seemed like a challenge to the United States, they decided to begin to squeeze his movement. On March 29, they moved to close Sadr's newspaper known as \"al-Hawza\" and arrested one of his aides on murder charges. That, combined with his steadily decreasing political prospects for success within the U.S.-backed interim government, pushed Sadr to decide for armed revolt.\n\nOn April 4, the Mahdi Army was directed to begin launching attacks on coalition targets and to seize control from the nascent U.S.-trained Iraqi security forces. The Mahdi Army, which by then numbered from 3,000 to 10,000 men, organized quickly escalating violent riots and then a coordinated assault, surprising coalition and Iraqi forces and seizing control of Najaf, Kufa, al-Kut, and parts of Baghdad and southern cities like Nasiriyah, Amarah, and Basra. A widespread collapse of the Iraqi security forces ensued, with most deserting or defecting to the rebels rather than fighting. Soon, combat was erupting in many urban centers of southern and central portions of Iraq as U.S. forces attempted to maintain control and prepared for a counteroffensive.\nAt the same time, the Sunni insurgency was rapidly intensifying. On March 31, 2004, four private military contractors working for the U.S. military were killed and subsequently mutilated by insurgents and a crowd of residents in the city of Fallujah, long a particularly troublesome center of Sunni resistance to the U.S. presence. On the same day, 5 U.S. soldiers were killed by a large IED on a road a few miles outside of the city. The attacks took place as the Marines were taking over responsibility for al-Anbar province, in which Fallujah is located, from the U.S. Army. The intended Marine strategy of patrols, less aggressive raids, humanitarian aid, and close cooperation with local leaders was quickly suspended and the U.S. decided that it was time for a major assault to clear the city of insurgents. On April 4, U.S. and Iraqi forces launched Operation Vigilant Resolve to retake the city, which had clearly fallen completely into rebel hands. They met very stiff and well-organized resistance from the guerrillas. After three days of fighting with the U.S. Marines, the insurgents still held three-quarters of the city. Cases of widespread reach and planning, suggesting national insurgent coordination, were noted. Hundreds of insurgents cut the road between Fallujah and Baghdad to the east, while west of Fallujah in Ramadi, over 150 insurgents launched an offensive against U.S. Marine positions. A similar attack followed, conducted by about 150 insurgents, against U.S. Marines near the Syrian border in al-Qaim. The assaults were beaten back, but the U.S. toll from the combined attacks numbered in the dozens. Political pressure began to build on the United States and the Governing Council of Iraq as the hospital of Fallujah continued to report high numbers of civilian casualties, inflaming further the Iraqi people and Muslim world in general. After two weeks of fighting, the U.S. Marines were on the verge of capturing, but had not yet taken central control of, the city of Fallujah. Pentagon leaders, fearing that continuing the effort to capture the city might further inflame a larger revolt against Coalition authority, pulled back the forces. The Marines were ordered to stand-down and cordon off the city on April 30, where they would remain in a perimeter around the city for the following six months. A compromise on April 30 was reached in order to ensure security within Fallujah itself by creating the \"Fallujah Brigade\", a unit that drew from former members of Iraq's Army, local volunteers, and even the insurgents themselves. The unit's formation was part of a truce negotiation. This unit was to act under the control of the Coalition Provisional Authority, patrol alongside the Iraqi Police and National Guardsmen but maintain its autonomy. The Fallujah Brigade had many former Saddam loyalists. From various reports, Brigade members re-integrated themselves into the insurgent outfits that dominated. The city remained under the control of insurgent forces. Reportedly, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's organization was among the several that exercised some authority in the area.\n\nBy the end of the spring uprising, the cities of Fallujah, Samarra, Baquba, and Ramadi had been left under Sunni guerrilla control with American patrols in the cities ceased. The insurgency had undergone another major shift, as insurgent organizations now had safe havens in cities such as Fallujah to develop and coordinate with each other. Zarqawi's group and its allies were in a period of uneasy cooperation with other insurgent groups dominated by nationalist and Ba'athist agendas, although the groups increasingly came into competition for territory within Sunni insurgent-controlled areas. U.S. forces launched only occasional armored forays into Samarra and Baquba, while about half a dozen small forts were maintained by the U.S. Marines in Ramadi, with the surrounding territory in the city controlled by rebels. American ground forces remained outside of Fallujah, though regular air strikes were conducted on alleged safehouses of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's followers in the city. With the battle for Fallujah over, the Sunni insurgency continued against the U.S. forces remaining outside these cities as the guerrillas resumed their tactics of using IED's and mortars to attack U.S. forces indirectly, for the most part avoiding direct combat.\n\nMeanwhile, the fighting continued in the Shiite south. Over the next three months, over 1,500 Mahdi Army militiamen, several hundred civilians, and dozens of coalition soldiers were killed as the U.S. gradually took back the southern cities. On June 6, a truce was reached, temporarily ending the fighting.\n\nOn June 28, 2004, the occupation was formally ended by the Coalition, which transferred power to a new Iraqi government led by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. Although many Iraqis were optimistic about the government, militants saw it as little more than an American puppet and continued the fight unabated. On July 18, guerrillas offered a $285,000 reward for Allawi's assassination.\n\nIn February 2006, the Salafi jihadist organization Tanzim Qaidat al-Jihad fi Bilad al-Rafidayn (also known as Al-Qaeda in Iraq) bombed one of the holiest sites in Shi'a Islam - the al-Askari Mosque in Samarra. This set off a wave of Shi'a reprisals against Sunnis followed by Sunni counterattacks. The conflict escalated over the next several months until by 2007, the National Intelligence Estimate described the situation as having elements of a civil war.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, during the Sunni Awakening and the surge, violence declined dramatically. However, low-level strife continued to plague Iraq until the U.S. withdrawal in late 2011.\n\nIn October 2006, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the Iraqi government estimated that more than 370,000 Iraqis had been displaced since the 2006 bombing of the al-Askari Mosque, bringing the total number of Iraqi refugees to more than 1.6 million. By 2008, the UNHCR raised the estimate of refugees to a total of about 4.7 million (~16% of the population). The number of refugees estimated abroad was 2 million (a number close to CIA projections) and the number of internally displaced people was 2.7 million. The estimated number of orphans across Iraq has ranged from 400,000 (according to the Baghdad Provincial Council), to five million (according to Iraq's anti-corruption board). A UN report from 2008 placed the number of orphans at about 870,000. The Red Cross stated in 2008 that Iraq's humanitarian situation was among the most critical in the world, with millions of Iraqis forced to rely on insufficient and poor-quality water sources.\n\nAccording to the Failed States Index, produced by Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace, Iraq was one of the world's top 5 unstable states from 2005 to 2008. A poll of top U.S. foreign policy experts conducted in 2007 showed that over the next 10 years, just 3% of experts believed the U.S. would be able to rebuild Iraq into a \"beacon of democracy\" and 58% of experts believed that Sunni–Shiite tensions would dramatically increase in the Middle East.\n\nTwo polls of Americans conducted in 2006 found that between 65% to 85% believed Iraq was in a civil war. However, a similar poll of Iraqis conducted in 2007 found that 61% did not believe that they were in a civil war.\n\nThe withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Iraq was a contentious issue in the United States for much of the 2000s. As the war progressed from its initial invasion phase in 2003 to a nearly decade-long occupation, American public opinion shifted towards favoring a troop withdrawal; in May 2007, 55% of Americans believed that the Iraq War was a mistake, and 51% of registered voters favored troop withdrawal. In late April 2007 Congress passed a supplementary spending bill for Iraq that set a deadline for troop withdrawal but President Bush vetoed this bill, citing his concerns about setting a withdrawal deadline. The Bush Administration later sought an agreement with the Iraqi government, and in 2008 George W. Bush signed the U.S.–Iraq Status of Forces Agreement. It included a deadline of 31 December 2011, before which \"all the United States Forces shall withdraw from all Iraqi territory\". The last U.S. troops left Iraq on 18 December 2011, in accordance with this agreement.\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant's (ISIS, ISIL) military campaign was very successful, and the group took swathes of territory in northern Iraq during 2014. Violence reached very high levels, with 1,775 people killed in the month of June alone. These figures remained very high for the remainder of the year.\n\nThe 2017 Iraqi–Kurdish conflict occurred in and around the Kurdish region of northern Iraq that began on 15 October 2017, shortly after the Iraqi Kurdistan referendum in 2017 was held on September 25. After the independence referendum, Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi demanded the referendum to be canceled. In October, the Iraqi military moved into the Kurdistan region after the entry of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. On 16 October 2017, the Kurdish Peshmerga ignored a deadline given by Iraq to withdraw. This led to Battle of Kirkuk (2017), and Iraqi forces and Iranian-backed PMU retaking Kirkuk and its province on 15 October 2017. Within 15 hours, the city of Kirkuk and the nearby K-1 Air Base, along with surrounding oilfields, were retaken by Iraqi forces. This resulted in the conflict's end.\n\nOn December 9, 2017, the last ISIL-held areas in the al-Jazira Desert were captured by the Iraqi military. The prime minister later declared victory, and celebrations occurred soon after.\n\nFollowing ISIL's defeat, the group has continued an insurgency. However they have been greatly weakened and violence in Iraq has been sharply reduced in 2018. Only 95 people lost their lives during the month of May, the lowest figure in 10 years.\n"}
{"id": "374231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374231", "title": "J. D. Tippit", "text": "J. D. Tippit\n\nJ. D. Tippit (September 18, 1924 – November 22, 1963) was an American police officer who was an 11-year veteran with the Dallas Police Department. About 45 minutes after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, Tippit was shot dead in a residential neighborhood in the Oak Cliff section of Dallas. Lee Harvey Oswald was initially arrested for the murder of Tippit and was subsequently arrested for the killing of President Kennedy. Oswald was charged with both crimes shortly after his arrest. However, Oswald denied involvement in either of the cases. Because Oswald was shot and killed by nightclub owner Jack Ruby two days after the killings, he could not be prosecuted for either.\n\nTippit was born near the town of Annona in Red River County, Texas. He was the eldest of seven children (two girls and five boys) to Edgar Lee Tippit (1902–2006), a sharecropper cotton farmer, and Lizzie Mae \"May Bug\" Tippit (née Rush; 1905–1990). The Tippit and Rush families were of English ancestry, their ancestors having immigrated to Virginia from England by 1635. It is sometimes reported that J.D. stood for \"Jefferson Davis\", but in fact, the letters did not stand for anything. Tippit attended public schools through the tenth grade and was raised as a Baptist, a faith he practiced for the rest of his life. In the fall of 1939, when he was 15, his family moved to Baker Lane, a stretch of dirt road six miles southwest from Clarksville. He entered the United States Army on July 21, 1944, and was assigned to the 513th Parachute Infantry Regiment of the US 17th Airborne Division. He saw combat in Operation Varsity, the airborne crossing of the Rhine River in March 1945, earning a Bronze Star, and remained on active duty until June 20, 1946.\n\nTippit married his high school sweetheart, Marie Frances Gasway, on December 26, 1946. The couple had three children: Charles Allan (born 1950), Brenda Kay (born 1953) and Curtis Glenn (born 1958). That same year, he went to work for the Dearborn Stove Company. He next worked for Sears, Roebuck and Company in the installation department from March 1948 to September 1949 when he was laid off. The couple moved to Lone Star, Texas, where Tippit attempted to farm and raise cattle.\n\nIn January 1950, Tippit enrolled in a Veterans Administration vocational training school at Bogata, Texas. He left the school in June 1952. After facing several setbacks as a farmer and rancher, Tippit decided to become a police officer. The Tippit family then moved to Dallas where Tippit was hired by the Dallas Police Department as a patrolman in July 1952. During his time with the Dallas Police Department, Officer Tippit was cited twice for bravery.\n\nAt the time of his death, Tippit was assigned to Dallas Police vehicle #10, had badge #848 and was earning a salary of $490 a month (worth $ in 2015) as a Dallas police officer. He was also working two part-time jobs; he worked at Austin's Barbecue restaurant on Friday and Saturday nights and at the Stevens Park Theatre on Sundays.\n\nOn November 22, 1963, J.D. Tippit was working beat number 78, his normal patrol area in south Oak Cliff, a residential area of Dallas.\n\nAt 12:45 p.m., 15 minutes after Kennedy was shot, Tippit received a radio order to drive to the central Oak Cliff area as part of a concentration of police around the center of the city. At 12:54, Tippit radioed that he had moved as directed. By then several messages had been broadcast describing a suspect in the killing of Kennedy as a slender white male, in his early thirties, tall, and weighing about . Oswald was a slender white male, 24 years old, tall, and an estimated weight of at autopsy.\n\nAt approximately 1:11–1:14 p.m., Tippit was driving slowly eastward on East 10th Street — about past the intersection of 10th Street and Patton Avenue — when he pulled alongside a man who resembled the police description. Oswald walked over to Tippit's car and apparently exchanged words with him through an open vent window. Tippit opened his car door and as he walked toward the front of the car, Oswald drew his handgun and fired four shots in rapid succession. One bullet hit Tippit in the chest, one in the stomach, another in his right temple (one bullet hit a button and did not penetrate his skin). Tippit's body was transported from the scene of the shooting by ambulance to Methodist Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 1:25 p.m. by Dr. Richard A. Liguori.\n\nA short time later, Hardy's shoe store manager Johnny Brewer observed Oswald acting suspiciously as police cars passed nearby with sirens blaring. Oswald then ducked into the Texas Theatre without purchasing a ticket. The police were notified by the theater's cashier and responded by surrounding the theater. Oswald was arrested after a brief struggle.\n\nTwelve people who witnessed the shooting or its aftermath were mentioned in The Warren Report. Domingo Benavides saw Tippit standing by the left door of his parked police car, and a man standing on the right side of the car. He then heard shots and saw Tippit fall to the ground. Benavides stopped his pickup truck on the opposite side of the street from Tippit's car. He observed the shooter fleeing the scene and removing spent cartridge cases from his gun as he left.\n\nBenavides waited in his truck until the gunman disappeared before assisting Tippit. He then reported the shooting to police headquarters, using the radio in Tippit's car. Helen Markham witnessed the shooting and then saw a man with a gun in his hand leave the scene. Markham identified Lee Harvey Oswald as Tippit's killer in a police lineup she viewed that evening. Barbara Davis and her sister-in-law Virginia Davis heard the shots and saw a man crossing their lawn, shaking his revolver, as if he were emptying it of cartridge cases. Later, the women found two cartridge cases near the crime scene and handed the cases over to police.\n\nThat evening, Barbara Davis and Virginia Davis were taken to a lineup and both Davises picked out Oswald as the man whom they had seen.\n\nTaxicab driver William Scoggins testified that he was sitting nearby in his cab when he saw Tippit's police car pull up alongside a man on the sidewalk. Scoggins heard three or four shots and then saw Tippit fall to the ground. As Scoggins crouched behind his cab, the man passed within twelve feet of him, pistol in hand, muttering what sounded to him like, \"poor dumb cop\" or \"poor damn cop.\" The next day, Scoggins viewed a police lineup and identified Oswald as the man whom he had seen with the pistol.\n\nThe Commission also named several other witnesses who were not at the scene of the murder, but who identified Oswald running between the murder scene and the Texas Theatre, where Oswald was subsequently arrested. Four cartridge cases were found at the scene by eyewitnesses.\n\nIt was the unanimous testimony of expert witnesses before the Warren Commission that these spent cartridge cases were fired from the revolver in Oswald's possession to the exclusion of all other weapons.\n\nUpon his arrest and during subsequent questionings by police, Lee Harvey Oswald denied any involvement in Tippit's murder. Based on eyewitness' statements and the gun found in Oswald's possession at the time of his arrest, he was formally charged with the murder of J.D. Tippit at 7:10 pm. on November 22. During the course of the day, police began to suspect that Oswald was also involved in the shooting of President Kennedy.\n\nAt approximately 1:00 am on November 23, Oswald was also charged with assassinating President John F. Kennedy. Oswald continued to maintain his innocence in connection with both murders. In the late morning of November 24, while being transported from the Dallas City Jail to the Dallas County Jail, Oswald was fatally shot in the abdomen by Dallas nightclub owner Jack Ruby. The shooting was broadcast throughout the United States and Canada on live television.\n\nAs Oswald was killed before he was tried for either crime, President Lyndon B. Johnson commissioned a committee of U.S. Senators, Congressmen and elder statesmen to investigate the events surrounding the deaths of President Kennedy, Officer Tippit and Oswald in an effort to answer questions surrounding the events. President Johnson also hoped to quell rumors that arose after Oswald was shot by Jack Ruby that the assassination and subsequent shootings were part of a conspiracy. The committee, known as the Warren Commission (named for the commission chairman, Chief Justice Earl Warren), spent ten months investigating the murders and interviewing witnesses. On September 24, 1964, the Warren Commission released an 888-page report that concluded there was no evidence of a conspiracy and Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in killing President Kennedy and Officer Tippit. The report also concluded that Jack Ruby acted alone in the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\nIn 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations reported: \"Based on Oswald's possession of the murder weapon a short time after the murder and the eyewitness identifications of Oswald as the gunman, the committee concluded that Oswald shot and killed Officer Tippit.\"\n\nSome conspiracy theorists have alleged that the murder of Officer Tippit was part of a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. Implying that two murders could not have happened so closely together by coincidence, his killing is often referred to as the \"Rosetta Stone\" to the solution of the Kennedy assassination by critics of the official findings. Some critics dispute that Oswald shot Tippit, arguing that the physical evidence and witness testimony do not support that conclusion. Other critics state that Tippit himself was a conspirator, tasked to kill Oswald by organized crime or right-wing politicians in order to cover up the search for other assassins.\n\nOn the evening of the assassination, both Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and the new President, Lyndon B. Johnson, called Tippit's widow to express their sympathies. Jacqueline Kennedy wrote a letter expressing sorrow for the bond they shared. The plight of Tippit's family also moved much of the nation and a total of $647,579 was donated to them following the assassination. One of the largest individual gifts was $25,000 that Dallas businessman Abraham Zapruder donated to Frances Tippit after selling his film of the president's assassination to \"Life\" magazine.\n\nA funeral service for J.D. Tippit was held on November 25, 1963, at the Beckley Hills Baptist Church, with the burial following at Laurel Land Memorial Park in Dallas. His funeral was held on the same day as those of both President Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\nIn January 1964, Tippit was posthumously awarded the Medal of Valor from the American Police Hall of Fame, and he also received the Police Medal of Honor, the Police Cross, and the Citizens Traffic Commission Award of Heroism. A state historical marker to Officer Tippit was unveiled November 20, 2012 at the location where the shooting occurred.\n\nTippit's widow married Dallas police lieutenant Harry Dean Thomas in January 1967. They were married until his death in 1982. Marie Tippit later married Carl Flinner; the marriage ended in divorce after which Marie resumed using the surname of Tippit.\n\nIn movies, Tippit has been portrayed by Price Carson in 1991's \"JFK\", and David Duchovny in 1992's \"Ruby\". He was also portrayed by Matt Micou in the 2013 television drama \"Killing Kennedy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53149872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53149872", "title": "Kamwina Nsapu rebellion", "text": "Kamwina Nsapu rebellion\n\nThe Kamwina Nsapu rebellion, also spelled Kamuina Nsapu rebellion, is an ongoing rebellion instigated by the Kamwina Nsapu militia against state security forces in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), in the provinces of Kasaï-Central, Kasaï, Kasai-Oriental, Lomami and Sankuru. The fighting began after the militia, led by Kamwina Nsapu, attacked security forces in August 2016.\n\nThere is an ethnic nature to the conflict, with the militia being Luba. It had selectively killed non-Luba.\n\nIn 2011, Jean-Pierre Mpandi was designated to succeed his uncle and become the sixth head of Bajila Kasanja clan after returning from South Africa from a conviction in a diamond-trafficking case. His tribal name was Kamwina Nsapu, meaning \"black ant\". Such chiefs exercise significant control over land and are required to be recognized by the central state even if they are selected according to traditions. That encourages chiefs to support the DRC government to get its endorsement.\n\nHis region supported the opposition in the last presidential election, and tensions flared when the government appointed supporters, rather than tribal chiefs, to powerful positions in the local government. The central government also refused to recognise Kamwina Nsapu's appointment as chief after he opposed the government's stance. That led him to contest the central government's power, and he began calling for an insurrection in June 2016.\n\nHe incited his men with xenophobic language, referring to the regular security forces as foreign mercenaries and an occupation force. He caused a militia, named after him, to launch attacks on the local police. On 12 August 2016, he was killed alongside eight other militiamen and 11 policemen in Tshimbulu. Upon his death, the Congolese Observatory for Human Rights condemned his killing and suggested he should have been arrested instead.\n\nSeveral of his followers refused to believe that he was dead and escalated the violence by intensifying their attacks on the security forces. As the violence by Kamwina Nsapu's men escalated, the uprising spread, and an increasing number of locals picked up arms against the government. Kamwina Nsapu's death meant that the rebellion effectively fractured into numerous movements, \"all fighting for different reasons\".\n\nIn September 2016, Kawina Nsapu's militia captured an area 180 km from Kananga and then captured the Kananga Airport before it was retaken by the Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. On 26 September 2016, the government announced that in total, 49 people had been killed (27 militiamen, 16 policemen and 6 civilians) and 185 militiamen captured since the fighting began.\n\nIn January 2017, four militiamen were killed, and two policemen were wounded. A few days later, the rebels called for the removal of the governor, Alex Kande, and protested the visit of Prime Minister Samy Badibanga. On 31 January 2017, a Roman Catholic priest from St. Alphonsus Parish in Kananga who tried to stop the militia from taking children from schools was kidnapped but was later released.\nOn 9 February 2017, fighting erupted in Tshimbulu between 300 militiamen and the armed forces in a reprisal attack by the militia. At least six people were killed, including one civilian. By the next day, 60 to 75 were reported killed by the armed forces, while at least two servicemen have been wounded. On 14 February, United Nations human rights spokeswoman Liz Throssell announced that at least 101 people had been killed by government forces between 9 and 13 February, with 39 women confirmed to be among them.\n\nA few days later, a video showing members of the Congolese military killing civilians in the village of Mwanza Lomba was leaked. Human Rights Minister Marie-Ange Mushobekwa said that the video had not been authenticated, and Communications Minister Lambert Mende Omalanga said that it had filmed in another country \"to destroy the image of the D.R.C.\"\n\nTwo journalists have received death threats for their coverage of the conflict: Sosthène Kambidi of Radio télévision chrétienne in Kananga and Fabrice Mfuamba of Radio Moyo in Tshimbulu.\n\nOn 18 February 2017, the Grand Séminaire de Malole (Great Seminary of Malole) in Kananga was ransacked by Kamwina Nsapu militants. It was the first time that they attacked a Roman Catholic target. Shortly after the attack, both Félicien Mwanama Galumbulula, the Bishop of Lwiza, and Laurent Monsengwo Pasinya, the Archbishop of Kinshasa, condemned the violence, and Justin Milonga, the vice governor of Kasaï-Central, called for the Kamwina Nsapu fighters to negotiate with the government. MONUSCO troops also toured Nganza and Malole in Kananga to calm the situation.\n\nAs a result of the clashes, many parents have stopped sending their children to school. However, on 26 February 2017, Justin Milonga, the vice governor of Kasaï-Central, said that the \"insanity\" needed to end and that children should resume going to school.\n\nOn 15 April 2017, the government returned the body of Kamwina Nsapu to the militia, one of its key demands, as a way of easing tensions and recognised his successor, Jacques Kabeya Ntumba, as a customary chief, as failure to recognize Nsapu had been a trigger for the fighting. As the conflict continued to spread and escalate in violence, the government sent hardened troops from eastern Congo to fight the Kamwina Nsapu militia. The commanders of these reinforcements were \"notorious for their brutality\" and even included a former warlord who had once been convicted by the government to death for his extreme behavior. Increasing reports surfaced of the military having massacred both captured rebels and Luba civilians who were suspected of supporting the insurgency. MONUSCO estimated that Congolese \"state agents\" had carried out 1,176 extrajudicial killings against protesters and anti-government activists in 2017, and that most of these killings occurred in areas affected by the Kamwina Nsapu rebellion.\n\nBy early 2018, the government had retaken most of the areas in Kasaï and the surrounding regions which had previously been held by insurgents. Nevertheless, fighting continued and a new surge of violence in February 2018 caused about 11,000 people in Kasaï to flee their homes. The United Nations estimated that about 5,000 people had been killed overall during the fighting by August 2018, though the violence did \"still fall short of genocide\".\n\nThe Kamwina Nsapu rebels are only loosely connected and operate in various autonomous factions. They lack an \"identifiable leader\" since Kamwina Nsapu's death, but individual factions are known to have leaders such as \"General\" Gaylord Tshimbala and opposition politicians are rumoured to support the uprising. The rebels are united in their opposition against the government and have adopted red as unifiying colour of their uprising. Kamwina Nsapu fighters thus usually identify themselves by wearing red headbands or armbands.\n\nAlthough relatively poorly armed, with most of their weaponry looted or stolen from the Congolese security forces, the rebels are strongly motivated by their belief in various forms of witchcraft: Many Kamwina Nsapu rebels believe in gaining magical protection from harm by wearing fetishes, specific leaves, and protective amulets. Elements of the Kamwina Nsapu militia have been described as \"cultlike\" due to their beliefs. For example, recruits are reportedly forced to walk through fire and told that by undergoing the initiation ritual, they will be resurrected if they are killed in battle. Some fighters also believe that wooden weapons can be transformed into functioning guns by magical rituals.\n\nThe militia has also been noted for its extensive recruitment of child soldiers. Experts consider it likely that most of the rebels are children. Child soldiers are promised jobs and money and are often given drugs and alcohol in order to motivate them to fight.\n\nIts splintered nature causes the rebellion to have no clear goals. Common demands by members of the militia are, however, the return of and the proper burial of their slain leader, which the government conceded in March or April 2017, reparations for the chief's family, the restoration of damaged hospitals and schools by the central authorities, \"social and economic development of the region\" and the release of imprisoned rebels as well as civilians. Since February 2017, a purported spokesman of the group has also demanded the implementation of the agreement between Kabila and the opposition after the December 2016 Congolese protests.\n\nThe conflict has evolved from a rebellion against the state to involve ethnic violence. Most of the people in the Kamwina Nsapu militia are from the Luba people and are reportedly targeting the Pende and the Chokwe. On 24 March 2017, militiamen reportedly killed and decapitated at least 40 policemen and spared six, who spoke the local Tshiluba language.\n\nThe Bana Mura militia, a largely-Chokwe group, committed a string of ethnically-motivated attacks against the Luba and Lulua. It has been linked to the government and victims attest that the army and police accompanied it in attacks. It was reported to have committed atrocities such as cutting off toddlers' limbs, stabbing pregnant women and mutilating fetuses, and it is blamed for the murder of 49 minors in 2017.\n\nReportedly, half the Kamwina Nsapu militia is under 14, with some being as young as 5, and Congolese authorities claim that it is under the influence of drugs.\n\nIn June 2017, more than 3,300 people have been killed in violence since October 2016 and 20 villages have been completely destroyed, half of them by government troops, according to the Catholic Church.\n\nOn 11 February 2017, the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) said in a statement that it was \"concerned about the persistent conflict in the Kasais\". It condemned the \"recruitment and use of child soldiers\" and \"the disproportionate use of force\" by the Congolese forces in retaliation.\n\nIn his angelus on 16 February 2017, Pope Francis called for an end to the violence, especially the use of child soldiers. He said, \"I suffer deeply for the victims, especially for so many children ripped from their families and their schools to be used as soldiers.\"\n\nOn 19 February 2017, Mark C. Toner, the Deputy Spokesperson of the US Department of State called for an investigation into the video of the alleged Mwanza Lomba massacre.\n\nOn 20 February 2017, the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Development also called for an investigation into the video. In an official statement, it said, \"France condemns the bloody violence which has rocked the Kasai region for several months. It calls on the Congolese authorities and security forces to shoulder their primary responsibility to protect civilians, fully respecting human rights\".\n\nOn 13 March 2017, two UN investigators were murdered in Kasai, with both the Congolese government and the Kamunia Nsapu militia naming each other as the culprits. A video published by the Congolese government on April 24 seems to point to the militia.\n"}
{"id": "6783005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6783005", "title": "List of graded stakes at Churchill Downs", "text": "List of graded stakes at Churchill Downs\n\nThe following is a list of graded stakes races held at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky:\n"}
{"id": "18180446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18180446", "title": "List of month-long observances", "text": "List of month-long observances\n\nThe following is a list of notable month-long observances, recurrent months that are used by various governments, groups and organizations to raise awareness of an issue, commemorate a group or event, or celebrate something.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n55. First Presidential Proclamation for National Caribbean American Heritage Month was June 6, 2006 by President George Bush. First City to Proclaim Caribbean Heritage Month Washington DC 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "17445002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17445002", "title": "Løvejagten", "text": "Løvejagten\n\nLøvejagten (Danish for \"the lion hunt\", English title: \"The Lion Hunt\") was a controversial 1907 silent film by Danish producer Ole Olsen and director Viggo Larsen. The short ten-minute movie caused an enormous public protest in Denmark because it depicted the actual shooting of two captive lions.\n\nTwo big game hunters are on safari in the jungle with their African guide. They observe zebras, ostrich and a hippopotamus, and catch a small monkey for a pet. During the night they are awakened by a lion which kills a small goat and then the hunters' horse. The hunters shoot the lion as it stands by the water on a beach. They discover another lion and shoot it also. The lions are gutted and skinned. The happy hunters sit and smoke cigarettes afterward.\n\nThe ten-minute \"jungle\" movie (215 meters of 35mm film) was actually filmed on location in Denmark. Scenes of the hunters in the forest were shot in Jægersborg Dyrehave park near Copenhagen. The animals were filmed at the Copenhagen Zoo with the camera aimed downward to avoid any view of the enclosures. The controversial shooting of two lions took place on the small island of Elleore in the Roskilde fjord.\n\nIn the summer of 1907, Ole Olsen decorated Elleore with palm fronds and artificial plants to simulate a tropical savanna. He then bought two elderly lions from the Hagenbeck Zoo in Hamburg, Germany for the large sum of 5000 deutschmarks.\nWhen the Danish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals learned about Olsen's plan to shoot the lions for his movie, they protested to the Danish Minister of Justice Peter Adler Alberti. Alberti banned the filming. Two days later, however, Olsen defiantly shot the scenes as planned, then smuggled the film to Sweden. Olsen's cinematographer, Axel Graatkjær, was arrested and spent a day in jail. At a court hearing, Alberti banned the movie in Denmark and revoked Olsen's license for his Biograf Theater.\n\nIn 1907, Olsen premiered \"The Lion Hunt\" in Sweden. Because of the publicity from the protests, \"Løvejagten\" was a huge success abroad. The following year, after the charges of animal cruelty were dropped and the Danish ban was rescinded, the film had its homeland premiere on November 11, 1908. Nordisk Film Kompagni eventually sold 259 prints of \"Løvejagten\", which earned the company an enormous profit. It ushered in the \"golden age\" of Danish cinema when Nordisk Film became the most productive film company in Europe.\nA sequel to the film, \"Bear Hunting in Russia\", was shot in 1909 and was also a profitable movie, eventually selling 118 prints.\n\nViggo Larsen directed the filming as well as acted as one of the hunters. Knud Lumbye portrayed the second hunter and William Thomsen played the African guide. Axel Graatkjær, who later became a favorite cinematographer of August Blom and Urban Gad, shot the film, credited under his actual name of A. Sørensen.\n\n"}
{"id": "37972104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37972104", "title": "Mime Misu", "text": "Mime Misu\n\nMime Misu (b. 21 January 1888 - 1953) (born Mișu Rosescu) was a Romanian ballet dancer, pantomime artist, film actor and director. In 1912 he wrote and directed the first feature film about the sinking of the , \"In Nacht und Eis\", released in August 1912 four months after the disaster.\n\nMime Misu was born in the market town of Botoșani, Romania, into a family of artistes. He was the nephew of the 'world famous' Rahel. He was on the stage from an early age in ballet and pantomime, and he displayed enough talent to be given a free place at Bucharest Art Academy. During his studies he was assigned to the Royal National Theatre, and after graduating with honors he successfully played in provincial theatres in Romania. In 1900 he performed at the 1900 World Fair in Paris, and then took his own productions to Berlin, Vienna, Budapest and London.\n\nMisu worked for the film production companies Lux and Pathé Frères in Paris before signing up with Continental-Kunstfilm of Berlin in 1912 where he wrote and directed three films: \"Das Gespenst von Clyde\", \"In Nacht und Eis\", and \"Das Mirakel\". Misu made one more film in Germany, \"Der Excentric-Club\" for Projektions-AG Union (PAGU).\n\nAn article in the Berlin journal \"Licht-Bild-Bühne\" in 1914 called him the 'Napoleon of film' (de:'Napoleon der Filmkunst'), referring to his various technological advances. When Emil Schunemann (the cameraman for \"In Nacht und Eis\" and \"Das Mirakel\") called him a barber in his memoirs, he wasn't being particularly complimentary.\n\nMisu went to the USA but only made one known film with his Misu-Film Co., \"The Money God\". In 1915 he directed \"Ontmaskerd\" ('Unmasked') in the Netherlands under his real name, Misu Rosescu. Like \"In Nacht und Eis\", this film also contains a scene of a ship sinking.\n\nMisu travelled to the US every year from 1915-1917. His Berlin address in 1915 was Nachodstraße 25, Berlin-Wilmersdorf. In 1920/21 Misugraph-Film G.m.b.H., had its offices at Martin-Luther-Straße 28, Berlin, according to the Reichs-Kino-Adressbuch.\n\nIn 1921 Misu seems to have misrepresented himself as to his level of involvement at Famous Players Lasky, and to have caused some considerable offence. This led to an exchange of letters in the Berlin film journal \"Film-Kurier\".\n\nInformation about his later career and death is uncertain.\n\nHe directed at least six films:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17517120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17517120", "title": "Miss USA 1952", "text": "Miss USA 1952\n\nMiss USA 1952, the 1st Miss USA pageant, was held on 27 June 1952 at Long Beach Municipal Auditorium, Long Beach, California. 42 states competed for the inaugural Miss USA. The winner was Jackie Loughery of New York. Loughery was Top 10 at Miss Universe 1952. She became an actress and appeared in a number of films and television programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37846969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37846969", "title": "Murder of Reyna Marroquín", "text": "Murder of Reyna Marroquín\n\nReyna Angélica Marroquín (1941–1969) was a Salvadoran woman who was murdered in the United States in 1969. Marroquín's murder was not discovered until 1999, 30 years after its occurrence, when her body was found in the former Jericho, New York home of Howard B. Elkins, a businessman who was identified as the prime suspect. Elkins committed suicide before he could be charged or thoroughly questioned.\n\nOn September 2, 1999, an old 55-gallon drum in the crawl space of a house in Jericho, Nassau County, New York, was found to contain the mummified remains of a pregnant Hispanic female in her late 20s between 145 and 152 cm (4'9\" and 5'0\") tall, with unusual dental work. The cause of death was determined to be blunt force trauma to the head. The drum also contained polystyrene pellets, two rings (one inscribed \"M.H.R.\"), a locket inscribed \"To Patrice Love Uncle Phil\", green dye, and an address book.\n\nThe drum had been made in 1965 and used for transporting dye, with markings showing it had been shipped to Melrose Plastics, a synthetic flower company partly owned by Howard B. Elkins, a local businessman who had owned the Jericho house until 1972, when he sold the plastic business and moved to Boca Raton, Florida, with his wife. Under infrared light some of the deteriorated address book was legible. An alien card number written on the first page belonged to Reyna Angélica Marroquín, a 28-year-old immigrant from El Salvador, who had worked as a nanny, and for a manufacturer of synthetic flowers at a factory on East 34th Street, Manhattan. A phone number in the book belonged to Kathy Andrade, who had been a friend of Marroquín. When contacted, Andrade told the police that Marroquín had been having an extramarital affair with Elkins, but had called Andrade to say she had become afraid of him after telling Elkins' wife about the affair. Andrade went to Marroquín's apartment but found it empty, and she was never heard from again. There were reports that when a woman fitting Marroquín's description appeared once with a toddler at Melrose Plastics, employees had joked that the child's father was Elkins.\n\nDetectives who interviewed Elkins found him uncooperative, and told him they intended to obtain an order to take his DNA for comparison with that of the fetus found inside Marroquín. The next day, September 10, 1999, Elkins was found dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.\nThe DNA testing found that Elkins was almost certainly the father of the fetus.\n\nInvestigators believe Elkins either went to Marroquín's New Jersey apartment or lured her to the factory and killed her. He then took her body to the Nassau County house, possibly with the intention of dumping her in the ocean from his boat, but after filling the barrel with plastic pellets to ensure it would sink, he found it too heavy to move and left it in the crawl space.\n\nWriter Oscar Corral went to San Martín, San Salvador, where Marroquín's 95-year-old mother told him she had dreamt about Marroquín trapped inside a barrel. Marroquín was buried in El Salvador; her mother died a month later and was buried with her.\n\nDue to the peculiar circumstances of the crime, there have been a number of media treatments of the Marroquín case. The murder provided part of a 2004 episode called \"Broken Trust\" in the series \"The New Detectives\". The investigation into her murder was covered in \"Flower Drum Murder\", a 2015 episode of \"Murder Book\", a true crime television series. This case was used as the plot of an episode of \"NYPD Blue\", \"Roll Out the Barrel\" (25 April 2000). The case was depicted in \"A Voice from Beyond\", a 2000 episode of the true crime series \"Forensic Files\". The murder was dramatized in the Investigation Discovery series \"Grave Secrets\", Season 2, Episode 1 in an episode entitled, \"Beneath the Stairs\" first airing on November 14, 2017. Yet another treatment of the case was an episode called \"Lady in a Barrel\" in Oxygen's series \"Buried in the Backyard\", originally aired on June 17, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "32330538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32330538", "title": "North Star affair", "text": "North Star affair\n\nThe \"North Star\" affair occurred in May 1861 when Chinese pirates attacked the British merchant ship \"North Star\". Several men were killed in the incident, including a Royal Navy officer. The pirates escaped capture with 4,000 dollars' worth of gold.\n\nThe affair began on 13 May 1861, when the British brig \"North Star\" left Hong Kong for Nagasaki, Japan. The ship was unarmed except for a few muskets and pistols belonging to Captain Voight of the Royal Navy corvette , and the other Europeans on board. Most of the people aboard the brig were Chinese civilians though some were pirates, according to Henry Marks, who was a fourth mate on \"North Star\". Marks claimed that the compradore at Hong Kong, named Ty-kee, was in league with the pirates as he placed a young Chinese boy and a steward on the ship who acted suspiciously during the event. At 3:00 pm, \"North Star\" was about thirty miles from the port of Hong Kong, near Ling Ting, when a two-masted junk was spotted. It then quickly maneuvered alongside of \"North Star\" and her crew began throwing \"stinkpots\" as Henry Marks described. The pots contained a smelly, flammable liquid and were used commonly by the Chinese pirates for taking over merchantmen. \"North Star\"s helmsman was the first casualty; he was apparently burned to death by the pots.\n\nTwenty to thirty pirates then boarded the vessel with spears and swords and went after the remaining crewmen and any of the passengers who resisted. Captain Voight was overpowered and wounded by six of the pirates in his cabin before he could load his guns. One seaman fought the Chinese with a handspike before being wounded; he later died on 16 May along with the captain. The chief officer also died on 14 May of his stab wounds and a passenger was stabbed and thrown overboard where he apparently drowned. In all eight men were killed and one other was wounded. Marks late wrote that the Chinese boy helped the pirates find the 4,000 dollars on board and after they removed the two treasure chests they reboarded their junk and sailed away with the boy and the steward. Of the crew there were only three survivors; two young British men survived the encounter by hiding in the ship and when the pirates were gone they steered her back for Hong Kong. Henry Marks survived as well, having swum for several hours, with the help of some floating spears, from the scene of the crime until being thrown onto a group of large rocks off the coast. Marks was able to see the activities of the pirates after the attack; they anchored in a small bay nearby and didn't leave right away.\n\nOn the next morning, the mate sighted a sampan and paid the crew 300 dollars to take him to Hong Kong. Captain Voight made a similar arrangement and safely made it to shore in another small boat. Marks reported that the Chinese treated him like a prisoner while on board the sampan and tried to avoid Green Island where HMS \"Pearl\" was anchored. When Marks was convinced that the Chinese he was next to were pirates, he \"jumped up and struck one of them\", then grabbed the man and forced the crew to sail to \"Pearl\". At least four of the crewmen and one passenger were killed; the other two survivors, who sailed \"North Star\" back to Hong Kong, were first discovered by the Siamese barque named \"Four Stars\" and then by the boat crews of \"Pearl\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41449943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41449943", "title": "OrlandoCon", "text": "OrlandoCon\n\nOrlandoCon, also known as O'Con, was a long-running comic book fan convention which was held annually between 1974 and 1994 in Orlando, Florida. The first comic book convention held in the Orlando area, OrlandoCon billed itself as a \"Central Florida comic art convention and early TV/film festival.\" Captain Marvel-creator C. C. Beck was a regular guest of the show; as were many other Golden Age of Comic Books creators who lived in the Orlando area.\n\nThe founders of OrlandoCon were regional chairman of the National Cartoonists Society Jim Ivey, and local enthusiasts Charlie Roberts, Richard Kravitz, Rob Word, and Neil Austin. Most OrlandoCons took place over a September weekend.\n\nEach year's show featured a banquet for attending cartoonists and the presentation to the guest of honor of a gold brick called the Ignatz Award named in honor of George Herriman's \"Krazy Kat\". Recipients of the Ignatz included Don Martin, Joe Kubert, Martin Nodell, and Don Addis. (The OrlandoCon Ignatz Award is not connected to the current award of the same name presented annually at the Bethesda, Maryland-based Small Press Expo.)\n\nEach show featured a charity auction to benefit the Milt Gross Fund of the National Cartoonists Society. The OrlandoCon often featured screenings of early TV shows, as well as panels, seminars, and workshops with comic book professionals. In addition, there was a floorspace for exhibitors, including comic book dealers and collectibles merchants. The show included an autograph area, as well as an Artists' Alley where comics artists signed autographs and sold or produced free sketches.\n\nThe first OrlandoCon was held in September 1974 at the Orlando Howard Johnson's Convention Center — guests include C. C. Beck, Roy Crane, Hal Foster, Ron Goulart, , Les Turner, Ralph Dunagin, Bill Crooks, Harold McCauley, \"Scorchy Smith\" artist Edmund Good, and Disney artist Ralph Kent.\n\nIn 1976 OrlandoCon moved venues from the Howard Johnson Convention Center to the International Inn, where the convention stayed for most of the rest of its existence.\n\nEven though he moved to Pennsylvania in 1974, Charlie Roberts stayed with the OrlandoCon as co-organizer with Jim Ivey until 1979, at which point small press publisher Bill Black became involved with the convention.\n\nWith the collapse of the comic book speculating market in 1993, the show petered out. The final OrlandoCon was produced by local retailer Mike Kott on September 10–11, 1994, at the Clarion Towers; guests include show founder Jim Ivey and Martin Nodell.\n\nThe huge Orlando-based multi-genre convention MegaCon was inaugurated in 1993; it continues to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "1464816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464816", "title": "Pinewood derby", "text": "Pinewood derby\n\nThe pinewood derby is a racing event for unpowered, unmanned miniature cars. Pinewood derbies are often run by chapters (packs) of the Cub Scouts program of Boy Scouts of America. With the help of adults, Scouts build their own cars from wood, usually from kits containing a block of pine wood, plastic wheels, and metal axles. With the popularity of the pinewood derby, other organizations have developed similar events, and a small industry has developed to provide organizer equipment (e.g. tracks, timers, and scales) and awards (e.g. trophies and ribbons). Similar Cub Scouting events include the raingutter regatta (a race for miniature boats) and the space derby (a race for rubber band-driven propeller shuttles).\n\nThe first pinewood derby was held on May 15, 1953 at the Scout House in Manhattan Beach, California by Cub Scout Pack 280C (the present Pack 713). The concept was created by the Pack's Cubmaster Don Murphy, and sponsored by the Management Club at North American Aviation.\n\nMurphy's son was too young to participate in the popular Soap Box Derby races, so he came up with the idea of racing miniature wood cars. The cars had the same gravity-powered concept as the full-size Soap Box Derby cars, but were much smaller and easier to build.\n\nThe pinewood derby had a sensational first year. Murphy and the Management Club of North American Aviation sent out thousands of brochures to anyone who requested more information. The idea spread rapidly, and competitions were held across the country, mainly with recreation departments and nonprofit organizations including the Los Angeles County Department of Recreation. Of all that early enthusiasm, however, only the Boy Scouts of America made it part of an official program. The National Director of Cub Scouting Service, O. W. (Bud) Bennett, wrote Murphy: \"We believe you have an excellent idea, and we are most anxious to make your material available to the Cub Scouts of America.\" Within the year, the Boy Scouts of America adopted the pinewood derby for use in all Cub Scout packs.\n\nIn its October 1954 issue, \"Boys' Life\" publicized the event and offered plans for the track and a car, which featured \"four wheels, four nails, and three blocks of wood.\"\n\nMurphy continued to run the derby program through the Management Club until his retirement from North American Aviation in 1978. He died in 2008.\n\nIn 2003, Pack 713 celebrated the 50th Pinewood Derby along with Packs 287, 759, 275, and former Cub Scouts from the 1953 Pack 280c. A shoulder patch for the Western Los Angeles County Council that depicted a pinewood derby car and a message of honor to Murphy was released to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the event.\n\nIn 1980, the design of the block was changed from a cutout block, consistent with a 1940s style front-engined Indy 500 car, to a rectangular block. The tires were also changed from narrow, hard plastic, to wider \"slicks.\"\n\nIn May 2005, the Boy Scouts of America registered Pinewood Derby as an official trademark.\n\nWhen using a kit sold through Boy Scouts of America (BSA), the Scout begins a block of wood, four plastic wheels, and four nails for axels. The finished car must use all nine pieces, must not exceed a certain weight (usually five ounces (150 grams)), must not exceed a certain width (usually 2-3/4 inches (7 cm)) and length (usually 7 inches (17.8 cm)) and must fit on the track used by that particular Scout pack.\n\nBlocks can be whittled with a hand knife, bandsaw, or Dremel carving tool for major shaping. Decals can be bought at Scout shops or hobby shops. It is also possible to use standard model decals to replicate actual racing cars such as Richard Petty's 1970 Plymouth Superbird. The original style is based on open-wheel cars; however, fender or body kits are available, or wheels can simply be placed outboard of the body.\n\nOther than the previous basic design rules, the Cub Scout is able to carve and decorate the car as he chooses. Cars vary from unfinished blocks to whimsical objects, to accurate replicas of actual cars. To improve racing performance, many Cub Scouts add weights (e.g. coins or other bits of metal) to the final design to bring the car to the maximum allowable weight. Axel friction can be reduced by polishing the nails, but graphite is usually the only lubricant allowed.\n\nThe Cub Scout organization intends that Scouts build their own pinewood derby cars and that parents have a secondary construction role. However, it is often the case that the parent takes over the construction of the car, an aspect of the event that was lampooned in the 2005 film \"Down and Derby\", and also in a 2009 episode of \"South Park\". The quest for a fast car supports a cottage industry that supplies modified wheels, axles, and blocks as well as videos and instruction books. While a pinewood derby car kit costs around US$4, a set of modified wheels and axles can sell for more than ten times that amount. Each pack sets its own rules under the guidelines set forth by the BSA and their particular local district. The aftermarket items are legal under some Pack rules since the parts originally came from an official BSA kit. Complete cars can be purchased on eBay and elsewhere for around $100 to $200, and PineCar, a subsidiary of Woodland Scenics, sells pre-cut or pre-made cars, as well as official kits. Although these cars violate the spirit of the event, if not the rules, enforcement can be difficult.\n\nModel manufacturer Revell was licensed by the BSA to produce pinewood derby kits with a release in December 2009.\n\nThe track usually has two to eight lanes and slopes down to the ground, since the cars are powered by gravity. Tracks may be owned by the pack or rented. The race is run in heats, giving every car the chance to run on each lane. The racers can be grouped with others from the same rank (Tiger Cubs, Wolf Cubs, Bear Cubs, etc.), or can compete against the pack as a whole.\n\nFirst, second, and third-place winners usually receive ribbons, medals, or trophies. Some packs also award on the basis of car design or styling. The first place race winners get to advance to the district level, then each of the district-wide race winners get to race each other from across the entire council.\n\nAs the popularity of the pinewood derby grew, other organizations adopted the concept. Pinewood derby is a registered trademark of the BSA, so most use different names. Each derby has slightly different rules for making and racing their cars.\n\nThe force accelerating a pinewood derby car is gravity; the opposing forces are friction and air drag. Therefore, car modifications are aimed at maximizing the potential energy in the car design and minimizing the air drag and the friction that occurs when the wheel spins on the axle, contacts the axle head or car body, or contacts the track guide rail. Friction due to air drag is a minor, although not insignificant, factor. The wheel tread can be sanded or turned on a lathe and the inner surface of the hub can be tapered to minimize the contact area between the hub and body. Polishing the wheel, especially the inner hub, with a plastic polish can also reduce friction. Often one front wheel is raised slightly so that it does not contact the track and add to the rolling resistance. Axles are filed or turned on a lathe to remove the burr and crimp marks and polished smooth. More extensive modifications involve tapering the axle head and cutting a notch to minimize the wheel-to-axle contact area. Packs can establish additional rules for what, if any, modifications are allowed. In some areas, no changes can be made to the axles or wheels.\n\nA second consideration is the rotational energy stored in the wheels. The pinewood derby car converts gravitational potential energy into translational kinetic energy (speed) plus rotational energy. Heavier wheels have a greater moment of inertia and their spinning takes away energy that would otherwise contribute to the speed of the car. A standard wheel has a mass of 2.6 g, but this can be reduced to as little as 1 g by removing material from the inside of the wheel. A raised wheel can reduce the rotational energy up to one-quarter, but this advantage is less with a bumpy track.\n\nAnother consideration is the track itself. A track that is mostly sloping, with little flat at the end, can allow cars with minimal mass in their wheels to shine. However, a track with a steep slope and then a long flat section can penalize such cars due to the quick loss of energy they experience once they have reached the bottom, when all potential energy has been transferred to kinetic and rotational energy. Such cars will take a lead on the downslope, but may be passed by cars with more energy \"stored\" away as rotational energy on the flat.\n\nA proper lubricant, typically graphite powder, is essential. Wheel alignment is important both to minimize wheel contact with the axle head and body as well as to limit the contact between the wheels and guide rail as the car travels down the track. There are 32 friction causing surfaces on a pinewood derby car. These include the surfaces of all four wheels which touch either the axle, the body or the track and the surfaces of all four axles which touch the wheel. Neglecting to polish and lubricate any of these 32 surfaces will result in degraded performance. The center of mass of a typical car is low and slightly ahead of the rear axle, which helps the car track straight as well as providing a slight advantage due to the additional gravitational potential energy.\n\nThe pinewood derby was selected as part of \"America's 100 Best\" in 2006 as \"a celebrated rite of spring\" by \"Reader's Digest\". The event has also been parodied by \"South Park\" in the episode \"Pinewood Derby\" and in the film \"Down and Derby\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3212742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3212742", "title": "Polaris (convention)", "text": "Polaris (convention)\n\nPolaris (formerly Toronto Trek) was an annual science fiction and fantasy convention held in Toronto, Ontario, Canada and in Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIt began in 1986 as a relaxacon as Toronto Trek Celebration. Two years later, in 1988, Toronto Trek Celebration 2 took place. In 1989 it dropped the word \"Celebration\" and became simply \"Toronto Trek\". For its twenty-first convention in 2007, the name was changed to \"Polaris\". At Polaris 26, held July 5–7, 2012, it was announced Polaris had come to an end and that a new convention would replace Polaris in 2013.\n\nThe convention had a focus on media guests from science fiction, fantasy movies and television series and novel authors such as Star Trek, Babylon 5, Stargate, Doctor Who, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Jericho, Lost and Battlestar Galactica. Photo opportunities, autographs and Question & Answer sessions feature the media guest, who sometimes come to other programming and after hours events.\n\nPolaris was one of several activities run by the TCON Promotional Society by means of a convention committee of more than 100 people grouped into 38 individual teams, each taking care of a different part of the convention. The TCON Promotional Society has coordinated other events, such as the Canadian Conrunners Conference in 2004, Their other current project is the Constellation Awards, a fan-nominated, fan-voted set of Science Fiction Awards with focus on film and television science fiction. TCON hosted events are proposed to the TCON Board of Directors and voted upon by said Board. The TCON Promotional Society is a not-for-profit corporation based out of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nJuly 6–8, 2012 · Sheraton Parkway Toronto North\nThis was the last Polaris held.\n\nJuly 15–17, 2011 · Sheraton Parkway Toronto North\n(more to come)\n\nJuly 16–18, 2010 · Sheraton Parkway Toronto North\n\n"}
{"id": "10653343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10653343", "title": "Relay of Youth", "text": "Relay of Youth\n\nThe Relay of Youth (Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, and Slovenian \"Štafeta mladosti\", Serbian Cyrillic \"Штафета младости\", Macedonian \"Штафета на младоста\", Albanian \"Stafeta e Rinise\") was a symbolic relay race held in Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia every year. The relay carried a baton with a birthday pledge to Josip Broz Tito ostensibly from all young people of Yugoslavia. The race usually started in Tito's birth town Kumrovec and went through all major towns and cities of the country. It ended in Belgrade at JNA Stadium on May 25, Tito's official birthday and Day of Youth, a national holiday.\n\nThe relay first took place in 1945 and was formalized as a national holiday in 1957. It went on after Tito's death in 1980 and was last held in 1988.\n\nIn 1987, the winning poster design for the relay caused a national scandal, as it was revealed to have been based on a Nazi propaganda poster. The authors, the design division of Neue Slowenische Kunst, submitted the design in order to protest Tito's cult of personality, of which the relay was a major part. Along with the rising crisis of the Yugoslav state, this scandal is deemed to have significantly contributed to the decision to discontinue the Relay.\n"}
{"id": "6574971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6574971", "title": "Roman Turovsky-Savchuk", "text": "Roman Turovsky-Savchuk\n\nRoman Turovsky-Savchuk (Ukrainian: Роман Туровський-Савчук) is an American artist-painter, photographer and videoinstallation artist, as well as a lutenist-composer, born in Ukraine. His musical works were published under various pseudonyms, including Johann Joachim Sautscheck.\n\nTurovsky was born in Kiev, Ukraine in 1961, when it was part of the Soviet Union. He studied art from an early age under his father, the painter Mikhail Turovsky and at the Shevchenko State Art School in Kiev. He also began to be interested in music in his teens. The family emigrated to New York City in 1979. They first lived in the Bronx. Turovsky continued his art studies in New York at the Parsons School of Design, studying concurrently Historical Performance (Baroque Lute) and Composition, under Patrick O'Brien, Pier Luigi Cimma, Leonid Hrabovsky and Davide Zannoni.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, he worked at NYANA, a refugee resettlement agency in New York City (his co-workers there included people now prominent in the arts: theatre director Alexander Gelman, writer and director Todd Solondz, and writers Alex Halberstadt and Gary Shteyngart).\n\nTurovsky began composing seriously in the early 1990s, simultaneously embarking on a career as a prolific artist-painter. He participated in many exhibitions. His first one-man show was held in June 2006 in New York, and the second in February 2013. Eight of his paintings are in the permanent collection of the International Marian Institute at the University of Dayton.\n\nTurovsky worked as a scenic artist in the production of Jim Jarmusch's film \"Ghost Dog\", Paul Schrader's \"First Reformed\" as well as in Tom DiCillo's \"Double Whammy\" and other films. He is a member of United Scenic Artists.\n\nAs a composer, Turovsky concentrated on the instrumental idiom of the Baroque lute and the torban, as well as viola da gamba and carillon. He composed over 1100 instrumental and vocal works influenced by his Ukrainian heritage and the baroque. Many of these were premiered by Luca Pianca at several international festivals (Salamanca, Lisbon, Schwetzingen, Vilnius, Vicenza, Urbino, Metz and Paris), Roland Ferrandi in Corte, Simon Paulus at Wolfenbüttel and Jindřich Macek in Přibyslav, Kraty, Prague and Hvar. He also collaborated with Paulo Galvão and Hans Kockelmans in a series of experimental works which they jointly composed. His works have been performed/recorded by Robert Barto, Robert MacKillop, Oleg Timofeyev, Massimo Marchese, John Schneiderman, Thomas Schall, Trond Bengtson, Terrell Stone, Christopher Wilke and Bernhard Hofstötter on lute, Angelo Barricelli and Fernando Lewis de Mattos on guitar, Ernst Stolz on viola da gamba, as well as Hans Kockelmans and Olesya Rostovskaya on carillon. In 2011 and 2013 Turovsky was profiled in two 1 hour-long programs on the Dutch Classical radio-station Concertzender. He also composed over 40 tombeaux dedicated to various cultural figures. These were described by Pablo del Pozo as being of \"unquestionable musical quality\".\n\nAs a performer, Turovsky-Savchuk appeared as a lute soloist and continuo player in the Early Music line-up of Julian Kytasty's \"New York Bandura Ensemble\" and \"Radio Banduristan\". Roman Turovsky was a recipient of the 2008 NYSCA grant for the purpose of study of kobzar art with Julian Kytasty.\n\nRoman Turovsky-Savchuk is a founding member of Vox Saeculorum and The Delian Society, two international groups devoted to preservation and perpetuation of tonal music. He was described as composer-extraordinaire by the British author Suhayl Saadi.\n\nIn 2011 Turovsky-Savchuk contributed the soundtrack to the Iryna Korpan's documentary \"She Paid The Ultimate Price\", and in 2013 to the Marko Robert Stech's Georgy Narbut episode in the KontaktTV Toronto (OMNI TV (Canada)) series \"Eyes on Culture\" №55.\n\n\nSince 1996 Turovsky has signed his musical works as \"Sautscheck\", a German transliteration of the second part of his surname as an allonym. Turovsky used a variety of constructions, such as Joachim Peter, Johann Joachim, and Konradin Aemilius, for first names attached to Sautscheck. He represented the works as newly discovered manuscripts by supposed 17th-, 18th- and 19th-century composers from several generations of the same family.\n\nHis works for lute achieved wide circulation under the allonym of Sautscheck and the pseudonyms \"Ioannes Leopolita\" and \"Jacobus Olevsiensis\". Musicologist Douglas Alton Smith perceived these works as malicious hoaxes and forgeries because of their ostensibly baroque or earlier styles. The controversy in 2000 over what some considered an outright hoax led to coinage of a new German word, \"Sautscheckerei\", which denoted a musical or literary hoax.\n\nTurovsky published \"Mikrokosmos\", a collection of nearly 600 Renaissance-styled pieces based on Ukrainian folk melodies under the pseudonyms \"Ioannes Leopolita\" and \"Jacobus Olevsiensis\".\n\nTurovsky's poetry translations (from Russian, Ukrainian, Polish and other languages) have appeared in the literary almanacs Cardinal Points, \"The Germ\", and various web publications.\n\nHe also undertook research into the history of Torban, a Ukrainian musical instrument of the lute family, and wrote the chapter on it for the 2011 edition of \"Die Laute in Europa\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23113627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23113627", "title": "Stampex", "text": "Stampex\n\nStampex is a twice yearly British stamp show held at the Business Design Centre (BDC) at Islington, London, every Spring and Autumn. The show is organised by the Philatelic Traders Society (PTS) through their company \"PTS Stamp and Coin Exhibitions Limited\" and has been running for many years. The next exhibition will be held on 12-15 September 2018.\n\nThe show consists mainly of stands from stamp dealers who are members of the PTS but specialist philatelic societies often hold meetings at the BDC in conjunction with the show.\n\nUntil recently competitive stamp exhibitions were also held. The Association of British Philatelic Societies (ABPS) has announced that they will be reintroduced with effect from the Autumn 2009 show.\n\nOther important parts of the show include a youth area run by the National Youth Stamp Group and a large stand from Britain's Royal Mail where recent British stamp issues are on sale.\n\nAdmission is free of charge and visitors usually receive a modest philatelic souvenir of some kind. At the Spring 2009 show a postcard was given featuring unadopted artwork by stamp designer Jeffery Matthews for a proposed 1979 Welsh Assembly stamp issue. These souvenirs have become collectable. Each Stampex issues a Smilers Sheet (released in conjunction with Stanley Gibbons, the official sponsors of Stampex, and Royal Mail) available for purchase as well as a free commemorative postcard.\n\nStampex has not always been at the BDC. For many years it was located at the Central Hall, Westminster when it was organised between the PTS and The Junior Philatelic Society (now the National Philatelic Society).\n\nThere is no other regular national show competing with Stampex in the UK, although many smaller shows take place and an FIP endorsed international show takes place in London every ten years, with the next being the London 2020 International Stamp Exhibition.\n\nThe name has been adopted for stamp shows in other countries, for instance Hong Kong Stampex and Adelaide Stampex, however, none are connected with the British version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1919388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919388", "title": "Subways Are for Sleeping", "text": "Subways Are for Sleeping\n\nSubways Are for Sleeping is a musical produced by David Merrick with a book and lyrics by Betty Comden and Adolph Green and music by Jule Styne. The original Broadway production played in 1961–62.\n\nThe musical was inspired by an article about subway homelessness in the March 1956 issue of Harper's and a subsequent 1957 book based on it, both by Edmund G. Love, who slept on subway trains throughout the 1950s and encountered many unique individuals. With the profits from his book, Love then embarked on a bizarre hobby: over the course of several years, he ate dinner at every restaurant listed in the Manhattan yellow pages directory, visiting them in alphabetical order. A previous adaptation of the Harper's article was aired August 3, 1956 on CBS Radio Workshop.\n\nAngie McKay is a magazine writer assigned to write a story about a group of well-dressed homeless people sleeping in the New York subway system. Their leader is Tom Bailey, a one-man employment agency who finds other drifters odd jobs and sleeping quarters. To help research her story, Angie goes undercover and pretends to be a stranded girl from out-of-town. Trouble ensues when Tom discovers her real identity.\n\nAfter two previews, the Broadway production, directed and choreographed by Michael Kidd, opened on December 27, 1961 at the St. James Theatre, where it ran for 205 performances. The cast included Orson Bean, Sydney Chaplin, Carol Lawrence, Gordon Connell, Grayson Hall, and Green's wife Phyllis Newman (whose costume, consisting solely of a towel, was probably Freddy Wittop's easiest design in his distinguished career), with newcomers Michael Bennett and Valerie Harper in the chorus.\n\n\"Subways Are for Sleeping\" opened to mostly negative reviews. The show already was hampered by a lack of publicity, since the New York City Transit Authority refused to post advertisements on the city's buses and in subway trains and stations for fear they would be perceived as officially sanctioning the right of vagrants to use these facilities as overnight accommodations. Producer David Merrick and press agent Harvey Sabinson decided to invite individuals with the same names as prominent theatre critics (such as Walter Kerr, Richard Watts, Jr. and Howard Taubman) to see the show, and afterwards used their favorable comments in print ads. Thanks to photographs of the seven \"critics\" accompanying their blurbs (the well-known real Richard Watts was not African American), the ad was discovered to be a deception. It was pulled from most newspapers, but not before running in an early edition of the \"New York Herald Tribune\". However, the clever publicity stunt allowed the musical to continue to run and it eventually turned a small profit.\n\nNewman won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical, and nominations went to Bean for Best Featured Actor and Kidd's choreography.\n\nAn original cast recording was released by Columbia Records. A revival production was briefly mounted in 2009.\n\n\n\"Wheels that hum\" by F. Gwynplaine MacIntyre, \"New York Daily News\", May 19, 2004 \n\n"}
{"id": "14205119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14205119", "title": "Tapani incident", "text": "Tapani incident\n\nThe Tapani incident in 1915 was one of the biggest armed uprisings by Taiwanese Han and Aboriginals, including Taivoan, against Japanese rule in Taiwan. Alternative names used to refer to the incident include the Xilai Temple Incident after the Xilai Temple in Tainan, where the revolt began, and the Yu Qingfang Incident after the leader Yu Qingfang.\n\nMultiple Japanese police stations were stormed by Aboriginal and Han Chinese fighters under Chiang Ting (Jiang Ding) and Yü Ch'ing-fang (Yu Qingfang).\n\nModern Taiwanese historiography attempts to portray the Tapani Incident as a nationalist uprising either from a Chinese (unification) or Taiwanese (independence) perspective. Japanese colonial historiography attempted to portray the incident as a large scale instance of banditry led by criminal elements. However, the Tapani Incident differs from other uprisings in Taiwan's history because of its elements of millenarianism and folk religion, which enabled Yu Qingfang to raise a significant armed force whose members believed themselves to be invulnerable to modern weaponry.\n\nThe similarities between the rhetoric of the leaders of the Tapani uprising and the Righteous Harmony Society of the recent Boxer Rebellion in China were not lost on Japanese colonial authorities, and the colonial government subsequently paid more attention to popular religion and took steps to improve colonial administration in southern Taiwan.\n\nThe aboriginals carried on with violent armed struggle against the Japanese while Han Chinese violent opposition stopped after Tapani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50650262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50650262", "title": "The Quickening Maze", "text": "The Quickening Maze\n\nThe Quickening Maze is a 2009 historical fictional novel by British poet and author Adam Foulds and published by Jonathan Cape. The book received the Encore Award (2009), European Union Prize for Literature (2011) and was shortlisted for Man Booker Prize (2009) and Walter Scott Prize (2010). The book is based on the historical backdrop of a mental asylum run by Matthew Allen at High Beach in late 1830s and 1840s which had English poet John Clare admitted therein. Alfred, Lord Tennyson, another notable poet of the era, moves to High Beach to get his brother Septimus treated and Alfred, himself, has to overcome depression after the death of his close friend Arthur Hallam. The book narrates Clare's life, the asylum's effects on both poets and bases its storyline on the popular speculation of whether Clare and Tennyson had ever met.\n\nDr Matthew Allen runs an asylum called High Beach Private Asylum for mental patients of his. John Clare, a peasant poet from Northamptonshire who is not so famous then, is admitted in the asylum for his lunatic behaviours, memory lapses and delusions. Dr Allen treats his patients differently from other mental institutes given them much freedom; especially to Clare by recognizing his talent in poetry. Alfred Tennyson's brother Septimus faces depression and he is also admitted in the asylum. Tennyson and his family move to High Beach and stay nearby the asylum. Dr Allen has an history of debts and was once imprisoned for frauds. He is now collecting funds for a new carpentry machine called \"Pyroglyph\" that he claims to have patented in UK. He convinces Tennyson and his family to invest in the machine. Various patients with characteristic personalities and disorders have been included. A certain George Laidlaw is show to be obsessed with the national debt and Margaret keeps believing that God is speaking to her. Charles Seymour is from an aristocratic family and he is wrongly placed in the asylum by his family to avoid his marriage with his lover who the family deems unsuitable for him. Various incidences of sexual violence between fellow inmates are noted in the asylum. Allen's teenage daughter, Hannah, craves for attention and starts fancying Tennyson. When she gets nothing out of it, she falls for Seymour. Tennyson is also brooding over the death of his friend Arthur Hallam and is shown working on a memorial to Hallam. Clare starts roaming about in the woods of Epping Forest coming in contact with local gypsies. He treasures these wanderings where he finds time for his poems, if he is not claiming to be a prize fighter or Lord Byron or Shakespeare. Tennyson loses much of his family fortunes in the wrong investments and decides to return to London determined to write about Hallam and Clare runs away from the institute and sets on his four-day walking journey back to his home finally reaching to his wife.\n\n\nJohn Clare was born in a poor farming family. In 1820 he had published his first poetry book which won him the epithet of \"Northamptonshire Peasant Poet\". In 1836 he started having memory lapses and the next year he voluntarily got admitted in Dr Allen's asylum and stayed there until he ran away in 1841 and went on his four-day walk from Essex to Werrington near Peterborough. Clare stayed with his wife for few months before being admitted to Northampton General Lunatic Asylum.\n\nTennyson's brother Septimus was a patient of Allen between 1837 and 1840. Tennyson and his family on various occasions stayed in the nearby houses. Tennyson invested 3,000 in mid-1840s in Allen's invention \"Pyroglyph\" and his three sisters added 4,000 to the investment. Failure of the machine led to bankruptcy of Allen and great loss to the Tennyson family.\nTennyson left High Beach and then went on to write \"In Memoriam A.H.H.\".\n\nAllen ran an asylum for mentally challenged people and separated it into three houses; Fair Mead for men, Springfield for women and Leopard's Hill Lodge for severe patients of either gender. Visitors and patient's relatives have noted normality kept inside the asylum. He also went on to raise a fund to enable Clare to stay independently. He died in 1845 and Tennyson got some financial help from Allen's insurance.\n\nHistorically, it is not known whether Tennyson and Clare had met each other while they both stayed together in the area in the same period. But Clare's biographer Jonathan Bate speculates that although the two poets might not have met in the asylum, both used to take walks in the forest and also had a common friend; the son of poet Thomas Campbell. However, in \"The Quickening Maze\", the two poets never meet.\n\n\"The Independent\" in the review written by Simon Kövesi, who is editor of the \"John Clare Society Journal\", summed the book to be \"a heady mix of delicacy and grotesquery, intimacy and misanthropy.\" Author Adam Foulds notes that \"The Norton Anthology of English Literature\" that he studied in his college days dedicated only four pages to Clare but the poet's reputation increased significantly after Jonathan Bate published Clare's biography in 2003. Writing for \"The Washington Post\", editor Ron Charles notes that the book is not the biography of Clare but \"its finely tuned sympathy will bring you close to the soul of an exuberant poet\". Charles also notes that the most moving parts of the book are of the episodes where Clare is wandering in the forest. The review in \"New Statesman\" appreciates Foulds for penning Clare's character that thinks in poems and also deemed Dr Allen and Tennyson's scenes together as awkward because of the historical nature of the book. Journalist and author Lionel Shriver notes that Foulds, who won Costa Poetry Award in 2008, keeps the book poetic without losing the plot. She also appreciates that despite featuring two poets with a background of mental asylum, the book does not \"conjure insanity as an exalted state of literary enlightenment.\" \"The New Yorker\"s critic James Wood mentions that Foulds has created his own poems in the book; like \"thick curds of summer cloud moving slowly over\"; while narrating the two poets and not simply borrowing their works. Indian writer Neel Mukherjee calls the book a \"subtle meditation on the mysterious nature of the creative process.\"\n\nThe book was nominated for the Man Booker Prize. It was shortlisted along with Hilary Mantel's historic novel \"Wolf Hall\" about Thomas Cromwell, A. S. Byatt's novel \"The Children's Book\", Nobel laureate J. M. Coetzee's novel \"Summertime\", Simon Mawer's novel \"The Glass Room\" and Sarah Waters's gothic fiction novel \"The Little Stranger\". \"The Quickening Maze\" was called a \"rank outsider\" when it was shortlisted with these books: Mantel's work won the award, as several sources had speculated it would.\n\nThe book won the Encore Award for 2009–10 and the judges Alex Clark, Lindsay Duguid and Peter Parker described it as \"a confident, beautifully written historical novel, seamed with poetry and intense descriptions of the natural world, which unobtrusively deploys its documentary underpinnings\".\n\nIn 2010, it was nominated for the inaugural Walter Scott Prize where it again competed with Mawer's \"The Glass Room\" and Mantel's \"Wolf Hall\", where Mantel won. The following year in 2011 it won the European Union Prize for Literature.\n"}
{"id": "24924301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24924301", "title": "Tornrak", "text": "Tornrak\n\nTornrak is the third opera by Welsh composer John Metcalf. It has an English-language libretto by Michael Wilcox with Inuktitut sections translated by Blendina Makkik. Set between the worlds of the Canadian Arctic and Victorian Britain, it features Inuit throat singing and other extended vocal techniques that give the Arctic scenes a distinct character. The opera was composed between 1986 and 1990 when Metcalf was working in Canada. It was first staged in 1990 in a co-production by the Banff Centre, where Metcalf worked, and the Welsh National Opera who had commissioned the work.\n\nAlthough Welsh National Opera (WNO) had first discussed with Metcalf the possibility of his writing a second opera, after \"The Journey\", for them in 1981, it was not until 1986 that Brian McMaster, the company's then managing director, first brought the composer and librettist together. After Wilcox had initially started work on another idea, Metcalf contacted him about the true story of a 19th-century Inuit girl, Milak, who rescued a British sailor, Arthur. Like the character in the opera, the true Milak was shown as a circus freak; unlike her, she returned home. \n\nThe development of \"Tornrak\" was greatly influenced by Metcalf's move to Canada later in 1986 to teach on the Music Theatre course at the Banff Centre in Alberta. He subsequently became Artistic Director of the programme and Composer-in-Residence. Wilcox visited Metcalf in Canada that winter to work on the first draft of the libretto and used the library facilities there to learn about Inuit traditions and mythology. Metcalf too found that the setting enabled him to portray their subject in a more genuine manner. \"If I wasn't in the North itself, at least I could now be in contact with a way of looking at the world, the culture, the music, and the language of the Inuit that would have been absolutely impossible in Wales.\"\n\nFrom 1988 onwards, Metcalf tried out sections of the developing opera in workshops at Banff. Such support for new compositions were an important facet of the programme there. He also had ready access to experienced colleagues such as Keith Turnbull, the Assistant Director on the course, and Richard E. Armstrong who had worked with Roy Hart. Just as Peter Maxwell Davies had composed \"Eight Songs for a Mad King\" with Hart's unusual voice and extended vocal techniques in mind, so Metcalf was able to compose \"Tornrak\" knowing that Armstrong would participate in the opera and also coach the other performers. Armstrong's repertoire of unusual sounds were used in the writing for the spirits and animals. The Inuit parts also required techniques new to Western singers. Fides Krucker, who played the part of Milak in Banff, visited Iqaluit in 1989 and 1990. There she learnt the Inuit throat singing techniques which she used in her performances and on which she advised Metcalf.\n\nWilcox encouraged Metcalf to make any changes to the libretto that he needed. He himself revisited Banff again to update the text. Even when he was in Britain, he would respond to urgent phone calls to make changes during the workshops. One of the most significant of the changes to the libretto was the decision to translate much of the first act from English into Inuktitut. Differences in stress patterns between the two languages meant that Metcalf recomposed vocal lines, moving material initially intended to be sung into the orchestral parts.\n\nMeanwhile, WNO had agreed to a change in the scale of \"Tornrak\". Instead of it being a chamber opera using just ten singers to be performed in small venues in Wales, it would now use a larger cast including a chorus and be staged in the large venues normally used by the full company. While those who were involved in the project were sure that the final work was stronger than it would have otherwise been, the many changes resulted in severe delays to the opera's completion and led to repeated postponements of the first performance.\n\n\"Tornrak\" was given a \"World Preview Performance\", without a chorus, in workshops in Banff on 23 February 1990. This was a co-production with Welsh National Opera with scenery, props and costumes being shared. The first performance by WNO was on 19 May 1990 at the New Theatre, Cardiff, two years later than originally planned. This first Welsh performance, with chorus, is often listed as the official première. A second performance in Cardiff later that month was broadcast on BBC Radio 3. The production was toured to six English cities during June and July.\n\nFides Krucker, the original Milak, kept the role in her repertoire performing extracts, for example at the Royal Ontario Museum in 1994\n\n\"Tornrak\" is scored for strings, flute, piccolo, oboe, (doubling cor anglais,) 2 clarinets, (doubling E flat clarinets,) bassoon (doubling contra bassoon,) 2 horns, trumpet, trombone, tuba, piano, vibraphone and separate percussionist. The first act is based on an ascending scale running from C through F to C again using the five black notes; the second act uses a descending scale, again based on C but this time using all white notes taken from the major scale with the exception of the sharpened F (eleventh harmonic).\n\nWhile the opera is representative of the composer's early musical style, it also advances it. The music is multi-layered and rhythmically complex, much of it using middle colours including woodwind and tuned percussion. In Metcalf's first opera, \"The Journey\", solo instruments, usually high pitched, reacted to the voices; \"Tornrak\" makes only occasional use of solo violin or the upper registers of the piano. Extreme colours and registers serve to increase the contrasts already present in earlier works.\n\nOn the non-musical level, too, \"Tornrak\" develops ideas seen in the composer's earlier works. Metcalf's sometime collaborator, the writer Mark Morris, notes that Metcalf's first two operas and his cantata \"The Boundaries of Time\" had already considered such themes as the clash of cultures, the alienation of individuals from their surroundings, the attempts of humanity to communicate with Nature and the displacement of individuals from their homelands. These all appear in his third opera. \"Tornrak\" presents the theme of clashing cultures most strongly in two crowd scenes musically distinct from the balance of the score: in the fair and court scenes, the music is vertical, reflecting the clash in values between those present, whereas in most of the opera each layer has its own momentum and the music develops horizontally, representing individual destinies that largely develop autonomously.\n\nThe score is remarkable for its incorporation of Inuit throat singing and other extended vocal techniques, establishing distinct sound worlds for the scenes set in the Arctic and those set in Victorian Britain. Indigenous singers took part in the workshops in Banff and also travelled to Wales to train the WNO cast. Although it is not uncommon for opera to mix different national music styles when portraying clashes between cultures, \"Tornrak\" stands out because both Inuit music and its singing techniques are foreign to the Western musical tradition.\n\nThe North American performances won the 1991 National Opera Association Award and the Best New Opera award from Opera America. The production team, led by Mike Ashman, won praise for its creativity with the limited resources available.\n\nReviewing the Welsh premiere, Rodney Milnes described \"Tornrak\" as \"[a]n absorbing, thought-provoking and very approachable new opera\" and as more successful than Metcalf's first opera \"The Journey\". Milnes particularly praises the economy of writing in both the libretto and the score. Hugh Canning wrote of \"a new opera which works on its own terms\". Both these critics felt that the arctic scenes were the more successful. Paul Griffiths was more reserved about the \"pleasant, straightforward fable\", finding the vocal lines uninteresting except for the throat-singing but being happier with the orchestral sound.\n\n1850, a British naval survey ship, the \"Endeavour\", is in the Canadian Arctic. After being told by the Mate that Arthur Nesbit, a sailor from North Shields, has been behaving in a disruptive manner, the Captain asks him to explain his conduct. The rest of Act I and most of Act II is told in flashback.\n\n1845, the \"Enterprise\", a sister ship of \"Endeavour\", has foundered in the Arctic. Arthur and three others escape into the ice. One of them, Kellett, kills Collinson, a young officer, after they argue over some valuables. Kellett and the last sailor Billy escape without Arthur who is saved from starvation only when he sees a polar bear taking meat from its hidden store. Arthur dreams of returning home and of the rich life he would afford with the valuables. An apparition warns him that he needs to survive first.\n\nMilak, a young Inuk, arrives led by her \"tornrak\", or spirit guide, that takes the form of an owl. She knows of the bear's meat cache and intends to raid it. The \"tornrak\" abandons her when she notices signs of Arthur's presence. Milak wonders whether it has led her into a trap. Arthur, in turn, thinks she has come to steal from him. \n\nThe bear returns and the two humans fight it. The spirits of Inuit hunters sing that the bear's time has come and Arthur strikes the killing blow. Milak throat-sings with the dying animal and frees its \"tornrak\" by skinning it. She gives Arthur the pelt. She leads him towards her village which has been devastated by disease caught from the British. On the way she persuades him to leave behind the valuables that have been slowing him down, but she decides to keep the \"Great White Bird flying with many wings\", a ship in a bottle that reminds her of her \"tornrak\".\n\nWhen they return to the village, only Milak's father Utak is still alive. Expecting death, he tears off his clothing and calls his \"tornrak\". It kills him as payment for all the help it has given him since childhood, leaving his bones unburied and his spirit to wander.\n\nDuring the Winter, Arthur and Milak learn bits of each other's languages. In the Spring, they are discovered by a British ship which has come to trade with the village. The explorer Sir Charles Keighley decides to take Milak to Britain to help with his research. She agrees because she thinks the ship is her \"tornrak\".\n\nSir Charles has given the last of his lectures on the Arctic and is thanked by Lady Delisle at her home. Now he has finished with Milak, he tells Arthur to look after her.\n\nArthur and Milak, \"The Wild Savage of the Frozen North\", join a travelling fair in Wales where she is shown to members of the public in a cage. The spectators find her performance frightening. Another member of the fair, a bearkeeper, tries to rape her. Although she escapes him, she is locked in her cage. She persuades the bear to break open the cage and then escape. The crowd are frightened by it and a constable shoots it despite the bearkeeper's pleas. Both he and Arthur find themselves without exhibits.\n\nMilak survives in the country by catching animals such as rabbits and sheep. A molecatcher warns her that she could be hanged for theft. She moves to an industrial town where she becomes a prostitute. She meets Arthur again who tries to persuade her to return to the Arctic but she thinks this is now impossible as she has become Westernised and cut off from Nature. The two are recognised by the bearkeeper who has Milak arrested as the wild woman who has been reported to be stealing sheep. The Judge sentences her to hang despite protests from Arthur and the spectators that she had no other option.\n\nBack on the \"Endeavour\", Arthur has finished his narration. The Captain leaves him in charge of the helm. Arthur tears off his clothes and calls to Milak's spirit in the hope that the ship will be sunk and the Inuit protected from the dangers its crew bring. In a squall, Milak's \"tornrak\" arrives, once more in the form of an owl. \n\nArthur is found dead and frozen to the wheel. Only the Mate is willing to obey the Captain and remove the body. When he throws the corpse overboard, the squall stops and the ship is suddenly becalmed. There is no reading on the compass.\n"}
{"id": "1385467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1385467", "title": "White coat ceremony", "text": "White coat ceremony\n\nThe White Coat Ceremony (WCC) is a relatively new ritual in some medical (MD, DO), dental, optometry, audiology, chiropractic, dietetic, occupational therapy, physical therapy, podiatric, pharmacy, physician assistant, pathologists' assistant, nursing, naturopathic and veterinary schools that marks the student's transition from the study of preclinical to clinical health sciences. At some schools, where students begin meeting patients early in their education, the white coat ceremony is held before the first year begins. It is an example of a matriculation.\n\nWCCs typically involve a formal \"coating\" of students.\n\nOver 100 medical schools in the United States now have a WCC, and many students now consider it a rite of passage in the journey toward a healthcare career. Some schools also use this as a graduation from the entire program. For example, Moreno Valley College has a White Coat Ceremony for the Physician Assistant students at the end of their final term, where the short coats are discarded and long coats are given as a symbol of being equal clinicians to others who have earned the long coats.\n\nAccording to some, WCCs have taken on a quasi-religious significance, that symbolizes a \"conversion\" of a lay person into a member of the healthcare profession and is similar to a priest's ordination to the priesthood, although it is notable that the white coat is a recent adoption by the medical profession. However, in many medical schools around the world students begin wearing their white coats during first year anatomy class, so there is no official white coat ceremony.\n\nIn the nineteenth century respect for the certainty of science was in stark contrast to the quackery and mysticism of ni kineteenth century medicine. To emphasize the transition to the more scientific approach to modern medicine, physicians sought to represent themselves as scientists and began to wear the most recognizable symbol of the scientist - the white laboratory coat. This led to the more recent association of the white coat with medicine since its continued adoption.\n\nWCCs originated in University of Chicago's Pritzker School of Medicine in 1989, but the first full-fledged ceremony was at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. In 1993, Dr. Arnold P. Gold, a teacher and pediatric neurologist, created the first full-fledged WCC at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. Before this ceremony, medical students typically received the Hippocratic Oath for the first time at commencement. This ceremony marks a change in tradition, introducing students to the Oath before starting their first year of study. This was intended to provide students with well-defined guidelines regarding the expectations and responsibilities appropriate for the medical profession prior to their first day of class. Since its conception at Columbia, the WCC has spread rapidly to schools of medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, osteopathic medicine, optometry, and nursing worldwide.\n\nSince starting in the US, several medical schools in countries outside of the United States (such as Iran, Israel, Canada, UK, Dominican Republic, Brazil and Poland) have also started holding WCCs. The ceremony is no longer limited to medical students; starting in 1995, US pharmacy schools started holding WCCs, with the difference that most pharmacy students receive their coats at the end of their first academic year. In 2003 a survey found that the majority of US pharmacy schools hold WCCs. The Gold-sponsored version of the WCC, or a similar rite of passage, is currently used by 97 percent of Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC)-accredited schools of medicine in the United States, and takes place at medical and osteopathic schools in 13 other countries.\n\nIn December 2006 the first white coat ceremony was held by Fatima Jinnah Dental College (FJDC), in Karachi, Pakistan.\n\nIn October 2008 the white coat ceremony was held at the VU University Medical Center Amsterdam, it was the first ceremony held in The Netherlands. In 2011 Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam also participated in holding the ceremony at their medical faculty.\n\nOn October 13, 2010, the faculty of medicine at the University of Cologne, Germany, became the first German-speaking University to integrate this ritual into its programme. Initiated by then-student representative Hormos Salimi Dafsari in Cologne, the ceremony has been spread to various German cities such as Leipzig and Halle via channels of the German Medical Students' Association (bvmd).\n\nOn April 12, 2010, The University of Queensland's(Australia) School of Pharmacy became the first in Australia to adopt the ceremony for its incoming Bachelor of Pharmacy students.\n\nOn April 29, 2011, University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn was the first medical school in Poland, that has introduced the White Coat Ceremony. \n\nIn September 2011, Jagiellonian University in Kraków became the first medical school in Poland to introduce a white coat ceremony for the incoming class. \"\n\nOn February 28, 2011, the Faculty of Medicine at the Università del Piemonte Orientale \"Amedeo Avogadro\" in Novara became the first Italian medical school to introduce a white coat ceremony for its third year students.\n\nOn October 5, 2012, the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Medicine and Pharmacy \"Gr. T. POPA\" of Iasi, Romania, became the first Romanian university to integrate this ritual, for its first year medical students, into the symbolism of developing as a physician.\n\nOn October 8, 2012, the Medical University of Graz became the first university in Austria to celebrate a white coat ceremony of its third-year students.\n\nOn December 6, 2012, the School of Medicine at the All American Institute of Medical Sciences, Jamaica, became the first in Jamaica to introduce this ritual, for its Basic Sciences medical students.\n\nIn 2014 the Arnold P. Gold Foundation for Humanism in Medicine partnered with the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) to pilot the White Coat Ceremony at nursing schools.\n\nOn 13th of July 2017. The medical school of University Of Tripoli became the first Libyan University to introduce this event.\n\n"}
