{"id": "545577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=545577", "title": "Academic term", "text": "Academic term\n\nAn academic term (or simply term) is a portion of an academic year, the time during which an educational institution holds classes. The schedules adopted vary widely.\n\nIn most countries, the academic year begins in late summer or early autumn and ends during the following spring or summer. In Northern Hemisphere countries, this means that the academic year lasts from August, September, or October to May, June, or July. In Southern Hemisphere countries, the academic year aligns with the calendar year, lasting from February or March to November or December. The summer may or may not be part of the term system.\n\n\"Semester\", \"trimester\" and \"quarter\" are all synonyms for an academic term (the last two being mainly confined to American English), which refer to terms of specific periods as described below:\n\nIn most of Australia, the primary and secondary school year lasts approximately 200 days, from late January or early February to early or mid-December, and is split into four terms:\n\n\nTerms 4&1 (rolled over) and 2&3 are respectively usually deemed 'summer' and 'winter' respectively for purposes of sports participation and uniform standards. Australian states and territories vary their approach to Easter when determining the dates for the holiday at the end of Term 1.\n\nThe exact dates vary from year to year, as well as between states, and for public and private school. In Tasmania until and including 2012, the school year was split into three terms, the first one being the longest and including an extended Easter holiday (which was also the practice of mainland Australia until the mid-1980s). However, in 2013 Tasmania introduced a four-term year, to conform to the rest of the country. There is typically a break of two weeks mid-semester (i.e. after Term 1 and after Term 3) and a break of three weeks in the middle of the year, although this can vary between jurisdictions. In the year 2000, due to the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, the state of New South Wales extended the break after Term 3 to three weeks, compensating by reducing the break in the middle of the year to two weeks.\n\nMost Australian universities have two semesters a year, but Bond University, Deakin University, CQUniversity, Griffith University and the University of Canberra have three trimesters. Unusually, Macquarie University officially uses the word \"session\" and CQUniversity uses the word \"term\" in place of \"semester\". Many universities offer an optional short summer semester. One recent innovation in Australian higher education has been the establishment of the fully distance–online Open Universities Australia (formerly Open Learning Australia) that offers continuous study opportunities of individual units of study (what are called courses in North America) that can lead to full degree qualifications.\n\nOpen Universities Australia operates four 13-week study periods each year. Since students study only part-time and off campus these study periods mesh reasonably easily with existing university offerings based on semesters. In some cases, a \"semester\" is referred to as a \"Study Period\", for example by Centrelink.\n\nThe Austrian school year for primary and secondary schools is split into two terms, the first one starts on the first Monday in September in the states of Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland and on the second Monday of September in Upper Austria, Salzburg, Styria, Carinthia, Tyrol and Vorarlberg. Most schools have holidays between the national holiday on October 26 and All Souls Day on November 2, but those are unofficial holidays not observed by all schools in Austria. Christmas holidays start on December 24 and end on the first weekday after January 6. The first term ends in Vienna and Lower Austria on the first Friday of February, in Burgenland, Carinthia, Salzburg, Tyrol and Vorarlberg on the second Friday of February and in Upper Austria and Styria on the third Friday of February.\n\nThere is a one-week break between the two terms. In the second term there are the Easter holidays, the Mayday Holiday on May 1 and the long weekends of Pentecost, Ascension and Corpus Christi. The school year ends in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland on the last Friday of June, in Upper Austria, Styria, Carinthia, Salzburg, Tyrol and Vorarlberg on the first Friday in July.\n\nThe Barbadian school year is fashioned after the British system, and as such, it follows a scheduling with three terms per school year.\n\nThe long school holiday period is 9 to 10 weeks from the end of June until the first week of September.\n\nIn Brazil, due to the Law of Directives and Bases of Brazilian Education, the academic year must have 200 days, both at schools and at universities. The school year usually begins during the first week of February. There is a 2-week/4-week long winter break in July. The Brazilian school year ends the first week of December, summer in Brazil.\n\nMost schools use the 4 term system, called \"Unidades\" \"(unities)\".\n\nIn Brazilian universities academic terms are defined as periods or semesters (\"período\", \"semestre\"). The majority of academic degrees courses are 8 semesters (four years) long or 10 semesters (five years) long.\n\nIn Bangladesh, the kindergarten, elementary and schools follow the semester system. Most of the universities follow the semester system although for some particular subjects such as Law they follow a yearly system. Business schools of all public and private universities follow a semester or trimester system.\n\nSome of the universities using a two-semester system (using \"Term 1\" and \"Term 2\" designations) include: Jessore University of Science and Technology, Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology, Bangladesh Agricultural University, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, Chittagong University of Engineering and Technology, International Islamic University Chittagong, Khulna University, Khulna University of Engineering and Technology, Rajshahi University of Engineering and Technology, Shahjalal University of Science and Technology.Jagannath University, and Sylhet Agricultural University.\n\nSome of the universities following a trimester system (using \"Spring\", \"Summer\" and \"Fall\" designations) include: American International University - Bangladesh, BRAC University, East West University, Daffodil International University, North South University, Presidency University, Prime University, Stamford University, Military Institute of Science and Technology, University of Information Technology and Sciences, University of Development Alternative (UODA) and United International University.\n\nIn Belgium, kindergarten, elementary and secondary schools begin on September 1 and end on June 30.\n\nSchools also take breaks/holidays:\n\n\nUniversities and colleges in Belgium use the semester system, dividing the academic year in two equal parts of fourteen weeks of courses. Universities start the first semester in the third week of September, and no 'autumn break'. Colleges start one week earlier, in the second week of September, giving them right to the 'autumn break' of one week. After 13 weeks of courses the 'Christmas break' starts (around December 20), which is used to study for the 3–4 weeks of examinations in January.\n\nAfter these examinations the universities have one week of vacation, the so-called 'semestrial vacation', while the colleges start the classes of the second semester at the end of January, immediately after the examinations, which week they reclaim with the 'spring break' at the end of February, which the universities do not have. The universities start the second semester in the beginning of February.\n\nBoth universities and colleges have the 'Easter break', which again is used to study for the examinations in June. After Easter, the classes start again until the end of May, followed by four weeks of examinations in June, after which three months of vacation is given. The students who failed in passing some of the courses in their curriculum in January and June, the so-called 'first session', have to do the examinations again in the second session at the end of August.\n\nIn Cambodia the school year kindergarten sectors in public schools consists of 10 months with a two-month vacation, while in primary, and secondary sectors, it is divided into two semesters and each semester is divided into 2 quarters. The first of November is the start of the academic term. After the 1st semester, a small vacation when the school is halted and at the end of the Second Semester, a 2-month vacation until the start of the new year. In universities, it is divided into 4 years.\n\nEducation being a provincial responsibility, there is no Canadian national standard. In Canada the school year for elementary and high school consists of 178 to 200 days, depending on jurisdiction, but several days may be deducted from this total for professional development and administrative duties, resulting in approximately 187 teaching days per year for most jurisdictions. Elementary students receive approximately 950 hours of instruction and secondary students receive approximately 1000 hours per year.\n\nGenerally in English Canada, high schools run on a two-semester arrangement, also known as fall and spring semester, the first semester starting from the day after Labour Day in September to mid-January and the second running from early February until the Thursday before the last Friday in June. The semesters are often divided into two terms each. Some schools in Canada run on a trimester system, the first running from September to January, the second from January to March or April, and the third from March or April until June. The trimester is more common in elementary and middle schools (Kindergarten - Grade 8) than in high schools (Grade 9 - Grade 12). Most of those characteristics differ in Québec, where education is, with the exception of a few school boards, given in French. By tradition, Quebec and Franco-Ontarian elementary and secondary schools will arrange timetables to ensure the school year ends before June 24, date of the St-Jean-Baptiste day celebration, a traditional holiday.\n\nMost universities and colleges usually run from early September until the end of April or early May. Often, this winter session is split into two terms running September to December and January to April. Various forms of summer studies may be offered May to August. Some, such as University of Waterloo and Simon Fraser University, run a full tri-semester system, providing full courses during summer. There are a few school boards in Canada experimenting with year-round schooling.\n\nIn elementary school, high school, as well as in universities, Chilean education is divided into two semesters. The first one starts late February or early March and lasts until late June and the second starts in early August and finishes in mid-December; also, some universities offer a summer period from early January to mid-February but just for exceptional courses.\nThese semesters have breaks for public festivities, such as Easter, independence commemoration (from two days to two weeks in September depending on year and place) and some public holidays like labour day, among others.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, elementary, middle and high schools have two semesters, the first from September to January, and the second from February or March, depending on the date of Chinese New Year, to July.\n\nMost universities and colleges in China also uses the two-semesters system, while a small portion of Chinese universities, such as Shanghai University, are experimenting with the quarter system.\n\nFrom January to February or March is the Winter break or Lunar New Year break. Summer break is normally from July to the end of August.\n\nIn Northern China, the winter break is longer and the summer break is shorter; the opposite applies in Southern China.\n\nThere are some casual holiday breaks:\n\n\nIn Costa Rica the school year runs for ten months. It starts in the first week of February and ends in the last week of November. There is a mid-term vacation of approximately 2 weeks in July, and most schools also observe \"Easter Week\" in March or April.\n\nIn the elementary and high schools in the Czech Republic, the school year usually runs from September 1 to June 30 of the following year.\n\nIt is divided into two semesters with breaks on public holidays such as St. Vaclav (September 28), Independence day (October 28, two days break), Velvet Revolution (November 17), Christmas (7–10 days break), Spring break (1 week break), Easter (three days break on Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter Monday) and finally Labour day (May 1) and Liberation day (May 8). After the end of school year on June 30, the Summer holidays follow until September 1 when a new school year starts. Sole exception to this is the final year at high schools, which ends with Graduation of students at the end of May.\n\nUniversities have two mid-terms. The academic year starts usually in the second half of September or in the beginning of October. (It depends on university.)\nBachelor's degree is normally obtained by students after 3 years and masters after another 2 years of study. Still, there are some exceptions (e.g. medicine takes 6 years, no bachelor's degree).\n\nIn schools in Denmark, the school year runs from August to June. In universities, the academic year runs from around September 1 to June 30, and is often divided into an autumn semester (with January set aside for exams) and a spring semester (with June set aside for exams). Since 2004, some Danish universities and faculties divide the academic year into four quarters, each of which may consist of eight weeks and an exam week, and being separated from the next quarter by a one-week break.\n\nIn Estonia, elementary and high schools begin on 1 September and end in the beginning of June. The school year is divided into quarters that last about two to three months. Summer is usually counted as a term break, although the beginning of June is still part of the fourth quarter. Universities start on the first Monday of September and usually end in the middle of May or in the beginning of June; though in reality, exam periods may continue until the end of June (e.g. University of Tartu).\n\nIn Ethiopia, almost all elementary, secondary, and college classes are conducted on a two-semester timetable. The first semester of the year is from September to late January or mid February. The second semester usually begins some two weeks after the end of the first and ends in late May or mid June.\n\nIn the elementary and secondary schools and college, the academic year is divided in semesters. The autumn semester begins in mid-August and is suspended a few days before Christmas. The classes continue after the Epiphany with the spring semester which finishes at the beginning of June.\n\nIn primary and secondary schools, the school year begins the first Monday of September, unless September 1 is on Sunday. The school year is divided into three trimesters. The first from September to January, the second from January to April, and the third is from April to June.\n\nSchool Breaks\nBreaks are scattered throughout the school year every 6, 7 or 8 weeks and last 2 weeks each.\n\nAll Saint Break\nThe first break is around All Saints' Day on November 1.\n\nChristmas Break\nChristmas Break starts the Saturday before Christmas.\n\nWinter Break\nWinter Break dates differ of the Academia's location, which could be in Zone A, B, or C, to avoid high traffic on the road. It usually starts in February, ends late February or early March.\n\nEaster Break\nEaster Break depends on the location of Academia. It starts in April, and ends late April or early May.\n\nEnd of Academic term - Summer Break\nIn primary school, end of Acamedic term is early July. In secondary school (middle school or high school) end of Academic term is before Middle School Exam in late June, or Baccalaureat, in mid-June.\n\nOn Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays, pupils have a full day of teaching from around 8:30 a.m. until around 4:30 p.m. On Wednesday mornings, some pupils may have supplementary classes. French pupils used to attend school on Saturdays, but the so-called \"four-days week\" has been implemented since September 2008, reducing the teaching year from 936 to 864 hours (above the European average of 800 hours, but below the UK minimum of 950 hours for state schools). Additional holidays include Veterans Day on November 11, May 8, Ascension Day, May Day on May 1, and Easter Monday.\n\nThe school year in Germany begins between late July and early September, and ends from mid-June to July, with a summer break of similar length to that in the UK (only 6 weeks) but much shorter than in some other countries (with up to 3 months). The summer vacation starts in a different week by state (there are 16 federal states including Berlin, Hamburg and Bremen). The school year includes four or five shorter breaks or holidays:\n\n\nDue to Germany's federal structure, all breaks may differ depending on the state. The exact dates for the beginning and the end of school breaks are kept different state by state and changed every year. This is meant to keep holiday traffic as low as possible.\n\nThe school year is divided into two parts (September to February & February to July). There is not necessarily any break between those two parts, but pupils get a semi-year school report (it only displays their current level and is not relevant for promotion).\n\nGerman universities run two semesters with the start and end dates depending on the university. The \"Wintersemester\" (WiSe), during which most students start university, often goes from 1 October until 31 March, with lectures starting around 15 October and lasting 14 weeks. There is usually a two-week break around Christmas and New Year (which is not counted in the 14 weeks). The \"Sommersemester\" (SoSe) consequently usually goes from 1 April until 30 September with lectures starting some time after Easter and lasting 12 weeks. The two lecture-free periods of 12 to 14 weeks between the semesters are for taking exams, doing internships, lab courses, and employment.\n\nThe University of Mannheim changed its schedule to conform with US standards in Fall of 2006. The semesters there are now from August 1 to January 31 (\"Herbst-/Wintersemester\") and from February 1 to July 31 (\"\").\n\n\"Fachhochschulen\" start both semesters one month earlier than other universities.\n\n\"Berufsakademien\" have four quarters, January to March and so on. In alternating quarters the students attend the university and intern at the employer (the latter being the \"Praxisphase\"). The number of lessons per week is significantly higher than at normal universities (equivalent to a full-time job) and the exams cannot be during the \"free time\" of the year, as that time is spent in the company. Vacation is given according to labor laws, i.e. half of 20–30 days (because only half of the year is worked).\n\nThe school year in Guyana usually begins in September and ends in July of the following year. It has three terms: Christmas (First), Easter (Second) and August (Third), with two to three weeks break for Christmas and Easter and 6 to 7 weeks during the August term.\n\nThe school year in Honduras runs from the first week of February to the end of November, with a one-week break during Easter, and a week break in October.\nUniversity\nDepending on the university, some do trimester and others in quarters. Breaks may vary. \n\nIn Hong Kong, the academic year usually runs from September 1 to mid-July for most primary and secondary schools. For senior secondary student, they usually start their academic year from mid of August or late August. Some secondary schools have two terms, but most have three terms. For universities and other tertiary institutions the academic year usually runs from September or October to April or May, sometimes with an extra summer term roughly from May to July.\n\nKindergartens often operate a semester (two-term) system, divided by the lengthy (e.g. two-week) break for Chinese New Year, typically in early February.\n\nIn the elementary and high schools in Hungary, the school year usually runs from September 1 to June 15 of the next year, with variation if these dates fall on Saturday or Sunday. The school year \"(tanév)\" is usually split into two semesters \"(félév)\". These semesters are also divided, with some schools holding examinations each half-semester. The first semester runs from September 1 until the middle of January and is divided by the fall vacation, which is around All Saints' Day and lasts for a week. The second semester is closed at the end of the school year. It is divided by the Easter holiday, which usually consist of the weekend before Easter and the holiday itself. Apart from these vacations and national celebrations, a few schools have 'skiing holidays' \"(síszünet)\", the date of which varies from the middle of January until February, though some schools hold it in December. Its length also varies from one school to another. It is made so that the students of the school who partake in the skiing camp of the school need no verification of absence. In the last school year of secondary education, the Matura examinations (school-leaving exam and entrance exam for university admissions; similar to A-level exams in the UK) are administered from May through July.\n\nHungarian universities run two semesters. They are typically from the first or second week of September to the middle of December (fall semester (őszi félév)) and from February to the middle of May (spring semester (tavaszi félév)). Both semesters are followed by an examination period. During the winter exam period, a break of 1–2 weeks is administered between Christmas and the beginning of the new year. In addition to the break between the semesters in summer, there is typically a break including Christmas and New Year. Some universities also have a fall and an Easter vacation.\n\nIn elementary and secondary schools, the school year in some part is April to March and others June to May, while in universities it is from July to May. There is a mid-year break during summer, usually from the end of May to the start of July in universities and in elementary and high schools, the vacations range from the beginning of April and last up to the beginning or middle of June. There is also a winter vacation of two weeks at the beginning of the year. However, in the Eastern and southern states like West Bengal and Karnataka there will be two breaks, one for Dasara in September/October for 15 days and another for Christmas in December which ranges from 7 to 15 days. A semester system is being implemented in most of the universities in India as directed by the University Grants Commission.\n\nUniversity of Calicut, Kerala University, MG University and Sri Sankara University (SCSVMV University) have reached a consensus, and the other universities are also likely to introduce credit-based semester system in Kerala. Delhi University also introduced this system.\n\nFor Jammu and Kashmir, the school year usually begins in mid-October or the start of November. There are two vacations in a year, Winter holidays last from the start of December until the first of March. A summer vacation usually lasts two weeks from mid-July to the end of July, the dates do vary. For schools, students move from old to the new academic year immediately after the exams for the previous year is over with a small break of a week for compilation of results.\n\nMost schools also have an autumn break or Diwali break in August or around October/November. This is generally right before the second semester exam in September or in the middle of the second semester.\n\nAn academic year in Indonesia is divided to two terms, running from mid-July to December and January to mid-June. For universities, however, the terms are much shorter, running from September to December and February to May. Some universities provide a summer semester (called \"the short semester\") from June to August. During president Abdurrahman Wahid's term, schools are closed for Ramadan and a week after Eid-ul-Fitr (Idul Fitri). Some schools implement Saturday-off. Previously, academic year starts from January to December, but this rule changed in 1985.\n\nIn Iran, the academic year runs from September to June (10 months). Some universities, however, offer a limited number of courses in summer. Students have a three-month summer vacation. All schools are closed during Nowruz from march 20 until the beginning of April to celebrate the Iranian new year. The first (fall) semester begins on the first day of the Persian Calendar month of Mehr equivalent to the first day of autumn in the Northern Hemisphere and ends in January. The second (spring) semester begins in the winter and ends in June. No mid-term break exists in the academic calendar.\n\nThe primary school year runs from the beginning of September until the end of June. There are breaks for Christmas and Easter and two mid-term breaks at the end of October and mid-February. Secondary schools run from September to the end of May, but due to the Junior Certificate and Leaving Certificate exams, 3rd and 6th years respectively break at the end of June for summer holidays upon completion of the exams which end in the 3rd week of June.\nThe academic year for schools in receipt of public funding lasts for a minimum of 167 teaching days in secondary schools and 183 days in primary schools.\n\nThird-level institutions generally from early September to December for their first term. The second term usually runs from January to Easter and the third term from Easter to mid- or late May. There are two common approaches to organising semesters: One, e.g. at Trinity College Dublin (TCD) and NUI Galway, is to align the first semester with the first term (Michaelmas at TCD) and then split the second semester over the second term (Hilary at TCD) and third term (Trinity at TCD). The other approach, e.g. at University College Dublin, is for the first semester to start at the start of the first term and continue after Christmas for a few weeks of the second term and for the second semester to start immediately after this in the middle of the second term, without a break, run through the rest of the second term, and continue after Easter through to the end of the third term.\n\nThe school year in Israel starts in elementary, middle, and high schools on September 1, and lasts until the end of June for elementary schools, and until June 20 for middle and high schools. There are no fixed holidays of equal length, with breaks occurring on national holidays, usually lasting two or three days. For Jews, there is a nine-day break for Sukkot (autumn); a seven-day break for Hannukah (in December); and for Passover (spring) the break is 2–3 weeks long. For the Muslim population, breaks are taken for Eid al-Adha, Eid ul-Fitr and end of semester breaks.\n\nThe university academic year typically divides into two semesters which start after Sukkot (typically mid to late October) and end in June or July. Some academic institutions also enable a third semester in the summer.\n\nThe short breaks:\n\n\nThe school year in Israel is divided into two semesters:\n\n\nUntil 2011, the summer break ended on August 31, but in 2011 Israeli ministry of education decided to shorten the summer break by one week and the break now ends on August 26 . In 2014, the old schedule was reinstated so that the summer break is back to August 31. The period between Yom Kippur and Sukkot was added as holiday to compensate for this but , has consequently been removed.\n\nIn most Yeshivas, the year is divided into three periods (terms) called \"zmanim\". Elul zman starts from the beginning of the Hebrew month of Elul and extends until the end of Yom Kippur. This is the shortest (approx. six weeks), but most intense semester as it comes before the High Holidays of Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. Winter zman starts after Sukkot and lasts until just before Passover, a duration of five months (six in a Jewish leap year). Summer semester starts after Passover and lasts until either the middle of the month of Tammuz or Tisha B'Av, a duration of about three months. During the interim periods, which are called \"bein hazmanim\" (between the terms), students are on vacation.\n\nIn Italy, all schools start in the first half of September, even though the exact beginning date changes every year. For schools from primary schools to high schools, the academic year is split into two semesters:\n\nKindergartens usually follow a similar schedule.\n\nA university academic year is slightly different because of exams. University academic year divides into:\n\n\nEven though September is a free month, it is officially an exam month in all Italian universities. It means that it is possible to take exams.\nDuring every exam session (January–February, May–June–July or September), students are usually allowed to take any exam of their previous carrier that they couldn't pass and even a certain number of exams of the new academic year (credit limit for this last option).\n\nIn the following holidays, no lessons take place:\n\n\nIn Japan, (trimester system), and most universities and colleges have a semester system. The exact date of the beginning of the summer break and its duration vary across regions, but commonly the break lasts for about six weeks. The break originated to avoid the heat in summer, so elementary, middle, and high schools in Hokkaidō and Nagano Prefecture tend to have a shorter summer break than the rest of schools in Japan.\n\nSchool Term 1: April 1 to late July\n\nSchool Term 2: early September to late December (with a two-week-long break for New Year's at the end of the year.)\n\nSchool Term 3: early January to late March (and a brief week-long spring break.)\n\nThe graduation ceremony occurs in March, and the enrollment ceremony in early April. The Japanese public school year consists of approximately 200 days.\n\nSome universities and colleges accept students in September or October in order to let those students from other semester systems enroll. In recent years a few colleges have begun experimenting with having two semesters instead of the traditional three with the break between two semesters in summer.\n\nIn Kenya, for K-12 education, the calendar year starts in January and ends in November. The academic year is divided into 3 terms as follows:\n\nApril, August and December are usually school holidays.\n\nThere is no standard academic calendar for universities as each university is free to set its own calendar.\n\nInternational schools tend to follow the Northern Hemisphere academic calendar.\n\nIn Lithuania, elementary and high schools begin on September 1 and end in mid June.\n\nSchools also take breaks/holidays:\n\n\nIn Malaysian primary and secondary schools, the school year is divided into two semesters. The first semester begins in early January and ends in late May, with a one-week mid-term break in March. After the mid-year holidays, which lasts for two weeks, the second semester begins in mid-June and ends in mid-November, with a one-week mid-term break in September. The school year ends with a six-week year-end holidays from mid-November to early January.\n\nThe school week varies by state, depending on the weekend of the state. For states with a Saturday-Sunday weekend, the school week is Monday to Friday. For states with a Friday-Saturday weekend (Johor, Kedah, Kelantan, and Terengganu), the school week is Sunday to Thursday; as a result, school terms begin and end a day earlier in these four states than in the rest of the country. Some schools have co-curricular activities on Saturdays.\n\nSchools are closed on national and state public holidays. Schools are allowed to have a few special holidays without replacement for events such as school anniversary and sports day. For festivities such as Hari Raya Aidilfitri/Hari Raya Puasa, Hari Gawai, Chinese New Year and Deepavali, schools usually apply for additional holidays to allow longer breaks for students to visit relatives in their hometowns. However, every day missed exceeding the special holiday allowance would be replaced by having classes on weekends.\n\nIn Maldivians primary and secondary schools, the school year is divided into two semesters. The first semester begins in early January and ends in early June, with a one-week mid-term break. After the mid-year holidays, which lasts for two weeks, the second semester begins in mid-June and ends in mid-November, with a one-week mid-term break.\n\nThe school week is Sunday to Thursday, as a result, all schools terms begin and end same day all over the country.\n\nThe school year is split into three terms. It starts at the end of September and ends at the end of June the following year.\n\nThe school year in Mexico starts in mid-August and ends in mid-July, by law covering 200 days, usually divided into 5 terms:\n\nTerm 1 starts in mid-August and finishes in mid-October\n\nTerm 2 starts in mid-October and finishes by the second or third week in December\n\nTerm 3 starts the first week of January (after Three Kings Day) and finishes around the third week of February (Flag Day)\n\nTerm 4 starts in late February and finishes late March or early April (usually the Friday before Palm Sunday)\n\nTerm 5 starts the second Monday after Easter and finishes in early July\n\nSummer break is 45 days. The calendar is designed by the Secretary of Public Education (, SEP), the government department overseeing public education aln in Mexico with arrangements of the leaders of the National Educational Workers Union (Spanish: \"Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Educación\", SNTE). All public and private elementary schools under the guidance of the dependence observe this year. In the case of universities, normally the school year starts in the last week of July and is divided in trimesters or semesters. Christmas Break is usually 3 weeks.\n\nEducation in Nepal is structured as school education and higher education. School education includes primary level of grades 1–5, lower secondary and secondary levels of grades 6–8 and 9–10 respectively. Pre-primary level of education is available in some areas. Six years old is the prescribed age for admission into grade one. A national level School Leaving Certificate (SLC) examination is conducted at the end of grade 10.These class starts in late April and finishes early March.\nSummer break is usually of 1 week to 1 month and 1 month vacation is provided as festival holiday in November usually.\n\nGrades 11 and 12 are considered as higher secondary level. Higher Secondary Education Board (HSEB) supervises higher secondary schools which are mostly under private management. Previously these\ngrades were under the university system and were run as proficiency certificate level. Although some universities still offer these programs, the policy now is to integrate these grades into the school system.These class starts from late July\nand ends in April.\n\nHigher education consists of bachelor, masters, and PhD levels. Depending upon the stream and subject, bachelors level may be of three to five years' duration. The duration of masters level is generally two years. Some universities offer programs like M Phil and post-graduate diplomas.\n\nVocational education in Nepal starts after lower secondary education. Students can choose to follow a two-year curriculum leading to the \"Technical School leaving Certificate\". Universities also offers professional and technical degrees. Out of the formal track, short-term programs(1 year) focusing on skills development are also available.\n\nThe New Zealand school year runs from the beginning of February to mid-December, and since 1996, has been divided into four terms. By law, all state and state-integrated schools are required to be open for instruction for 380 half-days in a year (390 half-days for schools with only Year 8 students or below), meaning that the start and end of the school year is not nationally fixed to a particular date, as schools take different teacher-only days and provincial anniversary days off during the year. Schools can be exempted from opening the required number of half-days in some cases, such as in Christchurch in 2011 when many schools closed for up to a month after the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. The breaks between terms have fixed start and end dates, and the break length is fixed at two weeks.\n\nIn general, terms run as follows if Easter falls in early-to-mid-April:\n\n\nIf Easter falls in March or late in April, Term 1 usually ends in mid-April and Term 2 begins at the beginning of May. If Easter is in March, a 5-day half-term break then exists, with school ending on Maundy Thursday and resuming on the Wednesday. The start of term two may be delayed if Anzac Day (25 April) falls on the Monday or Tuesday directly following the Easter break.\n\nPrivate schools are not required to adhere to the Ministry's term structure, but by law they may not be open for instruction on Saturday or Sunday, the ten national public holidays, the school location's relevant anniversary day, and the Tuesday immediately following Easter Monday.\n\nSenior secondary students (Years 11, 12, and 13) in many state schools have examination leave from mid-November, on the Thursday or Friday before the first NCEA external examinations begin. Officially, however, the term still does not end until mid-December.\n\nThe school year in Oman is divided into two semesters:\n\nUsually there are exams at the end of each semester. Students get a number of breaks throughout the year: National Day on 18 November, New Higri year break, Prophet Mohammed birthday break, Eid Al-Fitr break and Eid Al-Adha break. As most of these breaks depend on the Higri year which is 10 days shorter than the Solar year, there is a gradual change on the date of these events in relation to the school year.\n\nIn Pakistan, the school year runs from April to March. Students have a two-month summer vacation and a two-week winter vacation. In Gilgit-Baltistan, Azad Kashmir and some areas of Balochistan, where heavy snow paralyzes life in the winter, the schools close for two months and there are two weeks of summer vacation.\n\nSchools and universities are off on national holidays: Pakistan Day (March 23), Independence Day (August 14), Defence of Pakistan Day (September 6), the anniversaries of the birth (December 25) and death (September 11) of Quaid-e-Azam, Allama Iqbal (November 9) and the birth (July 30) and death (July 8) of Madar-e-Millat.\n\nLabour Day (also known as May Day) is also observed in Pakistan on May 1. Both Eid festivals are also public holidays.\n\nIn the University of Engineering and Technology Lahore, the holidays are for two and half months during summer.\n\nFor the government universities, the students of bachelors are given 1-1.5 month of summer vacation and 1-1.5 weeks of winter vacations.\n\nThe Philippine school year lasts usually between nine and ten months long, and a school year must be at least 200 days as prescribed by law including examination periods. The school year begins in the first week of June and ends in the third or fourth week of March. Private schools may have a slightly shorter academic calendar either starting in the second (or third week) of June or ending earlier in March.\n\nIn most primary and secondary (junior high) schools, an academic year is usually divided into quarters for purposes of examination and reporting of marks though a few private schools adopt a trimestral system. Each quarter normally lasts for approximately seven (usually the 3rd quarter) to ten weeks (usually the 1st, 2nd and 4th quarters) but the actual length of each quarter and the months they cover varies among private schools. The fourth quarter for pupils in grade 6 is usually two to three weeks shorter than undergraduates to allow for preparation of final grades to determine who are eligible for graduation as well as to prepare for the graduation ceremonies themselves. Each quarter culminates in most schools with a quarterly examination period of three to five days.\n\nThe academic term for senior high school (grades 11 and 12) operates on a semestral basis. Semestral, Christmas, and summer breaks are scheduled at about the same time as primary and junior high school. Grade 12 pupils have a shorter second semester than grade 11 in order for the school to prepare for graduation.\n\nIn most schools, summer break usually lasts for two months, starting from the first week of April up to the last week of May. Most schools end the school year before Holy Week. Semestral break is normally set to coincide with All Saints and All Souls Day. The Christmas Break usually begins in the third week of December, and classes resume the Monday or week after New Year's Day (unless that Monday is January 2). Commencement ceremonies are often held in late March or early April.\n\nExceptions to this general schedule are international schools operating in the country, which normally follow their home country's respective school system.\n\nFor most universities and colleges, an academic year is divided into two semesters, each up to 18 weeks long except for senior students in their final semester where they end the semester two weeks earlier. Enrollment/registration in an institution is usually good for only one semester: a student who successfully registers for the first semester is not automatically enrolled to study in the second semester. The student will need to successfully complete clearance requirements and in a few cases, maintain a certain overall mark in order to progress in her university studies in the next semester. The first semester is followed by a break consisting of two to four weeks before the second semester, called the Semestral Break, which usually occurs between the second week of October to the second week of November for all universities and colleges. The Semestral Break can be two to three weeks long, and normally includes the All Saints' and All Souls' holidays.\n\nOther schools such as Technological University of the Philippines – Taguig Campus, De La Salle University and Far Eastern University – East Asia College, and AMA Computer University operate under a trimestral system. Classes start in the fourth week of May and ends in the third week of April. Under this system, students are typically able to finish their academic studies a year earlier than those from other universities with a semestral programme. Mapúa University began using the quarterly system with eleven weeks to a term after its acquisition by the Yuchengco Group. This allows their engineering programmes to be completed a year ahead of schools running on a semestral schedule.\n\nMoreover, starting academic year 2014-2015, constituent campuses in the University of the Philippines System started their school year in August to end in May and the University of Santo Tomas started the Academic Year in August and it will end in May 2015. In AY 2015-2016, several Philippine colleges and universities will follow the shift.\n\nIn AY 2015-2016, San Beda College Manila and St. Scholastica's College Manila will start their calendar in early July 2015 and it will end in mid- to late April 2016 and it was aimed to be a transition to a full August to May Calendar in the succeeding academic years.\n\nAlso in AY 2015-2016, the University of Santo Tomas, will complete its shift to an August to May calendar. Ateneo de Manila University will also shift to an August to May Calendar this AY 2015-2016 with having a summer term in June to July before AY 2015-2016 starts. De La Salle University and De La Salle – College of St. Benilde will have an August to August Calendar for the incoming AY 2015-2016.\n\nIn Poland, the school year begins on September 1 and ends on the first Friday after June 18. There is a Christmas break in December which lasts until after New Year's Day. There is also a winter holiday break lasting two weeks in January or February but the exact date is different for each voivodeship and the dates usually change each year. Winter break is also the dividing line between the two semesters of the school year.\n\nMost universities start their courses on October 1 (at some institutions late September), and the first semester (commonly referred to as the \"\"winter term\") ends in January. The second term starts in February or March, (the \"summer term\") and ends in June. Each semester is usually 15 or 16 weeks long. After each of them there is an \"examination session\", when no courses are taught, which lasts up to one month. The summer break starts after the exams and lasts until the start of the next academic year. In September there is an extra examination session during which students can retake failed exams.\n\nThe school year in Portugal runs from September to June and is divided in three Terms (\"Períodos\", in Portuguese):\n\n\nDuring the school year there are several breaks or holidays (\"interrupções\" or \"férias\", in Portuguese):\n\n\nUniversities and colleges follow a different academic year, which consists of two semesters.\n\nThe school year in Romania is divided into two semesters. From kindergarten to high school the first semester opens in early-mid September and continues until mid-late January. The second semester lasts from early February until early-mid June.\nNote that Some teachers might change the calendar a bit, like starting semesters and summer break one week earlier.\nData . \n\nThe school year in Russia traditionally starts on September 1 (\"The Knowledge Day\"). The school year is divided into four terms (quarters), separated by one- or two-week holidays (the first week in November, the first two weeks in January, and the last week of March). The summer holiday lasts three months: June, July, and August. Generally the school year lasts until 25 May, which is also known as \"The Last School-Bell\" day celebrated by the graduates, their families and teachers. The school graduation ceremony - \"Graduation Evening\" () - is organized on June 20–25.\n\nThe academic year at universities also starts on September 1 and usually consists of 42 educational weeks and 10 weeks of holidays. It is divided into two terms (semesters). The first one (autumn semester) runs from September 1 to January 24/25 (21 weeks, including a 3- to 5-week winter exams session at the end) followed by a two-week holiday. Coincidentally January 25 is also \"Tatiana Day\", traditionally celebrated as Russian Students Day. The second one (spring semester) runs from February 9 to June 30 or July 4/5 (21 weeks, including a 3- to 5-week summer exams session) followed by an eight-week summer holiday. Some Russian universities do not use a traditional scheme: they exclude exams sessions, and the academic year is divided in a 2:3 ratio of 17 educational weeks (followed by a two-week holiday) and 25 educational weeks (followed by an eight-week summer holiday).\n\nThe school year coincides with the calendar year, and the first term begins on January 2 (unless it is a weekend or a Monday). The school year comprises four terms of 10 weeks each.\n\n\nTerms 1 and 2 are known as Semester 1, and terms 3 and 4 as Semester 2. to accommodate the release of the O level results.\n\nInternational schools in Singapore operate on a different system, often similar to the system in their home countries.\n\nThe training year in ITE is made up of two terms, commencing January and April respectively, depending on the month of intake.\n\nAt the end of each term, there will be a 4-week break period before a new term begins.\n\nAt the end of each term, there will be a 2-week break period before a new term begins.\n\nPolytechnics and universities operate on a different calendar from schools. There are two semesters in a year in polytechnics.\nAt the end of each semester, there will be a 7-week break period before a new semester begins.\n\nIt is to match the northern hemisphere calendar more closely.\n\nThe school year for elementary, grammar and high schools begins on September 2 (September 1 is Constitution Day) and ends June 29 of the following year. The school day starts at 8:00 a.m. and ends at 2:00 p.m. (time varies due to day and type of school). in most schools. It is split into two halves, with the first half ending on the last day of January.\n\nUniversities starts in second half of September or 1 October. Academic year consist of 2 semesters (winter /until December/ and summer /until May/).\n\nThe school year in Slovenia for elementary and grammar schools begins on 1 September and formally ends on 31 August, although classes and exams are finished by 25 June. July and August thus constitute summer holidays. There are also four one-week breaks during the school year, occurring around All Saints Day, between Christmas and New Year, at the end of February, and around the May Day.\n\nUniversities and colleges follow a different academic year. It consists of two semesters—the winter semester starting on 1 October, which ends around 15 January. It is followed by a one-month break, during which students take the exams for subjects they have read in the semester. The summer semester begins on 15 February and lasts until 31 May, followed by the exam period, which ends on 30 June. Students who have not passed the necessary exams have a chance to do so during the autumn exam period in September. Students and faculty are free during in July and August. New classes are held again in October.\n\nAll South African public schools have a four-term school year as determined by the national Department of Education. Each term is between 10 and 11 weeks long. The terms are roughly structured as follows:\n\nFirst Term\n\nSecond Term\n\nThird Term\n\nFourth Term\n\nThe academic year is approximately 200 school days in duration and runs from January to December.\n\nPrivate schools follow a similar calendar, but slightly alter it according to their academic and religious needs. Some independent (private) schools have a three-term year instead .\n\nThe dates of the school year for coastal schools are slightly different from those for inland schools.\n\nThe National Education Department proposed a five-week-long school break in June–July 2010 for the 2010 Soccer World Cup-hosted in South Africa-to avoid pupil and teacher absenteeism and a chaotic transport system.\n\nSouth African universities have a year consisting of two semesters, with the first semester running from early February to early June, and the second semester from late July to late November. Each semester consists of twelve or thirteen teaching weeks, interrupted by a one-week short vacation, and followed by three or four weeks of examinations. In the first semester the short vacation often falls around the Easter weekend, while in the second semester it occurs in early September.\n\nIn South Korea, the school year is divided into two terms. The first term usually runs from March 2, unless it is a Friday or the weekend, to mid-July with the summer vacation from mid-July to late-August (elementary and secondary schools) and from mid-June to late August (higher education institutions). The second term usually resumes in late August and runs until mid-February. The winter break is from late December to late January. There are two weeks of school (elementary and secondary schools) in February. Then there is a two-week-break before the new academic year starts in March.\n\nThe school hours are approximately from 8:00 am to 4:00 pm for high school, each class lasting 50 minutes. For middle school, it is about from 8:00am–3:30pm, each class lasting 45 minutes. In Primary School, the lower grades (Grades 1-3) have classes around 8:30 to 2:00 and the upper grades (Grades 4-6) have classes from about 9:00 to 3:00. Each class lasts about 40 minutes. In high school, the older students are sometimes required to stay until 9:00 pm or later studying on their own. For the most part, teachers rotate and the students stay in their classroom except for certain classes such as Physical Education, Music and Science labs.\n\nThere is a popular saying in Korean, 노는 토요일 (no-neun to-yo-il); it means, resting on Saturdays. From 2006 to 2011, Korean students (from elementary to secondary schools) were required to go to school on the 1st, 3rd, and 5th Saturdays of each month. Prior to 2006, students had to go to school six days a week, except for 2005, when students had one Saturday off every month. The schools normally ended at noon on Saturday, and the curriculum is mostly focused on extracurricular activities. However, Korean Ministry of Education abolished school days on the Saturdays in 2012.\n\nThe school year consists of two semesters. The fall semester begins in early September and runs until late January or early February. Summer vacation is from early July to end of August. Winter vacation typically runs from two to three weeks around the Lunar New Year. Spring semester begins following the Lantern Festival in mid February and ends in early June. Privatized institutions in Taiwan have varying academic terms.\n\nThere are some holiday breaks:\n\n\nThere are two semesters in the Thai academic year with an optional summer semester. From kindergarten to high school, the first semester opens in mid May and continues until the end of September. The second semester lasts from November until the end of February (or early March). The university academic year is slightly different, lasting from June to October and mid November to mid March.\n\nThe Turkish academic year begins in September and continues through to the following June. In most public educational institutions from primary to tertiary, the first semester begins in September and continues until January, and the second semester begins February and continues until June. The academic calendar and dates of mid-semester breaks may vary across private institutions.\n\nThe academic year at universities starts on September the 1st and usually consists of two semesters. The first semester runs from September the 1st to January the 24/25th followed by a two-week holiday. The second semester runs from February the 9th to June the 30th or July the 4/5th.\n\nThe English law courts terms and legal training pupillage divided the year into four terms, partly to create a predictable work schedule, but also to make allowances for harsh travel conditions and delays caused by adverse weather at a time when all English law students and many litigants had to travel to London for training or legal advice at one of the Inns of Court. The English legal year still runs to this calendar:\n\nIn Scotland, academic and judicial institutions traditionally organised their year around the Scottish term days, the traditional divisions of the Scottish legal year:\n\n\nThe school year in the United Kingdom is generally divided into three terms running from autumn to summer. For state schools, the school year consists of 195 days of which there are 190 teaching days and five INSET teacher training days. For independent schools, the school year can be as short as 175 days. The structure of the school year varies between the constituent countries of the United Kingdom with school holiday dates varying between local education authorities.\n\nBefore the mechanisation of agriculture and when more of the population lived in the rural countryside, the long summer school holiday in Britain arose in the 19th century as a result of the education authorities abandoning the battle to keep children at school through haymaking (around the start of August) and wheat harvest (around the end of August), when every available pair of hands was needed on the land.\n\nIn England and Wales, the school year generally runs from early September until late July of the following year. Most schools operate a three-term school year, each term divided in half by a week-long break known as \"half term\" (although some counties, like Oxfordshire, consider these to be six separate terms instead), and are structured as follows:\nThere is no winter term.\n\nThe terms are separated by two holidays, each of approximately two weeks' duration: the Christmas holidays separating the autumn term and spring term, and the Easter holidays separating the spring term and the summer term. The period between the end of one school year and the start of the next is the summer holidays, which are six to eight weeks long.\n\nThe academic year originated in the pre-industrial era when all able-bodied young people were expected to work through the period of July and August. For the purposes of education, the remainder of the year was arranged into three terms accommodating the Christian holidays of Christmas and Easter. Half-term breaks divide the 16- to 17-week terms.\n\nHowever the long summer break has been criticised by educationalists in the post-industrialist age because it creates a break in the academic progress. Even a House of Commons Education Select Committee recommended in 1999 that schools switch to a five-term academic year, abolishing the long summer holidays. Each term would be eight weeks long with a two-week break in between terms, and a minimum four-week summer holiday, with no half terms—the idea being that children can keep up momentum for eight weeks without a break. The proposals were introduced at a small number of schools nationally.\n\nIn 1999, the Local Government Association set up a commission to look at alternative proposals for a more balanced school year. In partnership with Local Authorities and teachers unions, they were unable to agree to a suitable alternative arrangement for terms, but by 2004 came to an agreement with the National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers for a standardised arrangement of school terms. Since 2004, around one third of English local authorities have signed up to the proposals which see a standard academic year agreed between the authorities, including slight variations on the traditional schemes, based on the following principles:\n\n\nIn addition the independent schools have set their own term dates with varying degrees of local and national co-ordination.\n\nThe school year in Northern Ireland generally runs from early September to late June or early July of the following year. Most schools operate a three-term school year similar to England and Wales; however, there is no half term during summer term due to the province's longer summer holidays. The terms are structured as follows:\n\n\nThe terms are separated by two holidays each consisting of approximately two weeks: the Christmas holidays separating the autumn and spring terms, and the Easter holidays separating the spring and summer terms. The summer holidays in Northern Ireland last nine weeks, from the start of July until the end of August, due to the Twelfth of July bank holiday.\n\nThe school year in Scotland generally runs from middle or late August to late June or early July of the following year (usually in eastern council areas from the third Monday in August to the first Friday in July and in western council areas from the second Monday in August to the last Friday in June). Most schools operate a three-term school year, each term divided in half by a break known as ‘mid-term’, lasting a week or two in October, a few days to a week in February, and a few days in May. The terms are structured as follows:\n\n\nThe terms are separated by two holidays each consisting of approximately two weeks: the Christmas Holidays separating the autumn and spring terms, and the Easter holidays separating the spring and summer terms. The period between the end of one school year and the start of the next is known as the summer holidays and consists of six or seven weeks.\n\nThe academic year at most UK universities runs from September or October to June or July with three or four week breaks around Christmas and Easter that divide the year into three terms. Most universities overlay a semester structure for academic courses on top of this. Many universities, particularly older ones, do still use terms, often with the last term given over to exams. Some older universities have special names for the three terms, e.g. Michaelmas, Hilary, Trinity (Oxford) or Michaelmas, Epiphany, Easter (Durham).\n\nSpecial term names (i.e. not first, second, third; autumn, spring, summer; or other obvious names) in use include:\n\nExceptions to the ordinary structure of the academic year include the University of Buckingham, where undergraduate courses do not coincide with the academic year used by universities in Britain and elsewhere. Instead, they largely coincide with the calendar year—they typically start in January or February, with examinations in autumn.\n\nThere are a number of different systems used in the US:\nThe word quadmester or quadrimester is occasionally used to mean either four months or (more commonly in modern American usage) a quarter of a year.\n\nIn the United States, the K–12 school calendar is determined by the individual states, and in some cases by the local school district, so there is considerable variation. The academic year typically consists of two 18-week semesters, each divided into two nine-week marking periods (or quarters) or three six-week marking periods, and constituting 170 to 186 instructional days (with an average of 180). An instructional week is five instructional days, measured Monday–Friday at all public and most private schools; Saturday–Wednesday or Sunday–Thursday at Muslim private schools; and so on. Grades are usually reported per marking period, but major examinations are given per semester or per year.\n\nThe traditional start date for the school year has been the Tuesday or Wednesday right after Labor Day. Although some schools still keep this tradition, many schools now start in the last two weeks of August and some schools (especially private ones) may start as late as the end of September or the first week in October. There are also some schools, especially in the southern tier of the United States, that begin at the end of July and early August. The school year ends 40 to 42 instructional weeks after it begins (usually around late-May or June).\n\nSchool holidays in the United States vary by jurisdiction. They include federal, state, and local holidays, all or only some of which may be observed by an individual school district. In addition to these legal holidays, there are vacation periods of varying length. Almost all schools observe the Thanksgiving holiday, and extend it to include the day after Thanksgiving (Black Friday) since it is a Friday. There is usually a recess of about one to two weeks during the winter holiday period at Christmas and New Year, with a spring break in March or April that is usually correlated to the holidays of Easter and usually Passover.\n\nMany schools have additional \"in-service\" days in which school is in session for only faculty and staff. These days are often used for parent–teacher conferences on student progress, especially in primary school. In secondary school, they are usually used as staff development days. Sometimes schools do half-day in-service days in which students are dismissed early, rather than full-day holidays.\n\nUnplanned vacations can extend the school year if they could have been prevented by school administrators, in theory if not in fact. Natural disasters and other incidents do not normally extend the school year because they could \"not\" have been prevented. Thus, if the school is closed for two weeks (10 instructional days) because the boiler has broken down, that will extend the school year by two weeks because proper maintenance could have prevented the problem, but snow storms and other forms of severe weather normally do not extend the school year because they cannot be prevented. Some regions allow for up to three to five snow days, and any additional missed days can extend the school year.\n\nMany, but not all, community colleges originated as extensions of the primary and secondary school system. Some of these colleges often continue to follow the K-12 schedule. However, most operate under a semester based schedule. Washington state schools are standardized by the State Board of Community and Technical colleges and follow a quarter system.\n\nThree calendar systems are used by most American colleges and universities: quarter system, semester system, and trimester system. These are ways the calendar year is organized into a formal academic year, measured September–August or August–August. Some schools, particularly some business schools and community colleges, use the or mini-semester system.\n\nThe quarter system divides the calendar year into four quarters, three of which constitute a complete academic year. Quarters are typically 10–12 weeks long so that three quarters amount to 30–36 weeks of instruction. Approximately 20 percent of universities are on the quarter system. Most colleges that use the quarter system have a fall quarter from late September to mid-December, a winter quarter from early January to mid-March, a spring quarter from late March or early April to mid-June, and an optional summer session. Notable users of the quarter system include the University of California system (excluding Berkeley, Merced, the UCLA medical school, and all of the system's law schools), Stanford, the University of Chicago, Dartmouth College, Northwestern University, University of Washington, the University of Oregon, and DePaul University. Union College uses a modified quarter system: fall, winter, and spring terms are each eleven weeks long; there are some summer classes, but there is no official summer quarter. Because Union's calendar makes use of just three of four quarters, the three academic terms are generally (and somewhat misleadingly to outsiders) dubbed \"trimesters,\" which they literally are since they each span three months, December, July and August being off. Another notable and somewhat unique user of the quarter system is Baylor Law School: it operates on the quarter system while the remaining colleges of Baylor University operate on the semester system.\n\nThe semester system divides the calendar year into two semesters of 16 to 18 weeks each, plus summer sessions of varying lengths. The two semesters together constitute 32 to 36 weeks of instruction, so that three academic quarters equal two academic semesters. Thus, academic credit earned in quarter hours converts to semester hours at ⅔ of its value, while credit earned in semester hours converts to quarter hours at 3/2 of its value. Put another way, 3 quarter hours is 2 semester hours. Most universities on the semester system have a fall semester from the day after Labor Day in September to mid-December, a spring/winter semester from late January to early May, and an optional summer session.\n\nIn practice, the average quarter-long course is four or five units and the average semester course is three units, so a full-time student graduating in four years would take five courses per semester and three or four courses per quarter.\n\nSome colleges and universities have a 4-1-4 system, which divides the year into two four-month terms (September to December and February to May) as well as a single one-month term in January in which students can do independent study, study abroad, internships, activities, or focus on one or two classes. The one-month term is sometimes called a \"\", \"winter session\", \"inter-term/interim/intersession\" or \"J-term\". Examples of schools using this system include:\nAustin College, University of Rhode Island, Whittier College, Williams College, Bethany College in West Virginia, Berea College, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Johns Hopkins University, New College of Florida, Calvin College, Elmhurst College, Gustavus Adolphus College, Linfield College, Luther College, Oberlin College, Middlebury College, Erskine College, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, Eckerd College, Wofford College, Saint Olaf College, Samford University, Miami University, Hofstra University, University of Delaware, Saint Mary's College of California, Colby College, Chapman University, McDaniel College, Elon University, Pacific University, and Pacific Lutheran University.\n\nSome schools have a similar format but ordered as 4-4-1, with the short term in May after the conclusion of the spring semester. The term is sometimes called either \"Maymester\", a portmanteau of \"May\" and \"semester\", or \"May Term\". Examples of schools using this system include Wartburg College, Bates College, Chatham University, Clemson University, The College of New Jersey, Elmira College, The Ohio State University, Purdue University, Transylvania University, the University of Redlands, Emory University and Washington and Lee University's 12-12-4 undergraduate calendar.\n\nThe trimester system evolved out of the semester system. It divides the academic year into three equal portions of 15 – 16 weeks each. Institutions that use the trimester system include Carleton College, Knox College (Illinois), Lawrence University, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. The fall and winter trimesters constitute an academic year of 30–32 weeks. The spring/summer trimester is usually divided into a 7.5 week Spring Session followed by a 6-week or 7.5 week Summer Session. The reduced maximum course load that accompanies the shortening from the traditional semester makes the trimester system compatible with the semester system. Academic credit is thus measured on the trimester system in semester hours; there is no such thing as a \"trimester hour\" of credit.\n\nAt the University of Michigan and Brigham Young University, for example, the Fall trimester (informally still called 'semester') operates from September through December; the Winter trimester runs from January through April; and the spring-summer trimester operates from May through August, as two half-trimesters. Most spring-summer classes either meet double-time for 7–8 weeks in May and June or double-time/double-plus-time for 6–8 weeks in July and August (with summer half-term classes sometimes starting in the last week of June).\n\nThe quinmester academic calendar at Park University operates with five terms per year, each lasting eight weeks (January–March, March–May, June–July, August–October, and October–December).\n\nA number of colleges have adopted the \"one course at a time\" or \"block schedule\" calendar. Academic years consist of a number of terms lasting roughly four weeks each, during which a full semester's amount of work is completed in one and only one class. Colorado College first began their \"Block Plan\" in 1970, followed by Maharishi International University in 1971, and Cornell College in 1978. Quest University in Squamish, British Columbia; Tusculum College in Tusculum, Tennessee; and The University of Montana - Western are the only other colleges operating under this academic calendar.\n\n"}
{"id": "9819436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9819436", "title": "Actionbioscience", "text": "Actionbioscience\n\nAction Bioscience is a non-commercial, educational web site sponsored by the American Institute of Biological Sciences (AIBS) . It was created to promote bioscience literacy and bring attention to seven bioscience issues of critical current importance: 1) Biodiversity, 2) Environment, 3) Genomics, 4) Biotechnology, 5) Evolution, 6) New Frontiers, and 7) Science Education\n\nThe organization seeks to:\n\n\nTo meet these goals, the web site provides articles by scientists, science educators, and science students on issues related to seven bioscience challenges: environment, biodiversity, genomics, biotechnology, evolution, new frontiers in science, and bioscience education. In addition, the web site provides educators with original lessons and resources to enhance bioscience teaching. Up-to-date external links are provided at the bottom of each article to help the reader \"learn more\" about or \"get involved\" in the issue. Selected articles are translated into Spanish.\n\nIt won an award as one of the best sci-tech web sites by Scientific American.\n"}
{"id": "419644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419644", "title": "Alternative education", "text": "Alternative education\n\nAlternative education encompasses many pedagogical approaches differing from mainstream pedagogy. Such alternative learning environments may be found within state, charter, and independent schools as well as home-based learning environments. Many educational alternatives emphasize small class sizes, close relationships between students and teachers and a sense of community.\n\nThe legal framework for such education varies by locality, and determines any obligation to conform with mainstream standard tests and grades\n\nAlternative pedagogical approaches may include different structures, as in the open classroom, different teacher-student relationships, as in the Quaker and free schools, and/or differing curricula and teaching methods, as in the Waldorf and Montessori schools. Synonyms for \"alternative\" in this context include \"non-traditional,\" \"non-conventional\" and \"non-standardized\". Alternative educators use terms such as \"authentic\", \"holistic\" and \"progressive\".\n\nAlternative education grew up in response to the establishment of standardized and compulsory education over the last two to three centuries. Educators including Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Swiss humanitarian Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi; the American transcendentalists Amos Bronson Alcott, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Henry David Thoreau; founders of progressive education John Dewey and Francis Parker, and educational pioneers such as Friedrich Fröbel, Maria Montessori and Rudolf Steiner believed that education should cultivate the developing child on many levels: not only intellectually, but also morally and spiritually, emotionally and psychologically, and physically. After World War II an alternative Reggio Emilia approach to early-childhood education was developed in Italy, introduced by Loris Malaguzzi.\n\nCultural critics such as John Caldwell Holt, Paul Goodman, Frederick Mayer and George Dennison have examined education from individualist, anarchist, and libertarian perspectives. Other writers, from Paulo Freire to American educators Herbert Kohl and Jonathan Kozol, have criticized mainstream Western education from the viewpoint of liberal and radical politics. The argument for an approach catering to the interests and learning style of an individual is supported by research suggesting that a learner-responsible model is more effective than a teacher-responsible one. Ron Miller has identified five elements common to educational alternatives:\n\nIn modern times, at least in some localities, the legal right to provide educational alternatives has become established alongside a duty to provide education for school age children.\n\nEducation in Canada falls under the jurisdiction of the provincial government. Alternative education is provided in some public schools, such as Mountainview Montessori School, as well as in independent schools, such as Toronto Montessori Schools and Vancouver Waldorf School\n\nAlternative education in Canada stems from two philosophical educational points of view, Progressive and Libertarian. According to Levin, 2006 the term \"alternative\" was adopted partly to distinguish these schools from the independent, parent-student-teacher-run \"free\" schools that preceded them (and from which some of the schools actually evolved) and to emphasize the boards' commitment to options within the public school system. Progressive educational tradition places emphasis on both the need to incorporate curriculum and teaching to match the stages of child development and the gradual integration of the child into adult society through planned experiential learning. The sources of stimulus would be from the philosopher John Dewey in the United States, from post WW1 New Schools in Great Britain and the Steiner/Waldorf schools in Europe. The Libertarian tradition focuses on the rights of the parents and children to make their own educational and life choices. As noted by Levin “It is rooted in the belief to uphold the individual freedom and the innate goodness of the child against institutional and social conformity and the corrupting influences of modern society.”\n\nThe 1980s saw a shift to special schools and/or programs for those students that excelled in academia, were artistically talented, or through programs linking schooling with the workplace in a co-operative venture. It might be considered as a natural evolution of education to offer options and not a regimented one size fits all approach. Most alternative high schools falling under public jurisdiction offered independent study programs, basic-skills programs, and were mini-high schools with a mixture of conventional and nonconventional courses, and schools with an arts focus. They also offered smaller classes, closer and more informal relations with teachers, and greater flexibility in course selection and timetabling. The most recent development within alternative education in Canada may be to follow the United States in their “Charter School” movement. In the US specific states have passed legislation permitting their departments of education or local school boards to issue \"charters\" directly to individual schools wishing to operate autonomously. Alberta is the first province that has already embraced this model.\n\nSince the early 20th century, educators have discussed and implemented alternative forms of education, such as Rabindranath Tagore's Visva-Bharati University, Sri Aurobindo's Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education, Jiddu Krishnamurti Schools. Traditional learning in India involved students living in gurukulas, where they received free food, shelter and education from a guru (\"teacher\" in Sanskrit). Progress was based on tests given by the gurus, and the system aimed to nurture students' creativity and personality development. Although mainstream education in India is based on the system introduced by Lord Macaulay, a few projects aim to rejuvenate the earlier method. Some students in these (and similar) projects conduct research in Sanskrit studies, Vedic studies, Vedic science, yoga and ayurveda. Others, after completing their education in a gurukula, enter mainstream higher education.\n\nJapanese education is a nationwide, standardized system under the Ministry of Education. The only alternative options have been accredited, private schools with more freedom of curricula (including textbook choice; public schools are limited to government-approved textbooks), teaching methods and hiring guidelines. Nearly all private schools require a competitive entrance examination and charge tuition, with few scholarships available. Interest in alternative education was sparked during the 1980s by student violence and bullying, school refusal, social anxiety disorder and, in the worst cases, suicide; the desire to enable young people to keep up with a globalized economy is an additional impetus.\n\n\"Free school\" is a term used to describe a non-profit group (or independent school) which specializes in the care and education of children who refuse to attend standard schools. The first democratic school was founded in 1985 as a shelter for children avoiding the school environment, and a number of other such schools have been established. In 1987 the first of seven Waldorf schools in Japan was founded, and other alternatives include a growing homeschooling movement.\n\nIn 2003 Japan introduced Special Zones for Structural Reform (構造改革特別区域), based on China’s Special Economic Zone policy, which enable the opening of government-accredited schools providing alternative education. Two years later, the first such school was founded.\n\nDespite the schools' high tuition, some parents send their children to international schools to acquire fluency in a foreign language (usually English). Although international schools are not certified by the Japanese government, many are approved by their native country (the U.S., Canada, Germany, France, Korea and China) and some offer an International Baccalaureate program.\n\nIn 2003, there were about 70 schools in the United Kingdom offering education based on philosophies differing from that of the mainstream pedagogy, about half of which are Steiner-Waldorf schools. Summerhill School, established by A.S. Neill in 1921, was the first Democratic school; most have since closed, except for Summerhill, Sands School, Hebden Bridge School and democratic schools for children and young people. Though most alternative schools were until recently all fee-paying, state-funded Free Schools were introduced in 2011, only two of which alternative education: the Steiner Academy Frome, Somerset, and the Steiner Academy Hereford.\n\nA variety of educational alternatives exist at the elementary, secondary and tertiary level in four categories: school choice, independent schools and home-based education. The U.S. Department of Education's document \"State Regulation of Private Schools\" reports on the legal requirements that apply to K-12 private schools in each of the states, including any curriculum requirements. The report states that it is intended as a reference for public and nonpublic school officials and state policy-makers. The report confirms that similar areas of education are approached in a variety of ways.\n\nPublic-school alternatives in the U.S. include separate schools, classes, programs and semi-autonomous \"schools within schools\". Public school-choice options are open to all students, although some have waiting lists. Among these are charter schools, combining private initiatives and state funding, and magnet schools, which attract students to a particular program (such as the performing arts).\n\nIndependent, or private, schools have flexibility in staff selection and educational approach. Many are Montessori and Waldorf schools (the latter also known as Steiner schools, after their founder Rudolf Steiner). Other independent schools include democratic or free schools, such as Clonlara School, which is the oldest, continually operating K-12 alternative school in the country, the Sudbury schools, open classroom schools, those based on experiential education and schools using an international curriculum such as the International Baccalaureate and Round Square schools.\n\nFamilies seeking alternatives for educational, philosophical or religious reasons, or if there is no nearby educational alternative may opt for home-based education. A minor branch is unschooling, an approach based on interest rather than a curriculum. Others enroll in umbrella schools which provide a curriculum. Homeschool courses give students in-depth, personal attention in any subject with which they struggle or excel. Some homeschool families form a cooperative, where parents with expertise in a subject may teach children from a number of families while their children are taught by other parents.\n\nSelf-directed inquiry is recognized at all levels of education, from the \"unschooling\" of children to the autodidacticism of adults, and may occur separately from (or with) traditional forms of education.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10011517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011517", "title": "Asociación de Inspectores de Educación", "text": "Asociación de Inspectores de Educación\n\nAsociación de Inspectores de Educación (ADIDE) is a Spanish professional association of education supervisors. By the number of its members it is the most important association of these professionals in Spain: nowadays, 950 out of 1600 Spanish Inspectors of Education are members of ADIDE, while the rest of them are either unassociated or splitting their membership into several different associations and unions.\n\nEducational professionals usually group themselves either in unions, professional associations or professional organizations. Unions have as their main aim the defence of the labour conditions of their members. Professional associations deal with the performance of the Code of Professional Ethics established by the association. Professional associations, like ADIDE, can have as well as the previous interests, some different aims and concerns, such as ensuring the professional development of members through suitable formation and training, the organization of scientific meetings and congresses, and the publishing of professional magazines and books.\n\nThe Inspectorate of Education is a body (or two, actually) of civil servants of about 1600 people in Spain. This body of inspectors supervise all the Spanish education system except the university studies. Every inspector is usually in charge of several schools and other educational institutions, and performs his/her duties according to an annual Inspection Plan. Quite often, however inspectors have to tackle with all kind of incidents and unscheduled situations which requires much attention from them.\n\nAfter the establishment of democracy, the Spanish education system undertook very important changes in the 1980s, a time when a significant group of teachers and school administrators started to carry out the supervision function of schools. The already existing associations of inspectors of education at that time did not ensure the professional development of the new inspectors, so it was necessary for them to found a new association. ADIDE was created in 1990 and soon started to replace the absence of unions to achieve the promotion of professional interests and helping to put into practice the new educational policies as settled in the Education reform provided by the Organic Act of General Organization of the Educational System 1990.\n\nInitially, ADIDE was a unique national organization for the whole of Spain, but due to the Association Act 2005, it had to adopt a federated structure, which provoked some problems of interaction on the very first moments. The new technologies and members’ cooperation worked well to maintain a good level of coordination among all the federal associations, one for every one of the Spanish Autonomous Regions, which hold a high level of independence in educational matters. The federated association is since then known as ADIDE-Federación, while every autonomous region association is known by the name of ADIDE followed by the name of the region it operates on.\n\n"}
{"id": "29057444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29057444", "title": "Assignment cover sheet", "text": "Assignment cover sheet\n\nAn assignment cover sheet is a paper used by students when completing assignments at university for their courses. These coversheets generally contain metadata about the assignment (such as the name of the student and the course number). This aids the efficient handling of assignments. Other types of data may be included, depending on the needs of the course.\n\nSome universities require and/or provide cover sheets in standardized formats. These are often in the form of computer files which a student can download, print, and personalize.\n\nCover sheets are also required by some educational entities that are not universities.\n"}
{"id": "2355321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2355321", "title": "Bachelor of Arts and Science", "text": "Bachelor of Arts and Science\n\nBachelor of Arts and Science (B.A.S. or B.A.&Sc. or B.A.Sc.) is an undergraduate bachelor's degree conferred by a small number of American universities and a fair number of universities in other English-speaking countries (including Canada and Australia). Generally, to receive a B.A.S. degree, a student would need to complete the general requirements for a bachelor's degree and also the requirements for two different academic majors (or academic minors) — one that usually leads to a B.A. degree and one that usually leads to a B.S. degree. In the United States, the degree is meant to be a four-year degree, but many students will take five years to complete the program.\n\nTechnically speaking, it is not an example of a double degree, as universities only confer a single degree.\n"}
{"id": "30141070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30141070", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Dera Ghazi Khan", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Dera Ghazi Khan\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Dera Ghazi Khan is a government body located in the Chowk Sarwar Wali.\n\nThe jurisdiction of DG Khan Board includes the following districts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29983514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29983514", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad (BISE Faisalabad) is an examining board for intermediate (higher secondary) and secondary (high school) education in Faisalabad Division.\n\nBISE Faisalabad was established in 1988. The current jurisdiction of the board was first under the supervision of Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Sargodha.\nIts main building is now on the main jhang road near the Faisalabad International Airport.\n\nThe jurisdiction of Faisalabad Board includes Faisalabad Division which includes the following districts:\n\n\nBoard of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Matric (9th and 10th) class exams and Intermediate (part I and part II) exams every year. A great number of students participate in these exams every year. The exams mostly started in the month of March and ends April while the results of BISE Faisalabad announced in the month of July and August. The matric result usually announced in July while the inter result announced in the end of August or the start of September. Results of all the classes are also published on the BISE website. On the days when the results of 10th and 12th class are announced, there is a ceremony at the Board office where medals and other awards are given to the position holder students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2856189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2856189", "title": "Caleb Gattegno", "text": "Caleb Gattegno\n\nCaleb Gattegno (1911–1988) was one of the most influential and prolific mathematics educators of the twentieth century. He is best known for his innovative approaches to teaching and learning mathematics (Visible & Tangible Math), foreign languages (The Silent Way) and reading (Words in Color). He is also the inventor of pedagogical materials for each of these approaches, and the author of more than 120 books and hundreds of articles largely on the topics of education and human development.\n\nGattegno’s pedagogical approach is characterised by propositions based on the observation of human learning in many and varied situations. This is a description of three of these propositions.\n\nGattegno noticed that there is an “energy budget” for learning. Human beings have a highly developed sense of the economics of their own energy and are very sensitive to the cost involved in using it. It is therefore essential to teach in ways that are efficient in terms of the amount of energy spent by learners. To be able to mathematically determine whether one method was more efficient than another, he created a unit of measurement for the effort used to learn. He called that unit an \"ogden\", and one can only say an \"ogden\" has been spent if the learning was done outside of ordinary functionings, and was retained. For example, learning one word in a foreign language costs one \"ogden\", but if the word cannot be recalled, the \"ogden\" has not truly been spent. Gattegno's teaching materials and techniques were designed to be economical with \"ogdens\", so that the most information can be recalled with the least sense of effort.\n\nCertain kinds of learning are very expensive in terms of energy, i.e., \"ogdens\", while others are practically free. Memorization is a very expensive way to learn. The energy cost can be especially high when the content is of no particular interest to the learner. Memorizing dates in history or major exports of foreign countries is like that, for most people. School is not the only place where that kind of learning is found. Learning somebody's name or telephone number is equally arbitrary. We have to use our own energy to make such arbitrary items stick in our memories. The “mental glue” necessary is expensive, since that type of learning uses up a lot of energy.\n\nNot only is that type of learning expensive, it tends also to be fragile. It is typically difficult to remember those kinds of items. Even when we make a great effort, we do not always succeed. We often recognise a face without being able to remember the name of the person ... not to mention all that almost all of us have forgotten much of what we \"learned\" at school. It is not unusual for us to forget much of what we memorize.\n\nHowever, there is another way of functioning, which Gattegno called retention. An example of retention is the reception of sensory images. When we look at something – a street, a film, a person, a fine view – photons move from what we are contemplating and enter our eyes to strike the retina. When we listen to something, we create auditory images in a similar way, that is, through energy that enters our system, rather than energy we allocate from inside, to memorize an arbitrary item. To retain an auditory or visual image, we have to use perhaps only an insignificant amount of our own to retain it; the amount is so small we are not aware of any effort. Such images are easily acquired and generally remain for long periods. We all have experiences similar to the following examples Gattegno offered:\n\n\"First experience: \"I recently visited a village in the south of France where I had not been for over 10 years and I was able to say, 'Oh, yes, I know. The pharmacy is over there beyond the baker’s.' I went to see and there it was. I had made no effort to memorise this village square. It had entered my mind during my previous visits and it had remained there.\"\"\n\n\"Second experience: \"I visit a supermarket and go down the aisles. I see an unexceptional woman with a trolley. Three aisles further on, I see her again. I have not tried to remember her, but I have seen her and I can recognise her again a little later.\"\"\n\nOur system of retention is extremely efficient. We keep in our minds a huge quantity of information simply because we have seen, heard, tasted, smelled or felt it. That ability is part of human nature. It enables us to walk about our town without getting lost, to ski or to read a book.\n\nGattegno proposed that we base education, not on memorization, which has a high energetic cost and is often unreliable, but on retention. The learning tools and techniques Gattegno proposed rely systematically on retention.\n\nGattegno argued that for pedagogical actions to be effective, teaching should be subordinated to learning, which requires that as an absolute prerequisite teachers must understand how people learn. Rather than present facts for memorization, teachers construct challenges for students to conquer. If the student cannot conquer the challenge easily, the teacher does not tell the answer, but observes and asks questions to determine where the confusion lies, and what awareness needs to be triggered in the student.\n\nThe role of teachers is not to try to transmit knowledge, but to engender acts of awareness in their students, for only awareness is educable. Gattegno created pedagogical materials designed to provoke awarenesses. The materials are intended to be used along with techniques aimed at leading students through a succession of awarenesses. As the students progress, teachers who observe their students can see when and how they can induce a new act of awareness.\n\nFor example, he created Words in Colour for learning to read. Briefly, it consists of a series of word charts using a colour code in which each colour represents a phoneme of the language. The charts are used to provoke the phonological awareness in students of the sounds they are making and the order in which they are making them thus engendering all the awarenesses of how the graphemes relate to the phonemes and of how the spatial order of writing reflects the chronological order of speech. Other charts, called Fidels, list the graphemes for each phoneme.\n\nHe also used this colour code in The Silent Way materials for learning foreign languages to enable students to identify and produce the sounds of the new language. Cuisenaire rods are used, particularly with beginners, to create visible and tangible situations from which the students can induce the structures of the language. The silence of the teacher both gives the students room to explore the language and frees the teacher to observe the students. The teacher is thus able to propose a sequence of pedagogical challenges adapted precisely to the evolution of the students’ learning. \"If I would be remembered for anything\", he said in one of his last seminars, \"it would be that I painted the sounds with colours.\"\n\nIn his approach to teaching mathematics, manipulatives, such as Geoboards which he invented and Cuisenaire Rods which he popularised, are part of a way of systematically developing students’ mathematical thinking through the exploration of clear and tangible problems.\n\nAll the materials created by Gattegno were designed to allow teachers using them to place the accent systematically on the students’ learning rather than on what they, the teachers, do. Teachers watch their students deal with the challenges they are given, and provide them with feedback on their trials and errors. Teachers thus actively base their work on the awareness and awarenesses of the students, in the here and now. It is therefore very difficult for a teacher to closely follow a detailed lesson-plan, since the students are actively exploring the domain and have the freedom to take the lesson wherever they need it to go. The class becomes a kind of guided improvisation in which the teacher launches a challenge at a suitable level for the students, and if necessary nudges them into the awarenesses they need to have in order to learn. This is the case whatever the subject being dealt with, and is what is meant by Gattegno’s expression, “the subordination of teaching to learning”.\n\nGattegno found that only awareness is educable in human beings. On the path to learning, several awarenesses must be reached. The first is the awareness that there is something to be learned, some unknown to become known. The next awarenesses are triggered by experience with the subject matter. For example, rather than ask a student to write \"2+2=4,\" Gattegno might ask them to create the number 4 in as many ways as possible with colored rods. The student can then clearly see, feel, and describe the characteristics of the number 4. Instead of memorizing \"2+2=4,\" the student has had a mathematical experience, and become aware that \"4\" can be broken into parts, and that the process of breaking apart and putting together can be described in several ways.\n\nWe are constantly becoming aware of new things. When it is something significant, the awareness is often audible in the form of the “Ah!” so typical of an important realisation. However, most realisations are made much more discretely. Indeed, as we live our everyday lives, we become aware of all sorts of things at great speed throughout the day: the price of bananas, that these bananas are not ripe enough, that the price of the yoghurts has been reduced because they are close to their sell-by date …. All our life is a succession of tiny awarenesses. Until we become aware of something, that thing remains totally unknown to us. As soon as we become aware of it and integrate it into our lives, we often no longer pay attention to it. But the moment of realisation, the act of learning, is an act of awareness.\n\nThe role of the teacher in acts of learning is not to inform students of this or that piece of information, but to help them to discover it, to perform a conscious act to become aware of it.\n\nGattegno suggests that learning takes place in four stages which can be described in terms of awareness.\n\nThe first stage consists in a single act of awareness: the realisation that there is something new to be explored. As long as I am unaware that there is something to be known, I cannot start to learn.\n\nThe second stage: As soon as I start to learn, I have to explore the situation in order to understand it. As I am not yet an expert in the field, I make many mistakes. These mistakes enable me to progress because by observing what happens and becoming aware of it I can adapt my attempts in relation to the feedback given by the environment. This stage ends when I know what I have to do, but I only succeed when I am wholly present in what I am doing.\n\nThe third stage is a transitional stage. At the beginning, I am able to do what I want if I pay attention at each instant. At the end of this stage I no longer need to pay attention: the new skill has become completely automatic and because it is automatic, I am free to give my attention to learning other things.\n\nThe fourth stage is that of transfer. For the rest of my life, what I have learnt can be used for all the new skills I may wish to acquire. When I learnt to run, I used the know-how I had acquired from learning to walk. Both of these, walking and running, were useful to me when I decided to learn cross-country skiing. Each skill remains available, except in the rare cases of accident or injury, for a lifetime.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3976237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3976237", "title": "Calmecac", "text": "Calmecac\n\nThe Calmecac (\"the house of the lineage\", ) was a school for the sons of Aztec nobility (\"pīpiltin\" ) in the Late Postclassic period of Mesoamerican history, where they would receive rigorous religious and military training. The two main primary sources for information on the \"calmecac\" and \"telpochcalli\" are in Bernardino de Sahagún's Florentine Codex of the \"General History of the Things of New Spain\" (Books III, VI, and VIII) and part 3 of the Codex Mendoza. Although the calmecac has been characterized as for elites only, Sahagun's account says that at times commoners, macehualtin were assigned to the calmecac as well and trained for the priesthood. The Tēlpochcalli ( \"house of youth\") was where mostly commoners and some noble youths received military training, but would have been precluded from the higher ranks of power. Codex Mendoza's account of the calmecac emphasizes the possibilities of upward mobility for young commoner men, (\"macehualtin\"), educated in the telpochcalli. The placement of a noble youth in the telpochcalli might have been by lesser wives' or concubines' sons or younger sons, perhaps of commoner status, so that the boys did not have to compete with noble youths in the calmecac. Codex Mendoza's account largely ignores class distinctions between the two institutions.\n\nThe calmecac of the Aztec capital, Tenochtitlan, was located in the ceremonial center of the city and it was dedicated to Quetzalcoatl.\n\nThe \"calmecac\" was the students' home for the duration of their training, and they would enter the school as young as five to seven years of age. The students received instruction in songs, rituals, reading and writing, the calendar (\"tōnalpōhualli\" ) and all the basic training which was also taught in the telpochcalli.\n\nStudents commenced formal military training around age fifteen.\n\nPromising sons of nobles would be trained especially by the military orders of the Jaguar warriors (\"ōcēlōmeh\" ) or Eagle warriors (\"cuāuhtin\" ) in their quarters, the \"cuāuhcalli\" ().\n"}
{"id": "20449321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20449321", "title": "Communication apprehension", "text": "Communication apprehension\n\nCommunication apprehension is the level of anxiety triggered by the real or anticipated communication act, as defined by McCroskey. It is connected to the idea of judgment from the audience, and self-image. Communication apprehension, CA, can cause a variety of involuntary responses such as \"stomach butterflies\", shaking, nausea, sweating, forgetting the information, among many others. The term communication apprehension is usually connected with 'stage fright'; however, this response is not necessarily connected with a delivery on a stage or in front of a large audience. This anxiety can be caused by any of the five forms of communication: intrapersonal, interpersonal, group, public, and mass communication.\n\nThere are different types of communication apprehension, each of these types represent a specific or general situation that presents a stimuli for this anxiety response. McCroskey argues that there are four types of communication apprehension:\n\nTrait anxiety is considered a personality type, which represents that the individual has an orientation to feel anxiety during the communication act regardless of the situation, audience or context. This type of people will avoid exposing themselves to a communication situation, since their communication apprehension is part of their daily behavior.\n\nMcCroskey and Beatty argue that some people have a higher vulnerability factor for communication apprehension due to genetics, also known as communibiology. Many researchers oppose this idea and argue that it can not be solely inherited but rather a personality trait acquired; therefore, it can be changed. However, they can compromise that around 80% of communication apprehension is obtained within our neurological structures, which are determined genetically. Furthermore, only 20% is influenced by an environmental stimuli. Meaning that this type of communication apprehension can be improved with practice and other techniques; however, it will not be completely eliminated since it is inherited.\n\nContext anxiety triggers communication apprehension due to a specific context. This is considered a psychological response caused by a specific context but not necessarily on others; a person can have no problem talking to her best friend but can get anxiety while talking in front of a class. The most known example for context anxiety is public speaking; almost 70% of students suffer from a certain level of communication apprehension trigger by public speaking. There are other contexts that can create a similar response such as speaking in front of class, small group discussions, or meetings.\n\nAudience anxiety is when a specific individual or group of people creates a problem on communication, or a reverse reaction. For some people, anxiety can be caused by familiar peers, while for others it can be caused by unfamiliar faces. At the beginning of a speech class, the students tend to be fearful since they see new faces which increases the levels of communication apprehension. However, once the students get to know each other they feel comfortable; decreasing or eliminating their levels of apprehension.\n\nSituational anxiety is a psychological reaction of a person due to a specific situation that may not have any relation with the person or context. This anxiety is triggered by a special combination of audience and context that involves different dimensions and creates a unique scenario. As an example we can see a first date. Although a person may not suffer from communication apprehension; the situation of being with a person that they have feelings for, on a new environment, and being the first time they experience this situation, can increase the stress levels and create communication apprehension.\n\nThe PRCA 10 is a test created to determine the communication shyness of a speaker. This test shows that communication apprehension is not limited to public speaking since it allows you to identify different situations that can trigger anxiety, these situations belong to an apprehension triggered by context, context anxiety. The four situations that are presented on the test are: group discussion, meetings, interpersonal, and public speaking.\n\nThis test provides an easy equation to obtain a score for each category, these scoress are compared to the ranges provided at the end of the test; these ranges were obtained by a study of over 40,000 college students and over 3,000 non-students adults provided on a national sample. By this comparison, the test taker can determine their level of communication apprehension for each scenario, ranking them with a low, moderate or high level of apprehension. The test is able to provide a diagnostic of context anxiety and overall communication apprehension by simply adding the sub scores and comparing the total score.\n"}
{"id": "2493919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2493919", "title": "Course (education)", "text": "Course (education)\n\nIn higher education in Canada, Nigeria and the United States, a course is a unit of teaching that typically lasts one academic term, is led by one or more instructors (teachers or professors), and has a fixed roster of students. A course is usually an individual subject. Students may receive a grade and academic credit after completion of the course.\n\nIn India, United Kingdom, Australia and Singapore, as well as parts of Canada, a course is the entire programme of studies required to complete a university degree, and the word \"unit\" or \"module\" would be used to refer to an academic course as it is referred to in other parts of the world, for example North America and the rest of Europe.\n\nIn between the two, in South Africa, a course officially is the collection of all courses (in the American sense, these are often called \"modules\") over a year or semester, though the American usage is common. In the Philippines, a course can be an individual subject (usually referred to by faculty and school officials) or the entire programme (usually referred to by students and outsiders).\n\nCourses are time-limited in most universities worldwide, lasting anywhere between several weeks to several semesters. They can either be compulsory material or \"elective\". An elective is usually not a required course, but there are a certain number of non-specific electives that are required for certain majors.\n\nCourses are made up of individual sessions, typically on a fixed weekly schedule.\n\nThere are different formats of course in universities:\n\n\nMany courses combine these formats. Lecture courses often include weekly discussion sections with smaller groups of students led by the principal instructor, another instructor, or teaching assistant. Laboratory courses often combine lectures, discussion sections, and laboratory sessions.\n\nStudents are expected to do various kinds of work for a course:\n\n\nThe exact work required depends on the discipline, the course, and the particular instructor. Unlike most European university courses, grades are generally determined by all of these kinds of work, not only the final examination.\n\nAn elective course is one chosen by a student from a number of optional subjects or courses in a curriculum, as opposed to a required course which the student must take. While required courses (sometimes called \"core courses\" or \"general education courses\") are deemed essential for an academic degree, elective courses tend to be more specialized. Elective courses usually have fewer students than the required courses.\n\nThe term elective is also used for a period of medical study conducted away from the student's home medical school, often abroad. Motivations for choosing such a program include a wish to experience other cultures, and to learn how to work in the clinical situations in other countries.\n\nTypically, North American universities require students to achieve both breadth of knowledge across disciplines and depth of knowledge in a particular chosen subject area, known as a major. Thus, students of the Arts or Humanities are required to take some science courses, and vice versa. Normally, students are free to choose their particular electives from among a wide range of courses offered by their university, as long as the students possess the prerequisite knowledge to understand the subject matter being taught. An English major, for example, might also study one or two years of chemistry, biology or physics as well as mathematics and a foreign language.\n\nElective courses are also offered in the third and fourth years of university, though the choice is more restrictive and will depend upon the particular major the student has chosen. For example, at the University of British Columbia, students intending to specialize in Sanskrit as part of a major in Asian language and culture will usually have to complete several Sanskrit and Hindustani or Punjabi courses during the first two years of university, as well as additional courses in other languages of India in the third and fourth years of study. In addition to these required courses, however, students would choose among several third- and fourth-year elective courses on topics not directly related to India, such as the history and culture of China, Japan or Indonesia.\n\nIn the United States, most universities implement a course numbering system where each course is identified by the name of the major (or an abbreviation thereof) followed by a 3- or 4-digit number − for example, CS 123. This common numbering system was designed to make transfer between colleges easier. In theory, any numbered course in one academic institution should bring a student to the same standard as a similarly numbered course at other institutions.\n\nThe first digit of the course number is related to its level, or relative difficulty, of the course, and can roughly correspond the year of study in which the course is likely to be taken. It's common for the second digit to represent the subfield in the department within which the course is offered − for example, in a Physics department, all courses numbered PHYS 47xx may be about magnetism, while all PHYS 48xx courses may be about optics. The attribution of the third and fourth digits is less standardized, but in general, sequences of related courses tend to have consecutive course numbers, with gaps between such sequences to signal different sets of courses.\n\nThe course number 101 is often used for an introductory course at a beginner's level in a department's subject area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5149505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149505", "title": "Critical consciousness", "text": "Critical consciousness\n\nCritical consciousness, conscientization, or in Portuguese, is a popular education and social concept developed by Brazilian pedagogue and educational theorist Paulo Freire, grounded in post-Marxist critical theory. Critical consciousness focuses on achieving an in-depth understanding of the world, allowing for the perception and exposure of social and political contradictions. Critical consciousness also includes taking action against the oppressive elements in one's life that are illuminated by that understanding.\n\nThe English term \"conscientization\" is a translation of the Portuguese term , which is also translated as \"consciousness raising\" and \"critical consciousness\". The term was popularized by Brazilian educator, activist, and theorist Paulo Freire in his 1970 work \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\". Freire was teaching the poor and illiterate members of Brazilian society to read at a time when literacy was a requirement for suffrage and dictators ruled many South American countries. The term originally derives from Frantz Fanon's coinage of a French term, , in his 1952 book, \"Black Skins, White Masks\".\n\nPaulo Freire defines critical consciousness as the ability to \"intervene in reality in order to change it.\" Critical consciousness proceeds through the identification of \"generative themes\", which Freire identifies as \"iconic representations that have a powerful emotional impact in the daily lives of learners.\" In this way, individual consciousness helps end the \"culture of silence\" in which the socially dispossessed internalize the negative images of themselves created and propagated by the oppressor in situations of extreme poverty. Liberating learners from this mimicry of the powerful, and the fratricidal violence that results therefrom is a major goal of critical consciousness. Critical consciousness is a fundamental aspect of Freire's concept of popular education.\n\nArlene Goldbard, an author on the subject of community cultural development finds the concept of conscientization to be a foundation of community cultural development. From the glossary of Goldbard's 2006 book \"New Creative Community.\": \"Conscientization is an ongoing process by which a learner moves toward critical consciousness. This process is the heart of liberatory education. It differs from \"consciousness raising\" in that the latter may involve transmission of preselected knowledge. Conscientization means engaging in praxis, in which one both reflects and takes action on their social reality to break through prevailing mythologies and reach new levels of awareness—in particular, awareness of oppression, being an \"object\" of others’ will rather than a self-determining \"subject.\" The process of conscientization involves identifying contradictions in experience through dialogue and becoming part of the process of changing the world.\" \n\nThe ancient Greeks first identified the essence of critical consciousness when philosophers encouraged their students to develop an \"impulse and willingness to stand back from humanity and nature... [and] to make them objects of thought and criticism, and to search for their meaning and significance. In his books \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" and \"Education for Critical Consciousness\", Freire explains critical consciousness as a sociopolitical educative tool that engages learners in questioning the nature of their historical and social situation, which Freire addressed as \"reading the world\". The goal of critical consciousness, according to Freire, should be acting as subjects in the creation of democratic society. In education, Freire implies intergenerational equity between students and teachers in which both learn, both question, both reflect and both participate in meaning-making. Using this idea, and describing current instructional methods as homogenization and lockstep standardization, alternative approaches are proposed, such as the Sudbury model of democratic education schools, an alternative approach in which children, by enjoying personal freedom thus encouraged to exercise personal responsibility for their actions, learn at their own pace rather than following a previously imposed chronologically-based curriculum. In a similar form students learn all the subjects, techniques and skills in these schools. The staff are minor actors, the \"teacher\" is an adviser and helps just when asked. Sudbury model of democratic education schools maintain that values, social justice, critical consciousness, intergenerational equity, and political consciousness included, must be learned through experience, as Aristotle said: \"For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them.\"\n\nPicking up on Freire's definition of critical consciousness, Joe L. Kincheloe has expanded the definition of the concept in his work on postformalism. In Kincheloe's formulation postformalism connects cognition to critical theoretical questions of power and social justice. In this context Kincheloe constructs a critical theory of cognition that explores questions of meaning, emancipation vis-a-vis ideological inscription, and a particular focus on the socio-political construction of the self. With these concerns in mind Kincheloe's postformal critical consciousness engages questions of purpose, issues of human dignity, freedom, authority, reconceptualized notions of reason, intellectual quality, and social responsibility. Postformal critical consciousness stimulates a conversation between critical pedagogy and a wide range of social, cultural, political economic, psychological, and philosophical concerns. Kincheloe employs this \"multilogical conversation\" to shape new modes of self-awareness, more effective forms of social, political, and pedagogical action, and an elastic model of an evolving critical consciousness (Kincheloe and Steinberg, 1993; Kincheloe, 1999; Thomas and Kincheloe, 2006).\n\nFreire's development of critical consciousness has been expanded upon in several academic disciplines and common applications. Public health community collaborations focused on HIV prevention for women, the role of critical consciousness in adult education, and the effect of peer pressure on cigarette smokers Freire's notion of critical consciousness is, in part, a type of political consciousness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22097401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22097401", "title": "Culminating project", "text": "Culminating project\n\nA culminating project (also known as a senior project, grad project or exit project), is a project that challenges high school seniors to demonstrate their academic knowledge in an experiential way (in most cases). According to the US Dept of Education State Education Boards typically allow individual school districts to customize the project, based on basic state guidelines. \n\nPeople reporting on the culminating project sometimes confuse the terminology with the state high school exit exam. The state exit exam is a written exam that usually tests student’s math, reading, writing, and science skills, whereas the culminating project is a required project that is usually a learning experience based on a topic chosen by the student. The project is mandatory in order to graduate.\n\nThe purpose of the project is to increase both teaching and learning. High school graduation standards have declined for several decades. School reform or the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 is a way to bring value back to the high school diploma as well as support students as they go out into the world prepared for college, a job, the military, entrepreneurship, internship, or whatever path students decide to follow once they graduate.\n\nThe requirement is an effort to increase the education standards. As college admissions and the workplace require more from their recruits, nationwide high schools must also.\n\nIn an effort to be clear, it is restated that the culminating project is not required by all schools. Again, parents and guardians would have to check with the student’s school official website for graduation requirements.\n\nHowever, for students that are required to complete a culminating project, this is a chance for the student to explore a topic of personal interest. The project provides an opportunity that student may not have otherwise. By completing the project, students have a real life experience that can help them in their next adventure in life (college, job, entrepreneurship, military, internship, etc.).\n\nStudents gain a number of important skills by participating in the process such as,\n\nThe high school graduation culminating project format varies from state to state and even school to school within the same state. Parents and guardians will have to check with their students specific school for their requirements. Typically the project consists of choosing a topic of interest, writing a research paper on that topic, having an experience directly related to the topic, keeping a journal of artifacts demonstrating your work, followed by the final step which is a presentation (US Dept of Education).\n\nThe student usually presents the project to a panel consisting of 2-5 people typically made up of teachers, community members, faculty, and staff. However, some schools have student present to a panel of their peers. Schools and school districts have total discretion to format the process in a way that works best for their students and their school culture.\n\nIn some cases, students complete a project on their own with the support of a mentor from their community. Some schools allow group projects and group presentation. For example, it would not be uncommon for the leadership class of a school to raise funds to build a school in Africa. Other requirements include a mandatory social/community aspect related to the project which means the high school graduation project has to benefit someone other than the student.\n"}
{"id": "27894271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27894271", "title": "Currere", "text": "Currere\n\nThe \"Method of Currere\" is an approach to education based on post-modern philosophy and psychoanalytical technique, first described in a 1975 paper by William Pinar.\n\nCurrere encourages educators and learners to undertake an autobiographical examination of themselves.\n\nPinar suggests that the term \"currere\", the infinitive form of curriculum, implies the framework for the autobiographical reflection on educational experiences that ultimately shape an individual's self-understanding in our democratic society. In relation to curriculum Pinar states, \"The method of currere reconceptualized curriculum from course objectives to complicated conversation with oneself (as a 'private' intellectual), an ongoing project of self-understanding in which one becomes mobilized for engaged pedagogical action — as a private-and-public intellectual – with others in the social reconstruction of the public sphere\".\n\nPinar proposes a framework for the method of currere requiring those involved in education to reflect upon their life experiences thus far. The framework includes four steps or benchmarks to be followed. The steps are: the regressive, the progressive, the analytical, and the synthetic. Pinar uses the four steps as a framework to reflect on curriculum theory and public education. The framework's purpose is as follows, \"This four step process includes retelling the story of one's educational experiences, imagining future possibilities for self-understanding and educational practice; analysis of the relationships between past, present and future life history and practice; and new ways of thinking about education\".\n\nStep one: The regressive step encourages learner/educators to remember particular educational experiences and how the past experiences have guided them in the development of their own personal attitude or beliefs about education. This allows them to understand how the past has not only affected them, but the people surrounding them. Pinar says one's past is \"shared, each in his or her own way, by us all.\" They may remember past experiences and how they overcame struggles as a young person in society. John Dewey describes experience through trial and error. He states, \"We simply do something, and when it fails, we do something else, and keep on trying till we hit upon something which works, and then we adopt that method as a rule of thumb measure in subsequent procedure\".\n\nStep two: The progressive step offers an opportunity to think about the future.\n\nStep three: The analytical step involves analyzing the here and now and creates a subjective space of freedom from the present. Students and teachers may see the moments of right here and now as a \"historical moment in which we lived, in which others have lived, and in which our descendants will someday live\".\n\nStep four: The final step is the synthetic step which involves analyzing the present in light of the knowledge and understanding gained from steps 1, 2, and 3. Many educators may use the first three steps to visualize and analyze their journey of becoming an educator. When they ultimately begin affecting others' lives and working with curriculum, educators find themselves in the synthetic stage of becoming. \"One utilizes insights from past, present and future to create transformed educational environments\".\n\nJames G. Henderson and Rosie Gornik use currere in Transformative Curriculum Leadership as they present educators a particular type of curriculum judgment. They use a paradigm called curriculum wisdom problem solving while envisioning curriculum as a journey. Just as Pinar presents our process of becoming a journey, Henderson and Gornik use currere throughout their writing with the purpose of allowing the reader insights into firsthand accounts of educators' experiences. They work closely with teaching for 3S Understanding—\"referring to the integration of Subject matter understanding with democratic Self and Social understanding and undertaking a personal journey of understanding\". Within Transformative Curriculum Leadership we find Gornik's deep self-understanding in regard to 3S Understanding through her currere. She presents the reader with various autobiographical narratives and vignettes written to inspire the reader to delve into their own currere and examine their own self-understanding.\n\nHenderson and Gornik (2007) say they incorporate the currere method in their book because they \"acknowledge that educators who choose to facilitate their students' personalized journeys of understanding cannot do so without undertaking a similar journey of understanding\". Educators have many responsibilities including presenting their students with opportunities or ideas of how to become active members in today's democratic society. The purpose of the book is to encourage the reader to become a \"connoisseur\" of democratic education with an understanding of educational growth in societies with democratic values.\n"}
{"id": "31331992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31331992", "title": "Decreasing graduation completion rates in the United States", "text": "Decreasing graduation completion rates in the United States\n\nThe graduation completion rate is the measure reflecting the number of students who complete their graduation and receive a degree from an educational institution. The drop-out rate is the measure reflecting the number of students who disengage with the educational institutions they are enrolled in. Those measures are calculated by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), the primary federal U.S. entity for collecting and analyzing data related to education.\n\nGraduation rate has been reported to be decreasing over the past decades in the U.S. However, the percentage of dropouts among 16-24-year-olds has shown some decreases over the past 20 years. The substantial growth in college enrollment among high school graduates has not been matched with a comparable expansion in college degree attainment.\n\nDegree completion has been decreasing since 1970. Bound, Lovenheim and Turner (2010) studied why the college completion rate declined. Their main explanations of the decreasing rate are the changes in student preparation and the collegiate resources. The authors explain that between 1970 and 1999, post-secondary institutions saw a significant increase in enrollments and, at the same time, a decrease in college completion. \"Partly as a consequence of the substantial increase in the college wage premium since 1980, a much higher fraction of high school graduates enter college today than they did a quarter century ago. However, the rise in the fraction of high school graduates attending college has not been met by a proportional increase in the fraction who finish.\"\n\nA study by the Higher Education Research Institute of the University of California underlines that in 1994. fewer college students were completing their college in four years than in 1984. The completion rate within four years was 36.4% in 1994, whereas it was 46.7% in the late 1960s. The degree completion when the students were allowed to graduate in six years was 58.8% in 1994. \"The fact that these public-private differences decline somewhat when six-year rates are used suggests that students in the public colleges and universities are taking longer to complete their degrees,\" says Professor Alexander W. Astin, co-author of the study and Director of the Higher Education Research Institute. The current trend is of longer time spent to graduate than it was 50 years ago.\n\nThe main causes of the decreasing college completion rate are the lower preparation level of the students and the small allocation of resources dedicated to instruction and institutional choices, according to Bound, Lovenheim and Turner and their study on \"Understanding Decrease in Completion Rates and Increase in Time to Degree\". The resources allocated to institutions haven't been enough to offset the increase of new students enrollment in higher education institutions.\n\nThe US Census Bureau in 2009 reported that, nationally, 9% of 18–24 year-olds and only 27.5% of those 25 years and older had a bachelor's degree or more. Massachusetts is the state where the completion rate is the highest with 37.8% of citizens 25 years and older having a bachelor's degree. In West Virginia, the completion rate is the lowest with only 17.1% of the population having bachelor's degrees.\n\nIn his 2010 State of the Union Address, President Obama said that he wants the United States to have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. To reach this \"big goal\", American college graduates should increase by 50%, adding at least 8 million additional graduates. Obama said that increasing college completion rate is important to increase economic opportunities and lower social costs for individuals.\n\nEarly colleges have lower drop-outs rate than community colleges and universities.The early college high school programs provide students the opportunity to receive a high school diploma and an associate's degree, or up to two years of credit toward a bachelor's degree, in four years. Students take a mixture of high school and college classes in order to obtain their high school diploma and associate's degree. Each early college high school is a public school and open to any residents in the school district. Early colleges have the advantage of allowing student an alternative to the traditional access to diplomas.\n\nCommunity colleges have the mission to provide better access to higher education and graduation for under-served populations. Greater access and success in post-secondary education is a primary element for decreasing income inequalities and increasing the productivity of America's workers. In 2008, 46% of all undergraduate students in the US attended community colleges. Long and Kurlaender studied the graduation differences between community colleges and universities and found that community college students were 14.5% less likely to complete their degree within 9 years as opposed to students in universities. Recent research studied the effect of incentive payments at community colleges and found that they increased the likelihood of low-income students enrolling in the second semester after random assignment and total number of credits earned, with program group students completing nearly 40 percent more credits. Other recent research shows other methods of increasing graduation and persistence rates. Century College in Minnesota implemented GPS Lifeplan to help develop goals in areas such as education, leadership, and finance. The concepts in GPS Lifeplan are integrated in many areas of the college such as New Student Seminars and other areas of curriculum. New full-time student using GPS Lifeplan retention rates were 81% compared to overall retention of 72%.\n\nIn universities, efforts are made on targeting the \"at-risk\" students to avoid drop outs, and creating aligned programs for better coordination between high schools and universities. Successful transfer to 4-year institutions is an issue that concerns every higher educational institution. Academic preparation in high school and solid coordination with those institutions are highly suitable for improving graduation rates.\n\nOrganizations and associations such as Lumina Foundation for Education and Delta Cost Project study how to reallocate the limited resources in ways that can increase college completion rates. Studies suggest that in order to respond to this issue of low graduation rates, states should focus on long term policy rather than short-term fixes. The re-examination of how resources are allocated would help to improve the higher education system and avoid drop outs. Several studies have been conducted in order to guide policies toward better ways to manage resources and drive expenditures.\n\nWebber and Ehrenberg studied the overall impact and the institutional-level impact based on institutional average SAT scores and the average federal Pell Grant given to students at the institution. They found that an increase in expenditures on instruction and student services resulted in higher education rates. The reallocation of resources from instruction to student services would result in a consequent increase in graduation rates. The researchers underline that the institutions with students academically unprepared or economically disadvantaged invest in focusing more on getting student services to potentially raise their students graduation rates.\n\nOn March 22, 2011, Vice-President Joe Biden declared \"Right now we've got an education system that works like a funnel when we need it to work like a pipeline... We have to make the same commitment to getting folks across the graduation stage that we did to getting them into the register's office. The dreams and skills of our college graduates will pave the way to a bright economic future for our nation\".\n\nA New College Completion Tool Kit has been developed by the federal government to help the governors and state governments develop better strategies for higher-education promotion.\nThe solutions proposed by the College Completion Tool Kit urge government to set up financial incentives to increase completion rate. The federal government advises to base funding formulas on enrollment rate but also on performance measures and outcome indicators. In order to improve institutions of higher education, states and public policies should:\n\n\nThe Lumina Foundation for Education proposes solutions to increase college completion rates and to meet President Obama's graduation goal. The strategies highlighted by The Lumina Foundation for Education are to increase the rate at which students complete college and to provide ways for adults in the workforce to return to college to complete degrees.\n\nIn Louisiana, the college attainment rate is 27%. In order to reach the \"big goal\", Louisiana would need to increase its annual degree production by 8.2%. The Lumina Foundation for Education advises some strategies:\nLouisiana's challenge is to increase college students' success for working adults, low income students, first generation students and minority students.\n\nThe graduation completion rate is contested. January 2010 was when The Chronicle of Higher Education stated in their issue that this rate fails to count students who take a long time to complete their degrees. They qualified the rate as \"an incomplete measure of institutional quality. The data describes a minority of all enrolled students, counting only full-time, first-time students who enroll in the fall and complete degrees within \"150 percent of normal time\"—six years for students seeking bachelor's degrees. The graduation rate excludes students who transfer to other colleges and earn degrees there. It also excludes transfer students who come in to finish college and graduate. By one estimate, the rate ignores up to 50 percent of all enrolled students\".\n\n"}
{"id": "891117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=891117", "title": "Discount card", "text": "Discount card\n\nA discount card is a card or document, often a plastic credit card or paper card, that entitles the holder to discounts on the prices of some products or services. Cards may be issued as part of a loyalty program, offering discounts to existing customers to ensure their continuing custom; they may be offered free of charge, offering a modest discount with the intention of persuading purchasers to patronise participating shops; or they may be sold to members, offering larger discounts—for example, the tastecard offers 50% discounts at many restaurants—at a substantial annual cost. Cards may be offered by merchants or groups of merchants, by clubs or associations who negotiate on behalf of all members to obtain benefits, or by official organisations offering concessionary prices to qualifying groups, such as the disabled.\n\n"}
{"id": "3318835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3318835", "title": "Dr. univ.", "text": "Dr. univ.\n\nDr. univ. is an abbreviation for \"doctor universitatis\" (Doctor of University in English). It was a doctoral rank in Hungary classified between Master of Arts and CSc (Candidatus Scientiarum = old-style PhD). It was abolished in the 1990s; i.e., no more dr. univ. degrees were given. Many of those already having dr. univ. degrees had them converted into PhDs.\n"}
{"id": "27821200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27821200", "title": "Educate Now", "text": "Educate Now\n\nEducate Now is a non-profit education reform organization founded in 2008 and based in New Orleans, Louisiana. Its founder is education reform advocate and former State Board of Elementary and Secondary Education (BESE) member Leslie Jacobs. Ms. Jacobs was a key architect of Louisiana’s Recovery School District and is a former Orleans Parish School Board member.\n\nThe organization is chiefly focused on sustaining and enhancing the major transformation and reorganization of the previously failing public school system in New Orleans. Educate Now is a strong supporter of decentralized school administration, including the expansion of publicly funded charter schools, and performance metrics as major components of public school reform.\n\nIn addition to its advocacy role, Educate Now also serves as a source for information on school performance and education policy, with an emphasis on highlighting innovative and effective means for enhancing and facilitating school reform. Educate NOW! has become a useful tool that provides in-depth information regarding education such as school governance, facilities, academics and enrollment. In addition to providing current news, the website also has an extensive archive of relative articles.\n\nEducate Now began in October 2008 by founder Leslie Jacobs. In addition to Ms. Jacobs, Educate Now also boasts a diverse group of education, business and community leaders as an advisory board.\n\nEducate Now's self-described mission is to:\n\nEducate Now provides up-to-date information regarding school performance, facilities planning and education policy. In addition, the website features commentary from Ms. Jacobs on performance results, policy and ongoing reform progress. A parents’ guide to school choice and links to enrollment information for open-admission public schools throughout Louisiana is also available online and in PDF form.\n\nIn concert with serving as a convenient clearinghouse for Louisiana State-administered LEAP testing data, Educate Now publishes its own independent analysis of school performance scores and student test results. Membership to Educate Now is free and open to the public and provides the member with email newsletter updates, Ms. Jacobs' notebook commentary, and policy action alerts.\n\nThe current board consists of:\n"}
{"id": "18092733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18092733", "title": "Education in Dominica", "text": "Education in Dominica\n\nEducation in Dominica is compulsory from ages 5 to 16. The gross primary enrollment rate was 100.4 percent in 1991 and 98.2 percent in 1998, and the net primary enrollment rate was 88.7 percent in 1991 and 88.8 percent in 1998. Primary school attendance rates were unavailable for Dominica as of 2001. Poor physical conditions in many primary schools affect the quality of education, while some schools are overcrowded, limiting access to primary education, particularly for children living in urban areas around the capital. Poverty and work on family banana farms during the harvest season can affect school attendance, but other employment does not pull minors out of school. There is a significant Carib Indian population in Dominica and schools on the Carib Territory are reported to have fewer resources.\n\nTertiary-level educations institutions include Dominica State College\n, the University of the West Indies Open Campus, All Saints University School of Medicine, International University for Graduate Studies, New World University, and Ross University School of Medicine.\n"}
{"id": "18112838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18112838", "title": "Education in Niue", "text": "Education in Niue\n\nEducation in Niue is free and compulsory for 8 years. Niue has one primary school, and in 1995, the gross and net primary enrollment rates were both 100 percent. The government has collaborated with UNESCO to develop an Education for All plan to improve learning achievements and provide better educational opportunities for children with special needs.\n"}
{"id": "46234009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46234009", "title": "Educator effectiveness", "text": "Educator effectiveness\n\nEducator effectiveness is a K-12 school system education policy initiative that measures the quality of an educator performance in terms of improving student learning. It describes a variety of methods, such as observations, student assessments, student work samples and examples of teacher work, that education leaders use to determine the effectiveness of a K-12 educator.\n\nThe drive for educator effectiveness programs stem from Race to the top where states were awarded points for meeting educational policies based on the teacher's effectiveness. This policy was the basis of the emergence of statewide educator effectiveness programs.\n\nEducator effectiveness programs vary from state to state. Typically, an educator effectiveness program describes a cycle of observations and assessments that apply to different groups of teachers during an academic year. New teachers are evaluated more frequently, and veteran teachers are evaluated across multiple year cycles. Evaluated teachers have multiple scheduled classroom observations and conferences with the evaluator in addition to unannounced classroom observations. A controversial aspect of The purpose of evaluations is to help educators determine what is effective in their practices and provides them a medium to reflect upon and change their practice to help teachers become more effective.\n\nEducator effectiveness is a method used in the K-12 school system that uses multiple measures of assessments including classroom observations, student work samples, assessment scores and teacher artifacts, to determine the impact a particular teacher has on student's learning outcomes. While schools have used teacher evaluation practices and policies for many years, the emergence of educator effectiveness policies combines these existing practices with rubrics and test scores to provide more robust perspectives on the work of teachers. Educator effectiveness initiatives often use descriptions of effective teaching practices, such as Charlotte Danielson's \"Framework for Teaching\", to organize teaching separate domains for assessment. Danielson's domains include: Planning and Preparation, Classroom Environment, Professional Responsibilities, and Instruction.\n\nTeacher evaluations have changed over time and have had different standards across the United States. Evaluation systems often have been comprised an administrator observing a teacher a couple times per year. In some locations, teacher observations were only done on a three-year or longer cycle. In the past, a Widget Effect, as described by The New Teacher Project has been established that has developed a culture where all teachers feel as though they deserve the highest marks on evaluations. Schools used to see their job as filling positions and thought that any teacher who was given a license was high quality, and thus scored them according to that thought process. Therefore, all teachers were getting scores that were good or great and no variation was able to be determined between any two teachers.\n\nToday, federal and state policies have encouraged school systems to design more comprehensive evaluation systems that rely on multiple measures of how a teacher performs by looking at items such as student performance gains, classroom observations, teacher reflections, content specific knowledge and student reflections. Some policy makers and researchers encourage the design of systems to identify and sort good and bad teachers; others are designed to provide meaningful feedback and professional development to teachers in order to enhance their skills.\n\nOverall, the purpose of educator effectiveness is to build the capacity for teachers to enhance their skills. The effective teachers have an effect on student's ability to have a higher level of conceptual understanding of a topic and have displayed the ability to think more abstractly than peers taught by less effective teachers. Quality teaching also has been identified as a key influence for positive learning outcomes for the diverse body of students in the classroom.\n\nAs of 2013, US schools United States had very little cohesiveness in their teacher effectiveness requirements and implementations. In 2013, 25 states required that student achievement is a big or the biggest part of teacher evaluations. Twenty-seven states required teacher evaluations be based on a variety of student assessments and work samples and 44 states required classroom observations to be put into teacher evaluations. Overall, 11 states require a statewide teacher evaluation system; 10 states gave a statewide evaluation model that districts can either do or decide to do a similar model. To date only a small handful of states have adopted policies connecting the performance of students to their teachers and the colleges where the teachers were trained.\n\nMany countries have national policies that decide what teacher evaluation systems that schools will have to follow. Some countries such as Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden provide annual feedback on teaching practices. Other countries, such as Norway and Iceland leave the decision about how the teacher evaluations systems will be done to be determined at a local level. The quality of teaching in these countries is compared to the curriculum they follow and with the school instructional plan. Finland does not use any standardized testing as a measure of teacher effectiveness. Singapore is another country that does not use test scores but rather focuses on how teachers work together as a main part of their evaluation system. Singapore also focuses heavily on professional development around evaluation, coaching, mentoring and collaborating with other educators with an overall goal of getting a high quality teaching staff.\n\nThere is significant debate in the U.S. about how to reward teachers for performance as measured by educator effectiveness policies. Some schools rewards teachers by paying them more based upon their student's test scores, which is linked to the Race to the Top funding in the United States. However, other reward systems are being created based on the idea that improving a teacher's capacity to learn and improve upon their practice will have a direct impact on student achievement. These schools increase pay for teachers who have a National Board Certification using National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, advanced degrees, engaging in professional development, mentor new colleagues and paying more for these qualified teachers in hard to staff schools \n\nThe connection of teacher effectiveness and merit pay varies in different countries. In Finland and Canada, they do not to use merit-pay approaches but encourage conversations between the evaluator and teacher about student progress and success. In contrast, Chinese and Singaporean teachers, get financial bonuses and promotions for high performance. High-performing countries have a strong system of professional and school-level accountability but look at success on things such as school improvement goals, professional contributions, and indicators of student well-being.\n\nMost educator effectiveness programs rely two kinds of data: observations of teaching practices and student outcomes data. There are four main sources of observational data collected by schools:\n\nThe new part of educator effectiveness policies is the integration of outcome data into the evaluation process. The biggest component of the outcome data is growth of student learning as measured by standardized tests. Most educator effectiveness programs rely on some form of value-added measures to determine student growth. Value-added measure use longitudinal measures of student achievement to estimate the growth in student learning that can be attributed to individual teachers. If the students of a specific teacher demonstrate growth in learning better than predicated on standardized tests, the teacher is said to be effective; if the students score below the predicted scores, the teacher is said to be ineffective. Parent and student surveys are another method of collecting data on teachers and their educational practices.\n\nMany argue that it is difficult to measure the effect that teachers have on student learning. Many teachers who are in the K-12 system, teach subjects that are not assessed on state mandated testing. In order to effectively implement an educator effectiveness system, some argue that states need to create different evaluation systems for the teachers who teach students in non-tested areas such as submitted portfolios of student work, lesson logs, video clips of them teaching and reflective commentaries on lessons.\n\nOthers argue about the methodology as some districts are using value added models to determine the effectiveness to teachers. They state that it is an unreliable measurement tool because the makeup of classes differ greatly from teacher to teacher and from year to year. Some say that it ends up penalizing teachers who traditionally do not score well on standardized assessments such as students who receive free and reduce lunch and students with disabilities. They state that this may cause the highly effective teachers to work at schools with a low disability rate and a middle to high socioeconomic status. There are different ways to calculate the value-added effect of teachers that changes depending on how they define value-added and what they use to calculate it. It typically does not account for the expectations put on students who go into a classroom reading below grade level and are expected to have a much higher growth rate than their peers. Through many research studies, it has shown that the estimates of teacher effectiveness were not through the same throughout different years or content areas such as reading and math and may be difficult to compare gains from tests from year to year when they don't measure the same content \n\nSome have commented that evaluators in states with teacher evaluation systems do not have through enough training. Furthermore, these evaluators often do not have to prove themselves as effective teachers themselves. As of 2013, only 13 states require a certification for their evaluators that require evaluators are effective teachers. Furthermore, often the same evaluator is observing students every time. In order to have high quality teacher feedback, some would argue that multiple perspectives by highly effective educators would create the dialogue and feedback that would help teachers to grow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23708829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23708829", "title": "Harlan Hanson", "text": "Harlan Hanson\n\nHarlan Philip Hanson (February 18, 1925 – November 28, 1996), also known as \"Harpo\" Hanson, was an American educator and the Director of the Advanced Placement Program from 1965 to 1989.\n\nBorn in Madison, Wisconsin in 1925, Hanson attended Harvard University in the early 1940s but his education at Harvard was interrupted in 1943 when he was drafted into service with the U.S. Army Air Forces. After World War II, he returned to Harvard where he graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1948. That year he received the John A. Walz, Jr. Prize for \"Best Divisional Examination\" in German. In 1950, Hanson assumed the position of an assistant dean at Harvard. During this period, Hanson was senior tutor at Kirkland House where he resided with his wife and Radcliffe graduate, Dorothea Reynolds. Hanson received his Ph.D from Harvard in 1959. Prior to his graduation, he lived in Alsace and studied in Europe on a scholarship.\n\nIn 1954, Harvard began to offer students credit and advanced standing for work completed in high school, including Advanced Placement (AP) courses, and Hanson, then a graduate student was given the task of implementing the new program. With two colleagues, Hanson, started the Office of Advanced Standing at Harvard University, and as Director of Harvard's Office of Advanced Standing in 1955, Hanson worked to get all academic departments to standardize their award-granting requirements and to align their policies with the standards outlined by the College Entrance Examination Board (CEEB). Hanson was a member of the Committee of Examiners for the 1956–1957 AP German syllabus.\n\nHanson quit his position with Harvard's office of Advanced Standing in November 1957 to accept an assistant professorship at Williams College. By the time Hanson left Harvard, Advanced Standing existed in 174 colleges, and Harvard alone grew from 39 students admitted with advanced standing the first year, to 174 the year Hanson left. He remained through the mid 1960s at Williams College. During this period he translated \"History of the Weimar Republic\" and also translated and edited a German anthology. Hanson also served as Chief Reader for the AP German examinations while at Williams College.\nIn 1965, Hanson succeeded Jack Arbolino as Director of the Advanced Placement program for the College Board and he remained at this position until 1989. For 23 of these years, Hanson \"administered the program single-handedly, with some secretarial help and advice from the Educational Testing Service,\" yet under his leadership the AP program nonetheless \"grew exponentially.\" By the time he left the post of Director, the number of high schools offering AP courses had increased from 93 to over 8000, and the number of colleges that accepted AP courses had grown from fewer than 50 to nearly 2000. During this same period, the number of high school students participating in AP courses increased from 34,000 to about 315,000.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Hanson was one of the original council members of the International Schools Examinations Syndicate, which later became the International Baccalaureate Organisation. He was instrumental in acquiring funding from the Ford Foundation for IB and securing university recognition from Ivy League schools such as Harvard and Princeton for the IB Diploma Programme. Hanson was also a founding member of the board of International Baccalaureate North America (IBNA).\n"}
{"id": "4927364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4927364", "title": "Higher Education Act of 1965", "text": "Higher Education Act of 1965\n\nThe Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) () was legislation signed into United States law on November 8, 1965, as part of President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society domestic agenda. Johnson chose Texas State University (then called \"Southwest Texas State College\"), his alma mater, as the signing site. The law was intended \"to strengthen the educational resources of our colleges and universities and to provide financial assistance for students in postsecondary and higher education\". It increased federal money given to universities, created scholarships, gave low-interest loans for students, and established a National Teachers Corps. The \"financial assistance for students\" is covered in Title IV of the HEA.\n\nThe Higher Education Act of 1965 was reauthorized in 1968, 1972, 1976, 1980, 1986, 1992, 1998, and 2008. Current authorization for the programs in the Higher Education Act expired at the end of 2013, but has been extended through 2015 while Congress prepares changes and amendments. Before each re-authorization, Congress amends additional programs, changes the language and policies of existing programs, or makes other changes.\n\nIn January 1965, Representative Edith Green of Oregon introduced H. R. 3220 as a bill to \"strengthen the educational resources of our colleges and universities and to provide financial assistance for students in postsecondary education.\" Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon introduced the Senate version of the bill, S. 600. The bills sought to create an advisor council to review teacher training programs and to create a National Teacher Corps, which would recruit teachers to serve in low-income areas and train teachers through internships. Other provisions of the bills included financial aid, scholarships, work study, and library enhancements. Throughout 1965 numerous hearings were held by Special Subcommittee on Education and the Education Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare held numerous hearings. Based on the recommendations of University administrators, educators and student aid officers, a new bill was introduced: H. R. 9567. It was passed by the House of Representatives on August 26 and the Senate passed the bill on September 2.\n\nIn signing the Higher Education Act of 1965 into law, President Johnson said that the act, along with the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 as \"keystones of the great, fabulous 89th Congress\" that would spread \"the roots of change and reform\" throughout the nation.\n\nThe Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP) was first authorized under the Higher Education Amendments of 1998. Also in the amendments of 1998 is the Aid Elimination Provision, which prevents students with drug charges from receiving federal aid for colleges and universities. This is where question 31 on the FAFSA forms originates. The question asks whether the student has ever been convicted of a drug crime while receiving federal financial aid. This statutory provision was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in the face of a constitutional challenge by the ACLU in the case of \"Students for Sensible Drug Policy v. Spellings\".\n\nThe amendments also included a provision [HEA Section 487(a)(23)] requiring universities to make a good faith effort to encourage voter registration of students on their campuses. This requirement applies only to institutions located in states that require voter registration prior to election day and do not allow registration the day of the election. Institutions receive registration forms from the state after requesting them at least 120 days prior to the voter registration deadline, and must make them \"widely available\" to students.\n\nIn 2003, much of the Higher Education Act was set to expire. As a result, a number of minority groups united to ask for certain changes. Calling themselves the Alliance for Equity in Higher Education, this group was made up of \"the American Indian Higher Education Consortium, the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, and the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education, an advocacy group for historically black colleges and universities, [and they] presented their joint recommendations for the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act.\" The Alliance aimed to help minority students enter fields where they seemed to be underrepresented and to give incentives to minorities to enter these programs. These incentives included more lenience on loan collection and full government funding for minority education. The Alliance also called for the government to create funding for students in graduate programs of universities serving the minority population.\n\nEven though the Alliance's request to change the Higher Education Act was heard, significant parts were denied. In 2003, the request for increasing the amount offered in a Pell Grant, to better cover a student's expenses, was denied by the Senate. Still, other issues were corrected. There was a section passed, by the House, that did allow more funds to go to institutions, in order to keep them current; and a grace period for colleges asking for more loans was eliminated. So, if more funding were needed, minority institutions would not have to wait.\n\nWith the changes proposed in 2003, the actual Higher Education Act was not reauthorized. Instead, many of its sections were renewed, with little radical change. Numerous extensions have followed, with the most recent extension lasting through August 15, 2008. The Senate passed an HEA reauthorization bill in July 2007, as did the House of Representatives in February 2008.\n\nOn August 14, 2008, the Higher Education Opportunity Act (Public Law 110-315) (HEOA) was enacted. It reauthorized the amended version of the Higher Education Act of 1965. This act made major changes in student loan discharges for disabled people. Previously, to qualify for a discharge, a disabled person could have no income. This has been changed to a no \"substantial gainful activity\" test, which is the same standard used by the Social Security Administration in determining eligibility for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). The changes took effect on July 1, 2010.\n\nAlso included in the 2008 revision of the HEOA were provisions requiring action by U.S. colleges and universities to combat illegal file sharing. Following significant lobbying by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), the additions to the HEOA of 2008 included requirements that all U.S. colleges and universities (1) release and annual disclosure to students regarding copyright laws and associated campus policies, (2) a written plan, submitted to the Department of Education, to combat copyright abuse using one or more technology-based deterrents, and (3) an offer to students of alternatives to illegal downloading. Significant controversy surrounded the inclusion of anti-P2P legislation into HEOA of 2008, resulting in a letter from a number of leaders in higher education.\n\nAdditionally, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRA), a budget reconciliation bill signed into law in September 2007, made significant changes to federal financial aid programs included in HEA. In addition to increasing the maximum Pell Grant award and reducing interest rates on subsidized student loans, this bill capped loan repayment at 15% of an individual’s discretionary income, raised the income protection allowance, enacted loan forgiveness for public servants in the Direct Loan program, set publicly funded student loans to fixed rates from variable rate loans, and took actions to address problematic practices in the lending industry. Most CCRA provisions took effect on October 1, 2007.\n\nThe law for the first time also required post-secondary institutions be more transparent about costs and required the nearly 7,000 post-secondary institutions that receive federal financial aid funds (Title IV) to post net price calculators on their websites as well as security and copyright policies by October 29, 2011.\n\nAs defined in HEOA, the net price calculator's purpose is \"to help current and prospective students, families, and other consumers estimate the individual net price of an institution of higher education for a student. The [net price] calculator shall be developed in a manner that enables current and prospective students, families, and consumers to determine an estimate of a current or prospective student’s individual net price at a particular institution.\"\n\nThe law defines \"estimated net price\" as the difference between an institution's average total Price of Attendance (the sum of tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, and other expenses including personal expenses and transportation for a first-time, full-time undergraduate students who receive aid) and the institution's median need- and merit-based grant aid awarded.\n\nElise Miller, program director for the United States Department of Education's Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), stated the idea behind the requirement: \"We just want to break down the myth of sticker price and get beyond it. This is to give students some indication that they will not [necessarily] be paying that full price.\"\n\nThe template was developed based on the suggestions of the IPEDS' Technical Review Panel (TRP), which met on January 27–28, 2009, and included 58 individuals representing federal and state governments, post-secondary institutions from all sectors, association representatives, and template contractors. Mary Sapp, assistant vice president for planning and institutional research at the University of Miami, served as the panel's chair. She described the mandate's goal \"to provide prospective and current undergraduate students with some insight into the difference between an institution's sticker price and the price they will end up paying\".\n\nThe TRP faced the difficult challenge of creating one tool that could be used by a wide variety of institutions – from small, for-profit career schools to major research universities – while balancing simplicity for users.\n\nTo meet the requirement, post-secondary institutions may choose either a basic template developed by the U.S. Department of Education or an alternate net price calculator that offers at least the minimum elements required by law.\n\nAs part of its cost-transparency measures, HEOA of 2008 requires also on the College Navigator Web site a report giving the average institutional net price of attendance for first-time, full-time students who receive financial aid. This also forms the basis for transparency lists; a report on the College Navigator Web site the institutional net price of attendance for Title IV aid recipients by income categories; and for the U.S. Department of Education to develop a multi-year tuition and required-fees calculator for undergraduate programs for the College Navigator Web site.\n\nThe HEA has been criticized for establishing statutory pricing of federal student loans based on political considerations rather than pricing based on risk.\n\nThe 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act also maintained the requirement that universities must make an effort to register students to vote. A 2013 Dear Colleague letter from the U.S. Department of Education stated that universities “must make the voter registration forms widely available to [their] students and distribute the forms individually to [their] degree or certificate program students who are physically in attendance at [their] institution. Distribution by regular or electronic mail is permitted.”\n\nDuring this reform period of 2008, Title VI of the HEA was reviewed. \nTitle VI provides federal funds to 129 international studies and foreign language centers at universities nationwide. The objective of this act is to ensure and encourage diverse perspectives in order to enhance national security. As such, Title VI supplies grants for international language studies, business and international education programs as well as international policy. Moreover, the recipients of these funds are required to engage in ‘public outreach’ for K-12, teachers, educators and the general public.\n\nOver the past decade concerns have been raised over these title VI funded programs. Conservative critics have emphasized that many of the international programs funded engage in biased, anti-American and anti-Israel rhetoric, with no offers of counterbalance.\n\nCertainly, a 2006 review mandated by Congress found that the programs were not reaching their goals. Seeking to rectify this, Congress expressed the need for greater oversight by the Department of Education, as well as an investigation to ensure these programs reflected \"diverse perspectives\".\n\nDespite these reforms, the issues within Title VI have been deemed endemic. Writing in \"The Hill\", Louis D. Brandeis Center Founder Kenneth L. Marcus argued that \"title VI doesn’t need to be tweaked-it needs to be overhauled\". This declaration followed a joint statement released by 10 groups on September 17, 2014, which the Brandeis Center coordinated.\n\nThis joint statement expressed the deep concerns over the misuse of tax payer money, arguing that \"these outreach programs, which have no congressional oversight, often disseminate anti-American and anti-Israel falsehoods.\" Furthermore, the groups voiced the opinion that \" too often exclude scholars with diverse perspectives while stifling discourse on critical issues. The biased learning environment that results suppresses the academic freedom of students and faculty with different views. At some institutions, students are afraid to disagree with their professors.\" \nThis statement was accompanied by a white paper published by the Brandeis Center as well as a report by the AMCHA Initiative underscoring the negative effects this biased perspective produces on campuses, UCLA specifically. The AMCHA study found that \"any time UCLA’s center sponsored or co-sponsored an event mentioning Israel from Fall 2010 to Spring 2013, 93% of the time the mention was negative and critical – as if Israel is a blight on the planet.\"\n\nUCLA's media relations office issued a statement saying that the university \"remains dedicated to complying with all federal laws and respecting the free and open exchange of ideas representing diverse viewpoints.\" \n\nIn light of such issues, the joint statement calls for changes in the Title VI program which would 1) \"[r]equire recipients of Title VI funds to establish grievance procedures to address complaints that programs are not reflecting diverse perspectives and a wide range of views\" and 2) \"[r]equire the U.S. Department of Education to establish a formal complaint-resolution process similar to that in use to enforce Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\" \n\nResponding to this statement Amy W. Newhall, executive director of the Middle East Studies Association of North America (MESA), asserted that MESA \"resolutely opposes all forms of hate speech and discrimination, including anti-Semitism,\" but \"is concerned that some of the reports issued by partisan political groups based outside academia may actually weaken efforts to combat anti-Semitism by portraying all criticism of Israeli policies as a form of anti-Semitism or as ‘anti-Israel.’\" \n\nHowever, as Kenneth L. Marcus asserts in a letter to the editor of \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" the co-signatories of the joint statement \" urge the opposite: accountability systems to ensure that these programs offer the diversity of perspectives that existing law requires.\"\nAs said statement concludes: \"Arguably, Title VI programs no longer serve a legitimate purpose... In 2011, Congress reduced Title VI funding nationwide by 40 percent, from $34 million to $18 million. Unless effective and necessary reforms can be enacted, Congress may have to consider reducing or eliminating Title VI funding from Middle East studies centers.\" \n\nAfter being reauthorized in 2008, the Higher Education Act was set to expire in 2013, but was re-extended to allow Congress time to work on the next reauthorization. In December 2017, House Republicans announced that they had finalized an overhaul of the act, authored primarily by Representative Virginia Foxx of (R - N.C.), the chairwoman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. The new bill is called the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success and Prosperity Through Education Reform (PROSPER) Act. The act aims to simplify the federal financial aid process and expand federal work study programs. It would also repeal two Obama-era programs - “gainful employment” and “borrower defense” - aimed at preventing financial exploitation of undergraduates, as well as bar their readoption.\n\nAccording to Committee spokesman Michael Woeste, “the reforms within the PROSPER Act are necessary to provide students with a high-quality education, and fix a system that has not been serving their needs.”\n\nSome concerns have been raised by advocacy groups about how the PROSPER Act would affect LGBTQ students. According to the Human Rights Campaign, “The PROSPER Act contains several provisions that would allow for the use of religion to justify otherwise prohibited discrimination that could negatively impact LGBTQ students.”\n\nAdditionally, the PROSPER Act includes a weaker version of the provision requiring universities to increase student voter registration, a requirement present in the Higher Education Act since 1998. Critics worry that this change will lead to lower youth turnout in elections, as voter turnout is already historically lowest among young voters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44582355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44582355", "title": "Kahoot!", "text": "Kahoot!\n\nKahoot! is a game-based learning platform, used as educational technology in schools and other educational institutions. Its learning games, \"Kahoots\", are multiple-choice quizzes that allow user generation and can be accessed via a web browser.\n\nKahoot! can be used to review students' knowledge, for formative assessment, or as a break from traditional classroom activities. Kahoot! also includes trivia quizzes.\nKahoot was founded by Johan Brand, Jamie Brooker and Morten Versvik in a joint project with the Norwegian University of Technology and Science, they teamed up with Professor Alf Inge Wang, and were later joined by Norwegian entrepreneur Åsmund Furuseth.\nKahoot was designed for social learning, with learners gathered around a common screen such as an interactive whiteboard, projector or a computer monitor. The site can also be used through screen-sharing tools such as Skype or Google Hangouts. The game design is such that the players are required to frequently look up from their devices. The gameplay is simple; all players connect using a generated game PIN shown on the common screen, and use a device to answer questions created by a teacher, business leader, or other person. These questions can be changed to award points. Points then show up on the leaderboard after each question. \n\nKahoot can be played through different web browsers and mobile devices through its web interface.\n\nIn September 2017, Kahoot launched a mobile application for homework.\nKahoot added a new feature in 2016, called Jumble. Users create quizzes with exactly four options (it is always exactly four) in the correct order. Kahoot automatically randomizes the answers during the game. Users have to move the triangle, diamond, circle and square up and into the right order. Then users have to press a blue, circular button with a white text that says \"K!\" under the rectangles. If a user suspects that the answers are in the wrong order, the rectangles will have to be moved down back to its original position before it can be moved back up to the correct position again.\n\nKahoot was launched in a private beta at SXSWedu in March 2013 and the beta was released to the public in September 2013.\n\nIn March 2017, Kahoot reached one billion cumulative participating players and in the month of May, the company was reported to have 50 million monthly active unique users.\n\nAs of 2017, Kahoot has raised $26.5 million in funding from Northzone, Creandum and Microsoft Ventures, as well as private investors in Norway.\n\nAs of October 11, 2018, Kahoot is valued at $300 million.\n\nAccording to research by two students at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, the network latency in accessing the website greatly influences the quality of experience of the platform, in both longitudinal and cross-section studies, with a sample size N=21. It was found that about 70% of the sample size regard Kahoot! as having positive results on all delay levels, while a varying number of students (between 10-20%) report that the platform is too time-consuming, forming a direct relationship with the duration of delay.\n\n"}
{"id": "8018297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8018297", "title": "Keller Plan", "text": "Keller Plan\n\nThe Keller Plan, also called the Personalized System of Instruction (PSI), was developed by Fred S. Keller with J. Gilmour Sherman, Carolina Bori, and Rodolpho Azzi in the middle 1960s as an innovative method of instruction for the then-new University of Brasília. PSI was conceived of as an application of Skinner's theories of learning, grounded in operant conditioning strategies of behaviorism.\n\nKeller argued that effective instruction should incorporate five principles, the essential elements of the Keller Plan:\n\n\nWhile traditional teaching is \"same pace, different learning\", a key distinguishing factor of PSI is that it instead advocates \"different pace, same learning\". A traditional course might have all students follow the same weekly lectures, exercises, etc., and then sit an end-of-course exam at the same date — but possibly with huge variation in learning outcomes (e.g., 95% achievement for a strong student, but just 55% for a weak one). In a course run according to PSI, all students must pass a high threshold of achievement on each module within the course (for instance 90%). The difference between weak and strong students would then be that the stronger ones be able to finish the course quicker, while the weaker ones would need more time.\n\nThe Keller Plan has mainly been used in higher education, particularly as a more personalized form of instruction in large classes, but there is nothing inherent in Keller's formulation to restrict its application to particular grade levels, content, or types of courses; for instance the papers and report on usage in elementary school and junior high school, respectively. There has been a good deal of research on the effectiveness of PSI which indicated that it had robust, significantly positive effects on learning when compared to more traditional lecture-based formats. However, in some cases, self-pacing was also seen to have problems with student withdrawal and procrastination . \n\nIn spite of much documented success, PSI has not taken off massively. Education is still dominated by \"same pace, different learning\" approaches, and the number of new research publications about PSI gradually declined after its heyday in the 70's. Several possible reasons are given for this, not the least that PSI represented a too radical deviation from established teaching practices and educational management routines . Other explanations include conflicts within the PSI movement and the challenge that PSI demands more teaching effort. However, it has been speculated that PSI might see a revival with modern educational technology, as information technology could gradually alleviate teacher burdens related to frequent testing and feedback, as well as mitigate the increased administrative complexity that courses with student self-pacing have over those with instructor-set pace.\n\n"}
{"id": "31680808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31680808", "title": "LIFO (education)", "text": "LIFO (education)\n\nLast in First Out (LIFO) (or otherwise known as \"Last One Hired is the First One Fired\" is a policy often used by school districts and other employers to prioritize layoffs by seniority. Under LIFO layoff rules, junior teachers and other employees lose their jobs before senior ones. Laying off junior employees first is not exclusive to the education sector or to the United States, but is perhaps most controversial there. LIFO's proponents claim that it protects teachers with tenure and gives them job stability, and that it is an easily administered way of accomplishing layoffs following a budget cut. LIFO's critics respond that it is bad for students. They prefer that the best teachers remain regardless of how long they have been teaching.\n\nLIFO and tenure were originally intended to provide college professors with academic freedom and ensure that they could research topics of their own choosing. In the K-12 sector, tenure was introduced to lower high teacher turnover rates. In 1932, over 20% of teachers were dismissed due to personal disagreements and difference of opinion. By 2010, LIFO was criticized on grounds that \"seniority based layoffs result in promising, inexperienced teachers losing their positions, while their less effective, but more senior, peers continue to teach.\" As of early 2014, 2 states provided that seniority could not be considered when deciding which teachers to layoff, 18 states and the District of Columbia left the layoff criteria to school district discretion, 20 states provided that seniority could be considered among other factors, and 10 states provided that seniority was the sole factor, or one that had to be considered.\n\nLIFO has a more severe impact in poor or high minority schools, since those schools tend to have newer and less experienced teachers. In schools where 34% or less of the students receive Free and Reduced meals, more than 82% of teachers have 4 or more years of experience. However, in schools where more than 75% of the student body receives Free and Reduced meals, only 77% of the teachers have more than 4 years of experience. Moreover, in California, it was seen that in schools in the lowest quartile of minority students, only 8 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching whereas in schools with the highest quartile of minority students, 13 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching, meaning that under LIFO-based layoffs, schools with larger minority populations would lose 60% more teachers. Finally, teachers in high need areas, such as secondary math and special education, are often less experienced due to the difficulty of recruiting these positions, and districts who adhere strictly to seniority based systems for layoffs face the added burden of recruiting teachers in these areas. In Los Angeles, it was noted that of the hundreds of promising new teachers cut in from the district in 2010 due to LIFO, 190 were in the top fifth overall of teachers in raising math and reading scores.\n\nResearch indicates that the effectiveness of teachers does not change after the first few years in the classroom. As a result, the implications of using LIFO rules for layoffs instead of basing layoffs on classroom effectiveness appear huge. With LIFO, more teachers must be dismissed to meet budgetary targets than with effectiveness-based layoffs because the youngest teachers are the least paid, but the teachers dismissed under the LIFO policy are only slightly below average in effectiveness. An effectiveness-based policy on the other hand leads to dramatic improvements in average teacher quality, and these improvements have lasting effects on students throughout their lives.\n\nIn many states, tenure is given to teachers after 3 years, without much indication of job performance. A value added model (VAM) could be used in tenure decisions for teachers in order to estimate teacher quality. A VAM would predict how well a teacher would do based on his or her previous experience teaching. Data shows that the VAM based on standardized test scores, is a better indicator of teacher performance than any observable attributes. \n\nSince less experienced teachers typically have lower salaries, it is estimated that if districts in the United States cut 5% of their budget through seniority based layoffs, approximately 79,000 more teachers would lose their jobs versus seniority neutral layoffs.\n\nIn a survey of New York State parents regarding teacher quality versus seniority, voters said they did not care how long a teacher had taught so long as the teacher was effective and produced good results.\n\nStarting with Arizona in 2009, certain states and districts have been passing laws which prohibit seniority from being the deciding factor in layoff decisions. Maine, Louisiana, and District of Columbia use multiple criteria in determining layoffs, and numerous other states are trending towards performance based over seniority based layoffs.\n\nMichelle Rhee, the former Chancellor of Washington, D.C. public schools, opposes the Last in First Out policy, instead suggesting performance based evaluation to determine layoffs. As Chancellor, she introduced the IMPACT evaluation for teachers, which measured teacher performance and was the primary factor for layoffs. She is the CEO of Students First, a grassroots movement \"designed to mobilize parents, teacher, students, and administrators, and citizens\" to demand a better American education system. Since its founding in 2010, Studentsfirst has been behind legislation across the country which promotes alternative teacher quality assessment methods through its \"Save Great Teachers\" Campaign. Victories from this campaign have been seen in Florida, Utah, Michigan, Nevada and Tennessee.\n\nThe 2014 court case of \"Vergara v. California\" struck down California's LIFO layoff rules as having a disproportionately negative impact on poor and minority public school students, thus violating the California Constitution. The \"Vergara\" trial judge noted that teacher layoffs prioritized solely by seniority prevented senior and ineffective teachers from being laid off before junior but effective teachers. In this situation, \"[n]o matter how gifted the junior teacher, and no matter how grossly ineffective the senior teacher, the junior gifted one . . . is separated from [the students] and a senior grossly ineffective one . . . is left in place.\" The judge concluded that \"[t]he logic of [this scheme] is unfathomable and therefore constitutionally unsupportable.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26616232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26616232", "title": "LJ Create", "text": "LJ Create\n\nLJ Create Ltd is a UK-based company that produces interactive educational technology for the global market. The company operates in over 60 countries.\n\nLJ Create Ltd was established 6 June 1979 when a City College Norwich lecturer, Larry Rowe, won a local enterprise competition.\n\nLJ Create makes blended learning solutions for teaching Science, Engineering and Technology. They have become a world leader in STEM resources, manufacturing both hardware and software.\n\nLJ Create was sold to Infinitas Learning on 23 January 2012 and became a subsidiary of Nelson Thornes. LJ Create was bought on 24 July 2015 by the senior management team, including managing director Chris Rowe who founded the company with his father Larry Rowe in the late 1970s. According to Companies House LJCR1863 LIMITED (previously LJ Create) went in to liquidation in 2017 but has since been sold to Creative Learning (Norwich) Ltd., operating out of the same address.\n\n"}
{"id": "45311415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45311415", "title": "Leadership for Learning: the Cambridge Network", "text": "Leadership for Learning: the Cambridge Network\n\nLeadership for Learning (LfL) is a framework and set of principles that arose from the \"Carpe Vitam\" project in which practitioners and researchers worked together to develop the practice of leadership for learning. \nLeadership for Learning: the Cambridge Network, based in the University of Cambridge Faculty of Education, draws together practitioners, schools and organisations concerned with these ideas. The LfL framework and principles have been used in a wide variety of contexts to frame discussions and to inform the evaluation of practice.\n\nThe Leadership for Learning Project (known as Carpe Vitam after its Swedish commissioning body) was a research and development project focusing on the process by which schools made, and then grew, the connections between learning and leadership. It was funded for three years (2002–2005) by the Wallenberg Foundation in Sweden, with further financial support from participating countries. The project was directed from the University of Cambridge in collaboration with eight different groups of university researchers and their nominated schools in eight cities: Athens, Brisbane, Copenhagen, Innsbruck, London, Oslo, Seattle, and Trenton (New Jersey).\nSeven countries, eight higher education institutions and 24 schools participated in exploring the connections between leadership and learning through conferences, workshops, school visits and inter-country exchanges.\n\nThe researchers did not start from a blank slate or from a neutral stance but from a set of democratic values about leadership and learning. How those values could be translated into practical strategies at school and classroom level, however, was something they planned to discover through experimentation, reflection and collective debate over the life of the project.\nPart way through that process they began to identify ‘principles for practice’ that would help to clarify and focus attention on the transformations in learning and leadership that were beginning to take place. These five principles were refined and developed throughout the project.\n\nThe most significant outcome of the project was a set of principles that could be used by researchers, by school leaders, by teachers and students to make the connections between leadership and learning through reflecting on, or researching, their own practice. Five statements came to represent these principles.\n\nLeadership for Learning practice involves:\n\nThese five principles are dynamically interrelated, with dialogue forming the connections, a focus on learning and shared leadership mediated by conditions for learning, and all framed by the fifth principle of accountability. ‘A focus on learning’ is quite deliberately placed first because it can be considered as the prime principle, reflecting a commitment to making learning the number one priority – the core of Leadership for Learning. \nEach headline principle is elaborated through sub-principles that amplify and illustrate.\n\nLfL is under the leadership of Professor John MacBeath and is coordinated by a management team that includes David Frost, Sue Swaffield, John Bangs, Megan Crawford, Panayiotis Antoniou, Ruth Sapsed and Caroline Jestaz. It is part of the Leadership for Learning academic group.\n\nThe network exists to:\n\nwith the belief that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6474945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6474945", "title": "Learning and Skills Act 2000", "text": "Learning and Skills Act 2000\n\nThe Learning and Skills Act 2000 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It made changes in the funding and administration of further education, and of work-based learning (or apprenticeships) for young people, within England and Wales. \n\nThe main changes were:\n\nThe Act also established arrangements for Inspections of further education in England and Wales, and abolished the Further Education Funding Council for England.\n"}
{"id": "1852005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1852005", "title": "List of United States university campuses by enrollment", "text": "List of United States university campuses by enrollment\n\nThis list of largest United States public university campuses by enrollment includes only individual four-year campuses, not four-year universities. Universities can have multiple campuses with a single administration.\n\nWhat this list includes:\n\nWhat this list does not include:\n\nNot all enrollment counts are directly comparable. See notes. For other lists that measure university enrollment, see the see also section below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10231109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10231109", "title": "Microsoft Student Partners", "text": "Microsoft Student Partners\n\nThe Microsoft Student Partners is a worldwide recognizable program to sponsor students majoring in disciplines related to technology. The MSP program enhances students' employability by offering training in skills not usually taught in academia, including knowledge of Microsoft technologies.\n\nThe program is available in most countries, and all students in college and university level are eligible to apply. If accepted, Student Partners are assumed to further share the knowledge among the academic community by, for example, arranging courses, giving presentations and initiating projects.\n\nThe MSP Program was initiated in 2001, and operated in 15 countries for five years. In late 2006, the program was expanded to 50 countries worldwide, and as of July 2010, there are more than 2800 members worldwide across 101 countries and regions.\n\nThe MSP program is an educational and promotional program to sponsor undergraduate and postgraduate students majoring in disciplines related to technology, typically computer science, computer information systems, and information technology. MSP program aims to enhance students' employability and increase students' awareness of Microsoft technologies. Student Partners are offered training especially in product-specific skills not typically taught in academia.\n\nThe program aims to increase awareness of Microsoft products, programs and initiatives. Consequently, the program helps expanding the user base of Microsoft products, and results in better availability of properly educated workforce in those technologies.\n\nThe MSP program is active around the world to college and university level students. Microsoft chooses one skilled student from each institution at a time to serve as representatives. Typically, a Microsoft Student Partner is science major from engineering or business school of higher education.\n\nMicrosoft offers compensation to the members of the Student Partners program through salaries (in some countries only) and software and hardware packages which are distributed to them for testing and promotional purposes. Student Partners are given access to MSDN Premium Subscriptions to support their promotional activities. At times, Student Partners are invited to technology-related conferences.\n\nThe candidate students are evaluated on the following attributes:\n\nStudent Partners are given access to the latest Microsoft software, development tools, reference material, industry events, and training opportunities. MSPs are assumed to further share the knowledge among the academic community by arranging courses; giving presentations and lectures; and initiating projects among the students. MSPs are also used to promote incentives, for example, the Microsoft Imagine Cup; and programs, such as the Ultimate Steal and its affiliate program. Some Student Partners (based on a selection criteria) are provided internships and job opportunities at a few Microsoft Divisions through the program.\n\nLocal MSP activities include, for example, attending the Student Technology Day in UK, which included high-profile presentations, such as one by the CEO of Microsoft, Satya Nadella; and TechDays, for instance in France, and in Canada. In New Zealand, the MSPs developed a programmed called the Microsoft Student Accelerator (MSA), which aims to not only train the students throughout the year but also place the students in various internship programmes over the summer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "313297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313297", "title": "Montessori education", "text": "Montessori education\n\nThe Montessori Method of education, developed by Maria Montessori, is a child-centered educational approach based on scientific observations of children. Montessori's method has been used for over 100 years in many parts of the world.\n\nThe Montessori method views the child as one who is naturally eager for knowledge and capable of initiating learning in a supportive, thoughtfully prepared learning environment. It attempts to develop children physically, socially, emotionally and cognitively.\n\nAlthough a range of practices exist under the name \"Montessori\", the Association Montessori Internationale (AMI) and the American Montessori Society (AMS) cite these elements as essential:\n\nFollowing her medical training, Maria Montessori began to develop her educational philosophy and methods in 1897, attending courses in pedagogy at the University of Rome and reading the educational theory of the previous two hundred years. While visiting an asylum, during her schooling with a teacher, she used her observations of mistreatment of the kids there, especially those with autism, to create her new form of education. In 1907, she opened her first classroom, the Casa dei Bambini, or Children's House, in a tenement building in Rome. From the beginning, Montessori based her work on her observations of children and experimentation with the environment, materials, and lessons available to them. She frequently referred to her work as \"scientific pedagogy\".\n\nIn 1901, Maria Montessori met Alice and Leopoldo Franchetti (Baroness & Baron) of Città di Castello. They found many matching points between their work. Maria Montessori was invited to hold her first course for teachers and to set up a \"Casa dei Bambini\" at Villa Montesca, the home of the Franchettis in Città di Castello. Maria Montessori decided to move to Città di Castello where she lived for 2 years and where she refined her methodology together with Alice Franchetti. In that period, she published her book in Città di Castello. The Franchetti Barons financed the publication of the book and the methodology had the name \"Method Franchetti-Montessori\". Alice Franchetti died in 1911 at the age of 37 years old.\n\nMontessori education had spread to the United States by 1912 and became widely known in educational and popular publications. However, conflict arose between Montessori and the American educational establishment. The 1914 critical booklet \"The Montessori System Examined,\" by influential education teacher William Heard Kilpatrick, limited the spread of her ideas, and they languished after 1914. Montessori education returned to the United States in 1960 and has since spread to thousands of schools there. Montessori continued to extend her work during her lifetime, developing a comprehensive model of psychological development from birth to age 24, as well as educational approaches for children ages 0 to 3, 3 to 6, and 6 to 12.\n\nMontessori education also spread throughout the world, including Southeast Asia and India, where Maria Montessori was interned during World War II.\n\nMontessori education is fundamentally a model of human development, and an educational approach based on that model. The model has two basic principles. First, children and developing adults engage in psychological self-construction by means of interaction with their environments. Second, children, especially under the age of six, have an innate path of psychological development. Based on her observations, Montessori believed that children who are at liberty to choose and act freely within an environment prepared according to her model would act spontaneously for optimal development.\n\nMontessori saw universal, innate characteristics in human psychology which her son and collaborator Mario Montessori identified as \"human tendencies\" in 1957. There is some debate about the exact list, but the following are clearly identified:\n\nIn the Montessori approach, these human tendencies are seen as driving behavior in every stage of development, and education should respond to and facilitate their expression.\n\nMontessori education involves free activity within a \"prepared environment\", meaning an educational environment tailored to basic human characteristics, to the specific characteristics of children at different ages, and to the individual personalities of each child. The function of the environment is to help and allow the child to develop independence in all areas according to his or her inner psychological directives. In addition to offering access to the Montessori materials appropriate to the age of the children, the environment should exhibit the following characteristics:\n\nMontessori observed four distinct periods, or \"planes\", in human development, extending from birth to 6 years, from 6 to 12, from 12 to 18, and from 18 to 24. She saw different characteristics, learning modes, and developmental imperatives active in each of these planes, and called for educational approaches specific to each period.\n\nThe first plane extends from birth to around six years of age. During this period, Montessori observed that the child undergoes striking physical and psychological development. The first-plane child is seen as a concrete, sensorial explorer and learner engaged in the developmental work of psychological self-construction and building functional independence. Montessori introduced several concepts to explain this work, including the absorbent mind, sensitive periods, and normalization.\n\nMontessori described the young child's behavior of effortlessly assimilating the sensorial stimuli of his or her environment, including information from the senses, language, culture, and the development of concepts with the term \"absorbent mind\". She believed that this is a power unique to the first plane, and that it fades as the child approached age six. Montessori also observed and discovered periods of special sensitivity to particular stimuli during this time which she called the \"sensitive periods\". In Montessori education, the classroom environment responds to these periods by making appropriate materials and activities available while the periods are active in each individual young child. She identified the following periods and their durations:\n\n\nFinally, Montessori observed in children from three to six years old a psychological state she termed \"normalization\". Normalization arises from concentration and focus on activity which serves the child's developmental needs, and is characterized by the ability to concentrate as well as \"spontaneous discipline, continuous and happy work, social sentiments of help and sympathy for others.\"\n\nThe second plane of development extends from around six years to twelve years old. During this period, Montessori observed physical and psychological changes in children, and developed a classroom environment, lessons, and materials, to respond to these new characteristics. Physically, she observed the loss of baby teeth and the lengthening of the legs and torso at the beginning of the plane, and a period of uniform growth following. Psychologically, she observed the \"herd instinct\", or the tendency to work and socialize in groups, as well as the powers of reason and imagination. Developmentally, she believed the work of the second plane child is the formation of intellectual independence, of moral sense, and of social organization.\n\nThe third plane of development extends from around twelve years to around eighteen years of age, encompassing the period of adolescence. Montessori characterized the third plane by the physical changes of puberty and adolescence, but also psychological changes. She emphasized the psychological instability and difficulties in concentration of this age, as well as the creative tendencies and the development of \"a sense of justice and a sense of personal dignity.\" She used the term \"valorization\" to describe the adolescents' drive for an externally derived evaluation of their worth. Developmentally, Montessori believed that the work of the third plane child is the construction of the adult self in society.\n\nThe fourth plane of development extends from around eighteen years to around twenty-four years old. Montessori wrote comparatively little about this period and did not develop an educational program for the age. She envisioned young adults prepared by their experiences in Montessori education at the lower levels ready to fully embrace the study of culture and the sciences in order to influence and lead civilization. She believed that economic independence in the form of work for money was critical for this age, and felt that an arbitrary limit to the number of years in university level study was unnecessary, as the study of culture could go on throughout a person's life.\n\nIn short, four core aspects of montessori school include, practical life, sensorial, math, and language arts. Some smaller aspects that could be integrated into montessori schools include geography, art, and gardening.\n\nAs Montessori developed her theory and practice, she came to believe that education had a role to play in the development of world peace. She felt that children allowed to develop according to their inner laws of development would give rise to a more peaceful and enduring civilization. From the 1930s to the end of her life, she gave a number of lectures and addresses on the subject saying in 1936,\n\nShe received a total of six nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize in a three-year period: 1949, 1950, and 1951.\n\nElementary Montessori peace curriculum starts with Five Great Lessons that give a big picture of the world and life. They are educational stories that also spark the imagination of the students. The Five Great Lessons are - The Beginning of the Universe and Earth, Life Comes to Earth, Human Come to Earth, How Writing Began, and How Numbers Began. It is important to not rush through them and give time for research in between. It is also important to share these lessons as early in the year as possible.\n\nMontessori classrooms for children under three fall into several categories, with a number of terms being used. A \"\", Italian for \"nest\", serves a small number of children from around two months to around fourteen months, or when the child is confidently walking. A \"Young Child Community\" serves a larger number of children from around one year to 2½ or 3 years old. Both environments emphasize materials and activities scaled to the children's size and abilities, opportunities to develop movement, and activities to develop independence. Development of independence in toileting is typically emphasized as well. Some schools also offer \"Parent-Infant\" classes, in which parents participate with their very young children.\n\nMontessori classrooms for children from 2½ or 3 to 6 years old are often called Children's Houses, after Montessori's first school, the Casa dei Bambini in Rome in 1906. This level is also called \"Primary\". A typical classroom serves 20 to 30 children in mixed-age groups, staffed by fully trained teachers and assistants. Classrooms are usually outfitted with child-sized tables and chairs arranged singly or in small clusters, with classroom materials on child-height shelves throughout the room. Activities are for the most part initially presented by the teacher, after which they may be chosen more or less freely by the children as interest dictates. Classroom materials usually include activities for engaging in practical skills such as pouring and spooning, washing up, scrubbing tables and sweeping. Also materials for the development of the senses, mathematical materials, language materials, music, art and cultural materials, including more science based activities like 'sink and float', Magnetic and Non magnetic and candle and air.\n\nActivities in Children's Houses are typically hands on, tactile materials to teach concepts. For example, to teach writing, students use sandpaper letters. These are letters created by cutting letters out of sandpaper and placing them on wooden blocks. The children then trace these letters with their fingers to learn the shape and sound of each letter. Another example is the use of bead chains to teach math concepts, specifically multiplication. Specifically for multiples of 10, there is one bead that represents one unit, a bar of ten beads put together that represents 1×10, then a flat shape created by fitting 10 of the bars together to represent 10×10, and a cube created by fitting 10 of the flats together to represent 10×10×10. These materials help build a concrete understanding of basic concepts upon which much is built in the later years.\n\nElementary school classrooms usually serve mixed-age 6- to 9-year-old and 9- to 12-year-old groupings; 6- to 12-year-old groups are also used. Lessons are typically presented to small groups of children, who are then free to follow up with independent work of their own as interest and personal responsibility dictate. Montessori educators give interdisciplinary lessons examining subjects ranging from biology and history to theology, which they refer to as \"great lessons.\" These are typically given near the beginning of the school term and provide the basis for learning throughout the year.\n\nLessons include work in language, mathematics, history, the sciences, the arts, etc. Student-directed explorations of resources outside the classroom are integral to the education. Montessori used the term \"cosmic education\" to indicate both the universal scope of lessons to be presented, and the idea that education should help children realize the human role in the interdependent functioning of the universe.\n\nMontessori education for this level is less well-developed than programs for younger children. Montessori did not establish a teacher training program or a detailed plan of education for adolescents during her lifetime. However, a number of schools have extended their programs for younger children to the middle school and high school levels. In addition, several Montessori organizations have developed teacher training or orientation courses and a loose consensus on the plan of study is emerging. Montessori wrote that, \"The essential reform of our plan from this point of view may be defined as follows: during the difficult time of adolescence it is helpful to leave the accustomed environment of the family in town and to go to quiet surroundings in the country, close to nature\".\n\nMany Montessori schools for adolescents 12–18 are set in rural locations.\n\nLillard (2017) reviews recent research on the outcomes of Montessori education. A 2006 study published in \"Science\" magazine found that \"when strictly implemented, Montessori education fosters social and academic skills that are equal or superior to those fostered by a pool of other types of schools.\" The study had a relatively small sample size and was severely criticized. Another study in the Milwaukee Public Schools found that children who had attended Montessori from ages 3–11 outperformed their high school classmates several years later on mathematics and science; another found that Montessori had some of the largest positive effects on achievement of all programs evaluated.\n\nSome studies have not found positive outcomes for children in Montessori classrooms, but this might be due to the implementation of Montessori. For example, a 2005 study in a Buffalo public Montessori magnet school \"...failed to support the hypothesis that enrollment in a Montessori school was associated with higher academic achievement.\" Explicitly comparing outcomes of Montessori classrooms in which children spent a lot of time with Montessori materials, less time with the Montessori materials, or no time at all with the materials (because they were in conventional classrooms), Lillard found the best outcomes for children in classic Montessori. Further research should take care to determine the fidelity of the program.\n\nThe review on evaluations of Montessori education studies, that was published in 2017, states that wide evidence exist that certain elements of the Montessori method (e.g. teaching early literacy through a phonic approach embedded in a rich language context, and providing a sensorial foundation for mathematics education) are effective. At the same time it was concluded that while some evidence exist that children may benefit cognitively and socially from Montessori education which sticks to original principles, it is less clear whether modern adapted forms of Montessori education are as effective.\n\nIn 1967, the US Patent Trademark Trial and Appeal Board ruled that \"the term 'Montessori' has a generic and/or descriptive significance.\" Therefore, in the United States and most other countries, the term can be used freely without giving any guarantee of how closely, if at all, a program applies Montessori's work. The ruling has led to \"tremendous variation in schools claiming to use Maria Montessori's methods.\"\n\nWith the development of mobile touchscreen devices, several Montessori activities were made into mobile apps for children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40426630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40426630", "title": "Norwegian Digital Learning Arena", "text": "Norwegian Digital Learning Arena\n\nNorwegian Digital Learning Arena (NDLA) (Norwegian: \"Nasjonal digital læringsarena\") is a joint county enterprise offering open digital learning assets for upper secondary education. In addition to being a compilation of open educational resources (OER), NDLA provides a range of other online tools for sharing and cooperation. The legal liability for the joint county programme is carried by Hordaland County Council.\n\nNDLA does not take on its own employees, but manages co-workers within the county resource system, as well as co-workers from private sector.\nCore activities are organised in teams: Subject material development, technical development, applications management, content management, NDLA interactive, and desk support.\n\nIn 2006 The Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research allocated NOK 50 mill for the development of digital learning resources for subjects in secondary education. Among the targets was the intention to enhance the access to and use of digital learning resources in secondary education, and increase the volume and the variety of such resources. Increased volume and diversity were seen as significant conditions for the introduction of free learning material in upper secondary education. The incentive was an amendment imposing the counties to provide free educational material, in print as well as digital, including digital hardware.\n\n20 September 2006 the county chief executives of education agreed to establish a joint project to develop digital subject material for all subjects in secondary education. The project was named Norwegian Digital Learning Arena (NDLA). The preliminary project work started early 2007; all counties except Oslo were parts of the collaboration. The first year the project was fully funded by the Ministry of Education and Research, and on 26 September Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg officially opened Norwegian Digital Learning Arena. The academic year 2008–2009 subject material for Norwegian, natural science, and health and social care, first year course, was published.\n\nThe 18 participating counties took over the further funding of the project, and for the academic year 2009–2010 digital subject material was provided for 17 curricula and more than 30 subject areas. The extent increases by the year and by school start in 2014 subject material covering approximately 40 curricula and 60 subject areas within upper secondary education is available.\n\nIn 2013 Akershus County decided to withdraw from the project, however, the county resumed its participation from January 2014.\n\nThe number of visits to the digital learning resources on ndla.no has been rising since the start of the project. Based on ratings by Google Analytics the figures are:\n\nOslo County does not take part in the NDLA project, but is the county with most visits and use of the resources on ndla.no. In 2013 there were 1 139 129 visits from Oslo.\n\nMost of the available NDLA material is licensed by Creative Commons license and is free to use. All the material is noted with competence aims based on the official data from the Norwegian Directorate for Education and Training. By the start of academic year 2014 teaching material within the following subjects and subject areas are available:\n\nIn addition to the open digital learning resources NDLA provides a series of net-based tools for sharing and cooperation on net. Some of these are:\n\nNDLA cooperates with Khan Academy for translation and organising pages, Norwegian subtitles of videos, Norwegian framework and Norwegian tasks. In addition NDLA has cooperation with the PhET project at the University of Colorado, providing simulations in HTML5 as well as translation and organising of the two forms of Norwegian.\n\nNDLA is developed in the publishing system Drupal 6. The solution was initially created by the developing group Utdanning.no, but further development and operation now lies with the Cerpus group. The core code of the system is open source software; open for anyone aiming to develop digital learning resources. In 2018 NDLA will relaunch on a new technological platform. \n\nIn 2011 NDLA was nominated for European Public Service Award (EPSA). The prize is awarded annually within the EU/EEC area, the ambition is to develop and improve solutions within public and civil administration. NDLA was candidate for the prize with the entry: NDLA Innovation in Acquisition, Development and Distribution of Digital Learning Resources. A total of 274 initiatives were evaluated, and 15 candidates were shortlisted for the prize.\nIn 2014 NDLA won the Boldic Award for its open and innovative web repository at ndla.no. In the jury statement, it was pointed out that NDLA's project strategy and solutions can be scalable across the Nordic and Baltic countries, and that NDLA provides a unique way of working together to promote distance learning and ICT-supported flexible lifelong learning.\nIn 2017 NDLA won the Open Educational Resources Awards for best OER Site.\n\nThe NDLA learning resources are continually evaluated by independent third parties. An external users’ study from 2013 revealed that NDLA was mostly used as supplement to a traditional textbook, and the use was largely managed by the teacher. Students pointed out e-lectures and differentiated tasks as most useful. Both teachers and students emphasized the value of the possibility to differentiate material and tasks designed for students with varying learning capability.\n\nBy publicly inviting tenders NDLA searches the market for digital learning resources to cover the competence aims of the different subject areas. NDLA asks for production services, developing groups of digital learning material, for either parts of, or prospective total solutions for a complete curriculum.\n\nThe responsibility for the editorial work, organising, meta-tagging, and putting together the material in the respective subject areas lies with competent editing groups recruited from upper secondary schools in the counties. The contents of each site are quality controlled by academy and university expertise, or otherwise specialists in that particular field. All the core material is published in the two forms of Norwegian.\n\nWhen the demand is not met by the supply, the editing groups will produce their own material. The publishing companies are invited to collaborate in every round of purchase, and are free to make an offer of their material that will benefit their interests.\n\nThe basic income of NDLA rests on a joint contribution from the part-taking counties, of NOK 400, - per student, which constitutes an annual income of estimated NOK 64 mill. In 2013 this figure was lower due to Akershus’ leaving the project. 66% of NDLA’s net expenses in 2013 were spent on purchase in the market.\n\nIn 2010 NDLA was indicted by the Norwegian Publishers' Association before the European Surveillance Authority (ESA). The publishers claimed that the state funding of more than NOK 150 mill did not comply with the international regulation of financial state support, and represented an obstacle to the establishing of a free market for digital learning resources.\n\nThe indictment was initially rejected by the EFTA Surveillance Authority on 12 October 2011, but in December 2012 the dismissal was set aside by the EFTA Court after an appeal from the Publishers’ Association. In March 2013 the EFTA Court announced a formal investigation of the funding of NDLA, and ESA reopened the case. After a close examination ESA reached the same conclusion; the funding of NDLA is in compliance with the rules of state funding.\n"}
{"id": "5815524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5815524", "title": "Norwegian Writers for Children", "text": "Norwegian Writers for Children\n\nThe Norwegian Writers for Children (, NBU) was founded in 1947. The association, composed of authors who write fiction for children and young people, promotes the interests of writers of books for children and young people and encourages literature for children and young people. NBU has almost 300 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "4753777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753777", "title": "Opsimath", "text": "Opsimath\n\nAn opsimath is a person who begins, or continues, to study or learn late in life. The word is derived from the Greek ὀψέ (\"opsé\"), meaning 'late', and μανθάνω (\"manthánō\"), meaning 'learn'.\n\nOpsimathy was once frowned upon, used as a put-down with implications of laziness, and considered less effective by educators than early learning. The emergence of \"opsimath clubs\" has demonstrated that opsimathy has shed much of this negative connotation, and that this approach may, in fact, be desirable.\n\nNotable opsimaths include 19th century army officer and Orientalist Sir Henry Rawlinson, Grandma Moses, mathematician Paul Erdős (who published papers until his death at age 83), Rabbi Akiva (according to the Talmud he began studying at age 40), and Cato the Elder, who learned Greek only at the age of 80.\n"}
{"id": "34578594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34578594", "title": "Postgraduate Research Experience Survey", "text": "Postgraduate Research Experience Survey\n\nThe Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) is a survey amongst graduate students at universities in the United Kingdom. It is developed by the Higher Education Academy. Participating institutions can collect feedback on the student experience and benchmark against their peers. The data is shared in a way so that comparisons (with the national average, for instance) are possible, but league tables cannot be constructed. The aim is to enhance the student experience. \n\nThe equivalent for graduate students on taught courses is the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES).\n"}
{"id": "37590035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37590035", "title": "READ 180", "text": "READ 180\n\nREAD 180 is a reading intervention program in wide use by students in Grades 4–12 who read at least two years below grade level. It was created by Scholastic Corporation. In 2011, Scholastic released its newest version, \"READ 180\" Next Generation, which has been fully aligned to meet the demands of the Common Core State Standards Initiative. Scholastic sold READ 180 to Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in 2015.\n\n\"READ 180\" is based on a blended instructional model that includes whole-group instruction and three small-group rotations, adaptive software, differentiated instruction, and independent reading.\n\nThe program has three different versions: Upper Elementary (Grades 4–5), Middle School (Grades 6-8), and High School (Grades 9–12).\n\nThe Scholastic Reading Inventory (SRI) is a technology-based universal screener and progress monitor. SRI is used to generate a Lexile, or readability level, for each student. The purpose of administering the SRI is to determine if the student is a candidate for intervention. SRI is software that “assesses students’ reading levels, tracks students’ growth over time, and helps guide instruction according to students’ needs.” \n\n\"READ 180\" is a reading intervention program that provides individualized instruction to meet each student’s reading needs. The technology collects data based on individual responses and adjusts instruction to meet each students’ needs at their level, accelerating their path to reading mastery.\n\nTeachers begin and end each class session with whole-group instruction. Next students break into one of three rotations. First, the teacher leads small-group instruction, using the \"READ 180\" worktext called the \"rBook\", teachers monitor reading and differentiate instruction based on students’ needs. Second, students work independently in the \"READ 180\" software. The software leads students through five Learning Zones: the Reading Zone, the Word Zone, the Spelling Zone, the Success Zone, and the Writing Zone. Third, the students read independently in Independent Reading. Students select from the \"READ 180\" paperback or audiobook library and read a fiction or nonfiction book (or eRead).\n\n\"READ 180\" is the result of research that began in 1985 with the work of Dr. Ted Hasselbring and members of the Cognition and Technology Group at Vanderbilt University. With a grant from the United States Department of Education’s Office of Special Education, Dr. Hasselbring developed software that used student performance data to individualize and differentiate the path of computerized reading instruction. This software became the prototype for the READ 180 program.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1998, Dr. Hasselbring and his team put their work to the test in Orange County, Florida. The Orange County Literacy Project used this \"READ 180\" prototype with more than 10,000 struggling students. The dramatic results Orange County public schools experienced were documented in the \"Journal of Research on Educational Effectiveness\". These results led Scholastic to partner with Orange County public schools and Vanderbilt University to license the software, and to launch \"READ 180\". \n\nAfter the initial launch of \"READ 180\", Scholastic released Enterprise Edition in 2006 in collaboration with Dr. Kevin Feldman and Dr. Kate Kinsella. \"READ 180\" Enterprise Edition featured the \"READ 180\" \"rBook\", structured engagement routines for English language learners, and the Scholastic Achievement Manager (SAM).\n\nA number of studies have been conducted regarding the effectiveness of using \"READ 180\" in the classroom. The company's webpage includes a searchable list of research articles. \n\nBelow is a sample of some of the current research available on \"READ 180\". \n\nThe U.S. Department of Education Striving Readers Project shows \"READ 180\" effective in combating adolescent illiteracy.\n\nThe Institute for Educational Science (IES) What Works Clearinghouse recognized \"READ 180\" for potentially positive effects in comprehension and general literacy achievement. \nSlavin, Cheung, and Groff, and Lake (2008) placed \"READ 180\" in a select group of adolescent literacy programs that showed more evidence of effectiveness than 121 other programs reviewed.\n\nHarty, Fitzgerald, and Porter (2008) indicated that \"READ 180\" can be successfully implemented in an afterschool setting. \nLang, Torgesen, Vogel, Chanter, Lefsky, and Petscher (2009) published a study which indicated that ninth-grade students enrolled in \"READ 180\" exceeded the benchmark for expected yearly growth on the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test. \n\nDe La Paz (1997) documented the foundational research conducted by Dr. Ted Hasselbring and his team from Peabody College at Vanderbilt University.\n\n"}
{"id": "9920258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9920258", "title": "Russian School Defense Staff", "text": "Russian School Defense Staff\n\nRussian School Defense Staff or Headquarters for the Protection of Russian Schools (; ) — movement in Latvia for protection of public secondary education in Russian. Leaders: Vladimir Buzayev, Gennady Kotov, Yury Petropavlovsky, Miroslav Mitrofanov, Mihail Tyasin, Viktor Dergunov, Vladislav Rafalsky, for some time also Alexander Kazakov (deported out of Latvia in 2004), one of the most prominent spokesmen — Yakov Pliner.\n\nCancelling the Education law provisions, which originally ordered the language of instruction in public secondary schools (Forms 10-12) to be only Latvian (later - at least 60% Latvian) since 2004. It also supports providing effective learning of Latvian language in the Latvian language and literature lessons and specific preparation of teachers for Russian schools.\n\nThe Staff was founded in April 2003 as a coalition of various organizations, most prominent being ForHRUL, and later expanded, involving nonpartisan people. In 2003–2004, the Staff has organized political demonstrations (according to the Freedom House and political scientist T. Boguševiča, the biggest ones in Latvia since the beginning of the 1990s) to protest to expanding use of Latvian language in Russian schools.\n\nAs a result, the Education law was amended in February 2004, allowing to teach up to 40% in the forms 10-12 in minority languages. The proportion of teaching 60% of subjects in Latvian and 40% in Russian, according to BISS research, was supported by 20% of the teachers, 15% of pupils and 13% of parents in minority schools and most stated that they would rather support bilingual instruction in all subjects; only 15% of teachers thought that no reform was needed, while this opinion was expressed by 36% of parents and 44% of pupils. The parliamentary opposition started two cases before the Constitutional Court of Latvia (abjudicated in May and September, 2005) with most of its demands being refused.\n\n"}
{"id": "41018063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41018063", "title": "School uniforms by country", "text": "School uniforms by country\n\nSchool uniform is a practice which dates to the 16th century in the United Kingdom. It is believed that the Christ's Hospital school in London in 1552 was the first school to use a uniform for its students. The earliest documented proof of institutionalised use of a standard academic dress dates back to 1222 when the Archbishop of Canterbury ordered the wearing of the \"cappa clausa\".\n\nThe practice of wearing school uniform has been adopted by many other countries, and is now common in many parts of the world. Uniforms can be regarded as promoting social equality among students and an esprit de corps, but have also been criticised for promoting a form of uniformity characteristic of militarism.\n\nThe decision as to whether to implement school uniform policy or not is a controversial one and also polarised in societies and countries. In countries such as the United Kingdom, South Africa and a number of Asian nations, school children have to wear approved school uniforms that conform to the uniform policy of their school. In modern Europe, Britain and Ireland stand out as the only countries where school uniform is widely adopted by state schools and generally supported by national and local governments, although there is no legislation governing school uniform in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. There are some independent schools and state schools that do not have school uniforms: their pupils are at liberty to dress in a way considered to be appropriate by the school, themselves and their parents or guardians.\n\nIn Australia, each school or school system can set its own uniform policy. Wearing a uniform is compulsory in most Australian private and all Catholic schools, as well as in most public schools, although it is sometimes less enforced in primary schools that have uniforms. Uniforms usually have a color scheme based on the school colors. Uniform and appearance are generally strictly enforced in private and Catholic schools, although public schools are beginning to become increasingly strict about their uniforms. Most, if not all, public and private schools have the school logo incorporated in the uniform ensemble, typically on the necktie and the blazer breast pocket.\n\nFor boys, the uniforms generally include a button-up or polo shirt with either shorts (especially for summer wear) or long trousers, usually in grey or navy blue or the school colour. Some schools allow boys to wear shorts only in younger years, and they must wear long trousers once they are a senior (17-18). At others, even older boys wear shorts in summer due to the heat. Where short trousers are to be worn, socks in school colors (more commonly white) are often required. Girls' uniforms generally include a checkered or striped dress (usually sleeveless or short-sleeved) worn over a blouse for summer and, in most secondary schools, girls wear a skirt as well as a button-up or polo shirt in winter with a blazer and tie. In a number of schools, girls are also permitted to wear a button-up or polo shirt and dark trousers.\n\nIn public schools, the uniform is usually a polo shirt for juniors and a different one for seniors and trousers or skirt. This set may be complemented by a school necktie and, typically, a v-neck jumper (pullover or sweater) or a blazer. In the summer, boys usually do not wear ties, pullovers, or blazers. Instead, they wear a short-sleeved version of the shirt and short trousers. A neck-tie, blazer, and hat are also common in private and Catholic schools.\n\nIn most high schools a PE uniform is the norm for sports days only. At many high schools, children are required to change into and out of their PE uniform around the PE lesson. The PE uniform usually consists of shorts and a polo shirt, as well as a light weatherproof rain jacket (mainly at private or Catholic schools), usually made of polyester, for winter and wet weather and sometimes a netball skirt for girls. It is common for students in their final year of primary school or secondary school to have their own jersey, jumper or jacket to denote their final-year status.\n\nThere is no legal requirement for school uniforms in Brazil. On a state-by-state or city-by-city basis, governments may issue uniforms to public school pupils but may not require their use. Private schools are free to set their own uniform policy.\n\nBrazilian school uniforms can vary widely by school. There are many schools that opt for a more elegant outfit, while others opt for a simpler one (social shirt, shorts). Some schools use \"intelligent uniforms\" embedded with locator chips that allow computers to automatically record whether pupils have arrived in school or not. If pupils do not turn up for school or classes, an automated message is sent to inform the parents accordingly. The benefit of the automated system is to curb absenteeism and class skipping. In this country, where schools have set a uniform, it is the student's obligation to wear it.\n\nMost schools in Brazil choose the use of uniforms. The average Brazilian school uniform for boys is a T-shirt with the school's logo, sweatpants or bermuda shorts and a sweatshirt or hoodie. The uniform for girls is very similar, but instead leggings or short shorts are worn, although ballerina pants are also highly popular. Younger girls may have the choice to wear a skirts with shorts underneath. Most schools require sneakers.\n\nSchool uniforms are compulsory for school children in Burundi. Burundi, like most African countries, has a compulsory school uniform policy. Burundi's school uniform policy dates back to the colonial days. During those days, chiefs' sons wore a white uniform and all other children wore khaki. The uniform policy is still in force in Burundi to date. However, schools decide on what uniform the pupils wear. It is also argued that the cost of buying the school uniform and poverty, especially in the rural areas, negatively affect school enrollment.\n\nIn Cambodia, students of all ages (pre-school to college) wear school uniforms. The uniforms differ by school and age level. Generally, boys wear a white dress shirt and a pair of shorts. The colour and length of the shorts varies at each school. Male college students wear the same kind of uniform, but instead of shorts, they wear black dress trousers. Girls usually wear white blouses and a skirt. Their skirts vary in colour and length depending upon the school and their ages. Generally, the younger students wear long skirts that almost reach their ankles and older students, particularly in college, wear shorter ones. Skirts are generally blue or black but may be other colours as well, depending on the school. Some schools also have alternative uniforms which students of both genders wear every other day. These often consist of a coloured shirt and slacks. High school girls must wear black or blue long skirts. High school boys wear long black or blue trousers. The white shirt can be short-sleeved or long-sleeved for both genders. High school students are also required to wear name tags on the left hand side of their shirts.\n\nIn Canada, school uniforms are not required in most public schools or separate schools, except in exceptional circumstances such as school performances or international field trips. However, the majority of Catholic high schools in southern Ontario (Grade 9-12) do require uniforms. These uniforms generally have long- or short-sleeved shirts with the school logo or crest near the collar and trousers or kilted skirts. Schools often allow girls the option of choosing to wear the skirt or trousers. Some schools also mandate dress shoes and a particular type and length of socks to go with the uniform. A cardigan sweater, vest, or blazer may be part of the ensemble, particularly in winter. Additionally, as of 2011, the Toronto Catholic District School Board has implemented an \"Appropriate Dress Code\" of navy blue and white in all elementary separate schools which do not already have their own uniforms.\n\nUniforms are used in most private schools, and also in special or alternative programs of public and Catholic schools, such as the Traditional Learning Centres, a program that takes a liberal arts approach, while focusing on high levels of academic excellence. In Quebec, most metropolitan anglophone school boards require a uniform.\n\nIn Chile, most schools have a uniform.\n\nUntil 1930, it was uncommon for students to wear a uniform. Under the government of Carlos Ibáñez del Campo, all students became obliged to wear a school uniform. During the administration of Eduardo Frei Montalva, a unified uniform was introduced for all public and private schools and other education centers. Today, these uniforms have disappeared in private schools, who prefer to use a customised one.\n\nUniforms are a common part of the schools in China. Almost all secondary schools as well as some elementary schools require students to wear uniforms. Uniforms in mainland China usually consist of five sets: 2 formal sets and 3 everyday sets. A formal set is worn on Mondays or special occasions (school anniversaries, school ceremonies, etc.) They consist of a white collared shirt with a sweater on top and a skirt for girls or a suit for boys. There is one formal set for summer and one set for winter. Everyday uniforms for boys in the winter usually consist of a zippered sweater and trousers and a collared shirt (usually white). Thinner materials are worn in the spring and fall and short or long trousers may be worn in the summer. The everyday uniforms for girls are very similar to the boys' uniform. It is relatively common for there to be some kind of sponsored advertisement on some non-formal school uniform shirts, though this trend has fluctuated in recent years.\n\nIn Colombia, all students are required to wear uniforms in public and private schools. Uniforms in Colombia consist of two sets, one for everyday use and a sports one for physical education. Everyday uniforms for girls generally include a knee-length skirt, a white T-shirt with a vest, and white calf-length socks. For boys, the uniform generally includes dark-coloured long trousers and a short- or long-sleeved shirt. The shoes for both girls and boys are black lace-up shoes (sometimes the shoes may be dark blue or wine-coloured, depending on the uniform colours) and the shirts usually have the school's symbol at the left side. The sports uniform includes sweat pants, a collared T-shirt, and white sports shoes. The designs and the colours of the uniforms depend on the school's colours and the principal's preference.\n\nIn El Salvador, all students from public schools and private schools are required to wear uniforms. Uniforms vary depending on the school.\n\nSince 1968, uniforms have not been enforced in French schools, with a few exceptions (such as Maison d'éducation de la Légion d'honneur, les Écoles TUNON, and Vatel). Xavier Darcos, a former teacher and Minister of Education from 2007 to 2009, is an advocate of the reintroduction of uniforms: \"This is not outrageous. This removes the visible differences in social status or wealth. This is an additional factor of integration\".\n\nSince March 2012, the students of the Boarding School of Excellence Sourdun wear a uniform with the insignia of their establishment.\n\nLes lycées de la défense, formerly known as military schools, require their students to wear uniforms. At some universities, the academic dress is becoming popular.\n\nIn the French Antilles (Martinique and Guadeloupe), as well as French Guiana, a uniform has been required since September 2008.\n\nThere is no tradition of wearing school uniforms in Germany, and today, almost all students of state schools, private schools or universities do not wear school uniforms. However, certain garments have been common to students in former times:\n\nFrom the 16th century, students (especially of secondary or grammar schools and similar institutions) were often subject to regulations that prescribed, for example, modest and not too stylish attire. In many cases these regulations were part of wider laws concerning the clothing of all citizens of certain social classes.\n\nA blue coat became a widespread obligatory status symbol of students of secondary schools; it fell out of use during the latter half of the 18th century. In more recent times, school uniforms in any real sense did not exist outside of convent schools and private boarding schools. At times, certain fashions became so widespread that they approached uniform status; this is true in particular for so-called student hats (\"Schülermützen\") that became widespread from the 1880s on and remained somewhat popular until they were banned by the Nazis. Their wearing was advocated by teachers and the students themselves and occasionally made mandatory, but never on a national or statewide level. Another instance are the sailor suits that became fashionable around the turn of the 19th century. These, too, were not usually a prescribed uniform.\n\nThe Nazis banned student hats – the last remaining, if voluntary, form of unified student clothing – because they considered them an attribute of class society. They did, however, institute mandatory membership in the uniformed Hitler Youth (\"HJ\") from 1936 until their fall. HJ uniforms were worn in the HJ training academies and in the Napolas; students of other schools sometimes wore them to school at their own discretion.\n\nIn recent times, the introduction of school uniforms has been discussed, but usually the expression \"uniform\" (the word is the same in German) is avoided in favour of terms like \"school clothing\" (\"Schulkleidung\"). School clothing has been introduced in a small number of schools, for example in Hamburg-Sinstorf in 2000, and in Friesenheim and Haag (Oberbayern) in 2005. In these cases the clothes are collections of shirts, sweaters, and the like, catering to contemporary fashion senses. Uniforms in a more traditional sense are almost never proposed in earnest.\n\nThe debate on mandatory school uniforms intensified in Germany when two Muslim girls dressed in burkas arrived at a school in Bonn in 2006. The girls' actions were interpreted as political action and were subsequently suspended from school. Then-Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries in an interview with the Welt am Sonntag stated that the simple solution to the issue under consideration is mandatory introduction of school uniforms for boys and girls across Germany. She further argued that school uniforms would help to prevent conflicts arising from religious or political differences. Her stance was supported by then-Minister Of Education Annette Schavan. The proposal was met with opposition from the teacher union and opposition political parties. The teacher union argued that school uniforms are not the solution for integration problems nor the issue of fashion obsession. The leader of the teacher union Heinz-Peter Meidinger also added that the school uniforms have been a controversial issue in Germany over the years.\n\nA senior member of the Green Party, Krista Sager, also said that the introduction of school uniforms would be unacceptable state interference in religious matters. She then proposed that individual schools have to find their own solutions and rejected solutions imposed by government. She further noted that school uniforms are no longer up to date and their imposition would be rejected by the current generation of students. The Conference of Education Ministers, a body which decides on school policies, also kicked back against school uniforms. They cited historical reasons dating back to WWII with memories of Hitler Youth's uniform still fresh in people's minds. They also concluded that the imposition of school uniforms would be excessive government encroachment on personal liberty of pupils and parents. \nHowever, a number of schools sell branded clothing that can be worn as a sign of school pride.\n\nThe Bildungsstreik movement fights against school uniforms due to their belief that it represents some kind of militarism.\n\nAll children have to wear school uniforms in Ghana. Pupils in public schools have the same type of school uniform with the school's emblem is imprinted on the left chest. This helps to distinguish pupils of one school from the other. Private schools determine which uniforms their pupils wear.\n\nGhana like most African countries is characterised by low incomes and high levels of poverty. Hence the cost of school uniforms acts as one of the barriers to educational access. In an effort to achieve universal primary education the government, as part of its educational policy, initiated free school uniform distribution throughout the country in 2010. According to government data, a total of 170,221 pupils were supplied with free school uniforms in 2013 and it planned to supply 10,000 uniforms in 2014. There are public programs to offer poor families financial help to buy uniforms. Over 8,000 school uniforms have been distributed by the government to needy students in the communities from the Tarkwa Nsuaem municipality, one of the mining districts in Ghana, which is severely affected by poverty. This is part of a program instituted in 2010 to supply disadvantaged children with school uniforms.\n\nThe vast majority of schools in the former British colony adopted uniforms similar to that of British schools, while Catholic schools in Hong Kong usually follow the tradition of Catholic school uniforms. A number of older Christian girls' schools established before WWII, however, retain the heritage of using the Chinese cheongsam as their uniform, such as St. Stephen's Girls' College, True Light Middle School and Heep Yunn School. Sailor suits are also used as uniforms in some kindergartens for boys and girls, and secondary schools but for girls only, for example the Bishop Hall Jubilee School and New Method College.\n\nUniforms are compulsory in India in both public and private schools. The boys' uniforms are often made of a light-coloured shirt, long trousers usually blue, white or black, and those of the girls are often a shirt and a skirt. At the state level, the secondary schools are required to use a Shalwar Kameez. This is not compulsory but they do have certain specific dress code.\n\nMany schools require students to wear shoes, ties and ID cards, and comb their hair down and keep it clean and short. Long hair is tied in braids. Uniform is one of the most important components of school life and is taken very seriously in India.\n\nSome institutions also require the use of a tie, especially the schools run by Christian missionaries, and the Indian government does not prohibit the children to have religious symbols, so the Muslim girls can wear the veil (hijab) (burka) and Sikh boys a turban in addition to the uniform. However, most of the schools, whether public or private, prohibit students to have a ponytail or dyed hair.\n\nIn Indonesia, school uniforms are mandatory for every student. They can be simply described as below for each stage of education:\n\nPublic schools in Indonesia tolerate religious freedoms. For example, Muslim girls may opt to wear long-sleeve shirts, longer skirts, and jilbab to cover their heads. Most schools in Indonesia also have a batik uniform, usually worn on Thursday or Friday. This kind of uniform consists of a batik short-sleeve or long-sleeve shirt, with long or short trousers for SMA and below-knee or long skirts for females. The motifs and colours of batik depend on the school. Some schools tend to issue neckties and/or vests for their students. These neckties and vests may vary from school to school in colour and sewing pattern, even among public schools.\n\nNowadays, with the increase of private schools in Indonesia, most private schools have their own signature school uniform. Most consist of shirts with shorts or trousers for males, and skirts for females, only with differences on the colour.\n\nEvery school has its own standard grooming. Males are not allowed to have long hair. Accessories are also normally prohibited for males, except for watches. Females are usually allowed to use simple accessories such as watches, earrings, and sometimes bracelets. All students are prohibited from colouring their hair or having tattoos. Wearing nail polish is usually not allowed.\n\nMost schools pay attention to the shoes that can be worn. Black or white sneakers with white laces are the most common shoes. Few higher-level students, such as in \"SMA\" or \"SMK\", are normally required to wear black leather shoes.\n\nThe school badge is usually put on the right sleeve of a shirt, consist of school's name and location, and some have their own school's logo. Others prefer to wear the school's logo as a lapel or breast plastic or metal pin. The emblem of OSIS (\"Organisasi Siswa Intra Sekolah\"), or School's Intern Student Organization, is put on the shirt's left pocket. Students' names are usually on the right side of the shirt and embedded by sewing, ironing or as a detachable badge. Some schools (usually \"SMP\" and \"SMA\") distinguish the grade of their students by stripes on the official neckties issued or an emblem below the school emblem (it can be stripes, chevrons or numbers). Nowadays some schools require the students to wear an Indonesian flag school badge sewn on top of their left pocket. \n\nThe scouts (pramuka) uniform is used in many schools in Indonesia at least once a week. It consists of light-brown short-sleeve or long-sleeve shirts, with dark-brown shorts or trousers, and below-knee skirts or longer for females. The common day to wear the scout uniform usually falls on Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday. Furthermore, on certain occasions (usually on ceremonies or competitions), the uniform should be worn as full dress, with red and white scarf/necktie, dark brown beret, rope, dagger and scout's stick.\n\nThe scout uniform has two breast pockets. Above right pocket is the student's name. The Gerakan Pramuka Indonesia (Indonesian Scout Movement) logo is sewn on the left pocket (for male students). On the right sleeve there are scouting organization's location, number and logo, while on the left sleeve usually are the student's scouting team logo and chevrons denoting his/her grade. Male students wear International Scout Organization logo above their name and female students on their lapel.\n\nAccording to former Education Minister Limor Livnat, about 1,400 Israeli public schools require pupils to wear uniforms.\n\nSchool uniforms used to be the norm in the state's early days, but have since fallen out of favour. However, in recent years, the number of schools using school uniforms has been increasing once more. Many teachers, parents and students are in favour of returning the school uniform to common use to prevent the deepening of the gap between affluent children and those less well-off. Nowadays school uniforms are mainly associated with \"national religious\" schools within the Israeli system of education. Schools for Arab citizens of Israel also frequently require uniforms: for girls, it is often a pinafore to be worn over trousers and shirt.\n\nIn the Haredi or ultra-Orthodox school system, uniforms are compulsory in essentially all girls' schools. In the vast majority of these, the style adopted by the Beit Ya'akov network is used: a sky-blue, button-down, open-collar, loose-fitting blouse with an Oxford-blue, pleated skirt which comes to just below the knee and dark stockings. In cold weather, a Yale-blue sweater may be added. A small fraction of schools alter the color scheme to pink and burgundy, while otherwise retaining the same overall appearance. In boys' schools there is usually not an identifiable school uniform, distinct from what is considered acceptable for ordinary street wear. However, the standards of acceptable street wear for boys and men in Haredi communities are so precise and exacting that in almost all cases all of the boys in a particular school will be dressed identically.\n\nIn non-Haredi schools today, school uniforms in Israel consist only of a shirt with the school logo. In the summer, the uniform shirt is a simple T-shirt, while in the winter, the shirts worn are warm or hooded sweaters. Although the shirts are uniform, they usually come in various colours, and allow students to customise and express themselves even while wearing a uniform. The shirts sell for a very small amount of money, so that even the less well-off can acquire them.\n\nIn Italy, school uniforms are uncommon, partially because child uniforms are associated with the era of Benito Mussolini before World War II when children were placed according to their age into Italian Fascist youth movements and had to wear uniforms inside and outside school.\n\nHowever, until the early 1960s many high schools required girls to wear black \"grembiule\" (resembling a doctor smock) on top of their clothes: no uniform was required for boys. Perhaps this was because at one time high schools were the only public schools to admit both sexes (as opposed to junior schools and elementary), and girls may be required to \"cover up\" not to distract their male counterparts. Indeed, this policy was highly disputed during the sexual revolution of the 1960s and later abolished.\n\nNowadays, many pre-schools advise parents to dress their children with a \"grembiulino\", i.e., a small \"grembiule\", usually shorter and more colourful, that can be purchased cheaply.\n\nSome elementary schools advise some kind of \"grembiule\" for the younger pupils. Sometimes girls are required to wear a pink or white \"grembiulino\", while boys may be required to wear a short cotton jacket, usually blue or black. In other cases both boys and girls may be required to wear a more neutral blue \"grembiule\".\n\nSome parents send their children to school in a \"grembiule\" even if the school does not require it.\n\nPoet and children's writer Gianni Rodari has described adult life as \"a school without \"grembiule\" and school desk\".\n\nIn 2004 the Italian chapter of WWF warned that synthetic \"grembiuli\" were harmful to pupils.\n\nIn July 2008 Education Minister Mariastella Gelmini proposed the re-introduction of the compulsory smock in public schools, provoking a debate in the Italian press.\n\nJapan introduced school uniforms in the late 19th century. Today, school uniforms are almost universal in the public and private school systems. They are also used in some women's colleges. The Japanese word for uniform is .\n\nIn the majority of elementary schools, students are not required to wear a uniform to school. Where they are required, many boys wear white shirts, short trousers, and caps. Young boys often dress more formally in their class pictures than they do other days of the school year. Girls' uniforms might include a grey pleated skirt and white blouse. Occasionally the sailor outfit is used for girls. The uniform codes may vary by season to work with the environment and occasion. It is common for boys and girls to wear brightly coloured caps to prevent traffic accidents. It is normal for uniforms to be worn outside of school areas. However, this is going out of fashion and many students are wearing casual dress.\n\nThe Japanese junior- and senior-high-school uniform traditionally consists of a military style for boys and a sailor outfit for girls. These uniforms are based on Meiji era formal military dress, themselves modeled on European-style naval uniforms. The sailor outfit replace the undivided hakama (andon bakama 行灯袴) designed by Utako Shimoda between 1920 and 1930. While this style is still in use, many schools have moved to more Western-pattern parochial school uniform styles. They consist of a white shirt, tie, blazer or sweater vest with school crest, and tailored trousers (often not of the same colour as the blazer or sweater vest) for boys and a white blouse, tie, blazer with school crest, and tartan skirt for girls.\n\nMuch like the male uniform, the gakuran, the sailor outfit bears a similarity to military-styled naval uniforms. The uniform generally consists of a blouse attached with a sailor-style collar and a pleated skirt. There are seasonal variations for summer and winter: sleeve length and fabric are adjusted accordingly. A ribbon is tied in the front and laced through a loop attached to the blouse. Several variations on the ribbon include neckties, bolo ties, neckerchiefs, and bows. Common colours are navy blue, white, grey, light green and black.\nShoes, socks, and other accessories are sometimes included as part of the uniform. The socks are typically navy or white. The shoes are typically brown or black penny loafers. Although not part of the prescribed uniform, alternate forms of legwear (such as loose socks, knee-length stockings, or similar) are commonly matched by more fashionable girls with their sailor outfits.\n\nRegardless of what type of uniform any particular school assigns its students, all schools have a summer version (usually consisting of a white dress shirt and dark slacks for boys and a reduced-weight traditional uniform or blouse and tartan skirt with tie for girls) and a sports-activity uniform (a polyester track suit for year-round use and a T-shirt and shorts for summer activities). Depending on the discipline level of their school, students may wear seasonal and activity uniforms in the same classroom during the day. Students may attempt to subvert the system of uniforms by wearing them incorrectly or by adding prohibited elements such as large loose socks or badges.\n\nMiniskirts have been very popular in Japan, where they became part of school uniforms, and they came to be worn within the Kogal culture.\n\nIn Lebanon, all private schools require uniforms. Most of the uniforms are made of a skirt, a shirt, and a pull-over for girls, and for boys it's made of trousers, a shirt, and a pull-over.\nSome public schools there do not require school uniforms.\n\nIn Lesotho school uniforms are still compulsory. Many poor families can not afford them, which is one of the reasons for the high dropout rate in primary schools.\n\nIn Malaysia, school uniforms (Malay: \"Pakaian Seragam Sekolah\") are compulsory for all students who attend public schools. Western-style school uniforms were introduced to present-day Malaysia in the late 19th century during the British colonial era. The present design was standardised beginning in January 1970. Today, school uniforms are almost universal in the public and private school systems.\n\nThe uniforms at Malaysian public schools are as follows:\nStudents are required to wear white socks and white shoes with the above uniform. For modesty reasons, most schools require female students who wear the baju kurung to wear a plain-coloured camisole underneath.\n\nIn addition to these, schools usually have badges which must be sewn or ironed on to the uniform — generally at the left chest. Some schools require students to sew their name tags in addition to the badge. For upper forms, students generally have to wear a school-specific tie, except those who are wearing the baju kurung.\n\nIn Malaysia, Muslim girls tend to wear the baju kurung. Most of them start wearing a white \"tudung\" (Malaysian version of the Muslim headscarf or hijab) upon entering secondary school, for religious reasons. Non-Muslim girls tend to wear the pinafore. Some non-Muslim girls wear the baju kurung.\n\nMuslim boys may wear baju melayu at school on Fridays, often with a songkok hat, to be dressed for going to the mosque for prayers at lunchtime.\n\nGirls who choose to wear the pinafore, especially those attending co-ed schools, usually wear shorts under their pinafore to allow for carefree movement as the skirt only covers up to the knee. Those who wear the baju kurung tend not to wear shorts under their long skirt as their skirt covers their legs.\n\nNeckties are often worn by prefects, class monitors, librarians, and other students of rank. Some schools have neckties as standard issue; even then, the neckties are generally reserved for school events and public appearances, and are not part of the everyday school uniform. The tropical climate makes them uncomfortable.\n\nThe hairstyle of students is given attention by schools and the Ministry of Education. Schools do not allow students to colour their hair. For boys, there is usually a maximum length allowed, for example, the hair must be a few centimetres above the collar, and no sideburns are allowed. Violation of boys' hair regulations is often punished with a caning; some offer the alternative of an enforced haircut at the school. The use of hair gel is prohibited in some of the stricter schools, to prevent excessive hairdressing. Girls' long hair must be properly tied up, often into a ponytail. Some schools dictate the colour and type of hair accessories that can be used. Some prohibit even girls from having long hair. Wearing make up in school is prohibited.\n\nSchools usually enforce their uniform code thoroughly, with regular checks by teachers and prefects. Students who fail to comply may be warned, given demerit points, publicly punished, sent home from school, or caned.\n\nSchool uniforms in Mauritius are generally compulsory. Mauritius being a former British colony, has been using the system from back then. The students have to wear uniforms from primary school until higher secondary level. However, there are a few private schools that are based on the French system and do not require the student to wear school uniform.\n\nIn Mexico, students from all public (and most private) schools are required to wear uniform (except on special days and/or occasions like holidays in which the school allows students to wear normal clothing rather than the uniform). The uniforms have the school's logo and colors. Most Mexican schools have 2 types of uniforms; one for P.E. and another for regular school days. Uniforms usually consist of the following (but may vary by school):\n\nNote: The uniform is unisex most of the time.\n\nTraditionally, many New Zealand intermediate and high schools, and state-integrated and private primary schools, have followed the British system of school uniforms, although it is common in state schools for the boy's uniform to have a jersey and grey short trousers rather than a blazer with tie and long trousers. This usually consists of a variety of the following apparel: for boys, a business-style shirt with an official school tie, and long or short trousers; and for girls, a blouse, and a plain and/or plaid (usually tartan) skirt, and in some schools, especially in the South Island, kilts. Both sexes wear an 'official' school jersey. Blazers and jackets are of varied colours according to the school - dark or light blue, grey, crimson, scarlet, green or black. Some follow the British practice of having contrasting colours edging the lapels and jacket fronts. Caps have generally been discarded since the 1970s but in many primary schools there is a compulsory broad-brimmed floppy hat, in the school colours, to help prevent sunburn. Where short trousers are worn, boys are usually required to wear long dark socks, which may require garters to hold them up. Since 1990 an increasing number of school include sandals as the standard summer footwear.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s there was a tendency for the traditional uniform to be replaced by cheaper and more 'modern' options: polo shirts, polar fleece tops, or a complete doing away with uniforms in favour of mufti. Intermediate schools usually provide the option of skirts or culottes for girls and sometimes shorts while boys will wear shorts. Bike shorts or tights are sometimes worn under girls' skirts and dresses. Some high schools have introduced trousers as an option for girls instead of skirts, however demand is low with several Christchurch high schools estimating only 1% of girls at their respective schools wear trousers.\n\nSchool uniforms are used in Nigeria. There are also programs to financially help the most disadvantaged families: for instance, the Chairman of Ejigbo Local Council Development Area, LCDA, Kehinde Bamigbetan has distributed 7,200 school uniforms to pupils in the nine primary schools within the council area, with the aim of improving the standard of education in Lagos state.\n\nThe school uniforms are compulsory in most schools in Pakistan. Both the public and the private schools have mandated uniforms. Boys uniforms are often made of a light-coloured shirt, long trousers usually brown or blue. The girls often wear Shalwar Qameez suit or in some schools shirt and skirt.\n\nSchool uniforms (Filipino: \"uniporme\" or \"kasuotang pampaaralan\", \"school attire\"), much like Mexico, are commonplace in public schools and required in private schools. In some private schools, there are specified days when students can wear civilian clothing, typically in special occasions like a holiday or last day of school. There is usually no uniform in universities and progressive schools except for uniforms used in P.E classes, and in specific schools such as the University of Santo Tomas.\n\nPublic school uniforms for primary levels are typically white, short-sleeved, buttoned-up shirts, with long skirts for girls and light brown knee-length trousers for boys. Uniforms for public high schools and private schools vary widely in pattern and colour, but most often are in the official school colours. Muslim girls in some higher institutions are often required to wear a white hijab versus other colours. Some school uniforms in the Philippines can bare resemblance to Japanese school uniforms \n\nThe material for these usually loose uniforms is often light and suited to the country's tropical climate (e.g. cotton). \n\n\nIn 2008, the Department of Education ordered that students are no longer required to wear uniforms. This was to allow poorer families to save money for basic needs.\n\nSchool uniforms are not compulsory in Poland and absent from the vast majority of Polish schools. The idea of school uniforms in Poland did not exist before the early 20th century. In the People's Republic of Poland, uniform ceased to be compulsory in most schools during the 1980s due to economic issues. Since then, there has been made only one effort to reintroduce uniform into Polish schools - by the former minister of education Roman Giertych, in 2006. It was then decided that school uniform would not be enforced by the state onto the whole country, but would be a matter decided upon by the principal of each school respectively. Initially this was meant to permit only a dress code, but this was later modified in 2007 to address school uniform. From 2007, all primary schools and middle schools were to enforce compulsory uniform, whilst high schools and other forms of further education were given the choice to decide on their own. The appearance of school uniform was decided upon locally, which meant that \"uniform\" in most schools consisted of a jacket or shirt only - selected by the school management purely to avoid breaking regulations (the rest of clothing was still up to the students to decide). By mid-2008, compulsory school uniforms were repealed and it remains so to this day.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, almost all primary and secondary schools require the wearing of a compulsory uniform. These can vary from school to school but for the most part include a trousers for males and a skirt or pinafore for female students a shirt a jumper and a necktie. In recent years many schools offer the option of trousers also for female students. Some schools require blazers rather than jumpers. Some primary schools now let their pupils wear a school tracksuit rather than a formal uniform.\n\nIn recent years there has been criticism, including by the Department of Education of the requirement a school uniform jumper must have the school crest or name imprinted onto it and of the practice, where a schools uniform can only be bought from a certain supplier, which can markedly increase the price of a uniform. As well as rules regarding the wearing of a uniform many schools have regulations regarding hair, footwear, the growth of facial hair for males, the wearing of makeup and the length of school skirts. Since the late 90s students are no longer required to wear uniform during state examinations.\n\nDuring the Soviet period, a standardised \"universal\" school uniform was worn by all schools. Originally of a military style with peaked cap and high collared tunic, by the 1980s boys wore a functional dark blue pattern with shoulder patches identifying the school. For formal occasions such as the first day of term, girls wore white lace collars and aprons dating back to the reign of Catherine the Great. During the initial post Soviet period from 1994 to 2013, the mandatory uniform policy was abandoned and pupils generally wore casual clothing such as jeans, T-shirts and sweaters. However, uniforms were reintroduced under a new education law in September 2013. Among the supporters of the new uniform law of 2013, arguments included tackling social inequality, but also putting an end to the controversial problem of whether school students are allowed to wear traditional religious clothing to school. \n\nEach school can now choose its own uniform.. Also, there are many instances in which schools do not enforce the rules on school uniform\n\nAs in many other former British colonies, all South African private and public schools have a uniform, and it is compulsory in all public schools and in the vast majority of private schools for children above pre-school level. Uniform types vary less between public and private schools than they do across regions, where schools in more rural areas tend to forgo the daily wearing of ties and/or blazers for boys and girls regardless of their public or private nature. However, many of these same schools will have a \"number ones\" uniform for special occasions which include such items. In cities such as Cape Town, on the other hand, it is more common to see formal apparel required in public and private schools on a daily basis.\n\nMany schools across South Africa also provide the choice between a summer and winter uniform, with khaki uniforms and brown shoes being very common in the summer. South African law has not required gender neutrality in school dress codes and a distinction between girls' and boys' uniforms remains. Boys of all ages are normally required to wear grey or khaki long or short trousers with socks, and the socks are usually long when worn with shorts, as in the illustration (right). Until recently, the straw boater was a common accessory in affluent public and private high schools, although these have now become optional in some cases.\n\nNearly all schools, public or fee paying, have sports' kits (uniforms) that require bare feet for health reasons, regardless of the season.\n\nAlmost all South Korean secondary students wear a uniform called \"gyobok\" (Korean: 교복, 校服). The majority of elementary schools, except some private ones, do not have uniforms; however, the uniform is strictly monitored from the start of middle school and up. Based on Western-style ones, the South Korean uniform usually consists of a shirt, blazer and tie, with skirts for girls and trousers for boys.\n\nMore recently, the uniform is often worn by celebrities who target the younger, teen audience to sell entertainment products. The school uniform and school setting is frequently used as a venue for romance. As a result, the uniform has become something akin to an expression of fashion among students.\n\nName tags that are worn usually have different colors per grade. Oftentimes the writing is in black or white, whereas the background is colored.\n\nIn Spain the use of school uniforms is not compulsory in the public school at any stage. Their use depends on school councils involving parents. However, it is customary to wear uniforms in private schools, where typically girls wear uniform shirt and jersey skirt and boys wear white shirt and tie and sometimes jacket.\n\nIt is mandatory for Sri Lankan school students to wear a uniform regardless of them attending a government, semi-government or private school. In most government and semi-government schools, boys will wear a short-sleeved white shirt and a navy blue short when they are in the junior grades. This will later transition to white shorts and then to white trousers towards the latter part of the school life. A tie is not always worn, but may be worn for special school events along with a long-sleeved shirt. Proper black dress shoes and socks are also a part of this uniform. Certain schools also require the uniform to have the school's insignia stitched to a corner of the pocket of the shirt.\n\nGirls who attend government and semi-government schools will wear a white one-piece dress. This may or may not have sleeves. Certain schools make wearing a tie mandatory for girls and some may have a plastic badge or the school's insignia stitched to the dress. Proper dress shoes and socks are mandatory in most schools.\n\nOn special occasions, students who bear a post in a sports team, club or association, would wear a blazer which would normally be white and having accents based on the school colors.\n\nIn privately run schools, the suit is very similar but the colors might differ. They range from khaki and dark green to bright blue.\n\nAs Taiwan experienced a long period of Japanese colonial rule, it is influenced by Japanese culture and the uniform style can be said to be close. However the school uniforms in the two regions are not identical.\n\nThere are a total of 471 Taiwanese high schools. All schools have two sets of uniforms, a summer uniform and an uniform for winter. According to the provisions, sportswear is worn.\n\nSummer\n\nPrimary school：White short pants and shirts are most common for the boys, while girls will wear a pleated skirt\n\nSecondary school：Males wear short-sleeved shirts with shorts. Females wear shirts with pleated skirts or skirt pants. Some schools have sailor uniforms.\n\nHigh school：Short sleeved shirts with long pants for males, pleated skirts or shorts for females in public schools; private schools will always have skirts\n\nWinter\n\nLong pants and long sleeved shirts are worn in most schools.\n\nIn the past, many schools had khaki uniforms but this has been phased out with the exception of a few schools.\n\nUniforms are compulsory for all students with very few variations from the standard model throughout the public and private school systems, including colleges and universities.\n\nThe dress code in primary and secondary grades for boys comprises dark blue, khaki, or black shorts with a white open-collar short-sleeved shirt, white ankle socks or long dark socks, and brown or black trainers. Female students, wear a knee-length dark blue or black skirt, and a pale white blouse with a loosely hanging bow tie. The bow tie is dropped in favour of an open-necked pale blue shirt from Matthayom 4.\n\nThe girls' uniform is complemented by white ankle socks and black school shoes. The student's name, number, and name of the school are often embroidered on the blouse or shirt. Some independent or international schools have uniforms more closely resembling British school uniform standards, and boys in senior high school grades may be allowed to wear long trousers. The standard dress for children in kindergarten is a red skirt and white blouse for girls, and red short trousers and a white shirt for boys. In all Thai schools, one day per week, usually Wednesday, is dedicated to scouting, when beige scout uniforms for boys and dark green guide uniforms are the rule, both wearing yellow neckerchiefs.\n\nThe hairstyle of students is also given attention by schools and the Ministry of Education. Males are not allowed to have long hair. Some prohibit even girls from having long hair. The use of accessories is prohibited for males, while females are sometimes allowed to use simple accessories. Some schools dictate the colour and type of hair accessories that females can use. All students are prohibited from colouring their hair or having tattoos on any part of the body.\n\nThailand however has a few international schools which do not require uniforms.\n\nIn Tonga all schools require a uniform. Uniforms are usually in the colours of their respective churches and Red for Government Schools. Catholic schools are usually light blue, Wesleyan (Royal Blue), Anglican (Navy Blue) and LDS Schools (Green). A Ta'ovala bordered with school colours and a tupenu are usually worn by boys with a white button-up shirt. Primary school students usually wear shorts and a white button up shirt. Nearly all Tongan secondary schools require girls to wear a pinafore dress with a white shirt except for Catholic schools which allow a striped blouse and skirt. Students are usually required to wear Roman sandals in English-medium schools and thongs in most other schools.\n\nSchool uniforms were used in all public and private institutions. There were several exceptions and most kindergartens did not require school uniforms. The uniforms varied in their appearance; primary schools used one-piece blue uniforms, while in secondary and high schools boys wore dark grey trousers with white shirts, jackets and a tie. Girls had skirts and shirts coloured like the boys' uniform, plus a tie. Most private institutions have their own uniforms. School uniforms for primary schools were black until the 1990s. None of the universities or higher-education institutes have uniforms.\n\nSchool uniforms abolished in 2012 and schools gave an poll to families to select uniform or casual cloths. Dress code says that students' shoulder should be covered, girls cannot wear leggings or miniskirts. This caused a controversy in Western cities since some students were wearing mini's, shorts and leggings. New law says that students can wear hijabs at school but it's prohibited to wear makeup, tattoos, piercings, dye ın hair etc.\n\nSchool uniforms have a long history in Turkey. They were first introduced because normal clothing would give hints about the child's family's economic situation. In order to prevent groupings amongst children from different social classes, uniforms were accepted.\n\nHowever, school uniforms were officially abolished on 27 November 2012, when the Turkish Ministry of Education suddenly abolished the nationwide uniform requirement in schools (international/foreign schools are excluded) and lifted the headscarf ban for religious imam-hatip schools, prompting fierce criticism from opposition parties, unions and educators. Opponents claim that economic differences cause pedagogical traumas for children and that permitting headscarves harms secular education. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan defended the move, saying education in uniform has drawn complaints for many years. But students attending minority schools (Greeks, Jews and Armenians), which are also part of the Turkish Ministry of Education, have been excluded from this change, and are still required to wear school uniforms.\n\nUniforms are compulsory in many schools across the United Arab Emirates.\n\nIn June 2013, the Abu Dhabi Education Council standardised the uniforms for pupils in public school across Abu Dhabi. Earlier, each school had its own uniform. \nUniforms include options for varying weather conditions. \nBoys in Kindergarten and Cycle 1 (Grades 1 to 5) can wear either a long-sleeved shirt and trousers or a short-sleeved shirt and shorts. Tie, winter blazer, and cardigan are optional.\nBoys in Cycle 2 and Cycle 3 (Grades 6 to 12) wear a kandoora (traditional white robe) and ghetra (head scarf). Pullover sweater or blazer are optional\nGirls in Kindergarten or Cycle 1 (Grades 1 to 5) wear a long sleeved shirt with either a school dress or skirt. Cardigan, blazer, and scarf are optional.\nGirls in Cycle 2 or 3 (Grades 6 to 12) wear a long sleeved shirt with a choice of a skirt or two different styles of dress plus a scarf. Cardigan or blazer are optional. These are only for the schools with the Arabic curriculum, not the other schools.\n\nPrivate schools in the UAE require a school uniform. It can range from a T-shirt or a simple white/black polo bearing the school logo to a more complete uniform with a button up shirt worn with a skirt, shorts or trousers. In the British schools, there is a blouse and either a skirt or trousers for the girls or a button up shirt with trousers. Shirts bear the school logo. Certain schools have certain codes on the use of makeup (some don't condone it at all) and the sporting of bracelets/jewellery.\n\nWhile school uniform is common in the United Kingdom, there is no legislation enforcing it in any of the three separate legal jurisdictions of England & Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland, and enforcement of school uniform policy and dress codes is generally for individual schools to determine. However, schools do have to take into account Equality legislation in dress policies to prevent discrimination on grounds such as age, sex, race, disability, religion or belief and sexual orientation. School uniforms are required to be similar in cost for both boys and girls, to be reasonably low cost, and to tolerate religious freedoms, e.g. allowing male Sikhs to wear turbans and female Muslims to wear headscarfs. In order to ensure that policies are fair and non-discriminatory schools are expected to consult widely with staff, pupils, parents and governors when introducing or amending dress policies.\n\nIn 2011, more than 90% of English secondary schools had a compulsory uniform. School uniforms were first introduced on a large scale during the reign of King Henry VIII. The uniforms of the time were referred as \"bluecoats\", as they consisted of long trench-coat-style jackets dyed blue. Blue was the cheapest available dye and showed humility amongst all children. The first school to introduce this uniform was Christ's Hospital in London (now in Sussex).\n\nThe Elementary Education Act 1870 introduced free primary education for all children. The popularity of uniforms increased, and eventually most schools had a uniform. During this period most uniforms reflected the trends of the age, with boys wearing short trousers and blazers until roughly the age of puberty and then long trousers from about 14 or 15. Girls mainly wore blouses, tunic dress and pinafores. worn together with a blouse.\n\nThese uniforms continued until the 1950s when after the Butler reforms secondary education was made free and the school leaving age was raised to 15. These reforms encouraged schools to implement uniform codes which were similar to other schools. Distinct \"summer\" and \"winter\" uniforms were sometimes required, particularly for girls, for whom dresses were mandated for summer and gymslips for winter.\n\nIn the 21st century, the typical primary school uniform is fairly casual while secondary school uniform is often formal. Uniform in primary school is generally a polo shirt or T-shirt, a jumper with the school logo, and trousers or shorts or a skirt. The typical secondary school uniform is a blazer, white shirt or blouse, a tie, trousers or skirt, and black shoes. Some primary schools have more formal uniform, with tie and blazer, and for secondary schools to require only a jumper. Uniforms sometimes match the school colours, but are most commonly found in blue, black and grey.\n\nScottish law is not specific on the question of school uniform. Generally, the school must provide information on its policy on clothing and uniform and the Education Authority must provide written information on its general policy on wearing school uniform. Some Education Authorities do not insist on students wearing a uniform as a precondition to attending and taking part in curricular activities.\n\nChildren cannot be disciplined for not wearing a uniform if their parents do not want their child to wear it. However, a child that simply refuses to wear the school uniform can be disciplined by the school if it thinks that academic or disciplinary problems might be caused by the refusal. Many schools do have a policy covering the wearing of school clothing. The policy may state that certain items must be worn and that other items cannot be worn, for example, jeans. Schools must take religious and cultural requirements into account when drawing up a school uniform policy.\n\nAlthough the way that the uniforms are worn is usually not an issue, some state schools may have regulation on the subject (e.g. height of ties, whether the shirt is tucked in or not), the selection of clothes worn, whether they follow the policy, can be very strict. For example, in black and white uniform schools, wearing colours such as grey or wearing white shoes is forbidden. However, in schools that only use a basic uniform (e.g. jumper and trousers) the policy is often less strict.\n\nThe Welsh Assembly Government issued detailed guidance to governing bodies on uniform and appearance policies that begins by making explicit, \"There is no education legislation specifically covering the wearing of school uniform or other aspects of appearance such as hair colour and style, and the wearing of jewellery and makeup. However, as part of its responsibility for the conduct of the school, a governing body can specify a uniform which pupils are required to wear and other rules relating to appearance.\"\n\nThe Northern Ireland Executive supports poor families with the cost of paying for school uniforms with a £35 primary school uniform allowance. This is claimed via local Education and Library Boards for parents in receipt of income support. At the end of August 2009, there were 24,135 successful applications for the grant.\n\nThe most common secondary school uniform in Northern Ireland is a shirt, blazer and sweater with a tie and a skirt or trousers. The uniform (most likely the sweater and tie) may change after Year 12. The uniform in primary school is similar to those used in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nMost schools in the United States do not require uniforms, but instead enforce a dress code delineating what types of clothing are appropriate and inappropriate for students to wear to school. Dress codes vary from school to school, but are normally based on broader policies set by the school district's elected school board. Private schools and other specialized schools sometimes require uniforms.\n\nA study conducted in 2000 found that only 23% of public, private, and sectarian schools had any sort of uniform policy in the United States at or before 2000. Over the past decade, more public schools, specifically those in urban areas, have instituted stricter dress codes; roughly half the public schools in the United States have these more limiting dress codes.\n\nThe schools that do require uniforms, or a more common standard dress code in towns and suburbs, tend to be more casual than those in Britain or other commonwealth nations. Commonly, students wear collared, buttoned shirts, with a tie for boys and a tie for girls, worn with khaki trousers, and a belt, depending on the age of the school's student body. Skirts of a modest length are occasionally an option for girls.\n\nFor instance, red, white or blue polo shirts, with a logo, with navy or khaki bottoms and a belt, was the uniform policy imposed at Palmer Elementary School in Houston, Texas. Schools may also have polo shirts and trousers as a uniform. Dress codes vary widely among private schools, although a Catholic school uniform tends to keep the shirt and tie.\n\nAs of August 2013, almost one fifth of all American schools required their students to wear uniforms (Flam). This 20 percent of schools requiring uniforms is six percent higher than in 2003, the U.S. Department of Education reported. The uniform requirement is more common in lower socio-economic schools, where more than three-fourths of the school's student population receives free or reduced lunch (\"Fast\"). Forty-seven percent of low income schools require uniforms, whereas only about six percent of high socio-economic schools require uniforms (\"Fast\").\n\nThe National Association of Elementary School Principals (NAESP) conducted a phone survey of 755 principals in 2000, which revealed that 21% of public schools had a uniform policy; 23% had firm plans to create one. However, this only accounts for those with school uniform policies and not for standardised dress codes, which provide for allowable student dress but are slightly more lax: For instance, instead of requiring everyone to wear the same shirt, or set of shirts, they may specify \"any solid collared three-button polo/oxford shirt\" and leave more specific details up to the parents. In 2007-2008, 55% of public school principals said their schools enforce a strict dress code, requiring students at least wear a collared shirt and trousers with an acceptable belt to school.\n\nAdolfo Santos, a political science professor at the University of Houston–Downtown, stated that many Hispanic communities in the United States choose uniforms because many immigrants originate from countries with schools requiring uniforms.\n\nSylvan I. Alleyne, Velma LaPoint, Jennifer Lee and Harold W. Mitchell of \"The Journal of Negro Education\" stated that little empirical research exists regarding how effective school uniforms are in enhancing academic performance and social environments, and that little research exists regarding teachers' beliefs regarding issues related to dress codes, especially so regarding racial and ethnic minorities. In the United States, literature regarding public school student clothing and behavior cites anecdotal viewpoints from teachers. The literature discussed opinions on faculty, staff, and other employees on how to deal with student dress issues. A 2003 article of \"The Journal of Negro Education\" said that research and reports regarding the beneficial impact of school uniforms was not conclusive. Despite the federal government of the United States issuing a set of guidelines encouraging school uniforms in public schools, as of 2003 political support varied.\n\nIn 1994, the Long Beach Unified School District, in Southern California, required school uniforms in all elementary and middle schools. This began a trend for uniforms in American elementary public schools, especially in urban school districts. President Clinton praised the idea in his 1996 State of the Union Address, saying that \"if it means that teenagers will stop killing each other over designer jackets, then our public schools should be able to require their students to wear school uniforms.\" The adoption of school- or district-wide uniform policies (or \"standardised dress codes\", less rigid than uniform requirements and allowing some leeway in parameters) has been motivated by a need to counter \"gang clothing\" or the pressure for families to purchase upscale-label clothing (to avoid the ostracism of their children by \"fashion cliques\"), as well as to improve morale and school discipline.\n\nThe proportion of U.S. public schools requiring uniforms had increased from 3% in 1996 to 25% in 2010.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, the Department of Education requires all students to wear school uniforms, with only medical exemptions.\n\nMost schools in Vietnam requires uniform, and the rules on uniform vary from schools and areas. The most common type of uniform consists of a white shirt with school logo on left sleeve and navy/black trousers, with a red scarf for students from grade 3 to grade 9. This kind of uniform is often seen in public schools in North Vietnam or in rural areas, and there is no differences between boy's and girl's uniforms. However, many schools (private or famous public schools) have their own designed uniforms, which often replace trousers with skirts for girls or include bows, ties or vests/blazers.\n\nThe white áo dài is also a tradition uniform for high school girls in Vietnam, but most schools in Northern Vietnam only require it for important events or ceremonies, since wearing áo dài is uncomfortable for daily use. Otherwise, áo dài is very familiar with school girls in Mekong Delta, where it is \"daily uniform\" of all them. The image of a high school girl with nón lá and white áo dài on a bike is still considered symbolic nowadays.\n\nThere are also uniform for Physical Education in Vietnam schools, usually includes T-shirt and tracksuit, which the T-shirts have school logo on them. The tracksuit jacket is popular and often used as winter uniform, even out of gym activity.\n\nThere are no specific shoes for Vietnamese students, however flip-flops, slippers and high heels are forbidden. Sandals and boots are allowed, although students would wear sneakers or flats to school. Dyeing hair, nail polish and make-up are banned in many schools.\n\nSchool uniforms are used in Venezuela. By Venezuelan decree, uniforms are required at all schools in all grades. Boys wear navy trousers and girls wear navy skirts or trousers, depending on the school. The shirts have short sleeves and the colour varies by the level in which the student is. Students in nursery wear yellow shirts, while students in kindergarten wear red shirts. From first to sixth grade, students wear white polo shirts. From seventh to ninth grade they wear light blue polo shirts, and from tenth to eleventh grade they wear beige polo shirts. These shirts are to be stuffed inside the trousers with a black belt. Black dress shoes are the norm in public school, however some private schools can be more flexible with the shoes to be worn.\n\n\n\n\"Fast Facts.\" U.S. Department of Education. 2014. Web. 12 Nov. 2014.\nFlam, Lisa. Today.com. 19 Aug. 2013. Web. 12 Nov. 2014.\n"}
{"id": "1659294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1659294", "title": "Teach the Controversy", "text": "Teach the Controversy\n\n\"Teach the Controversy\" is a campaign, conducted by the Discovery Institute, to promote the pseudoscientific principle of intelligent design, a variant of traditional creationism, while attempting to discredit the teaching of evolution in United States public high school science courses. The campaign claims that fairness and equal time require educating students with a 'critical analysis of evolution' where \"the full range of scientific views\", evolution's \"unresolved issues\", and the \"scientific weaknesses of evolutionary theory\" will be presented and evaluated alongside intelligent design concepts like irreducible complexity presented as a scientific argument against evolution through oblique references to books by design proponents listed in the bibliography of the Institute-proposed \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\" lesson plans.\n\nThe intelligent design movement and the Teach the Controversy campaign are directed and supported largely by the Discovery Institute, a conservative Christian think tank based in Seattle, Washington. The overall goals of the movement were stated as \"to defeat scientific materialism\" and \"to replace [it] with the theistic understanding that nature and human beings are created by God.\"\n\nThe scientific community and science education organizations have replied that there is no scientific controversy regarding the validity of evolution and that the controversy exists solely in terms of religion and politics. A federal court, along with the majority of scientific organizations, including the American Association for the Advancement of Science, say the Institute has manufactured the controversy they want to teach by promoting a \"false perception\" that evolution is \"a theory in crisis\" by falsely claiming it is the subject of wide controversy and debate within the scientific community. McGill University Professor Brian Alters, an expert in the creation-evolution controversy, is quoted in an article published by the NIH as stating that \"99.9 percent of scientists accept evolution\", whereas intelligent design has been rejected by the overwhelming majority of the scientific community. In the December 2005 ruling of \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", Judge John E. Jones III concluded that intelligent design is not science and \"cannot uncouple itself from its creationist, and thus religious, antecedents\". The \"Dover\" ruling also characterized \"teaching the controversy\" as part of a religious ploy.\n\nThe term \"teach the controversy\" originated with Gerald Graff, a professor of English and education at the University of Illinois at Chicago, as an admonition to teach that established knowledge is not simply given as a settled matter, but that it is created in a crucible of debate and controversy. To the chagrin of Graff, who describes himself as a liberal secularist, the idea was later appropriated by Phillip E. Johnson, Discovery Institute program advisor and father of the ID movement. Discussing the 1999-2000 Kansas State Board of Education controversy over the teaching of intelligent design in public school classrooms, Johnson wrote \"What educators in Kansas and elsewhere should be doing is to 'teach the controversy'.\" In his book Johnson proposed casting the conflicting points of view and agendas as a scholarly controversy. Johnson's usage differs somewhat from Graff's original concept. While Graff advocated that a comprehensive understanding of what are considered to be \"established\" concepts must include teaching the debates and conflicts by which they were established, Johnson appropriated the phrase to cast doubt upon the very concept of established knowledge.\n\nThe phrase was picked up by other Discovery Institute affiliates Stephen C. Meyer, David K. DeWolf, and Mark E. DeForrest in their 1999 article, \"Teaching the Controversy: Darwinism, Design and the Public School Science Curriculum\" published by the Foundation for Thought and Ethics. The Foundation for Thought and Ethics also publishes the controversial pro-intelligent design biology textbook \"Of Pandas and People\", suggested as an alternative to mainstream science and biology textbooks in the Critical Analysis of Evolution lesson plans proposed by Teach the Controversy proponents.\n\nThe roots of the intelligent design movement's strategy are found in the past attempts of creationists to force religious views into public school science classes. The most recent of these had been creation science, which sought to provide a scientific veneer for the biblical account of Genesis. The characteristics of the intelligent design movement are a direct response to the tactical and legal failings of earlier creationist movements. Design proponents' strategies represent a natural evolution of the \"creation science\" movement, proceeding still further in the direction of claiming the mantle of science while denying their religious intentions in argument.\n\nComparisons of the drafts of the intelligent design textbook \"Of Pandas and People\" before and after the 1987 \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" ruling showed that the definition given in the book for creation science in pre Edwards drafts is identical to the definition of intelligent design in post Edwards drafts; cognates of the word creation—creationism and creationist, which appeared approximately 150 times were deliberately and systematically replaced with the phrase 'intelligent design'; and the changes occurred shortly after the Supreme Court ruled in \"Edwards\" that creation science is religious and cannot be taught in public school science classes.\n\nThe campaign was devised by Stephen C. Meyer and Discovery Institute founder and President Bruce Chapman as a compromise strategy in March 2002. They had come to the realisation that the dispute over intelligent design's (lack of) scientific standing was complicating their efforts to have evolution challenged in the science classroom. This strategy was designed to move the focus onto an approach that stresses open debate and evolution's purported weakness, but does not require students to study intelligent design. The intention was to create doubt over evolution and avoid the question of whether the intelligent designer was God, while giving the institute time to strengthen their purported theory of intelligent design. Another advantage of this strategy was to allay teacher fears of legal action.\n\nThe Discovery Institute's strategy has been for the institute itself or groups acting on its behalf to lobby state and local boards of education, and local, state and federal policymakers to enact policies and/or laws, often in the form of textbook disclaimers and the language of state science standards, that undermine or remove evolutionary theory from the public school science classroom by portraying it as \"controversial\" and \"in crisis;\" a portrayal that stands in contrast to the overwhelming consensus of the scientific community that there is no controversy, that evolution is one of the best-supported theories in all of science, and that whatever controversy does exist is political and religious, not scientific. The Teach the Controversy strategy has benefitted from 'stacking' municipal, county and state school boards with intelligent design proponents as alluded to in the Discovery Institute's Wedge Strategy.\n\nAs the primary organizer and promoter of the Teach the Controversy campaign, the Discovery Institute has played a central role in nearly all intelligent design cases, often working behind the scenes to orchestrate, underwrite and support local campaigns and intelligent design groups such as the Intelligent Design Network. It has provided support ranging from material assistance to federal, state and regionally elected representatives in the drafting of bills to the provision of support and advice to individual parents confronting their school boards. DI's goal is to move from battles over standards to curriculum writing and textbook adoption while undermining the central positions of evolution in biology and methodological naturalism in science. In order to make their proposals more palatable, the Institute and its supporters claim to advocate presenting evidence both for and against evolution, thus encouraging students to evaluate the evidence.\n\nThough Teach the Controversy is presented by its proponents as encouraging academic freedom, it, along with the Santorum Amendment, is viewed by many academics as a threat to academic freedom and is rejected by the National Science Teachers Association, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The American Society for Clinical Investigation's \"Journal of Clinical Investigation\" describes the Teach the Controversy strategy and campaign as a \"hoax\" and that \"the controversy is manufactured.\"\n\nAlong with the objection that there is no scientific controversy to teach, another common objection is that the Teach the Controversy campaign and intelligent design arise out of a Christian fundamentalist and evangelistic movement that calls for broad social, academic and political changes. Intelligent design proponents argue their concepts and motives should be given independent consideration. Those critical of intelligent design see the two as intertwined and inseparable, citing the foundational documents of the movement such as the \"Wedge Document\" and statements made by intelligent design proponents to their constituents. The judge in the \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" trial considered testimony and evidence from both sides on the question of the motives of intelligent design proponents when he ruled that \"ID cannot uncouple itself from its creationist, and thus religious, antecedents\" and \"that ID is an interesting theological argument, but that it is not science.\"\n\nIn the debate surrounding the linking of the motives of intelligent design proponents to their arguments, following the Kansas evolution hearings the chairman of the Kansas school board, Steve Abrams, cited in The New York Times as saying that though he's a creationist who believes that God created the universe 6,500 years ago, he is able to keep the two separate:\n\nAfterward, Lawrence Krauss, a Case Western Reserve University physicist and astronomer, in a New York Times essay said: \n\nA rudimentary form of the teach the controversy strategy had emerged first among creationists following the Supreme Court's \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" decision. The Institute for Creation Research (ICR) prepared an evaluation of what the movement should try next, suggesting \"school boards and teachers should be strongly encouraged at least to stress the scientific evidences and arguments against evolution in their classes . . . even if they don't wish to recognize these as evidences and arguments for creationism.\" Glenn Branch of the National Center for Science Education says this comment shows that the teach the controversy strategy was \"pioneered in the wake of Edwards v. Aguillard.\"\n\nPrior to the September 2005 start of the \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" trial, the \"Dover trial,\" prominent intelligent design proponents gradually shifted to a \"Teach the Controversy\" strategy. They had realised that mandates requiring the teaching of intelligent design were unlikely to survive challenges based on the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, and that an unfavorable ruling had the effect of legally ruling intelligent design a form of religious creationism.\n\nThus, the Discovery Institute repositioned itself. It publicly abandoned advocating for any policies or laws that required the teaching of intelligent design in favor of a Teach the Controversy strategy. Institute Fellows reasoned that once the \"fact\" that a controversy indeed exists had been established in the public's mind, then the reintroduction of intelligent design into public school criteria would be much less controversial later.\n\nThe best illustration of this shift in strategy is comparing the Discovery Institute's 1999 guidebook \"Intelligent Design in Public School Science Curricula\" which concludes \"school boards have the authority to permit, and even encourage, teaching about design theory as an alternative to Darwinian evolution\" to 2006 statements by Phillip E. Johnson, that his intent was never to use public school education as the forum for his ideas and that he hoped to ignite and perpetuate a debate in universities and among the higher echelon of scientific thinkers.\n\nWith the December 2005 ruling in \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", wherein Judge John E. Jones III concluded that intelligent design is not science, intelligent design proponents were left with the Teach the Controversy strategy as the most likely method left to realize the goals stated in the wedge document. Thus, the Teach the Controversy strategy has become the primary thrust of the Discovery Institute in promoting its aims. Just as intelligent design is a stalking horse for the campaign against what its proponents claim is a materialist foundation in science that precludes God, Teach the Controversy has become a stalking horse for intelligent design. But the \"Dover\" ruling also characterized \"teaching the controversy\" as part of a religious ploy.\n\nBy May 2006 the Discovery Institute sought to replace the failed \"teach the controversy\" strategy with a strategy broadened to include examples of other supposedly legitimate scientific controversies. In Ohio and Michigan where school boards were again reviewing science curricula standards the Discovery Institute and its allies proposed lesson plans that included global warming, cloning and stem cell research as further examples of controversies that are akin to the alleged scientific controversy over evolution. All four topics are widely accepted by the majority of the scientific community as legitimate science, and all four are areas where US political conservatives have been known to be critical of the scientific consensus. Members of the scientific community have responded to this tactic by pointing out that like evolution whatever controversy may exist over cloning and stem cell research has been largely social and political, while dissident viewpoints over global warming are often viewed as pseudoscience. Richard B. Hoppe, holder of a Ph.D. in Experimental Psychology from the University of Minnesota, described the tactic in the following way:\nWith the \"Dover\" ruling describing \"teach the controversy\" as \"at best disingenuous, and at worst a canard\", intelligent design proponents have moved to a fallback position, emphasizing contrived flaws in evolution and overemphasizing remaining questions in the theory what they call the \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\". The \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\" strategy is viewed by Nick Matzke and other intelligent design critics as a means of teaching all the intelligent design arguments without using the intelligent design label. \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\" continues the themes of the teach the controversy strategy, emphasizing what they say are the \"criticisms\" of evolutionary theory and \"arguments against evolution,\" which continues to be portrayed as \"a theory in crisis.\" Early drafts of the Critical Analysis of Evolution lesson plan referred to the lesson as the \"great evolution debate\"; one of the early drafts of the lesson plan had one section titled \"Conducting the Macroevolution Debate\". In a subsequent draft, it was changed to \"Conducting the Critical Analysis Activity\". The wording for the two sections is nearly identical, with just \"debate\" changed to \"critical analysis activity\" wherever it appeared, in the manner of how intelligent design proponents simply replaced \"creation\" with \"intelligent design\" in \"Of Pandas and People\" to repackage a creation science textbook into an intelligent design textbook.\n\nThe campaigns of intelligent design proponents seeking curricular challenges have been disruptive, divisive and expensive for the affected communities. In pursuing the goal of establishing intelligent design at the expense of evolution in public school science classes, intelligent design groups have threatened and isolated high school science teachers, school board members and parents who opposed their efforts. The campaigns run by intelligent design groups place teachers in the difficult position of arguing against their employers while the legal challenges to local school districts are costly, diverting funding away from education and into court battles. For example, as a result of the Dover trial, the Dover Area School District was forced to pay $1,000,011 in legal fees and damages for pursuing a policy of \"teaching the controversy\".\n\nFour days after the six-week \"Dover\" trial concluded, all eight of the Dover school board members who were up for reelection were voted out of office. Televangelist Pat Robertson in turn told the citizens of Dover, \"If there is a disaster in your area, don't turn to God. You just rejected him from your city.\" Robertson said if they have future problems in Dover, \"I recommend they call on Charles Darwin. Maybe he can help them.\"\n\nCritics, like Wesley R. Elsberry, say the Discovery Institute has cynically manufactured much of the political and religious controversy to further its agenda, pointing to statements of prominent proponents like Johnson:\nTo the absence of actual scientific controversy over the validity of evolutionary theory, Johnson said:\nAnd to the resistance of science educators over portraying evolution as controversial or disputed, Johnson said:\nElsberry and others allege that statements like Johnson's are proof that the alleged scientific controversy intelligent design proponents seek to have taught is a product of the institute's members and staff. In the \"Dover\" trial's ruling the judge wrote that intelligent design proponents had misrepresented the scientific status of evolution.\n\nAccording to published reports, the nonprofit Discovery Institute received grants and gifts totaling $4.1 million for 2003 from 22 foundations. Of these, two-thirds had primarily religious missions. The institute spends more than $1 million a year for research, polls, lobbying and media pieces that support intelligent design and their Teach the Controversy campaign and is employing the same Washington, D.C. public relations firm that promoted the Contract with America.\n\nThe Discovery Institute aggressively promotes its Teach the Controversy campaign and intelligent design to the public, education officials and public policymakers. Its efforts are largely aimed at conservative Christian policymakers, where it is cast as a counterbalance to the liberal influences of \"atheistic scientists\" and \"Dogmatic Darwinists.\" As a measure of their success in this effort, on 1 August 2005, during a round-table interview with reporters from five Texas newspapers, President Bush said that he believes schools should discuss intelligent design alongside evolution when teaching students about the origin of life. Bush, a conservative Christian, declined to go into detail on his personal views of the origin of life, but advocated the \"Teach the Controversy\" approach - \"I think that part of education is to expose people to different schools of thought... you're asking me whether or not people ought to be exposed to different ideas, the answer is yes.\" Christian conservatives, a substantial part of Bush's voting base, have been central in promoting the Teach the Controversy campaign.\n\nIn some state battles, the ties of Teach the Controversy and intelligent design proponents to the Discovery Institute's political and social activities have been made public resulting in their efforts being temporarily thwarted. The Discovery Institute takes the view that all publicity is good and that no defeat is real. The Institute has shown a willingness to back off, even to not advocate for the inclusion of ID, to ensure that all science teachers are required to portray evolution as a \"theory in crisis.\" The Institute's strategy is to move, relentlessly, from standards battles, to curriculum writing, to textbook adoption, and back again doing whatever it takes to undermine the central position of evolution in biology. Critics of this strategy and the movement contend that the intelligent design controversy diverts much time, effort and tax money away from the actual education of children.\n\n\nThe theory of evolution is accepted by the vast majority of biologists and by the scientific community in general, in such overwhelming numbers that the theory of evolution is viewed as having scientific consensus. Over 70 scientific societies, institutions, and other professional groups representing tens of thousands individual scientists have issued policy statements supporting evolution education and opposing intelligent design. Scientific controversies are minor and concern the details of the mechanisms of evolution, not the validity of the overarching theory of evolution. In the absence of an actual professional controversy between groups of experts on evolution, critics say intelligent design proponents have merely renamed the conflict that already existed between biologists and creationists, and that the controversy to which intelligent design proponents refer is political in nature and thus, by definition, outside of the realm of science and scientific educational curricula. Critics contend that intelligent design proponents ignore this point by continuing to make the claim of a \"scientific controversy.\" According to Thomas Dixon, \"The 'controversy' in question has not arisen from any substantial scientific disagreement but is the product of a concerted public relations exercise aimed at the Christian parents of America.\"\n\nFor example, the National Association of Biology Teachers, in a statement endorsing evolution as noncontroversial, quoted Theodosius Dobzhansky: \"Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution\" and went on to state that the quote \"accurately reflects the central, unifying role of evolution in biology. The theory of evolution provides a framework that explains both the history of life and the ongoing adaptation of organisms to environmental challenges and changes.\" They emphasized that \"Scientists have firmly established evolution as an important natural process\" and that \"The selection of topics covered in a biology curriculum should accurately reflect the principles of biological science. Teaching biology in an effective and scientifically honest manner requires that evolution be taught in a standards-based instructional framework with effective classroom discussions and laboratory experiences.\"\n\nProminent evolutionary biologists such as Richard Dawkins and Jerry Coyne have proposed various \"controversies\" that are worth teaching, instead of intelligent design. Dawkins compares teaching intelligent design in schools to teaching flat earthism: perfectly fine in a history class but not in science. \"If you give the idea that there are two schools of thought within science, one that says the earth is round and one that says the earth is flat, you are misleading children.\" Tufts University Professor of Philosophy Daniel C. Dennett, author of \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\", describes how they generate a sense of controversy: \"The proponents of intelligent design use an ingenious ploy that works something like this: First you misuse or misdescribe some scientist's work. Then you get an angry rebuttal. Then, instead of dealing forthrightly with the charges leveled, you cite the rebuttal as evidence that there is a 'controversy' to teach.\"\n\nCritics of the Teach the Controversy movement and strategy can also be found outside of the scientific community. Barry W. Lynn, executive director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, described the approach of the movement's proponents as \"a disarming subterfuge designed to undermine solid evidence that all living things share a common ancestry.\" \"The movement is a veneer over a certain theological message. Every one of these groups is now actively engaged in trying to undercut sound science education by criticizing evolution,\" said Lynn. \"It is all based on their religious ideology. Even the people who don't specifically mention religion are hard-pressed with a straight face to say who the intelligent designer is if it's not God.\" Bill Maher said of Teach the Controversy, \"You don't have to teach both sides of a debate if one side is a load of crap.\"\n\nAccording to critics of the Discovery Institute's efforts through the Teach the Controversy campaign and the intelligent design movement, the Wedge strategy betrays the Institute's political rather than scientific and educational purpose. The Discovery Institute and its Center for Science and Culture (CSC) has an overarching conservative Christian social and political agenda that seeks to redefine both law and science and how they are conducted, with the stated goal of a religious \"renewal\" of American culture.\n\nCritics also allege that the Discovery Institute has a long-standing record of misrepresenting research, law and its own policy and agenda and that of others:\n\n\nJohnson's statements validate the criticisms leveled by those who allege that the Discovery Institute and its allied organizations are merely stripping the obvious religious content from their anti-evolution assertions as a means of avoiding the legal restriction on establishment. They argue that ID is simply an attempt to put a patina of secularity on top of what is a fundamentally religious belief and agenda.\n\nGiven the history of the Discovery Institute as an organization committed to opposing any scientific theory inconsistent with \"the theistic understanding that nature and human beings are created by God\", many scientists regard the movement purely as a ploy to insert creationism into the science curriculum rather than as a serious attempt to discuss scientific evidence. In the words of Eugenie Scott of the National Center for Education:\nThough Teach the Controversy proponents cite the current public policy statements of the Discovery Institute as belying the criticisms that their strategy is a creationist ploy and decry critics as biased in failing to recognize that the intelligent design movement's Teach the Controversy strategy as really just a question of science with no religion involved, is itself belied by Discovery Institute's former published policy statements, its \"Wedge Document\", and statements made to its constituency by its leadership, and in particular Phillip E. Johnson.\n\nWrites Johnson in the foreword to Creation, Evolution, & Modern Science (2000):\n\nAmid this political and religious controversy the clear, categorical and oft-repeated view of established national and international scientific organizations remains that there is no \"scientific\" controversy over teaching evolution in public schools.\n\nGeorge Mason University Biology Department introduced a 1-credit course on the creation/evolution controversy, and Emmett Holman, an associate professor of philosophy from the university, found that as students learn more about biology, they find objections to evolution less convincing. He concluded that \"teaching the controversy\" would undermine creationists’ criticisms, and that the scientific community’s resistance to this approach was bad public relations. Rather than being taught in a mainstream science course, it would be a separate elective course, probably taught by a scientist but called a course on \"philosophy of science\", \"history of science\", or \"politics of science and religion\".\n\nBiologist Tom A. Langen argues in a journal letter entitled \"What is right with ‘teaching the controversy’?\" that offering a specific course about this controversy will help students understand the demarcation between science and other ways of obtaining knowledge about nature. Similar positions have been expressed by atheists Julian Baggini and Aaron Sloman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19648215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19648215", "title": "The Edublog Awards", "text": "The Edublog Awards\n\nThe Edublog Awards were an annual, community based programme which recognised and celebrated excellent practice in the use of weblogs and social media to facilitate education. Entries were accepted from any country, in any language, from educators working with any age group or type of learner, including learner led initiatives. Nominations opened within categories in November of each year, with the Awards event taking place in December following a community vote.\n\nThe Awards were founded in 2004 by James N. Farmer, based in part on a suggestion by Alexander Halavais. The following year, Josie Fraser took over the awards management, working with Dave Cormier and Jeff Lebow from 2005 onwards. In 2007 James N. Farmer rejoined the team, and Jo Kay joined the team for the first time, providing the awards ceremony with a home in the virtual world platform Second Life. They were last awarded in 2015.\n\nThe three main aims behind the awards were to:\n\n\n2004\n2005\n2006\n2007\n2008\n2009\n2010\n2011\n\n"}
{"id": "4238041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238041", "title": "The Nova Project", "text": "The Nova Project\n\nThe Nova Project, also known as Nova, is a small public alternative high school in Seattle, Washington, operated by the Seattle Public School District. Its goal is to be a \"democratically governed learning community of broadly educated, creative, and independent thinkers who work collaboratively and demonstrate a high degree of individual responsibility.\"\n\nNova was founded by a group of students, parents and teachers in 1970. The curriculum is multidisciplinary and project-oriented, with an emphasis on individualized learning contracts, internships and community service..\n\nNova functions through student-run, teacher-supported \"committees\" that decide school budgeting, the hiring and review process of staff, orientation of new students, and cultural affairs. \n\nThe grading system is competency-based and is credit/no credit with 80% mastery required for credit. Each student works with a coordinator to design a personal learning plan to graduate. Nova students have the option of creating \"independent contracts\" with their teachers to earn credit for extracurricular goals and activities they commit to. It is common for Nova students to co-teach classes with their teachers, generating curriculum and building facilitation skills in line with Nova's student-led philosophy. Like other Seattle Public Schools students, Nova students may participate in the Running Start program and take classes at a local community college. \n\nIn early summer of 2009, Nova was relocated from the Mann Building to the Meany Middle School site, where it was co-housed with the World School. Nova returned to the newly remodeled Mann Building in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19725260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19725260", "title": "University", "text": "University\n\nA university (, \"a whole\") is an institution of higher (or tertiary) education and research which awards academic degrees in various academic disciplines. Universities typically provide undergraduate education and postgraduate education.\n\nThe word \"university\" is derived from the Latin \"universitas magistrorum et scholarium\", which roughly means \"community of teachers and scholars\". While antecedents had existed in Asia and Africa, the modern university system has roots in the European medieval university, which was created in Italy and evolved from Catholic Cathedral schools for the clergy during the High Middle Ages.\n\nThe original Latin word \"universitas\" refers in general to \"a number of persons associated into one body, a society, company, community, guild, corporation, etc\". At the time of the emergence of urban town life and medieval guilds, specialized \"associations of students and teachers with collective legal rights usually guaranteed by charters issued by princes, prelates, or the towns in which they were located\" came to be denominated by this general term. Like other guilds, they were self-regulating and determined the qualifications of their members.\n\nIn modern usage the word has come to mean \"An institution of higher education offering tuition in mainly non-vocational subjects and typically having the power to confer degrees,\" with the earlier emphasis on its corporate organization considered as applying historically to Medieval universities.\n\nThe original Latin word referred to degree-awarding institutions of learning in Western and Central Europe, where this form of legal organisation was prevalent, and from where the institution spread around the world.\n\nAn important idea in the definition of a university is the notion of academic freedom. The first documentary evidence of this comes from early in the life of the University of Bologna, which adopted an academic charter, the \"Constitutio Habita\", in 1158 or 1155, which guaranteed the right of a traveling scholar to unhindered passage in the interests of education. Today this is claimed as the origin of \"academic freedom\". This is now widely recognised internationally - on 18 September 1988, 430 university rectors signed the \"Magna Charta Universitatum\", marking the 900th anniversary of Bologna's foundation. The number of universities signing the \"Magna Charta Universitatum\" continues to grow, drawing from all parts of the world.\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the earliest universities were founded in Asia and Africa, predating the first European medieval universities. The University of Al Quaraouiyine, founded in Morocco by Fatima al-Fihri in 859, is considered by some to be the oldest degree-granting university.\n\nTheir endowment by a prince or monarch and their role in training government officials made early Mediterranean universities similar to Islamic madrasas, although madrasas were generally smaller, and individual teachers, rather than the madrasa itself, granted the license or degree. Scholars like Arnold H. Green and Hossein Nasr have argued that starting in the 10th century, some medieval Islamic madrasas became universities. However, scholars like George Makdisi, Toby Huff and Norman Daniel argue that the European university has no parallel in the medieval Islamic world. Several other scholars consider the university as uniquely European in origin and characteristics. Darleen Pryds questions this view, pointing out that madaris and European universities in the Mediterranean region shared similar foundations by princely patrons and were intended to provide loyal administrators to further the rulers' agenda.\n\nSome scholars, including Makdisi, have argued that early medieval universities were influenced by the madrasas in Al-Andalus, the Emirate of Sicily, and the Middle East during the Crusades. Norman Daniel, however, views this argument as overstated. Roy Lowe and Yoshihito Yasuhara have recently drawn on the well-documented influences of scholarship from the Islamic world on the universities of Western Europe to call for a reconsideration of the development of higher education, turning away from a concern with local institutional structures to a broader consideration within a global context.\n\nThe university is generally regarded as a formal institution that has its origin in the Medieval Catholic tradition. European higher education took place for hundreds of years in Catholic cathedral schools or monastic schools (\"scholae monasticae\"), in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century. The earliest universities were developed under the aegis of the Latin Church by papal bull as \"studia generalia\" and perhaps from Catholic cathedral schools. It is possible, however, that the development of cathedral schools into universities was quite rare, with the University of Paris being an exception. Later they were also founded by Kings (University of Naples Federico II, Charles University in Prague, Jagiellonian University in Kraków) or municipal administrations (University of Cologne, University of Erfurt). In the early medieval period, most new universities were founded from pre-existing schools, usually when these schools were deemed to have become primarily sites of higher education. Many historians state that universities and cathedral schools were a continuation of the interest in learning promoted by monasteries. Pope Gregory VII was critical in promoting and regulating the concept of modern university as his 1079 Papal Decree ordered the regulated establishment of Catholic cathedral schools that transformed themselves into the first European universities.\n\nThe first universities in Europe with a form of corporate/guild structure were the University of Bologna (1088), the University of Paris (c.1150, later associated with the Sorbonne), and the University of Oxford (1167).\n\nThe University of Bologna began as a law school teaching the \"ius gentium\" or Roman law of peoples which was in demand across Europe for those defending the right of incipient nations against empire and church. Bologna's special claim to \"Alma Mater Studiorum\" is based on its autonomy, its awarding of degrees, and other structural arrangements, making it the oldest continuously operating institution independent of kings, emperors or any kind of direct religious authority.\n\nThe conventional date of 1088, or 1087 according to some, records when Irnerius commences teaching Emperor Justinian's 6th century codification of Roman law, the \"Corpus Iuris Civilis\", recently discovered at Pisa. Lay students arrived in the city from many lands entering into a contract to gain this knowledge, organising themselves into 'Nationes', divided between that of the Cismontanes and that of the Ultramontanes. The students \"had all the power … and dominated the masters\".\n\nIn Europe, young men proceeded to university when they had completed their study of the trivium–the preparatory arts of grammar, rhetoric and dialectic or logic–and the quadrivium: arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy.\n\nAll over Europe rulers and city governments began to create universities to satisfy a European thirst for knowledge, and the belief that society would benefit from the scholarly expertise generated from these institutions. Princes and leaders of city governments perceived the potential benefits of having a scholarly expertise develop with the ability to address difficult problems and achieve desired ends. The emergence of humanism was essential to this understanding of the possible utility of universities as well as the revival of interest in knowledge gained from ancient Greek texts.\n\nThe rediscovery of Aristotle's works–more than 3000 pages of it would eventually be translated–fuelled a spirit of inquiry into natural processes that had already begun to emerge in the 12th century. Some scholars believe that these works represented one of the most important document discoveries in Western intellectual history. Richard Dales, for instance, calls the discovery of Aristotle's works \"a turning point in the history of Western thought.\" After Aristotle re-emerged, a community of scholars, primarily communicating in Latin, accelerated the process and practice of attempting to reconcile the thoughts of Greek antiquity, and especially ideas related to understanding the natural world, with those of the church. The efforts of this \"scholasticism\" were focused on applying Aristotelian logic and thoughts about natural processes to biblical passages and attempting to prove the viability of those passages through reason. This became the primary mission of lecturers, and the expectation of students.\n\nThe university culture developed differently in northern Europe than it did in the south, although the northern (primarily Germany, France and Great Britain) and southern universities (primarily Italy) did have many elements in common. Latin was the language of the university, used for all texts, lectures, disputations and examinations. Professors lectured on the books of Aristotle for logic, natural philosophy, and metaphysics; while Hippocrates, Galen, and Avicenna were used for medicine. Outside of these commonalities, great differences separated north and south, primarily in subject matter. Italian universities focused on law and medicine, while the northern universities focused on the arts and theology. There were distinct differences in the quality of instruction in these areas which were congruent with their focus, so scholars would travel north or south based on their interests and means. There was also a difference in the types of degrees awarded at these universities. English, French and German universities usually awarded bachelor's degrees, with the exception of degrees in theology, for which the doctorate was more common. Italian universities awarded primarily doctorates. The distinction can be attributed to the intent of the degree holder after graduation – in the north the focus tended to be on acquiring teaching positions, while in the south students often went on to professional positions. The structure of northern universities tended to be modeled after the system of faculty governance developed at the University of Paris. Southern universities tended to be patterned after the student-controlled model begun at the University of Bologna. Among the southern universities, a further distinction has been noted between those of northern Italy, which followed the pattern of Bologna as a \"self-regulating, independent corporation of scholars\" and those of southern Italy and Iberia, which were \"founded by royal and imperial charter to serve the needs of government.\"\n\nDuring the Early Modern period (approximately late 15th century to 1800), the universities of Europe would see a tremendous amount of growth, productivity and innovative research. At the end of the Middle Ages, about 400 years after the first European university was founded, there were twenty-nine universities spread throughout Europe. In the 15th century, twenty-eight new ones were created, with another eighteen added between 1500 and 1625. This pace continued until by the end of the 18th century there were approximately 143 universities in Europe, with the highest concentrations in the German Empire (34), Italian countries (26), France (25), and Spain (23) – this was close to a 500% increase over the number of universities toward the end of the Middle Ages. This number does not include the numerous universities that disappeared, or institutions that merged with other universities during this time. The identification of a university was not necessarily obvious during the Early Modern period, as the term is applied to a burgeoning number of institutions. In fact, the term \"university\" was not always used to designate a higher education institution. In Mediterranean countries, the term \"studium generale\" was still often used, while \"Academy\" was common in Northern European countries.\n\nThe propagation of universities was not necessarily a steady progression, as the 17th century was rife with events that adversely affected university expansion. Many wars, and especially the Thirty Years' War, disrupted the university landscape throughout Europe at different times. War, plague, famine, regicide, and changes in religious power and structure often adversely affected the societies that provided support for universities. Internal strife within the universities themselves, such as student brawling and absentee professors, acted to destabilize these institutions as well. Universities were also reluctant to give up older curricula, and the continued reliance on the works of Aristotle defied contemporary advancements in science and the arts. This era was also affected by the rise of the nation-state. As universities increasingly came under state control, or formed under the auspices of the state, the faculty governance model (begun by the University of Paris) became more and more prominent. Although the older student-controlled universities still existed, they slowly started to move toward this structural organization. Control of universities still tended to be independent, although university leadership was increasingly appointed by the state.\n\nAlthough the structural model provided by the University of Paris, where student members are controlled by faculty \"masters\", provided a standard for universities, the application of this model took at least three different forms. There were universities that had a system of faculties whose teaching addressed a very specific curriculum; this model tended to train specialists. There was a collegiate or tutorial model based on the system at University of Oxford where teaching and organization was decentralized and knowledge was more of a generalist nature. There were also universities that combined these models, using the collegiate model but having a centralized organization.\n\nEarly Modern universities initially continued the curriculum and research of the Middle Ages: natural philosophy, logic, medicine, theology, mathematics, astronomy (and astrology), law, grammar and rhetoric. Aristotle was prevalent throughout the curriculum, while medicine also depended on Galen and Arabic scholarship. The importance of humanism for changing this state-of-affairs cannot be underestimated. Once humanist professors joined the university faculty, they began to transform the study of grammar and rhetoric through the studia humanitatis. Humanist professors focused on the ability of students to write and speak with distinction, to translate and interpret classical texts, and to live honorable lives. Other scholars within the university were affected by the humanist approaches to learning and their linguistic expertise in relation to ancient texts, as well as the ideology that advocated the ultimate importance of those texts. Professors of medicine such as Niccolò Leoniceno, Thomas Linacre and William Cop were often trained in and taught from a humanist perspective as well as translated important ancient medical texts. The critical mindset imparted by humanism was imperative for changes in universities and scholarship. For instance, Andreas Vesalius was educated in a humanist fashion before producing a translation of Galen, whose ideas he verified through his own dissections. In law, Andreas Alciatus infused the \"Corpus Juris\" with a humanist perspective, while Jacques Cujas humanist writings were paramount to his reputation as a jurist. Philipp Melanchthon cited the works of Erasmus as a highly influential guide for connecting theology back to original texts, which was important for the reform at Protestant universities. Galileo Galilei, who taught at the Universities of Pisa and Padua, and Martin Luther, who taught at the University of Wittenberg (as did Melanchthon), also had humanist training. The task of the humanists was to slowly permeate the university; to increase the humanist presence in professorships and chairs, syllabi and textbooks so that published works would demonstrate the humanistic ideal of science and scholarship.\n\nAlthough the initial focus of the humanist scholars in the university was the discovery, exposition and insertion of ancient texts and languages into the university, and the ideas of those texts into society generally, their influence was ultimately quite progressive. The emergence of classical texts brought new ideas and led to a more creative university climate (as the notable list of scholars above attests to). A focus on knowledge coming from self, from the human, has a direct implication for new forms of scholarship and instruction, and was the foundation for what is commonly known as the humanities. This disposition toward knowledge manifested in not simply the translation and propagation of ancient texts, but also their adaptation and expansion. For instance, Vesalius was imperative for advocating the use of Galen, but he also invigorated this text with experimentation, disagreements and further research. The propagation of these texts, especially within the universities, was greatly aided by the emergence of the printing press and the beginning of the use of the vernacular, which allowed for the printing of relatively large texts at reasonable prices.\n\nExamining the influence of humanism on scholars in medicine, mathematics, astronomy and physics may suggest that humanism and universities were a strong impetus for the scientific revolution. Although the connection between humanism and the scientific discovery may very well have begun within the confines of the university, the connection has been commonly perceived as having been severed by the changing nature of science during the scientific revolution. Historians such as Richard S. Westfall have argued that the overt traditionalism of universities inhibited attempts to re-conceptualize nature and knowledge and caused an indelible tension between universities and scientists. This resistance to changes in science may have been a significant factor in driving many scientists away from the university and toward private benefactors, usually in princely courts, and associations with newly forming scientific societies.\n\nOther historians find incongruity in the proposition that the very place where the vast number of the scholars that influenced the scientific revolution received their education should also be the place that inhibits their research and the advancement of science. In fact, more than 80% of the European scientists between 1450–1650 included in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography were university trained, of which approximately 45% held university posts. It was the case that the academic foundations remaining from the Middle Ages were stable, and they did provide for an environment that fostered considerable growth and development. There was considerable reluctance on the part of universities to relinquish the symmetry and comprehensiveness provided by the Aristotelian system, which was effective as a coherent system for understanding and interpreting the world. However, university professors still utilized some autonomy, at least in the sciences, to choose epistemological foundations and methods. For instance, Melanchthon and his disciples at University of Wittenberg were instrumental for integrating Copernican mathematical constructs into astronomical debate and instruction. Another example was the short-lived but fairly rapid adoption of Cartesian epistemology and methodology in European universities, and the debates surrounding that adoption, which led to more mechanistic approaches to scientific problems as well as demonstrated an openness to change. There are many examples which belie the commonly perceived intransigence of universities. Although universities may have been slow to accept new sciences and methodologies as they emerged, when they did accept new ideas it helped to convey legitimacy and respectability, and supported the scientific changes through providing a stable environment for instruction and material resources.\n\nRegardless of the way the tension between universities, individual scientists, and the scientific revolution itself is perceived, there was a discernible impact on the way that university education was constructed. Aristotelian epistemology provided a coherent framework not simply for knowledge and knowledge construction, but also for the training of scholars within the higher education setting. The creation of new scientific constructs during the scientific revolution, and the epistemological challenges that were inherent within this creation, initiated the idea of both the autonomy of science and the hierarchy of the disciplines. Instead of entering higher education to become a \"general scholar\" immersed in becoming proficient in the entire curriculum, there emerged a type of scholar that put science first and viewed it as a vocation in itself. The divergence between those focused on science and those still entrenched in the idea of a general scholar exacerbated the epistemological tensions that were already beginning to emerge.\n\nThe epistemological tensions between scientists and universities were also heightened by the economic realities of research during this time, as individual scientists, associations and universities were vying for limited resources. There was also competition from the formation of new colleges funded by private benefactors and designed to provide free education to the public, or established by local governments to provide a knowledge hungry populace with an alternative to traditional universities. Even when universities supported new scientific endeavors, and the university provided foundational training and authority for the research and conclusions, they could not compete with the resources available through private benefactors.\nBy the end of the early modern period, the structure and orientation of higher education had changed in ways that are eminently recognizable for the modern context. Aristotle was no longer a force providing the epistemological and methodological focus for universities and a more mechanistic orientation was emerging. The hierarchical place of theological knowledge had for the most part been displaced and the humanities had become a fixture, and a new openness was beginning to take hold in the construction and dissemination of knowledge that were to become imperative for the formation of the modern state.\n\nBy the 18th century, universities published their own research journals and by the 19th century, the German and the French university models had arisen. The German, or Humboldtian model, was conceived by Wilhelm von Humboldt and based on Friedrich Schleiermacher's liberal ideas pertaining to the importance of freedom, seminars, and laboratories in universities. The French university model involved strict discipline and control over every aspect of the university.\n\nUntil the 19th century, religion played a significant role in university curriculum; however, the role of religion in research universities decreased in the 19th century, and by the end of the 19th century, the German university model had spread around the world. Universities concentrated on science in the 19th and 20th centuries and became increasingly accessible to the masses. In the United States, the Johns Hopkins University was the first to adopt the (German) research university model; this pioneered the adoption by most other American universities. In Britain, the move from Industrial Revolution to modernity saw the arrival of new civic universities with an emphasis on science and engineering, a movement initiated in 1960 by Sir Keith Murray (chairman of the University Grants Committee) and Sir Samuel Curran, with the formation of the University of Strathclyde. The British also established universities worldwide, and higher education became available to the masses not only in Europe.\n\nIn 1963, the Robbins Report on universities in the United Kingdom concluded that such institutions should have four main \"objectives essential to any properly balanced system: instruction in skills; the promotion of the general powers of the mind so as to produce not mere specialists but rather cultivated men and women; to maintain research in balance with teaching, since teaching should not be separated from the advancement of learning and the search for truth; and to transmit a common culture and common standards of citizenship.\"\n\nIn the early 21st century, concerns were raised over the increasing managerialisation and standardisation of universities worldwide. Neo-liberal management models have in this sense been critiqued for creating \"corporate universities (where) power is transferred from faculty to managers, economic justifications dominate, and the familiar 'bottom line' ecclipses pedagogical or intellectual concerns\". Academics' understanding of time, pedagogical pleasure, vocation, and collegiality have been cited as possible ways of alleviating such problems.\n\nA national university is generally a university created or run by a national state but at the same time represents a state autonomic institution which functions as a completely independent body inside of the same state. Some national universities are closely associated with national cultural, religious or political aspirations, for instance the National University of Ireland, which formed partly from the Catholic University of Ireland which was created almost immediately and specifically in answer to the non-denominational universities which had been set up in Ireland in 1850. In the years leading up to the Easter Rising, and in no small part a result of the Gaelic Romantic revivalists, the NUI collected a large amount of information on the Irish language and Irish culture. Reforms in Argentina were the result of the University Revolution of 1918 and its posterior reforms by incorporating values that sought for a more equal and laic higher education system.\n\nUniversities created by bilateral or multilateral treaties between states are intergovernmental. An example is the Academy of European Law, which offers training in European law to lawyers, judges, barristers, solicitors, in-house counsel and academics. EUCLID (Pôle Universitaire Euclide, Euclid University) is chartered as a university and umbrella organisation dedicated to sustainable development in signatory countries, and the United Nations University engages in efforts to resolve the pressing global problems that are of concern to the United Nations, its peoples and member states. The European University Institute, a post-graduate university specialised in the social sciences, is officially an intergovernmental organisation, set up by the member states of the European Union.\n\nAlthough each institution is organized differently, nearly all universities have a board of trustees; a president, chancellor, or rector; at least one vice president, vice-chancellor, or vice-rector; and deans of various divisions. Universities are generally divided into a number of academic departments, schools or faculties. Public university systems are ruled over by government-run higher education boards. They review financial requests and budget proposals and then allocate funds for each university in the system. They also approve new programs of instruction and cancel or make changes in existing programs. In addition, they plan for the further coordinated growth and development of the various institutions of higher education in the state or country. However, many public universities in the world have a considerable degree of financial, research and pedagogical autonomy. Private universities are privately funded and generally have broader independence from state policies. However, they may have less independence from business corporations depending on the source of their finances.\n\nThe funding and organization of universities varies widely between different countries around the world. In some countries universities are predominantly funded by the state, while in others funding may come from donors or from fees which students attending the university must pay. In some countries the vast majority of students attend university in their local town, while in other countries universities attract students from all over the world, and may provide university accommodation for their students.\n\nThe definition of a university varies widely, even within some countries. Where there is clarification, it is usually set by a government agency. For example:\n\nIn Australia, the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) is Australia's independent national regulator of the higher education sector. Students rights within university are also protected by the Education Services for Overseas Students Act (ESOS).\n\nIn the United States there is no nationally standardized definition for the term \"university\", although the term has traditionally been used to designate research institutions and was once reserved for doctorate-granting research institutions. Some states, such as Massachusetts, will only grant a school \"university status\" if it grants at least two doctoral degrees.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Privy Council is responsible for approving the use of the word \"university\" in the name of an institution, under the terms of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.\n\nIn India, a new designation deemed universities has been created for institutions of higher education that are not universities, but work at a very high standard in a specific area of study (\"An Institution of Higher Education, other than universities, working at a very high standard in specific area of study, can be declared by the Central Government on the advice of the University Grants Commission as an Institution 'Deemed-to-be-university'\"). Institutions that are 'deemed-to-be-university' enjoy the academic status and the privileges of a university. Through this provision many schools that are commercial in nature and have been established just to exploit the demand for higher education have sprung up.\n\nIn Canada, \"college\" generally refers to a two-year, non-degree-granting institution, while \"university\" connotes a four-year, degree-granting institution. Universities may be sub-classified (as in the Macleans rankings) into large research universities with many PhD-granting programs and medical schools (for example, McGill University); \"comprehensive\" universities that have some PhDs but are not geared toward research (such as Waterloo); and smaller, primarily undergraduate universities (such as St. Francis Xavier).\n\nIn Germany, universities are institutions of higher education which have the power to confer bachelor, master and PhD degrees. They are explicitly recognised as such by law and cannot be founded without government approval. The term Universitaet (i.e. the German term for university) is protected by law and any use without official approval is a criminal offense. Most of them are public institutions, though a few private universities exist. Such universities are always research universities. Apart from these universities, Germany has other institutions of higher education (Hochschule, Fachhochschule). Fachhochschule means a higher education institution which is similar to the former polytechnics in the British education system, the English term used for these German institutions is usually 'university of applied sciences'. They can confer master degrees but no PhDs. They are similar to the model of teaching universities with less research and the research undertaken being highly practical. Hochschule can refer to various kinds of institutions, often specialised in a certain field (e.g. music, fine arts, business). They might or might not have the power to award PhD degrees, depending on the respective government legislation. If they award PhD degrees, their rank is considered equivalent to that of universities proper (Universitaet), if not, their rank is equivalent to universities of applied sciences.\n\nColloquially, the term \"university\" may be used to describe a phase in one's life: \"When I was at university...\" (in the United States and Ireland, \"college\" is often used instead: \"When I was in college...\"). In Ireland, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Nigeria, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and the German-speaking countries, \"university\" is often contracted to \"uni\". In Ghana, New Zealand, Bangladesh and in South Africa it is sometimes called \"varsity\" (although this has become uncommon in New Zealand in recent years). \"Varsity\" was also common usage in the UK in the 19th century. \"Varsity\" is still in common usage in Scotland.\n\nIn many countries, students are required to pay tuition fees.\nMany students look to get 'student grants' to cover the cost of university. In 2016, the average outstanding student loan balance per borrower in the United States was US$30,000. In many U.S. states, costs are anticipated to rise for students as a result of decreased state funding given to public universities.\n\nThere are several major exceptions on tuition fees. In many European countries, it is possible to study without tuition fees. Public universities in Nordic countries were entirely without tuition fees until around 2005. Denmark, Sweden and Finland then moved to put in place tuition fees for foreign students. Citizens of EU and EEA member states and citizens from Switzerland remain exempted from tuition fees, and the amounts of public grants granted to promising foreign students were increased to offset some of the impact. The situation in Germany is similar; public universities usually do not charge tuition fees apart from a small administrative fee. For degrees of a postgraduate professional level sometimes tuition fees are levied. Private universities, however, almost always charge tuition fees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5689246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5689246", "title": "University charter", "text": "University charter\n\nUniversity charter is a charter given by provincial, state, regional, and sometimes national governments to legitimize the university's existence.\n\nIn most Canadian provinces university charters are in the form of Acts (e.g. York University Act). \"The Royal Military College of Canada Degrees Act\" of 1959 enables the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario to offer degrees in Arts, Science, and Engineering at the undergraduate and graduate levels.\n\nIn the United States, American University, Gallaudet University, Georgetown University, Howard University, and George Washington University are the only Congressionally chartered universities, due to their location within the US's federal district.\n\nThe United States service (military) academies are not chartered as they are agencies of the federal government itself.\n\nOther universities are chartered by the colonial governments or by state legislatures.\n"}
{"id": "1511778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1511778", "title": "Volksschule", "text": "Volksschule\n\nThe German term Volksschule generally refers to compulsory education, denoting an educational institution every person (i.e. the people, \"Volk\") is required to attend. \n\nIn Germany and Switzerland it is equivalent to a combined primary (\"Grundschule\" and \"Primarschule\", respectively) and lower secondary education (\"Hauptschule\" or \"Sekundarschule\"), usually comprising a mandatory attendance over a period of nine years. In Austria, \"Volksschule\" solely is used for primary school from Year One to Year Four. In the Nordic countries they are referred to as \"Folkskolen\" and in Finnish, in a direct translation, as \"Kansakoulu\"; these schools covered the first years of primary education, from the ages of 7 to 11 or 12.\n\nIn medieval times, church schools were established in the Holy Roman Empire to educate the future members of the clergy, as stipulated by the 1215 Fourth Council of the Lateran, later adopted by the sunday schools of the Protestant Reformation. First secular schools followed during the pietism movement from the late 17th century onwards and were further promoted by the advocates of the Enlightenment. In 1717 King Frederick William I of Prussia decreed the compulsory education of children from the age of five to twelve. They had to be able to read and write and were obliged to memorise the Protestant catechism. In 1763 King Frederick the Great enacted a first Prussian general school law, elaborated by the theologian Johann Julius Hecker.\n\nSimilar \"Volksschulen\" were established in the Electorate of Saxony and in the German-speaking parts of the Habsburg Monarchy, backed by Johann Ignaz von Felbiger, through a system of state-supported primary one-room schools. Attendance was supposedly compulsory, but a 1781 census reveals that only one fourth of school-age children attended. At the time, this was one of the few examples of state-supported schooling. Sending one's children to school was binding by law only from 1840 in the Austrian Empire.\n\nSpielvogel, Jackson J., 1999-2000, Western Civilization: Comprehensive Volume (4th Edition), \n"}
{"id": "7096665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7096665", "title": "William Spady", "text": "William Spady\n\nWilliam Spady is the head of ChangeLeaders. William Spady is a sociologist and is the father of Outcome-Based Education (OBE). OBE is referred to by over 20 different names including Systemic education restructuring, Performance Based Education, Standards based education reform, High Performance Learning, Total Quality Management, Transformational Education, and Competency-Based Education.\n\nHis research is still widely cited in nations such as Australia which are still adopting OBE. Nevertheless, the names have been changed in the US largely due strong negative responses to these programs when they have been introduced to actual students and parents. All of these titles refer to a similar philosophy and a plan which implements radical and \"systemic\" change into schools. Many have researched the thousands of articles on the internet referring to Spady, with many showing the beneficial effects of his theories on actual children.\n\nSpady was honored for his OBE work in the Philippines in 2015, where they are implementing OBE in some of their schools for grade level 10-12.\n\nSpady is the author or co-author of nine books. His latest book, Bringing Heart and Soul to Education, was published in 2014. \n\n"}
{"id": "1660318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660318", "title": "Youth voice", "text": "Youth voice\n\nYouth voice refers to the distinct ideas, opinions, attitudes, knowledge, and actions of young people as a collective body. The term youth voice often groups together a diversity of perspectives and experiences, regardless of backgrounds, identities, and cultural differences. It is frequently associated with the successful application of a variety of youth development activities, including service learning, youth research, and leadership training. Additional research has shown that engaging youth voice is an essential element of effective organizational development among community and youth-serving organizations.\n\nMany youth organizations and community activities cite youth voice as an important factor to their successful operations. The field of Positive Youth Development also promotes youth voice by striving to inspire confidence and social engagement for young people. Examples of School-oriented youth voice efforts include the VicSRC, an Australian student voice organization.\n\nOther examples include:\n\nA broad international movement exists to promote youth voice, born from earlier youth service and youth rights movements. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child was the first international mechanism to stipulate the systemic engagement of youth voice. Specific aims are stated in Articles 5 and 12 that clearly acknowledge the youth have a voice, that youth voice is constantly changing, and that all areas of our society are morally responsible for engaging youth voice. Annual events which center on youth voice include Global Youth Service Day and the National Service Learning Conference.\n\nEphebiphobia and adultism have been identified as the factors preventing widespread recognition of youth voice throughout communities. Additionally, it is commonly acknowledged that \"little quantitative research has been conducted regarding the issue of youth voice\", while the qualitative research on youth voice is often seen as minimally effective, as well, due to a limited scope focused on youth participation in decision-making and opinion-sharing.\n\nYouth voice also faces criticism from the youth rights movement that it does not go far enough, or that it is using youth. Critics claim that youth voice advocates only advance a shallow analysis of ageism and propose solutions that do not go far enough to give youth any substantive power in society. Coupled with youth service this can lead to young people being pressured to help fix adult problems without ever addressing the problems youth face.\n\n"}
