{"id": "4083089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4083089", "title": "Academic genealogy", "text": "Academic genealogy\n\nAn academic, or scientific, genealogy, organizes a family tree of scientists and scholars according to mentoring relationships, often in the form of dissertation supervision relationships.\n\nThe academic lineage or academic ancestry of someone is a chain of professors who have served as academic mentors or thesis advisors of each other, ending with the person in question. Many genealogical terms are often recast in terms of academic lineages, so one may speak of academic descendants, children, siblings, etc.\n\nWebsites such as the Mathematics Genealogy Project or the Chemical Genealogy document academic lineages for specific subject areas, while some other sites, such as Neurotree and Academic Family Tree aim to provide a complete academic genealogy across all fields of academia. However, not all links recorded in such databases are formal advisor-advisee relationships; for instance, the University of Cambridge did not require a formal doctoral thesis until 1919, and academic genealogies that include earlier Cambridge students tend to substitute an equivalent mentor.\n\nAcademic genealogies are particularly easy to research in the case of Spain's Doctor degrees, because until 1954 only Complutense University had the power to grant Doctorates. This means that all holders of a Doctor degree in Spain can trace back their academic lineage to a Doctoral supervisor who was a member of Complutense's Faculty.\n\nAcademic genealogy may influence research results in areas of active research. Hirshman et al. examined a controversial medical question, the value of maximal surgery for high grade glioma, and demonstrated that a physician's medical academic genealogy can affect his or her findings and approaches to treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41841931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41841931", "title": "Adolescent egocentrism", "text": "Adolescent egocentrism\n\nAdolescent egocentrism is a term that David Elkind used to describe the phenomenon of adolescents' inability to distinguish between their perception of what others think about them and what people actually think in reality. David Elkind's theory on adolescent egocentrism is drawn from Piaget's theory on cognitive developmental stages, which argues that formal operations enable adolescents to construct imaginary situations and abstract thinking. \n\nAccordingly, adolescents are able to conceptualize their own thoughts and conceive of other people's thoughts. However, Elkind pointed out that adolescents tend to focus mostly on their own perceptions – especially on their behaviors and appearance – because of the \"physiological metamorphosis\" they experience during this period. This leads to adolescents' belief that other people are as attentive to their behaviors and appearance as they are of themselves. According to Elkind, adolescent egocentrism results in two consequential mental constructions, namely imaginary audience and personal fable.\n\nImaginary audience is a term that Elkind used to describe the phenomenon that an adolescent anticipates the reactions of other people to him/herself in actual or impending social situations. Elkind argued that this kind of anticipation could be explained by the adolescent's preoccupation that others are as admiring or as critical of him as he is of himself. As a result, an audience is created, as the adolescent believes that he/she will be the focus of attention.\n\nHowever, more often than not the audience is imaginary because in actual social situations always being the focus of public attention is not usually the case. Elkind believed that the construction of imaginary audiences would partially account for a wide variety of typical adolescent behaviors and experiences; and imaginary audiences played a role in the self-consciousness that emerges in early adolescence. However, since the audience is usually the adolescent's own construction, it is privy to his or her own knowledge of him/herself.\n\nAccording to Elkind, the notion of imaginary audience helps to explain why adolescents usually seek privacy and feel reluctant to reveal themselves – it is a reaction to the feeling that one is constantly under the critical scrutiny of others.\n\nElkind addressed that adolescents have a complex set of beliefs that their own feelings are unique and they are special and immortal. Personal fable is the term Elkind created to describe this notion, which is the complement of the construction of imaginary audience. Since an adolescent usually fails to differentiate his focus on his own perceptions and that of others, he tends to believe that he is of importance to so many people (the imaginary audiences) that he comes to regard his feelings as something special and unique. This belief in personal uniqueness and invincibility becomes an illusion that he can be above some of the rules, disciplines and laws that apply to other people; even consequences such as death . Due to the existence of personal fable at some point, an adolescent tends to substitute the roles of an idol, a hero or even a god with his own image.\n\nElkind believed that adolescent egocentrism was a temporary phenomenon that will gradually diminish as adolescents grow older. The reason of this, Elkind argued, was because after entering the formal operational stage, no new mental systems would develop. Therefore, the mental structures formed during adolescence would continue to function for the rest of the life span. Accordingly, the two mental constructions that result from egocentrism, imaginary audience and personal fable, will gradually be overcome and disappear as formal operations become mature and stable.\n\nThe imaginary audience, Elkind said, could be regarded as \"a series of hypotheses\" that an adolescent \"tests against reality\". Because the imaginary audience is usually constructed based on an adolescent's attention on his own perception, it will be gradually modified through communicating and reacting with real audiences. Eventually, adolescents will be able to recognize the difference between his own preoccupations and concerns of others.\n\nAs to the passing of personal fable, Elkind's idea was drawn from Erikson's (1959) stages of psychosocial development. An establishment of what Erikson called \"intimacy\" could account for the elimination of personal fable, because during the process of establishing \"intimacy\", adolescents have to constantly adjust their imaginary audiences to the real ones. As a result, adolescents are able to see themselves in a more realistic way and to establish meaningful interpersonal relationships.\n\nA lot of research has examined different dimensions of Elkind's concept of adolescent egocentrism, however, the findings have not well supported the concept. According to this research, the manifestation of adolescent egocentrism is not a normative developmental phenomenon that occurs only during adolescence, but varies across different contexts. Main discussions from current literature focus on three aspects: whether adolescent egocentrism is age-related; whether adolescent egocentrism has association with formal operations; whether adolescent egocentrism weigh equally across genders.\n\nIn his 1967 work, Elkind claimed that adolescent egocentrism emerges during early adolescence (age 11–12) and gradually dissipates throughout middle and late adolescence. However, some findings from later studies indicate that this statement is not necessarily to be accurate. In 1986, Lapsley and his colleagues conducted two studies to examine the theoretical assumptions brought up by Elkind. In their first study they collected data from a sample that included 45 sixth graders, 39 eighth graders, 50 tenth graders and 49 twelfth graders. They used the Adolescent Egocentrism Scale (AES) developed by Enright et al. (1979, 1980) and paper-and-pencil battery of formal operations tasks developed by Lunzer (1965) as measuring instruments to examine the correlation between adolescent egocentrism and formal operational thought. \n\nIf Elkind's assumption were right, the correlation was supposed to change from positive to negative as the grade increased and the magnitude of the correlation should decrease with age. The results of the study obtained only significant negative correlation in late adolescence and non-significant change in the magnitude of the correlation. The results didn't support the Elkind's claim that adolescent egocentrism emerges in early adolescence and decreases linearly throughout middle and late adolescence. In other words, adolescents aged 11 or 12 could experience adolescent egocentrism of the same magnitude as those aged 15 or 16 do. Another study by Frankenberger (2000) also provides evidence that adolescent egocentrism is not age-related. \n\nIn this study, a survey was conducted for data collection from 223 adolescents and 131 adults. The survey contained measures of three aspects: adolescent egocentrism, self-consciousness, and interpersonal reactivity. The result revealed that scores of egocentrism were not, on average, significantly different between adolescents and young adults (19-30), which indicates that egocentrism in adolescence may continue into adulthood.\n\nAn important theoretical assumption in Elkind's theory is that the emergence of adolescence egocentrism is a result of the development of formal operational thoughts. Nevertheless, some studies had findings that were contrast to Elkind's position. Lapsley and his colleagues conducted two studies to examine the theoretical assumptions in 1986. In the second study, they analyzed the data obtained from two samples: a sample of 7th-, 9th-and 11th-graders and another sample of college undergraduate students. They used Adolescent Egocentrism Scale (AES) (Enright et al., 1979, 1980), Lunzer (1965) formal operations measure and Imaginary Audience Scale (IAS) (Elkind & Bowen, 1979) as the instruments. \n\nThe result of a grade-by-grade analysis of inter-correlations between adolescence egocentrism and formal operational thoughts showed modest to non-significant differences among all the measures, which implies that there is little association between adolescent egocentrism and formal operations. Some more recent studies got similar findings. Heather et al. (1993) found that formal operations were not an effective indicator of both imaginary audience and personal fable. Galanaki (2012) performed a research to investigate the association of adolescent egocentrism with age, gender, pubertal development and formal operational thoughts.\n\nA considerable amount of studies have found gender differences in egocentrism (Smetana, J.G.&VillaLobos M., 2010). Kimberly A Schonert-Reichl's (1994) study on the relationship between depressive symptomatology and adolescent egocentrism recruited 62 adolescents (30 males, 32 females) aged from 12 to 17. The study used Reynolds Adolescent Depression Scale (RADS), Imaginary Audience Scale (IAS) and the New Personal Fable Scale (NPFS) as measuring tools. The results revealed significantly higher scores obtained by females compared with males in the Transient Self subscale in IAS. \n\nTransient Self, as defined by Elkind and Bowen in 1979, refers to impermanent image of self that is mainly relative to one-time behaviors and temporary appearance. Thus, adolescent females have a higher tendency to consider themselves to be different from others, and tend to be more self-conscious in situations that involve momentary embarrassments (e.g. going to a party with a bad haircut), than their male peers. Another study conducted by Goossens and Beyers (1992) using similar measuring instruments found that boys have stronger beliefs that they are unique, invulnerable and sometimes omnipotent, which are typical characteristics of personal fable.\n\n"}
{"id": "36073594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36073594", "title": "Adventures of the Mind", "text": "Adventures of the Mind\n\nAdventures of the Mind is an achievement-focused mentoring camp for talented high school students. Educators from across the nation nominate students whom they believe, with guidance and nurture, can maximize their potential and make important contributions to society. Honored guests share their life stories that can serve as a road map to the students on their own personal paths to success.\n\nFounded in 2003, the \"Adventures of the Mind\" achievement mentoring camp brings together, on a college campus, high potential teens from across the country with accomplished mentors from a variety of fields: artists, astronauts, athletes, entrepreneurs, inventors, journalists, Nobel laureates, novelists, poets, poker players, programmers, public servants, Pulitzer prize winners, scholars, and more. Adventures of the Mind provides the students — who are the great thinker and achievers of tomorrow — with an opportunity to interact with some of the great thinkers and achievers of today. The camp runs for 7 days and is developed by student achievement and advocacy services. Murray Gell-Mann who was awarded the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physics and a Mentor at the 2011 summit, is quoted as saying:\n\nStudent attendees are selected through a highly personalized and rigorous search that goes beyond traditional measures of achievement — grades and test scores — by asking teachers to personally nominate an exceptional teen. Attendees are chosen regardless of learning disabilities, socioeconomic factors, or other obstacles that may obscure real potential. Additionally, participants are chosen from runners-up in national competitions ranging from the Presidential Scholars Program to the Intel Science Talent Search to the National Poetry Slam. \"Adventures of the Mind\" targets high potential students who may not yet garner the same level of recognition as their peers, but would benefit just as much from the experience the camp provides.\n\nMentors represent a wide variety of backgrounds and fields including arts, business, literature, public service, philanthropy, science and more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10918960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10918960", "title": "Applied academics", "text": "Applied academics\n\nApplied academics is an approach to learning and teaching that focuses on how academic subjects (communications, mathematics, science, and basic literacy) can apply to the real world. Further, applied academics can be viewed as theoretical knowledge supporting practical applications.\n\nApplied Academics is an approach to learning which focuses on motivating and challenging students to connect what they learn with the world they experience and with what interests them. The basic premise is that if academic content is made more relevant, participatory and concrete, students learn better, retain more and apply learning in their lives. Teaching in this model uses hands-on innovative teaching methods sometimes called contextual learning. Teachers help students understand the reasons for studying their subject matter and capitalize on students' natural learning inclinations and problem-solving approaches they can use well beyond the classroom throughout their lives.\n\nApplied Academics is an attempt to break from disconnected learning (where students go to different classes for different subjects for specified periods of time and don't gain a sense of the interconnectedness of learning) that has become a part of traditional approaches to education. This approach attempts to reintegrate learning by doing such things (for example) as teaching math, science, writing, or speech within other contexts such as a learning experience dealing with some form of technology training.\n\nResearch in cognitive science has shown that learners are not passive receptacles into which knowledge may be \"poured\". Learning occurs when the learner constructs, invents, and solves problems. Studies have shown that students taught theoretical principles, processes and skills in isolation without practice do not transfer these skills and knowledge as well to real life situations. Although \"learning to know,\" \"learning to do,\" and their \"application\" are often separated, there is no effective learning or understanding of one kind without the other two.\n\nIn the United States the Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS) states that \"good jobs require people who can put knowledge to work\", and listed the knowledge (academics) that it considered critical for all students to possess.\n\nThese competencies include:\n\nThe concept of action research is related to Applied Academics, as one tenet of action research is to discover theory through practice, and then implement using the foundation of theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2573721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2573721", "title": "Baby video", "text": "Baby video\n\nBaby videos are educational tools which can be used for teaching babies as young as six months by introducing the alphabet, different sights, shapes and colors, numbers and counting. Baby videos can be used for helping babies learn important educational skills, comprehension, introduction to the environment, as well as music. Some parents use baby videos to help develop their children's motor skills and open their young minds to the world. Certain preschools, educators and caregivers find baby videos to be a useful tool, but medical professionals have yet to determine whether or not baby videos are beneficial to children or not.\n\nSeveral baby videos are available on the market today. They include videos which introduce letters, music videos, or videos that teach babies to communicate when they are young such as signing videos.\n\nThe biggest benefit of digital media on children is the ability to expose children to the world during their “Why?” phase. Digital media will help explain things to children that parents may not have the ability to.\n\nThe earliest forms of entertainment for children were usually meant to be educational. The very first television program that was tailored to children specifically was the BBC’s \"Children’s Hour\"\",\" which was first broadcast in 1946 The United States followed suit in 1947 by airing \"Kukla, Fran, and Ollie,\" a show featuring puppets which ran for 10 years\". Howdy Doody\" and \"Captain Kangaroo\" soon followed, and both ran for over 12 years. The shows that were being broadcast for children were successful, but not necessarily educational. Later on in the 1960’s and 1970’s, television shows for children began to change pace. Not only were the shows being released entertaining and loved by children, but they were also educational. Shows like \"Sesame Street,\" \"Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood\"\",\" and \"Schoolhouse Rock!\" began to gain popularity. These shows’ target audiences were intended to be children in general without a specific age group.\n\nIn 1997 the Baby Einstein Company released its first video \"Baby Einstein\". This was the first educational video targeted specifically to infants. The release of this particular brand of educational videos was very successful, and impactful. The New York Times published in 2003 that 32% of all new babies born in the United States owned a \"Baby Einstein\" video.  There was a surge of educational media targeted towards infants and babies after the initial release of \"Baby Einstein\". Television shows such as \"Teletubbies\" and \"Classical Baby\" were introduced. An entire television network dedicated to infant education called Baby First TV was also created.\n\nThousands of baby oriented educational videos can be found on Youtube, teaching lessons about shapes, colors, numbers, etc. to babies specifically. Mother Goose Club is a Youtube channel devoted to educating infants and toddlers through the use of nursery rhymes. Mobile app developers have also seen the profitability of infant oriented media, and there are now hundreds of mobile applications specifically tailored to educate infants.  \n\nThe educational videos babies are exposed to could actually be harming them. Exposing babies to screens, could take away time that could be used for other things like exploring, interacting, playing, and actively learning . During the first two years, babies are beginning to develop intellectual, social, and emotional skills that are needed in life. If used correctly, these videos could possibly benefit a child’s development. Babies are also learning language during the first two years which is a vital part of childhood development. Children could develop language skills by watching videos as they will begin to mimic the TV characters who talk to them.\n\nSome researchers say that babies rarely benefit from digital media exposure while others say it’s beneficial for their development. In some cases, babies show higher vocabulary from media. It’s difficult for parents to determine how much their child is actually learning from the videos.\n\nThe use of baby videos is not without criticism. Frederick Zimmerman and Dr. Dimitri Christakis of the University of Washington published a study in 2007 that called the positive learning effect of the videos questionable, and say that they may in fact limit the language learning abilities of toddlers.  They claim babies are drawn to the videos due to the rapid scene changes causing an orienting reflex.\n\nStudies have “found that children exposed to educational programs were more aggressive in their interactions.” Educational programs are not only introducing young children to pro-education and pro-social goals, but the conflict between characters is often depicted with characters being unkind to each other or using aggressive actions with each other . The research claims that educational programs are by extension teaching these aggressive tendencies that are being shown in conflict development and that the young children are absorbing this information. This means while teaching them conflict resolution the shows are also teaching children how to behave while in a conflict, which in most cases is harsh and unkind.\n\nAnother aspect of educational programs focuses on how it takes away from the communicating opportunities between child and parent. A study shows the uses of book reading, toy playing, and co-tv viewing to study how well communication between parents and children were conducted. “Although not better than books, toy playing was significantly better than shared TV viewing at encouraging communication”. The study found that tv did not allow for much communication, but when there was communication it was relatively unrelated to what the toddler had asked or said. This is seen as a hindrance to the child’s chance to learn. Educational programs are seen as a hindrance to young children in the aspect of learning due to the poor communication that is had between parent and child.\n\nOne study states that “until about age 2, studies show that young children can’t cognitively comprehend what’s being said and retain that information”. “Television-viewing also fosters less parent-child interaction, cutting down on what experts call “talk time,” in which a child hears lots of vocabulary words that in turn help develop their language abilities”. With no educational value being learned before the age of two and the lack of “talk time” that comes with educational programs this research shows the underside of educational television.\n\n"}
{"id": "30140060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30140060", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Bahawalpur", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Bahawalpur\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Bahawalpur is a board of Punjab located in Bahawalpur.\n\nJurisdiction of Bahawalpur board includes following districts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38780520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38780520", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Peshawar", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Peshawar\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Peshawar or BISE Peshawar is a government board for intermediate and secondary education examination located in Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.\n\nBISE Peshawar was established in 1961 by the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Previously, it was conducting the examination of intermediate and secondary education for the whole Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province but later, new educational boards were established in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by the government and now its jurisdiction is Peshawar Division.\n\nThe jurisdiction of Peshawar board includes the following districts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1101722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101722", "title": "Board of education", "text": "Board of education\n\nA board of education, school committee or school board is the board of directors, board of trustees of a school, local school district or equivalent.\n\nThe elected council determines the educational policy in a small regional area, such as a city, county, state, or province. Frequently, a board of directors power with a larger institution, such as a higher government's department of education. The name of such board is also often used to refer to the school system under such board's control.\n\nThe government department that administered education in the United Kingdom before the foundation of the Ministry of Education was formerly called the Board of Education.\n\nThe American board of education traces its origins back to 1647, with the formation of the first American public school system, the Massachusetts Bay Colony mandated that every town establish a public school within its jurisdiction. Committees sprang up to run the institutions, and in the 1820s the state of Massachusetts required such committees to be independent of local governments, establishing the current model for the autonomous school districts that exist throughout the United States. The United States Constitution reserved educational authority in the hands of the states pursuant to the Tenth Amendment, wherein most states have passed such authority to local school boards. For over a century, local boards were solely responsible for public education funding, standards, instruction, and results, which to a certain extent remains true today. At their height in the 1930s there were as many as 127,500 boards. Some sparsely populated states had more school board members than teachers and for much of their history, such boards presided over school systems serving agrarian and industrial economies.\n\n"}
{"id": "31231126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31231126", "title": "Bullying in teaching", "text": "Bullying in teaching\n\nSchool teachers are commonly the subject of bullying but they are also sometimes the originators of bullying within a school environment. When an adult bullies a child, it is referred to as psychological, emotional, or verbal abuse.\n\nWhile teacher bullying is recognized as serious and harmful, there are no statistics on either teachers bullying others or teachers being bullied. However, according to one article, a high percentage of teachers admit to bullying students.\n\nComprehensive research carried out in the UK found that teaching was one of the occupations at highest risk from bullying:\n\nIn another survey, the Economic and Social Research Institute found bullying to be more prevalent in schools (13.8pc) than other workplaces (7.9pc).\n\nStudents with learning disabilities may be especially at risk for teacher bullying.\n\nThere are complex issues with reporting bullying by teachers, not only for children, but also parents. By means of their position of power over the child, power that enables them to impact the child's present and future, children and parents are reluctant to report. There are specific signs that parents should watch for as their child is unlikely to disclose that the teacher is in fact the bully.\n\nFurthermore, a teacher who bullies may present as a Jekyll and Hyde figure: he or she is often celebrated and popular so their abuse can go on for long periods of time undetected. Lacking research on teachers in classrooms, once again it is hard to be sure, but certainly in teaching a sport, it can be seen that adults are often rewarded for bullying conduct that would never be tolerated or condoned if done by a child.\n\nIn a school setting, this is true for teachers in the classroom as well as in their role as coaches of school sports.\n\nParsons identifies teacher bullying as often being part of a wider bullying culture within a school, with a complex web of dynamics such as:\n\nA common manifestation of teacher bullying is staffroom bullying where teachers are bullied by other teachers or school managers.\n\nIn investigating teacher bullying, it is important to differentiate a teacher or coach who is demanding versus one who is demeaning. So \"yelling\" for instance can be highly productive and motivating, but if it involves belittling and is laced with putdowns and swearing, it becomes abusive. Bullying by teachers can take many forms in order to harass and intimidate including:\nBullying of teachers can take many forms in order to harass and intimidate including:\n\nBullies often exploit positions of seniority over the colleagues they are intimidating (see rankism) by:\n\nIn some cases, teachers are ignored and isolated by colleagues in the staffroom or turned down for promotion or training courses (see silent treatment). Other times, teachers are ostracized as whistleblowers when they report to administrators on students' reports of bullying being done by their colleagues.\n\nThe power imbalance of teacher to student is greater than peer to peer and may well intensify the impact. \nThe possible impacts of bullying of teachers include:\n\nIn April 2012, Stuart Chaifetz, a father of an autistic boy, released a video on YouTube providing evidence that his son was allegedly the subject of emotional abuse at the hands of his teacher and aide at Horace Mann Elementary School, in the Cherry Hill Public Schools district. The evidence was secured when Chaifetz wired his son before sending him to school. When he listened to the audio recording, according to one news report, \"Chaifetz says he caught his son's teachers gossiping, talking about alcohol and violently yelling at students. He took the audio to the Cherry Hill School District, where officials fired one of the teachers involved after hearing the tape. Chaifetz's son was relocated to a new school, where Chaifetz says he is doing well.\" However, it appears that students with learning disabilities may be especially at risk for teacher bullying.\n\nIn 2011, select members of the Board, the Chaplain and Headmaster at St. Michaels University School were informed that teachers were abusing students in the basketball program. They received an eleven-page document written by a lawyer, who was also a parent of a student at the school, outlining the incidences of \"child abuse\" occurring on basketball teams at the Senior School. Parents were not informed; teachers remained in position. Although not knowing about this document, throughout the year, at least five families made significant formal complaints to Board members, the Chaplain and Headmaster about the abusive coaching conduct. In 2012, at least thirteen students, at the request of the Headmaster, approved of detailed, written testimonies about the verbal, emotional and some physical abuse they were suffering at the hands of their teachers who were coaching them as a co-curricular.\n\nHow they were treated by the Headmaster, the school's Board of Governors, lawyers hired by the school, and educational authorities was the subject of a front-page story by award-winning investigative journalist, Robert Cribb, as well as a CTV W5 episode. The story was the catalyst for a book, Teaching Bullies: Zero Tolerance on the Court or in the Classroom by Jennifer Fraser, PhD. Fraser's book puts the story in the context of extensive research into the work of psychologists, psychiatrists, and neuroscientists in order to explore the oftentimes taboo subject of Teacher and Coach Bullying.\n\nInformed by research into the serious, extensive, and often irreparable damage to adolescent brains in particular, Fraser has launched an awareness campaign on Facebook and Twitter (@teachingbullies) in an attempt to get lawmakers to put emotional abuse into the criminal code along with sexual and physical abuse. Neuroscientists believe it does similar if not identical harm to developing brains.\n\nIn June 2014, Britain proposed the \"Cinderella Law\" which would put emotional abuse in the Criminal Code.\n\nTeachers being portrayed as bullies have made into popular culture, along with works with teachers being bullied by other teachers, students, and even the principal.\n\n\n\n\n\nBooks\n\nAcademic papers\n\n"}
{"id": "1825322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825322", "title": "Class ring", "text": "Class ring\n\nA class ring (also known as a graduation, graduate, senior, or grad ring) is a ring worn by students and alumni to commemorate their graduation, generally for a high school, college, or university.\n\nToday class rings can be customized, from the material and style that the ring is made of to the color and cut of the gem in the center. There is a wide selection of emblems, pictures, and words that can be added to the sides of the rings and even inside the center gem.\n\nThe tradition of class rings originated with the class of 1835 at the United States Military Academy at West Point.\n\nThe \"Complete Book of Etiquette\" by Amy Vanderbilt indicates the following protocol for wearing of a class ring. For as long as the wearer is in school, the insignia should face the wearer to remind him/her of the goal of graduation. Upon graduation, the class ring gains the status of a \"badge of honor\" similar to a diploma, with the effect that graduation entitles the wearer to display the insignia facing outward so that it faces other viewers. An additional justification for this practice is the rationale that the ring also symbolizes the graduate him/herself: During the wearer's time in school, he or she focuses on self-development and goals specific to the insular academic environment; upon graduation, the wearer enters the wider world and puts what he or she has learned to work in shaping it.\n\nA notable exception to this protocol is the custom followed by older graduating classes of the United States Military Academy at West Point. Today, as in years past, Academy graduates frequently wear their rings on the left hand in observance of the ancient belief, which also underlay the Anglo-American custom of wearing wedding bands on the left hand, that a vein connects the left ring finger to the heart. Prior to graduation, these classes wore the USMA Class Ring with the Class Crest closest to the heart, signifying a given cadet's bond to his class within the Academy. Following graduation, members of these classes wore (and, for surviving members, still wear) the ring with the Academy Crest closest to the heart, signifying their bond with the Academy as a whole.\n\nAt the United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, The Citadel, and the United States Coast Guard Academy each cadet's class ring contains melted gold from rings donated to the respective school from deceased alumni.\n\n\"The Lords of Discipline\". \"I wear the ring. I wear the ring and I return often to the city of Charleston, South Carolina, to study the history of my becoming a man.\" Author Pat Conroy attended and graduated from The Citadel and wrote the fictional account of a cadet's journey at a military school set in Charleston, South Carolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "2156837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156837", "title": "Colegio Cesar Chavez", "text": "Colegio Cesar Chavez\n\nColegio Cesar Chavez (Spanish for \"Cesar Chavez College\") was an American college-without-walls in Mount Angel, Oregon. The college was named after Mexican American civil rights activist César Chávez. Colegio was established in 1973 and closed its doors in 1983. Colegio was the first accredited, independent four-year Chicano/Latino college in the United States. In 1975 it was granted candidacy status from the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges. In 1977, Colegio granted degrees to 22 graduates, a number exceeding the combined number of Chicanos who graduated that same year from University of Oregon and Oregon State University. In his book \"\", author Carlos Maldonado writes that Colegio Cesar Chavez was one of the few institutions that was named after Cesar Chavez during his lifetime.\n\nFor many members of the Colegio community, the most memorable campus event occurred on May 16, 1974, when Cesar Chavez paid his first visit to the college... More than 600 people, mostly Mexican Americans, crowded into Guadalupe Hall to see and hear Chavez... Chavez devoted most of his speech to the union’s fight with the growers, making his case for the boycott. But he also talked about Colegio, confessing that, if someone had told him five years earlier that Mexican Americans would have established their own college in Oregon, he ‘would have thought they were crazy.’ ‘Who knows?’ he added. ‘Maybe tomorrow there will be mariachi music in the White House.’ \n\nColegio Cesar Chavez evolved from various other collegial institutions that had existed in Mount Angel, Oregon for nearly a century. In 1888, the Catholic Order of the Benedictine Sisters founded Mt. Angel Academy. The Academy was originally a female charter academy but later evolved into a normal school in 1897 to train women for careers in education. In 1947, Mt. Angel Normal School was renamed Mt. Angel Women's College and, with accreditation from the Northwest Accrediting Association, it granted a Bachelor of Science degree in elementary education. In 1957, Mt. Angel Women's College became coeducational and was renamed Mt. Angel College.\n\nBy 1966 Mt. Angel College was facing financial problems for which it received two federal loans which it used to expand the campus. Within the next seven years, Mt. Angel College found itself burdened by a one million dollar debt and low student enrollment. In 1977, Ernesto Lopez became Dean of Students of Mt. Angel College and Sonny Montes became Director of Ethnic Affairs and minority recruiter. By 1972, Mt. Angel College had a student body of only 250, only 37 of whom were of Mexican American descent.\n\nCiting the Mt. Angel College's financial instability and low enrollment, the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges withdrew the college's accreditation. In light of such bleak signs, most students and staff left the college. Sonny Montes, Ernesto Lopez, and four others decided to attempt to salvage the college by redirecting its focus. On December 12, 1973, Mt. Angel College was renamed Colegio Cesar Chavez. In 1975, Colegio was granted accreditation candidacy from the same association that had withdrawn Mt. Angel College's accreditation. Colegio aimed to create a four-year college completely under the control of a staff chiefly of Mexican American, or Chicano, descent. Colegio was also structured on an experimental educational model known as a \"college without walls\" program.\n\nPrevious to settling on the name \"Colegio Cesar Chavez\", staff had considered three other names for the college: \"Colegio Che Guevara\", \"Colegio Ho Chi Minh\", and \"Colegio Virgen de Guadalupe\". César Chávez's name was chosen because he was one of the key figures in the Chicano movement, often organizing boycotts and protests for farm workers in California and eventually throughout the entire Pacific Northwest. The majority of Mexican Americans in the Pacific Northwest had migrated to the region during the World War II era in search of work as farm laborers.\nThe students were able to get Cesar Chavez's help in renegotiating the debt with HUD. The Chicano militants put together a staff and recruited students. Together, they were making ends meet and had gotten past the first steps toward full accreditation. As a volunteer, I helped them in obtaining a Dean's Grant for bilingual education. I also began an international education course of study with Mexico at the Colegio.|Jose Angel Gutierrez \n\nColegio Cesar Chavez operated under the \"El Colegio Sin Paredes\" (\"The College Without Walls\") model. This model granted students the ability to actively engage with their community, to maintain control of their own education, and to combine their classroom studies with experience outside of the classroom.\n\nThe College Without Walls Program had been established by the Union for Experimenting Colleges and Universities. This format allowed for the inclusion of a wide range of age groups, encouraged the participation and collaboration of students, staff, and administrators in creating and implementing the curriculum. Alternative means of evaluation was also encouraged. In this program, instructors were redefined as facilitators in the learning process. Additionally, Colegio staff, administration, and students relations were structured in accordance to a framework that Colegio termed \"La Familia,\" meaning \"The Family\". To that end, the \"family\" members were encouraged to participate in the decisions affecting the college. Such a framework inevitably required for students to be self-motivated and to initiate and pursue an independent course of education.\nColegio's core educational foundation consisted of work in four areas: Social Science (Anthropology, Economics, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology); the Humanities (Literature, History, Arts, Philosophy, Language); Natural Sciences and Mathematics; oral and written bilingual Communications. Each student was required to complete fifteen credit hours in each area, totaling 60 credit hours. Credit transfers from parallel areas was allowed. Students could also receive credit for prior learning.\n\nFrom its inception, the leadership of Colegio Cesar Chavez was in a constant state of flux. In its brief ten years, Colegio was served by four administrations. Each administration faced substantial institutional crises. In 1973, Ernesto Lopez, former Academic Dean and Acting President of Mt. Angel College, became Colegio's first President. Lopez retained this position for only one year. After the departure of Lopez, the position of administrative head was altered into a co-directorship. Sonny Montes was named Director of Administration. Jose Romero was named Director of Academics. The split into two co-directors was made in an attempt to relieve the overwhelming duties that Lopez had faced.\n\nSonny Montes did not possess an advanced degree, as had Lopez, and he had far less experience working in higher education than had Lopez. Montez' organizing abilities and many contacts within the Chicano Movement were compensations. It was during the joint Montes-Romero administration that Colegio Cesar Chavez received accreditation candidacy on June 18, 1975, from the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges. Sonny Montes retired as Colegio administrator in October 1977, citing personal and economic concerns. He was extended an invitation to serve on Colegio's board, which he accepted.\nSalvador Ramirez followed Sonny Montes, becoming Colegio's top administrator in 1977. Ramirez, who held a master's degree in history, had served Colegio as history teacher since mid-1976. His previous work experience included employment with University of Colorado at Boulder and Washington State University. During Ramirez' tenure, Colegio finalized its negotiations with HUD. Ramirez resigned from his position at Colegio in 1979.\n\nIrma Flores Gonzales , previously a member of both Colegio's board and staff, became president of Colegio in 1979. Gonzales held a B.A. in education and a M.A. in psychology. It was during Gonzales' time as president that Colegio faced its greatest challenges: difficulty in developing and maintaining a financial base; preparing Colegio for accreditation by June 1981; and expanding college enrollment. During Gonzales' time as president, Colegio staff succumbed to infighting. By this point, many activists within the Chicano Movement had become disillusioned with Colegio. Gonzales was Colegio's last president.\n\nOne of the larger paintings at the colegio depicts a seemingly endless abundantly fertile field. As with so many of the murals, the sun is a significant component; here, it plays just beyond the horizon, with the overall warmth and seductiveness of the image suggesting the promise of an imminent sunrise rather than a sunset. The scene is viewed through a golden portal set on a patio in the foreground and may represent, as PSU’s (Tony) Cabello suggests, the opportunity that is possible for the immigrant to el norte. The painting abuts another portal – the main entrance to the colegio building – providing an ironic contrast to the short-lived promise of opportunity embodied in the colegio’s operation.\n\nColegio Cesar Chavez's main campus building was the two-story administrative building called Huelga Hall. (\"Huelga\" [pronounced \"welga\"] is Spanish for \"strike\".) When it was a part of Mount Angel College, Huelga Hall was known as Marmion Hall and was used as the campus dormitory for women. Huelga Hall was the hub of campus activity and was where most classes were held. The walls of Huelga Hall were covered with large Mexican-themed murals, some in the style of Diego Rivera, others being transcriptions of ancient Aztec artwork. In the main reception room there was a mural of Argentine revolutionary Che Guevara near the fireplace. To the north of Huelga Hall stood two buildings that served as dormitories for Colegio students.\n\nColegio also owned two homes. Directly behind Huelga Hall was the Art Building. The Art Building was a two-story farm house in the Victorian style. It had been built in the mid-1900s by the Bernt family of Mt. Angel. When Mount Angel College took possession of the Bernt house, it was renamed Studio San Benito. Under Colegio's ownership, the house was referred to as the Art Building. The Art Building lay vacant and unused for most of Colegio's existence until when in 1980 it was occupied by the family of Arthur Omar Olivo. Mr. Olivo was the grounds keeper and facilities maintenance manager of Colegio César Chávez. After a falling out with Colegio president Irma Gonzales, the Olivo family vacated the Art Building in 1982 shortly before Colegio's closure. Beside the Art House stood another two-story house that was referred to as the Pottery Building. Both the Pottery Building and the Art Building were demolished in the mid-1980s.\n\nOn the other side of Main Street, across from Huelga Hall, Colegio maintained Guadalupe Hall, a building named in honor of Our Lady of Guadalupe.\n\nAfter the closure of Colegio Cesar Chavez, the facilities and grounds were left unused and abandoned for several years. Eventually, a private benefactor purchased the former Colegio grounds and facilities and donated it back to its pre-Colegio owners, the Benedictine Sisters of Mt. Angel. Today, the former Colegio grounds and facilities are used as St. Joseph Shelter. Shortly after reclaiming ownership of the former Colegio building, the Benedictine Sisters had all but one Colegio-era mural painted over. The one remaining mural is titled \"College Without Walls\" and was created by Daniel Desiga. The mural depicts an arch entry overlooking a vast strawberry field. The arch has been interpreted as representing the college without walls program of Colegio, and the vast strawberry field in the background is likely a reference to the field workers and the fact that many Colegio teachers and students had either worked in the fields or were from families who had survived by means of field work.\n\nIn his book \"\", to date the only full-length book about Colegio, author Carlos Maldonado writes that Colegio was often referred to as \"the longest running death in history\", and that study of Colegio Cesar Chavez will \"help promoters of new ethnic institutions to raise questions of feasibility, anticipate problems, and provide direction in the establishment of new and more sophisticated institutions.\" Maldonado claims that Colegio's staff was small and relatively inexperienced and therefore unprepared for the challenges of starting a new college. Eventually the staff succumbed to infighting. Maldonado also claims that it was difficult to foster an on-campus sense of community among staff and students because Colegio was a college-without-walls program. The author notes that Colegio was founded during a time of downturn in activism in the Chicano Movement. Colegio was founded during a period of growing political conservatism marked by less federal support for cultural programs. Colegio was founded in a small rural town whose population largely disliked Colegio's predecessor of Mount Angel College and therefore saw Colegio as an extension of Mount Angel College. The surrounding community was relatively prejudiced against Mexican Americans. Lastly, Colegio was named in honor of a man many local farm owners found controversial. \nOn its website the Oregon Historical Society writes, \"Structured as a 'college-without-walls,' more than 100 students took classes in Chicano Studies, early childhood development, and adult education. Significant financial and administrative problems caused Colegio to close in 1983. Its history represents the success of a grassroots movement.\" \n\nCesar Chavez's United Farmworkers union is not present in the state of Oregon. Instead, the main union for farm workers in the state of Oregon is Pineros y Campesinos Unidos del Noroeste. The meetings which led to the formation of PCUN were held at Colegio Cesar Chavez. PCUN's founder, the late Cipriano Ferrel, attended Colegio Cesar Chavez.\n\nIn 2009, Oregon Public Broadcasting published an article titled \"What is Cesar Chavez's Connection to Oregon?\" The article centers on the controversial public debate at the time regarding whether a Portland street should be named in honor of Cesar Chavez. Those opposed to honoring Chavez with a Portland street had occasionally argued that the activist had no presence in the state. The article contains an interview with a man who assisted Chavez during a public address he made at the state Capitol in Salem, Oregon. The article concludes with an interview with Joseph Gallegos, an early faculty member of Colegio Cesar Chavez who claims that during the 1970s and 1980s \"the Colegio was a critical symbol of our presence, the Latino presence here in the state, and also I think trying to bring attention to the problem the Colegio was trying to address, that Latinos were not getting through the four-year institutions.\" \n\nVictor Paredes wrote that Cesar Chavez cared deeply about education, and that \"Thus the greatest honor he may have received during his lifetime was the opening of the Colegio Cesar Chavez in Oregon.\" \n\n\nOregon State University maintains and displays the Colegio Cesar Chavez Collection. The collection consists of documents and photographs pertaining to the life and work of Arthur Omar Olivo. Mr. Olivo had been born in a migrant camp in Texas to parents from Mexico. Later, the family would move to San Jose, California where Mr. Olivo would work for an organization called Center for Employment Training, a job training program whose students are mostly Latino and which was funded in part by the Cesar Chavez's United Farm Workers union. It was during this period, in the 1960s and 1970s, that Mr. Olivo came to be friends with Cesar Chavez. In the late 1970s, Mr. Olivo moved his family to the state of Oregon in order to found an Oregon branch of Center for Employment Training. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, Mr. Olivo was involved with Colegio Cesar Chavez as both a student and as facilities manager, and he and his family also lived on the college grounds in Mount Angel, Oregon. Items from the Colegio Cesar Chavez collection are available for individual research and are occasionally on display at OSU events regarding the Multicultural Archives.\n\nFour candids of a poetry reading by Chicano poet Alurista at Colegio César Chávez, circa 1981. Note mural of Che Guevara on wall.\n\nBelow are candids of community activities in Colegio, circa early 1980s. Aztec-themed murals can be seen on the walls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4144765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4144765", "title": "Collegium (school)", "text": "Collegium (school)\n\nA collegium is a French form of schooling that is both a secondary school and a college.\n\nThey are uncommon today. Most collegiums in the United States were built by Roman Catholic religious institutes. One example is the College of the Immaculate Conception in New Orleans, established by the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) in 1847.\n"}
{"id": "7332005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7332005", "title": "Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students", "text": "Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students\n\nThe Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS) is an Australian government register that lists all Australian education providers offering courses to people studying in Australia on student visas and the courses offered.\n\nAHIC (Austalian Harbour International College provide best platform in VET education for international student)\n\n"}
{"id": "11522564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11522564", "title": "Conceptual physics", "text": "Conceptual physics\n\nConceptual physics is an approach to teaching physics that focuses on the ideas of physics rather than the often daunting mathematics. It is believed that with a strong conceptual foundation in physics, students are better equipped to understand the equations and formulas of physics, and to make connections between the concepts of physics and their everyday life. Early versions used almost no equations or math-based problems.\n\nPaul G. Hewitt popularized this approach with his textbook \"Conceptual Physics: A New Introduction to your Environment\" in 1971. In his review at the time, Kenneth Ford noted the emphasis on logical reasoning and said \"Hewitt's excellent book can be called physics without equations, or physics without computation, but not physics without mathematics.\" Hewitt's wasn't the first book to take this approach. \"Conceptual Physics: Matter in Motion\" by Jae R. Ballif and William E. Dibble was published in 1969. But Hewitt's book became very successful. As of 2014 it is in its twelfth edition. In 1987 Hewitt wrote a version for high school students.\n\nThe spread of the conceptual approach to teaching physics broadened the range of students taking physics in high school. Enrollment in conceptual physics courses in high school grew from 25,000 students in 1987 to over 400,000 in 2009. In 2009, 37% of students took high school physics, and 31% of them were in Physics First, conceptual physics courses, or regular physics courses using a conceptual textbook.\n\nThis approach to teaching physics has also inspired books for science literacy courses, such as \"From Atoms to Galaxies: A Conceptual Physics Approach to Scientific Awareness\" by Sadri Hassani.\n"}
{"id": "4071917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4071917", "title": "Criterion-referenced test", "text": "Criterion-referenced test\n\nA criterion-referenced test is a style of test which uses test scores to generate a statement about the behavior that can be expected of a person with that score. Most tests and quizzes that are written by school teachers can be considered criterion-referenced tests. In this case, the objective is simply to see whether the student has learned the material. Criterion-referenced assessment can be contrasted with norm-referenced assessment and ipsative assessment.\n\nCriterion-referenced testing was a major focus of psychometric research in the 1970s.\n\nA common misunderstanding regarding the term is the meaning of \"criterion\". Many, if not most, criterion-referenced tests involve a cutscore, where the examinee passes if their score exceeds the cutscore and fails if it does not (often called a mastery test). The \"criterion\" is not the cutscore; the criterion is the domain of subject matter that the test is designed to assess. For example, the criterion may be \"Students should be able to correctly add two single-digit numbers,\" and the cutscore may be that students should correctly answer a minimum of 80% of the questions to pass.\n\nThe criterion-referenced interpretation of a test score identifies the relationship to the subject matter. In the case of a mastery test, this does mean identifying whether the examinee has \"mastered\" a specified level of the subject matter by comparing their score to the cutscore. However, not all criterion-referenced tests have a cutscore, and the score can simply refer to a person's standing on the subject domain. The ACT is an example of this; there is no cutscore, it simply is an assessment of the student's knowledge of high-school level subject matter.\n\nBecause of this common misunderstanding, criterion-referenced tests have also been called standards-based assessments by some education agencies, as students are assessed with regards to standards that define what they \"should\" know, as defined by the state.\n\nBoth terms \"criterion-referenced\" and \"norm-referenced\" were originally coined by Robert Glaser. Unlike a criterion-reference test, a norm-referenced test indicates whether the test-taker did better or worse than other people who took the test.\nFor example, if the criterion is \"Students should be able to correctly add two single-digit numbers,\" then reasonable test questions might look like \"formula_1\" or \"formula_2\" A criterion-referenced test would report the student's performance strictly according to whether the individual student correctly answered these questions. A norm-referenced test would report primarily whether this student correctly answered more questions compared to other students in the group.\nEven when testing similar topics, a test which is designed to accurately assess mastery may use different questions than one which is intended to show relative ranking. This is because some questions are better at reflecting actual achievement of students, and some test questions are better at differentiating between the best students and the worst students. (Many questions will do both.) A criterion-referenced test will use questions which were correctly answered by students who know the specific material. A norm-referenced test will use questions which were correctly answered by the \"best\" students and not correctly answered by the \"worst\" students (e.g. Cambridge University's pre-entry 'S' paper).\nSome tests can provide useful information about both actual achievement and relative ranking. The ACT provides both a ranking, and indication of what level is considered necessary to likely success in college. Some argue that the term \"criterion-referenced test\" is a misnomer, since it can refer to the \"interpretation\" of the score as well as the test itself. In the previous example, the same score on the ACT can be interpreted in a norm-referenced or criterion-referenced manner.\n\nMany high-profile criterion-referenced tests are also high-stakes tests, where the results of the test have important implications for the individual examinee. Examples of this include high school graduation examinations and licensure testing where the test must be passed to work in a profession, such as to become a physician or attorney. However, being a high-stakes test is not specifically a feature of a criterion-referenced test. It is instead a feature of how an educational or government agency chooses to use the results of the test.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51866089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51866089", "title": "Data-driven instruction", "text": "Data-driven instruction\n\nData-driven instruction is an educational approach that relies on information to inform teaching and learning. The idea refers to a method teachers use to improve instruction by looking at the information they have about their students. It takes place within the classroom, compared to data-driven decision making. Data-driven instruction works on two levels. One, it provides teachers the ability to be more responsive to students’ needs, and two, it allows students to be in charge of their own learning. Data-driven instruction can be understood through examination of its history, how it is used in the classroom, its attributes, and examples from teachers using this process.\n\nPrior to the current emphasis on data and accountability in schools, some school leaders and education researchers focused on standards-based reform in education. From the idea of creating standards comes accountability, the idea that schools should report on their ability to meet the designated standards. Late in the last century and in the early 2000s, an increased emphasis on accountability in public organizations made its way into the realm of education. With the passing of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act in 2001 came laws requiring schools to provide information to the public concerning the quality of education provided to students. To be able to provide such data, states were mandated to create accountability measures and yearly assessments to gauge the effectiveness of schools in meeting those measures. Following NCLB, more recent legislation under the Race to the Top Act further pushed states to use data gathering and reporting to demonstrate school’s ability to meet the demands of the public. Embedded in both NCLB and the Race to the Top Act is an assumption that the collection and use of data can lead to increased student performance.\n\nData in the classroom is any information that is visible during instruction that could be used to inform teaching and learning. Types of data include quantitative and qualitative data, although quantitative data is most often used for data-driven instruction. Examples of quantitative data include test scores, results on a quiz, and levels of performance on a periodic assessment. Examples of qualitative data include field notes, student work/artifacts, interviews, focus groups, digital pictures, video, reflective journals.\n\nQuantitative and qualitative data is generally captured through two forms of assessments: formative and summative. Formative assessment is the information that is revealed and shared during instruction and is actionable by the teacher or student. Paul Black and Dylan Wiliam offer examples of classroom assessment that is formative in nature, including student observations and discussions, understand pupils’ needs and challenges, and looking at student work. Conversely, summative assessments are designed to determine whether or not a student can transfer their learning to new contexts, as well as for accountability purposes. Formative assessment is the use of information made evident during instruction in order to improve student progress and performance. Summative assessments occur after teaching and learning occurred.\n\nUnderstanding the differences between quantitative data vs. qualitative data, as well as formative assessment vs. summative assessment that tease out this data can be defined as assessment literacy. Building assessment literacy also includes knowing when to use which type of assessment and the resulting data to use to inform instruction. The purpose of data driven instruction is to use information to guide teaching and learning. Dylan Wiliam offers examples of data driven instruction using formative assessment:\nBecause of the lack of timely feedback regarding the results plus the inability to personalize the approach, summative assessments are not readily used for data driven instruction in the classroom. Instead, a variety of information gleaned from different forms of assessments should be used to make decisions about student progress and performance within data-driven instruction. The use of multiple measures of different forms and at different times to make instructional decisions is referred to as triangulation.\n\nData-Driven Instructional Systems refers to a comprehensive system of structures that school leaders and teachers design in order to incorporate the data into their instructions. Building on organizational and school change literature, Richard Halverson, Jeffrey Grigg, Reid Prichett, and Chris Thomas developed a DDIS framework in an attempt to describe how relevant actors manage school-level internal accountability to external accountability. Specifically, high-stakes external accountability policies such as No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) was implemented to hold schools accountable for the reported standardized, summative assessment metrics. However, schools already had active internal accountability systems that place high emphasis on an ongoing cycle of instructional improvement based on the use of data including formative assessment results and behavioral information. Therefore, when the high-stakes accountability was implemented, schools naturally go through process of alignment between different types of data different purposes and the corresponding tension. Richard Halverson and his colleagues, employing case study approaches, explore leaders’ effort of coordination and alignment process which occurs between extant “central practices and cultures of schools” and “new accountability pressure” in a pursuit of improving student achievement score.\n\nIn their article, Richard Halverson, Jeffrey Grigg, Reid Prichett, and Chris Thomas suggest that the DDIS framework is composed of six organizational functions: data acquisition; data reflection; program alignment; program design; formative feedback; test preparation.\n\nData acquisition includes the data collection, data storage, and data reporting functions. “Data” in DDIS model is broadly conceptualized as any type of information that guides teaching and learning. In practice, schools collect academic data standardized assessment test scores, as well as non-academic data like student demographic information, community survey data, curricula, technological capacity, and behavioral records. In order to store such data, some schools develop their own local collection strategies using low-tech printouts and notebooks, whereas other schools rely on high-tech district storage systems, which provide tremendous amounts of reports. School leaders have discussions around which data needs to be reported and how to report the data in a way that they can use to guide teaching practices.\n\nIn the DDIS model, data reflection refers to collectively making sense of the reported data. District-level data retreats provide key opportunities for the schools within districts to identify the school-level strengths and weaknesses in terms of achievement data. Retreats help districts to develop district-level visions for instruction. In contrast, through local data reflection meetings, teachers have conversations focused on the individual students’ progress by examining each student’s performance on the assessed standards.\n\nRichard Halverson and his colleagues states that program alignment function refers to “link[ing] the relevant content and performance standards with the actual content taught in classroom.” For example, the benchmark assessment results, as “problem-finding tools,” help educators to identify the curricular standards that are not aligned well with the current instructional programs.\n\nAfter identifying the main areas in relation to students learning needs and school goals, leaders and teachers design interventions: faculty-based programs; curriculum-based programs; and student-based programs. In an effort to improve the faculty’s data literacy, educators are provided with a variety of professional development opportunities and coaching focused on professional interaction (faculty-based programs). In addition, educators modify their curriculum as a whole-classroom approach (curriculum-based programs) or develop customized instructional plans taking into account individual students’ needs (student-based programs).\n\nEducators interact with each other around the formative feedback on the local interventions implemented across classrooms and programs. Formative feedback systems are made of three main components: intervention, assessment, and actuation. Intervention artifacts here include curriculum materials like textbooks and experiments, or programs such as individualized education programs (Intervention). The effect of these intervention artifacts can be evaluated through formative assessments, either commercial or self-created, from the perspective that they had brought intended changes to teaching and learning (Assessment). In the actuation space, educators interpret the assessment results in relation to the initial goals of the intervention, and discuss how to modify the instruction delivery or assessment as measurement tools, which lays groundwork for the new interventions (Actuation).\n\nThis function is not intended for teachers to “teach to the test.” Rather, it points to the following activities: curriculum-embedded activities, test practice, environmental design, and community outreach. Teachers incorporate the content of standardized assessment into their day-to-day instructions (curriculum-embedded activities), assist students to practice or be accustomed to test-taking with similar types of tests (test practice), and establish a favorable test-taking environment (environmental design). Further, teachers communicate with parents and the community members on the topics ranging from test implementation to interpreting the test results (community outreach).\n\nThe primary implication for school districts is in ensuring high quality and relevant data is gathered and available. Beyond creating systems to gather and share the data, the school district must provide the expertise, in the form of data expert personnel and/or the access to professional development resources to ensure school building leaders are able to access and use the data.\n\nAnother critical component of the responsibility of the district is to provide the leadership and vision to promulgate the use of information about student performance to improve teaching practice. Zavadsky and Dolejs suggest two areas for school districts to consider:\n\n“The first is data collection and analysis. Districts and schools must carefully consider what data they need to collect, develop instruments with which to collect the data, and make the data available as soon as possible. The second component is data use. Principals and district leaders must give teachers sufficient time and training to understand the data and learn how to respond to what the data reveal”.\n\nWhile the literature shows the vital importance of the role of the district in setting the stage for data driven instruction, more of the work of connecting student performance to classroom practices happens at the school and classroom level.\n\nSchools have a major role in establishing the conditions for data-driven instruction to flourish. Heppen, et al. indicate a need for a clear and consistent focus on using data and a data-rich environment to support teachers’ efforts to use data to drive instruction. When the leadership creates and maintains an environment which promotes collaboration and clearly communicates the urgency to improve student learning, teachers feel supported to engage in data use. The additional scaffold of modeling the use of data at the school level increases teachers’ expertise in the use of data.\n\nData-driven instruction is created and implemented in the classroom. Teachers have the most direct link between student performance and classroom practices. Through the use of data, teachers can make decisions about what and how to teach including how to use time in class, interventions for students who are not meeting standards, customizing lessons based on real-time information, adapting teaching practice to align to student needs, and making changes to pace, scope and sequence.\n\nTo be able to engage in data-driven instruction, teachers must first develop the knowledge, skills, and dispositions required. Working in a school culture and climate in which data-driven instruction is valued and supported, teachers have the ability to increase student achievement and potentially reduce the achievement gap. Additionally, teachers must have access to learning opportunities or professional development which helps them understand the pedagogical framework and technical skills required to obtain, analyze, and use information about students to make instructional decisions.\n\nA significant new growth in data-driven instruction is in having students shape their lessons using data about their own progress. Younger learners who are able to self-report regarding grades and other assessments can experience high levels of achievement and progress within instruction. The strategies that students use to evaluate their own learning vary in effectiveness. In a meta-analysis, Dunlosky, Rawson, Marsh, Nathan & Willingham ranked ten learning strategies based on the projected impact each would have on achievement:\n\nHighly Effective Strategies:\nModerately Effective Strategies:\nLess Effective Strategies:\nIt is worth noting that the less effective strategies may be more commonly used in K-12 classrooms than the moderately effective and highly effective strategies. The authors suggest that students should be taught how to use more effective techniques and when they are most helpful in guiding their learning. When these strategies become internalized, students will have developed techniques in order to learn how to learn. This is critical as they move into the secondary level and are expected to be more independent in their studies.\n\nA major criticism of data driven instruction is that it focuses too much on test scores, and that not enough attention is given to the results of classroom assessments. Data driven instruction should serve as a “road map through assessment” that helps “teachers plan instruction to meet students’ needs, leading to better achievement”. Summative assessments should not be used to inform the day-to-day teaching and learning that is supported by data-driven instruction. Additional problems associated with perceptions of data driven instruction include the limitations of quantitative data to represent student learning, not considering the social and emotional needs or the context of the data when making instructional decisions, and a hyperfocus on the core areas of literacy and mathematics while ignoring the encore, traditionally high-interest areas such as the arts and humanities.\n\nBlack, P. & Wiliam, D. (1998). Inside the Black Box: Raising Standards Through Classroom Assessment. Phi Delta Kappan, 80(2), pp. 139–148.\n\nBoudett, K. P., City, E. A., Murname, R. J. (2013). Data Wise: A Step-by-Step Guide to Using Assessment Results to Improve Teaching and Learning. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Education Press.\n\nDana, N. F. & Yendol-Hoppey, D. (2014). The Reflective Educator’s Guide to Classroom Research: Learning to Teach and Teaching to Learn Through Practitioner Inquiry (3rd Ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin.\n\nDatnow, A., & Park, V. (2014). Data-Driven Leadership. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.\n\nDunlosky, J., Rawson, K. A., Marsh, E. J., Nathan, M. J., & Willingham, D. T. (2013). Improving students’ learning with effective learning techniques promising directions from cognitive and educational psychology. Psychological Science in the Public Interest, 14(1), 4-58.\n\nEagle, M., Corbett, A., Stamper, J., McLaren, B. M., Baker, R., Wagner, A., ... Mitchell, A. (2016). Predicting Individual Differences for Learner Modeling in Intelligent Tutors from Previous Learner Activities (pp. 55–63). ACM Press. \n\nElmore, R. F. (2000). Building a new structure for school leadership. Albert Shanker Institute. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED546618\n\nFurlong-Gordon, J. M. (2009). Driving classroom instruction with data: From the district to the teachers to the classroom (Ed.D.). Wilmington University (Delaware), United States—Delaware. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com/docview/250914319/\n\nGold, S. (2005). DRIVEN by DATA. Technology & Learning, 25(11), 6,8-9.\n\nHalverson, R., Grigg, J., Prichett, R., & Thomas, C. (2007). The New Instructional Leadership: Creating Data-Driven Instructional Systems in School. Journal of School Leadership, 17(March), 159–194.\n\nHamilton et al. - 2009 - Using student achievement data to support instruct.pdf. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED506645.pdf\n\nHamilton, L., Halverson, R., Jackson, S. S., Mandinach, E., Supovitz, J. A., Wayman, J. C., ... Steele, J. L. (2009). Using student achievement data to support instructional decision making. Retrieved from http://repository.upenn.edu/gse_pubs/279/\n\nHattie, J. (2012). Visible Learning for Teachers: Maximizing Impact on Learning. New York: Routledge.\n\nHeppen, J., Faria, A.-M., Thomsen, K., Sawyer, K., Townsend, M., Kutner, M., ... Casserly, M. (2010). Using Data to Improve Instruction in the Great City Schools: Key Dimensions of Practice. Urban Data Study. Council of the Great City Schools. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED536737\n\nJohnson, L. (2009). Randi Weingarten, President Antonia Cortese, Secretary-Treasurer. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED511575\n\nJones, A. (2005). The Myths of Data-Driven Schools. Principal Leadership, Middle Level Ed., 6(2), 37–39.\n\nKennedy, B. L., & Datnow, A. (2011). Student Involvement and Data-Driven Decision Making Developing a New Typology. Youth & Society, 43(4), 1246–1271. \n\nLarocque, M. (2007). Closing the Achievement Gap: The Experience of a Middle School. Clearing House, 80(4), 157–162.\n\nMelucci, L. (2013, August). TEACHER PERCEPTIONS AND USE OF DATA-DRIVEN INSTRUCTION.pdf. Capella University.\n\nMokhtari, K., Rosemary, C. A., & Edwards, P. A. (2007). Making Instructional Decisions Based on Data: What, How, and Why. Reading Teacher, 61(4), 354–359.\n\nMoriarty, T. W. (2013). Data-driven decision making: Teachers’ use of data in the classroom (Ph.D.). University of San Diego, United States—California. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com/docview/1432373944/\n\nNeuman, S. (2016). Code Red: The Danger of Data-Driven Instruction. Educational Leadership, 74(3), pps. 24-29.\n\nPella, S. (2012). What Should Count as Data for Data-Driven Instruction? Toward Contextualized Data-Inquiry Models for Teacher Education and Professional Development. Middle Grades Research Journal, 7(1), 57–75.\n\nRogers, L. N., & Tyndall, P. D. (2001). Teachers’ Perspectives: Developing Instructional Leadership through Classroom Inquiry. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED465596\n\nSchmidt, W. H., Burroughs, N. A., Zoido, P., & Houang, R. T. (2015). The Role of Schooling in Perpetuating Educational Inequality An International Perspective. Educational Researcher, 44(7), 371–386.\n\nSchmoker, M. (1996). Results: the key to continuous school improvement. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.\n\nShanahan, T., Callison, K., Carriere, C., Duke, N. K., Pearson, P. D., Schatschneider, C., & Torgesen, J. (2010). Improving Reading Comprehension in Kindergarten through 3rd Grade: IES Practice Guide. NCEE 2010-4038. What Works Clearinghouse. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED512029\n\nStamper, J., Ed, Pardos, Z., Ed, Mavrikis, M., Ed, McLaren, B. M., Ed, & International Educational Data Mining Society. (2014). Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Educational Data Mining (EDM) (7th, London, United Kingdom, July 4–7, 2014). International Educational Data Mining Society. http://www.educationaldatamining.org\n\nSwan, G., & Mazur, J. (2011). Examining data driven decision making via formative assessment: A confluence of technology, data interpretation heuristics and curricular policy. Gene, 1(1), 1.\n\nWiliam, D. (2011). Embedded Formative Assessment. Bloomington, IN: Solution Tree.\n\nZavadsky, H., & Dolejs, A. (2006). DATA: Not Just Another Four-Letter Word. Principal Leadership, Middle Level Ed., 7(2), 32–36.\n"}
{"id": "43239696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43239696", "title": "Discipline-based education research", "text": "Discipline-based education research\n\nDiscipline-based education research (DBER) is an interdisciplinary research enterprise that \"investigates learning and teaching in a discipline [normally from the STEM fields] from a perspective that reflects the discipline's priorities, worldview, knowledge, and practices.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25935238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25935238", "title": "Educational neuroscience", "text": "Educational neuroscience\n\nEducational neuroscience (or neuroeducation, a component of Mind Brain and Education) is an emerging scientific field that brings together researchers in cognitive neuroscience, developmental cognitive neuroscience, educational psychology, educational technology, education theory and other related disciplines to explore the interactions between biological processes and education. Researchers in educational neuroscience investigate the neural mechanisms of reading, numerical cognition, attention and their attendant difficulties including dyslexia, dyscalculia and ADHD as they relate to education. Researchers in this area may link basic findings in cognitive neuroscience with educational technology to help in curriculum implementation for mathematics education and reading education. The aim of educational neuroscience is to generate basic and applied research that will provide a new transdisciplinary account of learning and teaching, which is capable of informing education. A major goal of educational neuroscience is to bridge the gap between the two fields through a direct dialogue between researchers and educators, avoiding the \"middlemen of the brain-based learning industry\". These middlemen have a vested commercial interest in the selling of \"neuromyths\" and their supposed remedies.\n\nThe potential of educational neuroscience has received varying degrees of support from both cognitive neuroscientists and educators. Davis argues that medical models of cognition, \"...have only a very limited role in the broader field of education and learning mainly because learning-related intentional states are not internal to individuals in a way which can be examined by brain activity\". Pettito and Dunbar on the other hand, suggest that educational neuroscience \"provides the most relevant level of analysis for resolving today’s core problems in education\". Howard-Jones and Pickering surveyed the opinions of teachers and educators on the topic, and found that they were generally enthusiastic about the use of neuroscientific findings in the field of education, and that they felt these findings would be more likely to influence their teaching methodology than curriculum content. Some researchers take an intermediate view and feel that a direct link from neuroscience to education is a \"bridge too far\", but that a bridging discipline, such as cognitive psychology or educational psychology can provide a neuroscientific basis for educational practice. The prevailing opinion, however, appears to be that the link between education and neuroscience has yet to realise its full potential, and whether through a third research discipline, or through the development of new neuroscience research paradigms and projects, the time is right to apply neuroscientific research findings to education in a practically meaningful way.\n\nSeveral academic institutions around the world are beginning to devote resources and energy to the establishment of research centres focused on educational neuroscience research. For example, the Centre for Educational Neuroscience in London UK is an inter-institutional project between University College, London, Birkbeck and the Institute of Education. The centre brings together researchers with expertise in the fields of emotional, conceptual, attentional, language and mathematical development, as well as specialists in education and learning research with the aim of building a new scientific discipline (Educational Neuroscience) in order to ultimately promote better learning.\n\nThe emergence of educational neuroscience has been born out of the need for a new discipline that makes scientific research practically applicable in an educational context. Addressing the broader field of \"mind, brain and education\", Kurt Fischer states, \"The traditional model will not work. It is not enough for researchers to collect data in schools and make those data and the resulting research papers available to educators\", as this method excludes teachers and learners from contributing to the formation of appropriate research methods and questions.\n\nLearning in cognitive psychology and neuroscience has focused on how individual humans and other species have evolved to extract useful information from the natural and social worlds around them. By contrast, education, and especially modern formal education, focuses on descriptions and explanations of the world that learners cannot be expected to acquire by themselves. In this way, learning in the scientific sense, and learning in the educational sense can be seen as complementary concepts. This creates a new challenge for cognitive neuroscience to adapt to the real world practical requirements of educational learning. Conversely, neuroscience creates a new challenge for education, because it provides new characterizations of the current state of the learner – including brain state, genetic state, and hormonal state - that could be relevant to learning and teaching. By providing new measures of the effects of learning and teaching, including brain structure and activity, it is possible to discriminate different types of learning method and attainment. For example, neuroscience research can already distinguish learning by rote from learning through conceptual understanding in mathematics.\n\nThe United States National Academy of Sciences published an important report, stressing that, \"Neuroscience has advanced to the point where it is time to think critically about the form in which research information is made available to educators so that it is interpreted appropriately for practice—identifying which research findings are ready for implementation and which are not.\"\n\nIn their book \"The Learning Brain\", researchers from London’s \"Centre for Educational Neuroscience\", Blakemore & Frith outline the developmental neurophysiology of the human brain that has given rise to many theories regarding educational neuroscience. One of the fundamental pillars supporting the link between education and neuroscience is the ability of the brain to learn. Neuroscience is developing and increasing our understanding of early brain development, and how these brain changes might relate to learning processes.\n\nAlmost all of the neurons in the brain are generated before birth, during the first three months of pregnancy, and the newborn child’s brain has a similar number of neurons to that of an adult. Many more neurons form than are needed, and only those that form active connections with other neurons survive. In the first year after birth the infant brain undergoes an intense phase of development, during which excessive numbers of connections between neurons are formed, and many of these excess connections must be cut back through the process of synaptic pruning that follows. This pruning process is just as important a stage of development as the early rapid growth of connections between brain cells. The process during which large numbers of connections between neurons are formed is called synaptogenesis. For vision and hearing (visual and auditory cortex), there is extensive early synaptogenesis. The density of connections peaks at around 150% of adult levels between four and 12 months, and the connections are then extensively pruned. Synaptic density returns to adult levels between two and four years in the visual cortex. For other areas such as prefrontal cortex (thought to underpin planning and reasoning), density increases more slowly and peaks after the first year. Reduction to adult levels of density takes at least another 10–20 years; hence there is significant brain development in the frontal areas even in adolescence. Brain metabolism (glucose uptake, which is an approximate index of synaptic functioning) is also above adult levels in the early years. Glucose uptake peaks at about 150% of adult levels somewhere around four to five years. By the age of around ten years, brain metabolism has reduced to adult levels for most cortical regions. Brain development consists of bursts of synaptogenesis, peaks of density, and then synapse rearrangement and stabilisation. This occurs at different times and different rates for different brain regions, which implies that there may be different sensitive periods for the development of different types of knowledge. Neuroscience research into early brain development has informed government education policy for children under three years old in many countries including the USA and the United Kingdom. These policies have focused on enriching the environment of children during nursery and preschool years, exposing them to stimuli and experiences thought to maximise the learning potential of the young brain.\n\nAlthough an increasing number of researchers are seeking to establish educational neuroscience as a productive field of research, debate still continues with regards to the potential for practical collaboration between the fields of neuroscience and education, and whether neuroscientific research really has anything to offer educators.\n\nDaniel Willingham states that \"whether neuroscience can be informative to educational theory and practice is not debatable-it has been.\" He draws attention to the fact that behavioural research alone was not decisive in determining whether developmental dyslexia was a disorder of primarily visual or phonological origin. Neuroimaging research was able to reveal reduced activation for children with dyslexia in brain regions known to support phonological processing, thus supporting behavioural evidence for the phonological theory of dyslexia.\n\nWhile John Bruer suggests that the link between neuroscience and education is essentially impossible without a third field of research to link the two, other researchers feel that this view is too pessimistic. While acknowledging that more bridges must be built between basic neuroscience and education, and that so called neuromyths (see below) must be deconstructed, Usha Goswami suggests that cognitive developmental neuroscience has already made several discoveries of use to education, and has also led to the discovery of ‘neural markers’ that can be used to assess development. In other words, milestones of neural activity or structure are being established, against which an individual can be compared in order to assess their development.\n\nFor example, event-related potential (ERP) research has uncovered several neural signatures of language processing, including markers of semantic processing (e.g. N400), phonetic processing (e.g. mismatch negativity) and syntactic processing (e.g. P600). Goswami points out that these parameters can now be investigated longitudinally in children, and that certain patterns of change may indicate certain developmental disorders. Furthermore, the response of these neural markers to focused educational interventions may be used as a measure of the intervention’s effectiveness. Researchers such as Goswami assert that cognitive neuroscience has the potential to offer various exciting possibilities to education. For special education, these include the early diagnosis of special educational needs; the monitoring and comparison of the effects of different kinds of educational input on learning; and an increased understanding of individual differences in learning and the best ways to suit input to learner.\n\nA potential application of neuroimaging highlighted by Goswami is in differentiating between delayed development and atypical development in learning disorders. For instance, is a given child with dyslexia developing reading functions in a totally different way from typical readers, or is he/she developing along the same trajectory, but just taking longer to do so? Indeed, evidence already exists to suggest that in children with specific language impairments and dyslexia the development of the language system is delayed rather than fundamentally different in nature. In disorders such as autism however, brain development may be qualitatively different, showing a lack of development in brain regions associated with a \"theory of mind\".\n\nGoswami also suggests that neuroimaging could be used to assess the impact of particular training programmes, such as the Dore, an exercise based programme based on the cerebellar deficit hypothesis that aims to improve reading through a series of balance exercises. Some brain imaging research is beginning to show that for children with dyslexia who receive targeted educational interventions, their brain activation patterns begin to look more like those of people without reading disorders, and in addition, that other brain regions are acting as compensatory mechanisms. Such findings may help educators understand that, even if dyslexic children show behavioural improvement, the neural and cognitive mechanisms by which they process written information may still be different, and this may have practical implications for the ongoing instruction of these children.\n\nNeuroscience research has evidenced its ability to reveal ‘neural markers’ of learning disorders, most notably in the case of dyslexia. EEG studies have revealed that human infants at risk of dyslexia (i.e. with immediate family members who suffer from dyslexia) show atypical neural responses to changes in speech sounds, even before they are able to understand the semantic content of language. Not only does such research allow for the early identification of potential learning disorders, but it further supports the phonological hypothesis of dyslexia in a manner unavailable to behavioural research.\n\nMany researchers advocate a cautious optimism with regards to the marriage between education and neuroscience, and believe that to bridge the gap between the two, the development of new experimental paradigms is necessary and that these new paradigms should be designed to capture the relationships between neuroscience and education across different levels of analysis (neuronal, cognitive, behavioural).\n\nHuman language is a unique faculty of the mind and the ability to understand and produce oral and written language is fundamental to academic achievement and attainments. Children who experience difficulties with oral language raise significant challenges for educational policy and practice; National Strategies, Every Child a Talker (2008). The difficulties are likely to persist during the primary school years where, in addition to core deficits with oral language, children experience problems with literacy, numeracy and behaviour and peer relations. Early identification and intervention to address these difficulties, as well as identification of the ways in which learning environments can support atypical language development are essential. Untreated speech and language needs result in significant costs both to the individual and to the national economy (ICAN, 2006).\n\nOver the last decade, there has been a significant increase in neuroscience research examining young children's processing of language at the phonetic, word, and sentence levels. There are clear indications that neural substrates for all levels of language can be identified at early points in development. At the same time, intervention studies have demonstrated the ways in which the brain retains its plasticity for language processing. Intense remediation with an auditory language processing program has been accompanied by functional changes in left temporo-parietal cortex and inferior frontal gyrus. However, the extent to which these results generalize to spoken and written language is debated.\nThe relationships between meeting the educational needs of children with language difficulties and the findings of neuroscience studies are not yet established. One concrete avenue for progress is to use neuroscientific methods to address questions that are significant to practice in learning environments. For example, the extent to which language skills are attributable to a single common trait, and the consistency of such a trait over development, are matters of debate. However, direct assessments of brain activity can inform these debates. A detailed understanding of the sub-components of the language system, and the ways these change over time may inevitably yield implications for educational practice.\n\nMathematical skills are important not only for the national economy but also for an individual’s life chances: low numeracy increases the probability of arrest, depression, physical illnesses, unemployment. One of the main causes of low numeracy is a congenital condition called dyscalculia. As the Foresight report on Mental Capital and Wellbeing puts it, \"Developmental dyscalculia – because of its low profile but high impacts, its priority should be raised. Dyscalculia relates to numeracy and affects between 4-7% of children. It has a much lower profile than dyslexia but can also have substantial impacts: it can reduce lifetime earnings by £114,000 and reduce the probability of achieving five or more GCSEs (A*-C) by 7–20 percentage points. Home and school interventions have again been identified by the Project. Also, technological interventions are extremely promising, offering individualised instruction and help, although these need more development.\" (Executive Summary, Section 5.3) Understanding typical and atypical mathematical development is a crucial underpinning for the design of both the mainstream mathematics curriculum and for helping those who fail to keep up. Over the past ten years, a brain system for simple number processing has been identified and a handful of studies of children’s brains that throw a little light on its development.\n\nAn increasing convergence of evidence suggests that dyscalculia may be due to a deficit in an inherited core system for representing the number of objects in a set, and how operations on sets affect number and in the neural systems that support these abilities. This core deficit affects the learner’s ability to enumerate sets and to order sets by magnitude, which in turn make it very difficult to understand arithmetic, and very hard to provide a meaningful structure for arithmetical facts. Twin and family studies suggest that dyscalculia is highly heritable, and genetic anomalies, such as Turner’s Syndrome, indicate an important role for genes in the X chromosome.\n\nThis suggestion that dyscalculia is caused by a deficits in a core deficit in number sense is analogous to the theory that dyslexia is due to a core deficit in phonological processing. Despite these similarities in terms of the scientific progress, public awareness of dyscalculia is much lower than it is for dyslexia. The UK's Chief Scientific Advisor, John Beddington, notes that, \"developmental dyscalculia is currently the poor relation of dyslexia, with a much lower public profile. But the consequences of dyscalculia are at least as severe as those for dyslexia.\"\n\nThe application of neuroscience to understanding mathematical processing has already resulted in understanding beyond the early cognitive theories. Cognitive neuroscience research has revealed the existence of an innate ‘number sense’ system, present in animals and infants as well as adults, that is responsible for basic knowledge about numbers and their relations. This system is located in the parietal lobe of the brain in each hemisphere. This parietal system is active in children and adults during basic numerical tasks, but over the course of development it appears to become more specialised. Furthermore, children with mathematical learning disabilities (dyscalculia) show weaker activation in this region than typically developing children during basic number tasks. These results show how neuroimaging can provide important information about the links between basic cognitive functions and higher level learning, such as those between comparing two numbers and learning arithmetic.\n\nIn addition to this basic number sense, numerical information can be stored verbally in the language system, a system that neuroscience research is beginning to reveal as qualitatively different at the brain level to the number sense system. This system also stores information about other well learned verbal sequences, such as days of the week, months of the year and even poetry, and for numerical processing it supports counting and the learning of multiplication tables. While many arithmetic problems are so over learned that they are stored as verbal facts, other more complex problems require some form of visuo-spatial mental imagery. Showing that these subsets of arithmetic skills are supported by different brain mechanisms offers the opportunity for a deeper understanding of the learning processes required to acquire arithmetic proficiency.\n\nNeuroimaging studies of mathematical learning disabilities are still rare but dyscalculia is an area of increasing interest for neuroscience researchers. Since different neural mechanisms contribute to different elements of mathematical performance, it may be that children with dyscalculia show variable patterns of abnormality at the brain level. For example, many children with dyscalculia also have dyslexia, and those that do may show different activation of the verbal networks that support maths, while those who have dyscalculia only, may show impairments of the parietal number sense system. Indeed, the few studies carried out on children with dyscalculia only point to a brain level impairment of the number sense system.\n\nSuch evidence is beginning to contribute to a theoretical debate between researchers who believe that dyscalculia is caused by a brain level deficit of the number sense and those who believe that the disorder stems from a problem in using numerical symbols to access the number sense information. With the continued development of theoretical models of dyscalculia that generate explicit testable hypotheses, progress should be rapid in developing research which investigates the link between mathematical learning disorders and their neural correlates.\n\nIn the last 10 years, there has been an explosion of interest in the role of emotional abilities and characteristics in contributing to success in all aspects of life. The concept of Emotional Intelligence (EI) has gained wide recognition and is featured in the Foresight report on Mental Capital and Wellbeing. Some have made influential claims that EI is more important than conventional cognitive intelligence, and that it can more easily be enhanced. Systematic research has yet to provide much support for these claims, although EI has been found to be associated with academic success and there is some evidence that it may be of particular importance for groups at-risk of academic failure and social exclusion. In spite of the weak evidence base, there has been a focus on promoting the social and emotional competence, mental health and psychological wellbeing of children and young people, particularly in schools as the result of the investment in universal services, prevention and early intervention (e.g., the Social and Emotional Aspects of Learning (SEAL) project in the UK [DfES, 2005, 2007]).\n\nThe neural basis of emotional recognition in typically developing children has been investigated, although there is little neuroimaging work on atypically developing children who process emotions differently. Males are commonly over-represented in these atypically developing populations and a female advantage is commonly reported both on EI measures and on most areas of emotion processing. In processing facial expressions the female advantage appears best explained by an integrated account considering both brain maturation and social interaction.\n\nPrefrontal brain damage in children affects social behavior, causing insensitivity to social acceptance, approval or rejection. These brain areas process social emotions such as embarrassment, compassion and envy. Moreover, such damage impairs cognitive as well as social decision making in real world contexts supporting the Vygotskian view that social and cultural factors are important in cognitive learning and decision making. This view emphasizes the importance of bringing together neuroscientific and social constructionist perspectives, in this case in examining the influence of emotion on transferable learning.\n\nHowever, there are currently many gaps in the attempt to bring together developmental science and neuroscience to produce a more complete understanding of the development of awareness and empathy. Educational research relies on pupil's accurate self-report of emotion, which may not be possible for some pupils, e.g., those with alexithymia—a difficulty in identifying and describing feelings, which is found in 10% of typical adults. Emotional awareness can be measured using neuroimaging methods that show that differing levels of emotional awareness are associated with differential activity in amygdala, anterior insular cortex, and the medial prefrontal cortex. Studies of brain development in childhood and adolescence show that these areas undergo large-scale structural changes. Hence, the degree to which school-age children and young adults are aware of their emotions may vary across this time period, which may have an important impact on classroom behaviour and the extent to which certain teaching styles and curriculum approaches might be effective.\n\nNeuroimaging work is also beginning to help in the understanding of social conduct disorders in children. For example, callous-unemotional traits in children are a particularly difficult problem for teachers to deal with, and represent a particularly serious form of conduct disturbance. Jones et al. (2009) showed that children with callous-unemotional traits revealed less brain activation in the right amygdala in response to fearful faces, suggesting that the neural correlates of that type of emotional disturbance are present early in development.\n\nResearchers from the Centre for Educational Neuroscience in London have been instrumental in developing a research body that investigates how social cognition develops in the brain. In particular, Sarah-Jayne Blakemore, co-author of \"The Learning Brain\", has published influential research on brain development related to social cognition during adolescence. Her research, suggests that activity in brain regions associated with emotional processing undergo significant functional changes during adolescence.\n\nAttention refers to the brain mechanisms that allow us to focus on particular aspects of the sensory environment to the relative exclusion of others. Attention modulates sensory processing in \"top-down\" fashion. Maintaining selective attention toward a particular item or person for a prolonged period is clearly a critical underpinning skill for the classroom. Attention is the key cognitive skill impaired in ADHD resulting in difficulty in completing tasks or attending to details. Aspects of attention may also be atypical in children showing anti-social behaviour and conduct disorders. From the perspective of basic neuroscience, recent evidence suggests that attention skills may be one of the human brain functions that respond best to early intervention and training (e.g.).\n\nFurther, from a neuroconstructivist perspective attention is a vital mechanism through which the child can actively select particular aspects of their environment for further learning. Executive functions include the abilities to inhibit unwanted information or responses, to plan ahead for a sequence of mental steps or actions, and to retain task-relevant and changing information for brief periods (working memory). Like attention, executive function abilities provide a critical platform for the acquisition of domain-specific knowledge and skills in an educational context. Further, recent studies show that preschool training of executive skills may prevent early school failure. Children with ADHD, anti-social behaviour, conduct disorders and autism can all show atypical patterns of executive function. Basic neuroscience studies have identified the primary brain structures and circuits involved in executive functions, including the prefrontal cortex, in adults. However, much research remains to be done to understand the development of this circuitry, and the genetic and neural bases of individual differences in executive function. Foresight Mental Capital and Wellbeing Project specifically identifies and highlights the importance of attention and executive function skills in the future challenges for difficulties in learning (sections 2.2.4 and 2.4 in \"Learning Difficulties: Future Challenges\").\n\nDespite optimism from many who believe that neuroscience can make a meaningful contribution to education and that the potential exists for the establishment of a research field of educational neuroscience, some researchers believe that the differences between the two disciplines are too great for them to ever be directly linked in a practically meaningful way. In 1997 John Bruer published a major critique of what he called the \"Neuroscience and education argument\".\n\nThe ‘neuroscience and education argument’ as Bruer defines it, stems from three major findings in developmental neurobiology.\n\nThe knowledge of early brain development afforded by neurobiology has been used to support various arguments with regards to education. For example, the idea that any subject can be taught to young children in some intellectually honest form, due to the great adaptability and learning potential of the young brain. Alternatively, the idea that critical periods exist for learning certain skills or knowledge sets appeals to the fact that in animal studies, if the developing brain is deprived of certain sensory inputs, the brain areas responsible for processing those inputs fail to develop fully later in development, and thus \"if you miss the window, you are playing with a handicap\".\n\nOne of Bruer’s major points of contention with reports in favour of neuroscience and education is the lack of actual neuroscience evidence. Reports such as Years of Promise: A Comprehensive Learning Strategy for America's Children (Carnegie Corporation of New York, 1996) cite many cognitive and behavioural psychology studies, but no more than a handful of brain based studies, and yet draws dramatic inferences with regards to the role of the brain in learning.\n\nBruer argues that behavioural science can provide a basis for informing educational policy, but the link to neuroscience is \"a bridge too far\", and the limitations of the application of neuroscience to education stem from the limitations of neuroscience knowledge itself. Bruer supports his critique by arguing the limitations of current knowledge regarding the three key tenets of the neuroscience and education argument. See Neuromyths.\n\nAnother problem is the discrepancy between spatial resolution of imaging methods and the spatial resolution of synaptic changes that are suggested to underlie learning processes. A similar problem is true with regards to the temporal resolution. This makes it hard to relate subcomponents of cognitive skills to brain function. However, the primary flaw of the education neuroscience argument in Bruer’s opinion is that it attempts to link what happens at the synaptic level to higher order learning and instruction.\nThe terminology, \"Mind, brain and education\" alludes to the idea that if we cannot bridge education and neuroscience directly, then we can use two existing connections to inform education. These are the link between cognitive psychology and education, and between cognitive psychology and neuroscience.\n\nBruer contends that neuroscience in its current form has little to offer educators at the practical level. Cognitive science on the other hand, can serve as a basis for the development of an applied science of learning and education. Other researchers have suggested alternative bridges to the cognitive psychology suggested by Bruer. Mason suggests that the gap between education and neuroscience can be best bridged by educational psychology, which she outlines as being concerned with \"developing descriptive, interpretive and prescriptive models of student learning and other educational phenomena\".\n\nDespite Willingham’s assertion that the potential for neuroscience to contribute to educational practice and theory is already beyond doubt, he highlights three challenges that must be overcome to marry the two disciplines effectively.\n\nThe Goals Problem: Willingham suggests that education is a so-called \"artificial science\" that seeks to construct an ‘artifact’, in this case a set of pedagogic strategies and materials. Neuroscience, on the other hand is a so-called \"natural science\", concerned with the discovery of natural principles that describe neural structure and function. This difference means that some goals set by education are simply impossible to answer using neuroscience research, for example, the building of character or aesthetic sense in children.\n\nThe Vertical Problem: Levels of analysis: Willingham suggests that the highest level of analysis employed by neuroscientists is the mapping of brain structure and activity onto cognitive function, or even the interaction of cognitive functions (i.e. the impact of emotion on learning). Within neuroscience research these functions are studied in isolation for the sake of simplicity, and the nervous system as a whole, functioning in its entirety with all its huge composition of functional interactions, is not considered. For educators, on the other hand, the lowest level of analysis would be the mind of a single child, with levels increasing to incorporate the classroom, neighborhood, country etc.\n\nThus, importing research about a single cognitive factor in isolation, into a field in which context is essentially important creates an inherent difficulty. For example, while rote learning may be shown to improve learning in the research laboratory, the teacher cannot implement that strategy without considering the impact on the child’s motivation. In return, it is difficult for neuroscientists to characterize such interactions in a research setting.\n\nThe Horizontal Problem: Translating research findings: While education theory and data are almost exclusively behavioral, findings from neuroscience research can take on many forms (e.g. electrical, chemical, spatial, temporal etc.). The most common form of data taken from neuroscience to education is the spatial mapping of brain activation to cognitive function. Willingham (2009) highlights the difficulty in applying such spatial information to educational theory. If a certain brain region is known to support a cognitive function relevant for education, what can actually be done with that information? Willingham suggests that this ‘horizontal problem’ can be solved only when a rich body of behavioral data and theories already exist, and points out that such methods have already been successful in identifying subtypes of dyslexia (e.g.).\n\nWillingham suggests that what is essential for a successful union of neuroscience and education is that both fields have realistic expectations of one another. For example, educators should not expect that neuroscience will provide prescriptive answers for educational practice, answers for educational goals that are incompatible with neuroscientific methods (e.g. aesthetic training), or levels of analysis beyond the individual level. Finally Willingham suggests that neuroscience will only be useful to educators when targeted at a specific problem at a fine grained level of analysis, such as how people read, but that these data will only be useful in the context of well developed behavioral theories.\n\nOther researchers, such as Katzir & Pareblagoev have pointed out that neuroimaging methodology as it stands may not be suitable for the examination of higher level cognitive functions, because it relies primarily on the ‘subtraction method’. By this method, brain activity during a simple control task is subtracted from that of a ‘higher order’ cognitive task, thus leaving the activation that is related specifically to the function of interest. Katzir & Pareblagoev suggest that while this method may be very good for examining low level processing, such as perception, vision and touch, it is very hard to design an effective control task for higher order processing, such as comprehension in reading and inference making. Thus, some researchers argue that functional imaging technologies may not be best suited for the measurement of higher order processing. Katzir & Pareblagoev, suggest that this may not be a deficit of the technology itself, but rather of the design of experiments and the ability to interpret the results. The authors advocate using experimental measures in the scanner for which the behavioural data is already well understood, and for which there exists a strong theoretical framework.\n\nAnother recent review of the educational neuroscience debate by Varma, McCandliss and Schwartz focuses on eight primary challenges, divided into scientific challenges and practical challenges, facing the field, and attempts to transform those challenges into opportunities.\n\nMethods: Neuroscience methods create artificial environments and thus cannot provide useful information about classroom contexts. Furthermore, the concern is that if neuroscience begins to influence educational practice too heavily, there may be a de-emphasis of contextual variables, and solutions to educational problems may become primarily biological rather than instructional. However, Varma et al. argue that novel experimental paradigms create the opportunity to investigate context, such as brain activation following different learning procedures and that neuroimaging can also allow for the examination of strategic/mechanistic developmental changes that cannot be tapped by reaction time and behavioural measures alone. Furthermore, Varma et al. cite recent research that shows that the effects of cultural variables can be investigated using brain imaging (e.g.), and the results used to draw implications for classroom practice.\n\nData: Knowing the brain region that supports an elementary cognitive function tells us nothing about how to design instruction for that function. However, Varma et al. suggest that neuroscience provide the opportunity for a novel analyses of cognition, breaking down behaviour into elements invisible at the behavioural level. For example, the question of whether different arithmetic operations show different speed and accuracy profiles is the result of different efficiency levels within one cognitive system versus the use of different cognitive systems.\n\nReductionist Theories: Applying neuroscience terminology and theory to educational practice is a reduction and is of no practical use to educators. Nothing is gained be redescribing a behavioural deficit in neuroscientific terms. Varma et al. point out that reductionism is a mode by which sciences are unified, and that the co-opting of neuroscience terminology does not necessitate the elimination of education terminology, it simply provides the opportunity for interdisciplinary communication and understanding.\n\nPhilosophy: Education and neuroscience are fundamentally incompatible, because attempting to describe behavioural phenomena in the classroom by describing physical mechanisms of the individual brain is logically wrong. However, neuroscience may help to resolve internal conflicts within education resulting from differing theoretical constructs and terminologies used within subfields of education by providing a measure of uniformity with regards to results reporting.\n\nCosts: Neuroscience methods are highly expensive, and the expected outcomes do not justify the costs. However, Varma et al. point out that educationally relevant neuroscience may attract addition funding to education research rather than usurping resources. The essential claim of educational neuroscience is that the two fields are interdependent and that a portion of the funding allocated collectively to the two fields should be directed towards shared questions.\n\nTiming: Neuroscience, while expanding rapidly, is still in relative infancy with regards to the non-invasive study of healthy brains, and thus education researchers should wait until more data is collected and distilled into succinct theories. Contrary to this, Varma et al. argue that some success is already evident. For example, studies examining the success of dyslexia remediation programmes have been able to reveal the impact of these programmes on the brain networks supporting reading. This in turn leads to the generation of new research questions.\n\nControl: If education allows neuroscience in the door, theories will increasingly be cast in terms of neural mechanisms and debates will rely increasingly on neuroimaging data. Neuroscience will cannibalise resources and education research will lose its independence. Varma et al. argue that the assumption of an asymmetric relationship between the two fields is unnecessary. Education has the potential to influence neuroscience, directing future research into complex forms of cognition and education researchers can help Educational Neuroscience to avoid naïve experiments and repetition of earlier mistakes.\n\nNeuromyths: Thus far most of the neuroscience findings applied to education have turned out to be neuromyths, irresponsible extrapolations of basic research to education questions. Furthermore, such neuromyths have escaped beyond academia and are being marketed directly to teachers, administrators and the public. Varma et al. respond that the existence of neuromyths reveals a popular fascination with brain function. Appropriate translation of educational neuroscience results and well established collaborative research can decrease the likelihood of neuromyths.\n\nResearchers such as Katzir & Pareblagoev and Cacioppo & Berntson (1992) argue that as well as neuroscience informing education, the educational research approach can contribute to the development of new experimental paradigms in neuroscience research. Katzir and Pareblagoev (2006) suggest the example of dyslexia research as a model of how this bidirectional collaboration might be achieved. In this case, theories of reading processes have guided both the design and interpretation of neuroscience research, but the existing theories were developed primarily from behavioural work. The authors suggest that the establishment of theories, which delineate required skills and subskills for educationally relevant tasks, is an essential requirement for educational neuroscience research to be productive. Furthermore, such theories need to suggest empirically testable connections between educationally relevant behaviours and brain function.\n\nKurt Fischer, director of Harvard University’s Mind, Brain and Education graduate program states \"One of the reasons there is so much junk out there is that there are so few people who know enough about education and neuroscience to put the thing together\". Educators have been reliant upon others’ expertise for the interpretations from Neuroscience hence have not been able to discern whether the claims made are valid or invalid representations of the research. Without a direct access to the primary research educators may be at risk of misusing results from neuroscience research. The need for so called ‘middlemen’ in the translation of research to practice has led to a situation where the application of cognitive neuroscience research findings is running ahead of the research itself.\n\nIn order to negate the need for middlemen, some researchers have suggested the need to developed a group of \"neuro-educators\", a specially trained class of professionals whose role would be to guide the introduction of cognitive neuroscience into educational practice in a \"sensible and ethical manner\". Neuro-educators would play a pivotal role in assessing the quality of evidence purporting to be relevant to education, assessing who is best placed to employ newly developed knowledge, and with what safeguards, and how to deal with unexpected consequences of implemented research findings.\n\nByrnes & Fox (1998) have suggested that developmental psychologists, educational psychologists and teachers generally fall into one of four orientations with respect to neuroscientific research \"(1) those who readily accept (and sometimes over interpret) the results of neuroscientific studies; (2) those who completely reject the neuroscientific approach and consider the results of neuroscientific studies meaningless; (3) those who are unfamiliar with and indifferent toward, neuroscientific research; and (4) those who cautiously accept neuroscientific findings as being a proactive part of the total pattern of findings that have emerged from different corners of the cognitive and neural sciences\". Greenwood (2009) suggests that as the body of knowledge available to educators increases, and the ability to be expert in all areas diminishes, the most productive standpoint would the fourth outlined by, that of cautious acceptance of neuroscientific findings and proactive collaboration.\n\nBennett & Rolheiser-Bennett (2001) point out that \"teachers must be aware of and act on the science within the art of teaching\". They suggest that educators must become aware of other methods and incorporate them into their practice. Furthermore, Bennett and Rolheiser-Bennett suggest that specific bodies of knowledge will play an important role in informing educators when making important decisions with regards to the \"design of learning environments\". The bodies of knowledge discussed include multiple intelligences, emotional intelligences, learning styles, the human brain, children at risk and gender. As the authors explain these and other areas are just \"lenses designed to extend teachers’ understanding of how students learn, and from that understanding, to make decisions about how and when to select, integrate, and enact items in the … list\".\n\nMason supports calls for a two-way constructive collaboration between neuroscience and education, whereby, rather than neuroscience research simply being applied to education, findings from neuroscience research would be used to constrain educational theorizing. In return, education would influence the types of research questions and experimental paradigms used in neuroscience research. Mason also gives the example that while pedagogical practice in the classroom may give rise to educational questions regarding the emotional bases of performance on school tasks, neuroscience has the potential to reveal the brain basis of higher-order thinking processes and thus may help to understand the role that emotion plays in learning and open new areas of study of emotional thought in the classroom.\n\nThe term \"neuromyths\" was first coined by an OECD report on understanding the brain. The term refers to the translation of scientific findings into misinformation regarding education. The OECD report highlights three neuromyths for special attention, although several others have been identified by researchers such as Usha Goswami.\n\n\nThe idea that the two hemispheres of the brain may learn differently has virtually no grounding in neuroscience research. The idea has arisen from the knowledge that some cognitive skills appear differentially localised to a specific hemisphere (e.g., language functions are typically supported by left hemisphere brain regions in healthy right handed people). However, massive amount of fibre connections link the two hemispheres of the brain in neurologically healthy individuals. Every cognitive skill that has been investigated using neuroimaging to date employs a network of brain regions spread across both cerebral hemispheres, including language and reading, and thus no evidence exists for any type of learning that is specific to one side of the brain.\n\nThe critical periods neuromyth is an overextension of certain neuroscience research findings (see above) primarily from research into the visual system, rather than cognition and learning. Although sensory deprivation during certain time periods can clearly impede the development of visual skills, these periods are sensitive rather than critical, and the opportunity for learning is not necessarily lost forever, as the term \"critical\" implies. While children may benefit from certain types of environmental input, for example, being taught a second language during the sensitive period for language acquisition, this does not mean that adults are unable to acquire foreign language skills later in life.\n\nThe idea of critical periods comes primarily from the work of Hubel and Wiesel. Critical periods generally coincide with periods of excess synapse formation, and end at around the same time that synaptic levels stabilise. During these periods of synaptic formation, some brain regions are particularly sensitive to the presence or absence of certain general types of stimuli. There are different critical periods within specific systems, e.g. visual system has different critical periods for ocular dominance, visual acuity and binocular function as well as different critical periods between systems, for example, the critical period for the visual system appears to end around the age of 12 years, while that for acquiring syntax ends around 16 years.\n\nRather than talking of a single critical period for general cognitive systems, neuroscientists now perceive sensitive periods of time during which the brain is most able to be shaped in a subtle and gradual fashion. Furthermore, critical periods themselves may be divided into three phases. The first, rapid change, followed by continued development with the potential for loss or deterioration, and finally a phase of continued development during which the system can recover from deprivation.\n\nAlthough there is evidence for sensitive periods, we do not know whether they exist for culturally transmitted knowledge systems such as educational domains like reading and arithmetic. Further, we do not know what role synaptogenesis plays in the acquisition of these skills.\n\nThe enriched environment argument is based on evidence that rats raised in complex environments perform better on maze tasks and have 20-25% more synaptic connections than those raised in austere environments. However, these enriched environments were in laboratory cages, and did not come close to replicating the intensely stimulating environment a rat would experience in the wild. Furthermore, the formation of these additional connections in response to novel environmental stimuli occurs throughout life, not just during a critical or sensitive period. For example, skilled pianists show enlarged representations in the auditory cortex relating specifically to piano tones, while violinists have enlarged neural representations for their left fingers. Even London taxi drivers who learn the London street map in intense detail develop enlarged formations in the part of the brain responsible for spatial representation and navigation. These results show that the brain can form extensive new connections as the result of focused educational input, even when this input is received solely during adulthood. Greenough’s work suggests a second type of brain plasticity. Whereas synaptogenesis and critical periods relate to experience-expectant plasticity, synaptic growth in complex environments relates to \"experience-dependent\" plasticity. This type of plasticity is concerned with environment specific learning, and not to features of the environment that are ubiquitous and common to all members of the species, such as vocabulary.\n\nExperience dependent plasticity is important because it does potentially link specific learning and brain plasticity, but it is relevant throughout the lifetime, not just in critical periods. \"Experience-expectant plasticity\", suggests that the environmental features necessary for fine tuning sensory systems are ubiquitous and of a very general nature. These kinds of stimuli are abundant in any typical child's environment. Thus, experience-expectant plasticity does not depend on specific experiences within a specific environment, and therefore cannot provide much guidance in choosing toys, preschools, or early childcare policies. The link between experience and brain plasticity is intriguing. No doubt learning affects the brain, but this relationship does not offer guidance on how we should design instruction.\n\nBruer also warns of the dangers of enriching environments on the basis of socio-economic value systems, and warns of a tendency to value typically middle class pursuits as more enriching than those associated with a working class lifestyle, when there is no neuroscientific justification for this.\n\nIn addition some critics of the Educational Neuroscience approach have highlighted limitations in applying the understanding of early physiological brain development, in particular synaptogenesis to educational theory.\n\nSynaptogenesis research has primarily been carried out on animals (e.g. monkeys and cats). Measures of synaptic density are aggregate measures, and it is known that different types of neuron within the same brain region differ in their synaptic growth rates [70]. Secondly, the purported \"critical period\" of birth to three years is derived from research on rhesus monkeys, who reach puberty at the age of three, and assumes that the period of synaptogenesis in humans exactly mirrors that of monkeys. It may be more reasonable to assume that this period of neural growth actually lasts until puberty, which would mean until early teenage years in humans.\n\nPeriods of intense synaptogenesis are typically correlated with the emergence of certain skills and cognitive functions, such as visual fixation, grasping, symbol use and working memory. However, these skills continue to develop well after the period that synaptogenesis is thought to end. Many of these skills continue to improve even after synaptic density reaches adult levels, and thus the most we can say is that synaptogenesis may be necessary for the emergence of these skills, but it cannot account entirely for their continued refinement. Some other form of brain change must contribute to ongoing learning.\n\nAdditionally, the types of cognitive changes usually seen to correlate with synaptogenesis revolve around visual, tactile, movement and working memory. These are not taught skills but rather skills that are usually acquired independent of schooling, even though they may support future learning. How these skills relate to later school learning is, however, unclear. We know that synaptogenesis occurs, and that the pattern of synaptogenesis is important for normal brain function. However, what is lacking is the ability of neuroscience to tell educators what sort of early childhood experiences might enhance children’s cognitive capacities or educational outcomes.\n\nThe idea that a person can have a \"male\" brain or \"female\" brain is a misinterpretation of terms used to describe cognitive styles by when attempting to conceptualise the nature of cognitive patterns in people with autism spectrum disorder. Baron-Cohen suggested that while men were better \"systemisers\" (good at understanding mechanical systems), women were better \"empathisers\" (good at communicating and understanding others), therefore he suggested that autism could be thought of as an extreme form of the \"male brain\". There was no suggestion that males and females had radically different brains or that females with autism had a male brain.\n\nA common myth in the field of education is that individuals have different learning styles, such as 'visual' or 'kinesthetic'. Many individuals will state preferences for the way in which they want to learn, but there is no evidence that matching a teaching technique to a preferred style will improve learning, despite this hypothesis being tested multiple times. There may even be harms associated with the use of learning styles, wherein learners become 'pigeonholed', perceiving that they may not be suited to types of learning that are not matched to their 'learning style' (e.g. so-called visual learners may not wish to learn music). Despite this lack of evidence, a 2012 study demonstrated that a belief in the use of learning styles is widespread amongst teachers, and a 2015 study showed that the majority of research papers in higher education research mistakenly endorse the use of learning styles.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13527705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13527705", "title": "Harold Pinter and academia", "text": "Harold Pinter and academia\n\nHarold Pinter and academia concerns academic recognition of and scholarship pertaining to Harold Pinter, CH, CBE (1930–2008), English playwright, screenwriter, actor, director, poet, author, political activist, and the 2005 Nobel Laureate in Literature, at the time of his death considered by many \"the most influential and imitated dramatist of his generation.\"\n\nAmong the honours received during his lifetime, Pinter was the recipient of 20 honorary degrees or fellowships conferred by European and American academic institutions, and he was an Honorary Fellow of the Modern Language Association of America (MLA) (1970). In 2006 Pinter was elected a \"foreign member\" of the Department of Language and Literature of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SASA [SANU]), and he received the Serbian Foundation Prize and the St. George Plaque of the City of Kragujevac.\n\nAlthough, also due to illness, he had been unable to travel to Stockholm in December 2005 to receive his Nobel Prize and to deliver his Nobel Lecture in person, presenting it on videotape instead, Pinter did travel to Turin, Italy, in March 2006, to accept the Europe Theatre Prize; there he was the subject of an international symposium, Pinter: Passion, Poetry, Politics, curated by his official, authorised biographer, Michael Billington, whose participants included \"distinguished\" academics from the United States and Europe.\n\nHe was the subject of two international academic conferences in March and April 2007. Viva Pinter: Hommage à Harold Pinter, Prix Nobel de Littérature 2005, Légion d'Honneur 2007, organised by Professor Brigitte Gauthier of the University of Lyon's Université Jean Moulin (Lyon 3), in Lyon, France, focused on connections between Pinter's support for human rights, his dramatic works, his poetry, and his films, hosting various events, including productions, panel discussions, and screenings for students, guests, and the public; it was held from 2 to 21 March 2007, with an international colloquium following from 22 to 24 March 2007.\n\nIn conjunction with Pinter's being awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters from the University of Leeds, School of English, on 13 April 2007, which he was able to accept in person, there was a three-day academic conference at the University's Workshop Theatre, co-sponsored by The Harold Pinter Society, held from 12 to 14 April. The honorary degree ceremony on the 13th was conducted by University Chancellor Lord Melvyn Bragg.\n\nIn the spring of 2008, in absentia, Pinter was awarded the Doctor Honoris Causa by the University of Kragujevac. On 23 June 2008, he was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters from the University of Cambridge, in absentia.\n\nOn 11 December 2008, the press media reported that Pinter received an honorary degree (an honorary fellowship) from the Central School of Speech and Drama (CSSD), in London, also in absentia, as he \"was forced to withdraw from the [honorary degree ceremony] event due to illness.\"\nIn October 2008, two months prior to his death on 24 December, Pinter also became honorary president of the Central School of Speech and Drama, a constituent college of the University of London, and received his 20th honorary award, from that institution, on 10 December 2008, in absentia because of illness.\n\nIn 1986, at an annual convention of the Modern Language Association (MLA), Steven H. Gale, who became the organisation's first president, brought together several American academic scholars to form The Harold Pinter Society, which later became an Allied Organization of the MLA and an Associated Organization of the Midwest Modern Language Association (M/MLA). The Pinter Society is international in membership and scope, according to the masthead of \"The Pinter Review\" and the Society's \"Webpages\" (home page). According to the website of the \"International Pinter Society\", its members are \"dedicated to studying, celebrating, and appraising the works of this prolific and frequently enigmatic writer\" (home page). As an MLA Allied Organization, it organises \"a business meeting, programs in which scholars present papers, and related social events at the MLA annual convention.\" The home page also lists the officers of the Society: President Ann C. Hall (Ohio Dominican University); Vice-President Mark Taylor-Batty (University of Leeds), who designs and maintains the Society's website; and Treasurer Judith Roof (Rice University), who edits and distributes its newsletters to an electronic subscribers' mailing list. The most recent newsletters can be downloaded from the Society's website.\n\nMembers of The Harold Pinter Society and individual and institutional subscribers receive \"The Pinter Review\", whose founding co-editors are Francis Gillen (University of Tampa) and Steven H. Gale (Kentucky State University), an academic journal first published in conjunction with the Pinter Society by The University of Tampa Press in 1987.\n\n\"The Pinter Review\" became a collection of \"Annual Essays\" in 1989 and then a biennial book publication of \"Collected Essays\" in 1997 and 1998; it is published in both hardcover and softcover editions. Each issue or volume contains a bibliography of works, productions, and other events by and about Pinter compiled by Bibliographical Editor Susan Hollis Merritt.\n\nThe cover of \"The Pinter Review: Collected Essays 2003 and 2004\" (published by The University of Tampa Press in 2004) features Pinter's poems \"Meeting\" (August 2002) and \"After Lunch\" (September 2002), which, along with some of his other recent poetry, are both posted on his official website.\n\n\"The Pinter Review: Nobel Prize/Europe Theatre Prize Volume: 2005–2008\", a special \"celebratory\" volume edited by Francis Gillen with Steven H. Gale, was published by The University of Tampa Press in 2008. Gillen updated his introduction with an \"Editor's Note\" to account for Pinter's death, which occurred on 24 December 2008, \"While this volume was going to press\" (xi). Consisting of 347 pages, this special volume is \"dedicated to Harold Pinter—in celebration\" and to the memory of Gillen's late wife, Marie C. Gillen. Among its contributions, it includes: the \"Presentation Speech for the 2005 Nobel Prize in Literature\", by Per Wäsberg (3–5); Pinter's 2005 Nobel Lecture \"Art, Truth and Politics\" (6–17); and his May 2006 dramatic sketch \"Apart from That\" (18–19). The softcover edition and the dust jacket of the hardcover edition feature a photograph of \"p. 12\" of Pinter's handwritten manuscript of his 2005 Nobel Lecture. The volume's first page features the poem \"Grandpa\", written by Pinter's step-grandson Simon Soros between Christmas Eve and Christmas Day 2008, after Pinter's death (Driscoll); and the second page (opposite) features the poem \"To My Wife\", written by Pinter for Antonia Fraser in June 2004. The \"Harold Pinter Bibliography: 2002–2004\" (262–343), compiled by Susan Hollis Merritt, includes a \"\"Special Supplement on the 2005 Nobel Prize in Literature, October 2005 – May 2006\".\"\n\nThe University of Leeds's Workshop Theatre hosted Artist and Citizen: 50 Years of Performing Pinter, organised by Senior Lecturer in Theatre Studies Mark Taylor-Batty, for the Harold Pinter Society. From 12 to 14 April 2007, the conferees celebrated the 50th anniversary of the first production of Harold Pinter's first play, \"The Room\". On 13 April Pinter was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters from the School of English by University Chancellor Melvyn Bragg. Invited guests included: Harold Pinter, Henry Woolf, reprising his original role as Mr. Kidd in a revival of \"The Room\" and his performance as the Man in \"Monologue\" (1980); Michael Billington, leading a roundtable discussion on \"Working with Pinter\" with composer James Clarke, visiting playwright in residence Donald Freed, and Pinter directors Katie Read and Ian Rickson; and plenary speakers Steven H. Gale and Susan Hollis Merritt.\n\nThe conference poster features a photograph of a portrait of Harold Pinter by artist Amy Shuckburgh. The portrait (\"pastel and acrylic on wood, 2006\") was on display at the Workshop Theatre during the conference, displayed later at Trafalgar Studios, during Harry Burton's production of \"The Dumb Waiter\", and also \"reproduced in the programmes for The Dumb Waiter; the touring production of Old Times; Betrayal at the Donmar Warehouse; and The Hothouse at the National Theatre, London.\"\n\nFollowing the honorary degree ceremony, on the evening of 13 April 2007, the Free Theatre, of Minsk, Belarus, where several of its members have been censored, imprisoned, and \"under attack\" by the authorities, performed their \"collage\" of Pinter's work \"Being Harold Pinter\", introduced by \"their patron\" Sir Tom Stoppard, receiving strong notices from Billington and his colleagues; Pinter participated in the post-performance discussion with the company through a Belarusian-English interpreter. After Pinter added his support to recommendations by Tom Stoppard, Václav Havel, and Arthur Kopit, the European Theatre Convention invited the Belarus Free Theatre to become a member, waiving the membership fee.\n\nGoldsmiths College, University of London, inaugurated its Pinter Centre in June 2003, installing Harold Pinter as its honorary president. Directed by Professor of Drama Robert Gordon, it is \"an interdisciplinary research centre, involving principally the Departments of English & Comparative Literature and of Drama, the latter organising and hosting the Centre, and with links in Media and Communications, Music, PACE and the Digital Studios.\" Consistent with \"Pinter's keen awareness of the centrality of political issues\", according to its mission statement, the Pinter Centre \"is particularly committed to looking at postcolonial and diasporic literature and performance, and the ways in which contemporary creativity is forging new forms that respond to the cultural diversity of the world in which we live. It also has a strong interest in questions of gender, and writing and performing the body.\"\n\nThe section on the Pinter Centre in \"Introducing the Department of Drama\", part of a document on \"Drama\" published by Goldsmiths, observes that \"The Department of Drama founded the Pinter Centre in 2003 as an interdisciplinary research centre dedicated to performance research\"; after it \"widened its remit to embrace both performance and writing\", the Pinter Centre was renamed to include Creative Writing, \"becoming the focus for the many different writing courses and research activities concerned with writing and dramaturgy within Goldsmiths.\" Among its previous conferences and symposia, the Pinter Centre hosted \"an international conference\" on Stephen Sondheim: Collaborator and Auteur, in 2005, and, Ravenhill 10, \"a major conference to celebrate 10 years of work by the playwright Mark Ravenhill, in November 2006.\n\nThe Pinter Centre's official website (as periodically updated) provides news and a schedule of its upcoming events; information about its collaborative research project \"Beyond the Linear Narrative: Fractured Narratives in Writing and Performance in the Postcolonial era\"; \"The Pinter Centre Blog\" (\"a resource for anyone interested in the work and influence of Harold Pinter, post-colonial writing and performance, life writing and the future of the fractured narrative\", the focus of its Beyond the Linear Narrative project); \"In Memoriam: Harold Pinter\"; the \"Department of Drama\" at Goldsmiths; and related links.\n\n\"Harold Pinter: A Bibliographical History\", compiled by William Baker and John C. Ross, was published by the British Library and Oak Knoll Press in 2005. As a result of Pinter's winning the 2005 Nobel Prize in Literature, according to its publisher, the book, which \"provides a comprehensive account of the print-published writings, and texts in other media, which he has wholly or partly authored\", became an academic library best-seller.\n\nSusan Hollis Merritt provides an intensive analysis of the book in \"The Pinter Review: Nobel Prize/Europe Theatre Prize Volume\" (238–60; dust jacket).\n\nThe Harold Pinter Archive in the British Library is the literary archive of Harold Pinter, which Pinter had first placed \"on permanent loan\" in the British Library in September 1993 and which became a permanent acquisition in December 2007. On 11 December 2007 the British Library announced that it had purchased Pinter's literary archive for ₤1.1 million (approx. $2.24 million), augmenting its current \"Harold Pinter Archive\" of 80 boxes (\"Loan 110 A\"). It comprises \"over one hundred and fifty boxes of manuscripts, scrapbooks, letters, photographs, programmes, and emails\", constituting \"an invaluable resource for researchers and scholars of Pinter's work for stage, cinema, and poetry.\" The work of cataloguing the full archive, a process documented in the BL's official \"Harold Pinter Archive Blog\", was completed in December 2008 (before Pinter's death on the 24th), the description of its contents was uploaded to the BL \"Additional Manuscripts Online Catalogue\" on 2 February 2009, and then the archive was re-opened to qualified researchers and scholars.\n\nPinter satirises academics or intellectual \"distance\" in several of his plays, beginning with his character Edward, a scholarly writer, in \"A Slight Ache\" (1959) and continuing with Teddy, an English philosophy professor in an American university who refuses to become \"lost in it\", in \"The Homecoming\" (1965), and Devlin, an English academic, in \"Ashes to Ashes\" (1996).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53573494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53573494", "title": "History of early childhood care and education", "text": "History of early childhood care and education\n\nThe History of early childhood care and education (ECCE) refers to the development of care and education of children between birth and eight years old throughout history. ECCE has a global scope, and caring for and educating young children has always been an integral part of human societies. Arrangements for fulfilling these societal roles have evolved over time and remain varied across cultures, often reflecting family and community structures as well as the social and economic roles of women and men. Historically, such arrangements have largely been informal, involving family, household and community members. The formalization of these arrangements emerged in the nineteenth century with the establishment of kindergartens for educational purposes and day nurseries for care in much of Europe and North America, Brazil, China, India, Jamaica and Mexico.\n\nState-led expansion of ECCE services first emerged in the Russian Federation in the early twentieth century as part of the socialist project to foster equal participation of women and men in production and in public life, and to publicly provide education from the youngest possible age. This development extended to socialist or former socialist countries such as Cambodia, China and Viet Nam. France was another early starter having integrated pre-school into its education system as early as 1886 and expanded its provision in the 1950s. In real terms, the significant expansion of ECCE services began in the 1960s with the considerable growth in women's participation in the labour market and extensive developments in child and family policies in Europe and the United States of America.\n\nThe 1990s opened a new page in the history of the development of ECCE catalysed mainly by the rapid and successive ratification of the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). By its explicit mention of 'the child' – meaning every human being under the age of eighteen or majority – the CRC reinforced the 1960 UNESCO Convention and Recommendation against Discrimination in Education which should have covered young children in any case. With its moral force and near universal ratification, the CRC formally recognized children as holders of rights to survival and development, to be heard and to participate in decisions affecting them in accordance with their evolving capacities with their best interests and non-discrimination as overarching principles. While the CRC in Article 18 also recognizes the primary role of parents and legal guardians in the upbringing and development of children, it obliges States Parties to help them carry out these duties.\n\nThe second boost to the development of ECCE was the adoption of the World Declaration on Education for All (EFA) in March 1990 in Jomtien, Thailand. Reflecting General Comment 7, the Jomtien Declaration explicitly stated that 'learning begins at birth', and called for 'early childhood care and initial education' (Article 5). This novel recognition of ECCE as an integral part of basic education featured again in the major goals adopted at the 1990 UN World Summit for Children. Ten years later, in 2000, this expanded vision of basic education was rearmed in the Dakar Framework for Action on EFA, adopted at the World Education Forum as the first of the six EFA goals: 'Expanding and improving comprehensive ECCE especially for the most vulnerable and disadvantaged children'. Regrettably, unlike other EFA goals, this was stated as a broad and aspirational goal without numerical targets or clear benchmarks.\n\nECCE was further reinforced by the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), albeit only partially. Adopted at the UN Millennium Summit in 2000, two of the MDGs had direct relevance to early childhood development: (i) improving maternal health, with the targets of reducing the maternal mortality rates by three-quarters and providing universal access to reproductive health (MDG4), and (ii) reducing the under-five mortality rate by two-thirds between 1990 and 2015 (MDG5). Thus, the child and maternal health aspects of ECCE became part and parcel of a global 'effort to meet the needs of the world's poorest' while childcare and early education aspects were left out.\n\nIn recent decades, ECCE has further received attention from diverse stakeholders including research communities, civil society and intergovernmental organizations which furthered understanding of its holistic and multisectoral nature. Research continues to document the multifaceted development benefits of ECCE for health, education, social and emotional well-being, social equity and cohesion, the economy, employment and earnings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10096030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10096030", "title": "Informal education", "text": "Informal education\n\nInformal Education is a general term for education that can occur outside of a structured curriculum. Informal Education encompasses student interests within a curriculum in a regular classroom, but is not limited to that setting. It works through conversation, and the exploration and enlargement of experience. Sometimes there is a clear objective link to some broader plan, but not always. The goal is to provide learners with the tools he or she needs to eventually reach more complex material. It can refer to various forms of alternative education, such as: Unschooling or homeschooling, Autodidacticism (Self-teaching), Youth work, and Informal learning\n\nInformal Education consists of accidental and purposeful ways of collaborating on new information. It can be discussion based and focuses on bridging the gaps between traditional classroom settings and life outside of the classroom.\n\nPeople interpret information differently, and therefore a structured curriculum may not allow all learners to understand the information. Informal education is less controlled than the average classroom setting, which is why informal education can be so powerful. Informal education can help individuals learn to react to and control different situations and settings. In addition, it combines social entities that are important for learning. Informal Education may be viewed as the learning that comes as a part of being involved in youth and community organizations. This type of education is a spontaneous process, which helps people to learn information in a new way. It helps to cultivate communities, associations and relationships that make for a positive learning environment.\n\n\n\n\nInformal Education focuses on values. There is no curriculum or guiding plan for a lot of work.\n\nInformal education has been the practice of indigenous communities in Africa as long as people have lived there. The tradition of African education has long been closely intertwined with the daily life of the African people with the idea that children \"learnt what they lived\". The philosophy of traditional African education suggests that one’s education cannot be separated from the everyday life and the “curriculum” is thus considered “a way of life” with the ultimate goal being to create a \"complete individual, [and] a lifelong learner\". The knowledge and practices that are important to the community are generally passed down through the sharing of memories and participation in cultural activities. Their education system serves as “the information base for the community, which facilitates communication and decision-making”. Similar to other indigenous communities such as the Chillihuani in Peru, African education is created with goals in mind but is not limited to typical classroom settings; students continually participate in various learning activities as they grow in the community.\n\nThe culture within traditional African communities contain methods of learning. Through song and dance children learn more about their language as well as how to read and write. Oral traditions are used to teach children about history and morals as well as other forms of culture and practical skills for survival. In northern Tanzania and southern Kenya, the children of the Maasai pastoralists learn skills such as \"where to find water and green shrubs that can be fed to young calves\" in case of drought. Children are encouraged to show respect to their elders and through this, children learn how to show respect though their actions and words. A child can even learn the circumstances of their birth through their names. \"Onipede,\" a Yoruba name in Nigeria, suggests that the child was born soon after the death of a family member. Through their traditional science, children learn how to contribute to health and food production. everything that is a part of their life is used as a means to learn about themselves, their communities, and their culture.\n\nIf a person masters a skill by becoming deeply engaged in solving a problem, then giving students real world issues or opportunities to solve problems in their own lives and communities would significantly motivate and help them to master new concepts. Teaching students new scientific concepts by using cultural tools could eliminate the time spent trying to figure out whether concepts are useful or not. This may motivate learners and help them to master what we teach from the start. If we applied english and grammar lessons to effectively communicate with others in the community, students would be more inclined to effectively master these concepts since they would be using them for individual or group purposes. Finally, formal schooling, unlike an informal school setting, discourages students from learning and problem solving on their own.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44329703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44329703", "title": "Institución Libre de Enseñanza", "text": "Institución Libre de Enseñanza\n\nLa Institución Libre de Enseñanza (ILE) or \"The Free Educational Institution\" was an educational project that developed in Spain for the half a century of about 1876–1936. The institute was inspired by the philosophy of Krausism which was first introduced to the Complutense University of Madrid by Julián Sanz del Río, and which (despite being subsequently ejected from that university) had a significant impact on the renovation of the intellectual life within the Spanish culture of the time.\n\nThe institution was founded in 1876 by a group of disaffected university professors including Francisco Giner de los Ríos, Gumersindo Azcarate, Teodoro Sainz Rueda and Nicolás Salmerón among others who distanced themselves from the main university campus of Madrid to achieve academic freedom. They declined to adjust their teaching to any official religious dogma or the moral and political imposition of the time. Consequently, they had to continue their educational work outside the state sector by creating a secular private educational institution, starting with university level instruction and later extending their activities to primary and secondary education.\n\nThey supported and seconded the intellectual ideas of Joaquín Costa, Leopoldo Alas (Clarín), José Ortega y Gasset, Gregorio Marañón, Ramón Menéndez Pidal, Antonio Machado, Joaquín Sorolla, Augusto González Linares, Santiago Ramón y Cajal and Federico Rubio, among others who were involved in educational, cultural and social renewal.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the political model of Antonio Cánovas del Castillo whose idea was to secure a fundamentalist nation as ordained by the divine will, which project was to be implemented in 1875 by \"Royal Decree issued by education minister Manuel Orovio Echagüe. This regulation severely limited academic freedom in Spain \"if it went against the tenets of faith\" meaning the contemporary and deeply conservative (Roman Catholicism in Spain).\n\nFrom 1881, these professors migrated to the independent ILE and were to train Manuel Bartolomé Cossio, who was to succeed Giner in leading the institution, as well as Ricardo Rubio, Pedro Blanco Suárez, Angel do Rego, Joseph Ontañón Arias, Pedro Jiménez-Landi, among many others who nurtured the project.\n\nSuch alumni ensured a future in which the institution became the foremost Spanish cultural epicenter promoting the most advanced contemporary educational and scientific theories from around the world until finally it was stalled by the Spanish Civil War in 1936 following which all such progressive education was destroyed by the ultra-conservative Francoist regime.\n\nThe list of contributors published in \"The Bulletin of the Free Institution of Education \" included Bertrand Russell, Henri Bergson, Charles Darwin, John Dewey, Santiago Ramón y Cajal, Miguel de Unamuno, Montessori, Leo Tolstoy, H. G. Wells, Rabindranath Tagore, Juan Ramón Jiménez, Gabriela Mistral, Benito Perez Galdos, Emilia Pardo Bazán, Azorin Eugenio d'Ors or Ramón Pérez de Ayala, some of them closely linked to the institution, such as Julián Sanz del Río, Demófilo and children Antonio Machado and Manuel Machado, Julio Rey Pastor, Constancio Bernaldo de Quirós, Luis Simarro, Nicholas Achúcarro, Francisco Barnes Salinas or Portuguese Alice Pestana.\n\nThe ILE began to critically investigate the Spanish past, and from it emerged the Center for Historical Studies led by the founder of the Spanish philological school, Ramón Menéndez Pidal as well as contact centers for artistic and scientific elites with the European avant-garde movement, notably the Residencia de estudiantes led by Alberto Jiménez Fraud) and the \"Junta para la Ampliación de Estudios\" (Board for Advanced Studies and Scientific Research), organized by José Castillejo.\n\nThe poetical movement Generation of '27 was, in a way, an emanation of the ILE intended to attain Spanish cultural and scientific harmony with Europe shortly before modernization was halted by the Spanish Civil War, after which all progressive educational assets were confiscated and its proponents into exile by Francoist Spain. Those who remained faced censorship, persecution and ridicule, as it was considered unpatriotic and antihispánic by their detractors. Abroad, exiles were dispersed throughout Europe and Latin America, moving to different countries and thus cross-fertilizing the cultural and progressive ideas throughout the western world.\n\nFollowing the Spanish transition to democracy about 1978, when the legal process of recovering the legacy of the institution began, ILE funds have been managed by the \" Fundación Francisco Giner de los Ríos \" created for that purpose.\n\nThe influence of the ILE was instrumental in getting the transitional Spanish government to undertake a series of necessary reforms in the legal, educational and social fields. Agencies such as \"The National Pedagogical Museum\" and \"The Board for Advanced Scientific Studies and Research\" were created o send students to study on scholarship abroad.\n\nThe \"Center for Historical Studies\" mentioned above, together with \"The National Institute of Physics and Natural Science\" and the \" Residencia de Estudiantes\", established in Calle Pinar, Madrid, became hotbeds of writers and artists in which Albert Einstein gave lectures in Spain in 1923.\n\nAttempts at educational reform crystallized between 1907–1936 via pioneering initiatives such as the School Institute, school holiday camps, the \"International Summer School at the University of Santander\" as well as various educational missions which operated under the auspices of the Second Spanish Republic in order to disseminate education and culture in remote and rural settlements throughout Spain\n\nAbout a year after his death in 1915, followers of Francisco Giner de los Ríos established a foundation bearing his name to ensure the continuity of the ILE and pursue its educational objectives. The Foundation published the \" Complete Works \" of Francisco Giner, between 1916 and 1936.\n\nThere are still schools that are linked to the current Foundation Giner de los Ríos, and continue to provide, with certain variations, the educational model of the ILE like the Colegio Estudio, founded in 1940 by Jimena Menéndez Pidal, Angels Gasset and Carmen Garcia Right, which helped to educate known Spanish intellectuals and politicians; later also similar private institutions emerged, like Colegio Base and Colegio Estilo. Colegio Estilo was founded in 1959 by Spanish writer Josefina Aldecoa. \n\nOne of the more curious effects of the ILE is the College Fingoy in the city of Lugo, which was founded in the teeth of Filangist opposition in 1950 by Antonio Fernández López , a businessman and philanthropist of Galicia, with intention to develop the ideas of the Free Institution of Education in Franco's Spain.\n\nAntonio Fernández López had experienced the Residencia de estudantes sponsored by The Board of Advanced Studies in Madrid during the nineteen twenties and thirties. Returning to his native Galicia, he decided to promote a study center with the same principles in the city of Lugo for the education of his 12 children as well as his siblings Manuel and Conchita.\n\nCollege Fingoy was only the second mixed (boys + girls) school to be opened in Franco's Spain and the agriculture classes, theater, music and dance were held the Galician language. during the early years it was led by Ricardo Carvalho Calero, a university professor and Galician intellectual who was victimized by the Franco regime.\n\nCollege Fingoy also featured class intellectuals and Galician artists such as the poet Xosé Luís Méndez Ferrín, former President of the Royal Galician Academy, Bernardino Grana or painter Pacios. He also created the Center for Studies and experience Fingoy the Barreiros Farm, governed by the same ILE principles.\n\nThe initiation was mainly from men who, in one way or another, gathered around Giner after his return to the university in 1881 after his 1875 expulsion. They included Manuel Bartolomé Cossio, Joaquín Costa, Leopoldo Alas (Clarín), Alfredo Calderon, Eduardo Soler, Messia Jacinto Adolfo Posada, Pedro Dorado Montero, Aniceto Sela, Rafael Altamira, and others.\n\nGiner called the acolytes of the ILE his \"children\" who included Julian Besteiro, Pedro Corominas, José Manuel Pedregal, Martin Navarro Flores, Constancio Bernaldo Quiros, Manuel and Antonio Machado, Domingo Barnés, José Castillejo, Gonzalo Jimenez de la Espada, Luis de Zulueta Fernando de los Rios, and others.\n\nThose born between 1880 and 1890, are recognized as the \"grandchildren\" of Giner; usually mentioned among the star pupils are José Pijoán, Juan Ramón Jiménez, Francisco Ribera Pastor, José Ortega y Gasset, Américo Castro, Gregorio Marañón Manuel García Morente, Lorenzo Luzuriaga, Paul Azcarate, Alberto Jiménez Fraud, etc.\n\nThe founding 200 shareholders abandoned first proposed ILE headquarters in the Paseo de la Castellana since occupied by the Military School and rented instead an apartment in Calle Esparteros 9, (currently renumbered as Nº. 11), and subsequently relocated to Infantas Nº. 42 before moving again th Paseo del Oblisco Nº. 8 (since 1914 known as Paseo del General Martínez Campos Nº.14 & Nº16)\n\nThe building block included a garden, in what was then the outskirts of Madrid, and was much more suited to the educational concept of the institution. In 1908 the site was further developed with the construction of \"Pavilion Giner\" and \"Soler Hall.\"\n\nAt the time of the Spanish Civil War The building was heavily damaged and looted, and even underwent a symbolic destruction of trees by a group of Falangist extremist thugs (only a century old acacia and privet were saved). In 1940 the site was seized and attached to the Ministry of Education, refitted (1942) and reopened (1945) as \"School Group Joaquin Sorolla\" (close to the present Sorolla Museum). After 1955 its premises were used as headquarters of the School Food Service.\n\nAfter the Transition, the facility was briefly opened as the \"Eduardo Marquina National College\" (1980–1985); but was finally allocated to the Free Institution of Education in 1982. Recent rehabilitation reforms have meant that the ILE now has state-of-the-art buildings \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312628", "title": "Ivory tower", "text": "Ivory tower\n\nThe term ivory tower originates in the Biblical \"Song of Solomon \"(7:4) and was later used as an epithet for Mary. From the 19th century, it has been used to designate an environment of intellectual pursuit disconnected from the practical concerns of everyday life. Practically speaking, it means being disconnected from the reality of the everyday life of average people because one has spent too much of their time in intellectual pursuits. A person coming from an ivory tower has difficulty judging the actions of people and life in general outside of their environment. In American English usage it is also used as shorthand for academia or the university.\n\nIn the Christian tradition, the term \"ivory tower\" is used as a symbol for noble purity. It originates with the Song of Solomon (7:4) (\"Your neck is like an ivory tower\"; in the Hebrew Masoretic text, it is found in 7:5) and was included in the epithets for Mary in the sixteenth century Litany of the Blessed Virgin Mary (\"tower of ivory\", \"turris eburnea\" in Latin), though the title and image was in use long before that, since the 12th century Marian revival at least. It occasionally appears in art, especially in depictions of Mary in the hortus conclusus. Although the term is rarely used in the religious sense in modern times, it is credited with inspiring the modern meaning.\n\nThe first modern usage of \"ivory tower\" in the familiar sense of an unworldly dreamer can be found in a poem of 1837, \"Pensées d'Août, à M. Villemain\", by Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, a French literary critic and author, who used the term \"tour d'ivoire\" for the poetical attitude of Alfred de Vigny as contrasted with the more socially engaged Victor Hugo: \"Et Vigny, plus secret, Comme en sa tour d'ivoire, avant midi rentrait\". [And Vigny, the more secretive, like he was in his ivory tower, returning before midday].\n\nHenry James' last novel, \"The Ivory Tower\", was begun in 1914 and left unfinished at his death two years later. Paralleling James' own dismaying experience of the United States after twenty years away, it chronicles the effect on a high-minded returning upper-class American of the vulgar emptiness of the Gilded Age. \"You seem all here so hideously rich,\" says his hero. Thus, there are two meanings mixed together: mockery of an absent-minded savant and admiration of someone who is able to devote his or her entire efforts to a noble cause (hence \"ivory\", a noble but impractical building material). The term has a rather negative flavor today, the implication being that specialists who are so deeply drawn into their fields of study often can't find a lingua franca with laymen outside their \"ivory towers\".\n\nIn Andrew Hodges' biography of the Cambridge Scientist Alan Turing, he discusses Turing's 1936-38 stay at Princeton University and writes that \"[t]he tower of the Graduate College was an exact replica of Magdalen College, and it was popularly called the Ivory Tower, because of that benefactor of Princeton, the Procter who manufactured Ivory soap.\" William Cooper Procter (Princeton class of 1883) was a significant supporter of the construction of the Graduate College, and the main dining hall bears the Procter name. The skylines of Oxford and Cambridge universities, along with many Ivy League universities, are dotted with turrets and spires which are often described as 'Ivory Towers'.\n\nIn Randall Jarrell's essay 'The End of the Line' (1942), Jarrell asserts that if modern poetry is to survive then poets must come down from the \"Ivory Tower\" of elitist composition. Jarrell's main thrust is that the rich poetry of the modernist period was over-dependent upon reference to other literary works. For Jarrell the Ivory Tower led modern poetry into obscurity.\nAn ivory tower may also be an entity of \"reason, rationality and rigid structures [that] colonizes the world of lived experience,\" as explained by Kirsten J. Broadfoot in an article about the possibilities of postcolonial organizational communication. This imagined academic community creates an essence of exclusivity and superiority. Broadfoot explains this as a group that \"functions like an exclusive club whose membership is tightly controlled by what might be called a 'dominant frame.'\" In an academic sense, this leads to an \"overwhelming and disproportionate dominance\" of the United States and the Western world. The ivory tower can be dangerous, some believe, in its inherent privatization of knowledge and intellect. Academics who are seeking \"legitimacy for their narratives from the heart end up echoing the sanitized tone of the Master Narrative.\" This becomes a cyclical process as intellects collectively defend the \"imaginary ivory tower.\"\n\nWriters for Philadelphia's other newspapers sarcastically referred to the former headquarters of the establishment Philadelphia Inquirer, a white art deco tower called the Elverson Building, as the \"Ivory Tower of Truth.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2338213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2338213", "title": "Key Stage 5", "text": "Key Stage 5\n\nKey Stage 5 is a label used to describe the two years of education for students aged 16-18, or at sixth form, in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, aligning with previous Key Stages as labelled for the National Curriculum. \n\nKey Stage 5 is also the stage of education where students go through more intense and challenging courses in very specific subjects like mathematics and physics. This stage is the last stage of secondary education for members of sixth form. When A levels are achieved the students will be able to apply for university.\n\n"}
{"id": "217280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217280", "title": "Kindergarten", "text": "Kindergarten\n\nKindergarten (, ; from German , literally meaning 'garden for the children') is a preschool educational approach based on playing, singing, practical activities such as drawing, and social interaction as part of the transition from home to school. Such institutions were originally created in the late 18th century in Bavaria and Strasbourg to serve children whose parents both worked outside home. The term was coined by the German Friedrich Fröbel, whose approach globally influenced early-years education. Today, the term is used in many countries to describe a variety of educational institutions and learning spaces for children ranging from two to seven years of age, based on a variety of teaching methods.\nIn 1779, Johann Friedrich Oberlin and Louise Scheppler founded in Strasbourg an early establishment for caring for and educating pre-school children whose parents were absent during the day. At about the same time, in 1780, similar infant establishments were established in Bavaria. In 1802, Princess Pauline zur Lippe established a preschool center in Detmold, the capital of the then principality of Lippe, Germany (now in the State of North Rhine-Westphalia).\n\nIn 1816, Robert Owen, a philosopher and pedagogue, opened the first British and probably globally the first infants school in New Lanark, Scotland. In conjunction with his venture for cooperative mills Owen wanted the children to be given a good moral education so that they would be fit for work. His system was successful in producing obedient children with basic literacy and numeracy.\n\nSamuel Wilderspin opened his first infant school in London in 1819, and went on to establish hundreds more. He published many works on the subject, and his work became the model for infant schools throughout England and further afield. Play was an important part of Wilderspin's system of education. He is credited with inventing the playground. In 1823, Wilderspin published \"On the Importance of Educating the Infant Poor\", based on the school. He began working for the Infant School Society the next year, informing others about his views. He also wrote \"The Infant System, for developing the physical, intellectual, and moral powers of all children from 1 to seven years of age\".\n\nCountess Theresa Brunszvik (1775–1861), who had known and been influenced by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, was influenced by this example to open an \"Angyalkert\" (\"angel garden\" in Hungarian) on May 27, 1828, in her residence in Buda, the first of eleven care centers that she founded for young children. In 1836 she established an institute for the foundation of preschool centers. The idea became popular among the nobility and the middle class and was copied throughout the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nFriedrich Fröbel (1782–1852) opened a \"play and activity\" institute in 1837 in the village of Bad Blankenburg in the principality of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, Thuringia, as an experimental social experience for children entering school. He renamed his institute \"\" on June 28, 1840, reflecting his belief that children should be nurtured and nourished \"like plants in a garden\".\n\nWomen trained by Fröbel opened kindergartens throughout Europe and around the world. The first kindergarten in the US was founded in Watertown, Wisconsin in 1856 and was conducted in German by Margaretha Meyer-Schurz.\n\nElizabeth Peabody founded the first English-language kindergarten in the US in 1860. The first free kindergarten in the US was founded in 1870 by Conrad Poppenhusen, a German industrialist and philanthropist, who also established the Poppenhusen Institute. The first publicly financed kindergarten in the US was established in St. Louis in 1873 by Susan Blow.\n\nCanada's first private kindergarten was opened by the Wesleyan Methodist Church in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, in 1870. By the end of the decade, they were common in large Canadian towns and cities. The country's first public-school kindergartens were established in Berlin, Ontario (modern Kitchener), in 1882 T Central School). In 1885, the Toronto Normal School (teacher training) opened a department for kindergarten teaching.\n\nElizabeth Harrison wrote extensively on the theory of early childhood education and worked to enhance educational standards for kindergarten teachers by establishing what became the National College of Education in 1886.\n\nIn Afghanistan, children between the ages of 3 and 6 attend kindergartens (; ). Although kindergartens in Afghanistan are not part of the school system, they are often run by the government.\n\nEarly Childhood Development programs were first introduced during the Soviet occupation with the establishment in 1980 of 27 urban preschools, or kodakistan. The number of preschools grew steadily during the 1980s, peaking in 1990 with more than 270 in Afghanistan. At this peak, there were 2,300 teachers caring for more than 21,000 children in the country. These facilities were an urban phenomenon, mostly in Kabul, and were attached to schools, government offices, or factories. Based on the Soviet model, these Early Childhood Development programs provided nursery care, preschool, and kindergarten for children from 3 months to 6 years of age under the direction of the Department of Labor and Social Welfare.\n\nThe vast majority of Afghan families were never exposed to this system, and many of these families were in opposition to these programs due to the belief that it diminishes the central role of the family and inculcates children with Soviet values. With the onset of civil war after the Soviet withdrawal, the number of kindergartens dropped rapidly. By 1995, only 88 functioning facilities serving 2,110 children survived, and the Taliban restrictions on female employment eliminated all of the remaining centers in areas under their control. In 2007, there were about 260 kindergarten/pre-school centers serving over 25,000 children. Though every government center is required to have an early childhood center, at present, no governmental policies deal with early childhood and no institutions have either the responsibility or the capacity to provide such services.\n\nIn each state of Australia, \"kindergarten\" (frequently referred to as \"kinder\" or \"kindy\") means something slightly different. In Tasmania, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, it is the first year of primary school. In Victoria, kindergarten is a form of preschool and may be referred to interchangeably as preschool or kindergarten. In Victoria and Tasmania, the phrase for the first year of primary school is called \"Prep\" (short for \"preparatory\"), which is followed by grade 1. \n\nIn Queensland, kindergarten is usually an institution for children around the age of 4 and thus it is the precursor to preschool and primary education. In recent years though, Kindergartens have been taking children as young as 6 months old. \n\nThe year preceding the first year of primary school education in Western Australia, South Australia or the Northern Territory is referred to respectively as \"pre-primary\", \"reception\" or \"transition\".\n\nIn Bangladesh, the term \"kindergarten\", or \"KG School\" (Kindergarten School), is used to refer to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. The names of the levels are nursery, \"shishu\" (children), etc. But the view of kindergarten education has changed much from previous years. Almost every rural area now has at least one Kindergarten School, with most being run in the Bengali language. They also follow the textbooks published by the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) with a light modification, adding some extra books in syllabus. The grades generally start from Nursery (sometimes \"Play\"), \"KG\" afterwards, and ends with the 5th grade. Separate from the National Education System, kindergarten is contributing greatly toward achieving the Millennium Development Goal of universal primary education in Bangladesh.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the term \"detska gradina\" (деτска градина) refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 7 (in some cases 6) years of age. Since 2012, two years of pre-school education are compulsory. These two years of mandatory pre-school education may be attended either at kindergarten or in preparatory groups at primary schools.\n\nSchools outside of Ontario and the Northwest Territories generally provide one year of kindergarten, except some private schools offer junior kindergarten for 4-year-olds (school before kindergarten is most commonly referred to as pre-school). After kindergarten, the child begins grade one. The province of Nova Scotia refers to Kindergarten as Grade Primary.\n\nThe province of Ontario and the Northwest Territories provide two years of kindergarten. Within the province of Quebec, junior kindergarten is called \"prématernelle\" (which is not mandatory), is attended by 4-year-olds, and senior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\", which is also not mandatory by the age of 5, this class is integrated into primary schools. Within the French school system in the province of Ontario, junior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\" and senior kindergarten is called \"jardin d'enfants\", which is a calque of the German word \"Kindergarten\".\n\nIn Chile, the term equivalent to Kindergarten is \"\"Educación parvularia\", sometimes also called \"Educación Preescolar\". It is the first level of the Chilean educational system. It meets the needs of boys and girls integrally from their birth until their entry to the \"Educación Básica\" (Primary education), without being considered as compulsory. Generally, schools imparting this level, the JUNJI (National Council of Kindergarten Schools) and other private institutions have the following organization of groups or subcategories of levels:\n\nIn China, pre-school education, before the child enters formal schooling at 6 years of age, is generally divided into a \"nursery\" or \"preschool\" stage and a \"kindergarten\" (幼儿园 (yòu'éryuán) stage. These can be two separate institutions, or a single combined one in different areas. Where there are two separate institutions, it is common for the kindergarten to consist of the two upper years, and the preschool to consist of one lower year. Common names for these three years are:\n\nIn some places, children at 5-6 years may in addition or instead attend \"reception\" or \"preparatory\" classes (学前班/xué qián bān) focusing on preparing children for formal schooling.\n\nState (public) kindergartens only accept children older than 3 years, while private ones do not have such limitations.\n\nKindergarten is a day-care service offered to children from age three until the child starts attending school. Kindergarten classes (grade 0) are voluntary and are offered by primary schools before a child enters 1st grade.\n\nTwo-thirds of established day-care institutions in Denmark are municipal day-care centres while the other third are privately owned and are run by associations of parents or businesses in agreement with local authorities. In terms of both finances and subject-matter, municipal and private institutions function according to the same principles.\n\nDenmark is credited with pioneering (although not inventing) forest kindergartens, in which children spend most of every day outside in a natural environment.\n\nIn Egypt, children may go to kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn France, pre-school is known as ' (French for \"nursery school\", literally \"maternal school\"). Free ' schools are available throughout the country, welcoming children aged from 3 to 6 (although in many places, children under three may not be granted a place). The ages are divided into ' (GS: 5-year-olds), ' (MS: 4-year-olds), ' (PS: 3-year-olds) and ' (TPS: 2-year-olds). It is not compulsory, yet almost all children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Ministry of National Education.\n\nIn Germany, a ' (masculine: \"der\" Kindergarten, plural ') is a facility for the care of pre-school children who are typically at least three years old. By contrast, ' or ' refers to a crèche for the care of children before they enter ' (9 weeks to about three years), '—literally \"children's day site\", usually shortened to \"\"—is an umbrella term for any day care facility for pre-schoolers.\n\nAttendance is voluntary, and usually not free of charge. Pre-school children over the age of one are entitled to receive local and affordable daycare. Within the federal system, fall under the responsibility of the states, which usually delegate a large share of the responsibility to the municipalities. Due to the subsidiarity principle stipulated by §4 , there are a multitude of operators, from municipalities, churches and welfare societies to parents' initiatives and profit-based corporations. Many follow a certain educational approach, such as Montessori, Reggio Emilia, \" or Waldorf; forest kindergartens are well established. Most \" are subsidised by the community councils, with the fees depending on the income of the parents.\n\nEven in smaller townships, there are often both Roman Catholic and Lutheran kindergartens available. Places in crèches and kindergarten are often difficult to secure and must be 'reserved' in advance, although the situation has improved with a new law in effect August 2013. The availability of childcare, however, varies greatly by region. It is usually better in eastern regions, and in big cities in the north, such as Berlin or Hamburg, and poorest in parts of Southern Germany.\n\nAll caretakers in ' or ' must have a three-year qualified education, or are under special supervision during training.\n\n' can be open from 7am to 5pm or longer and may also house a crèche (') for children between the ages of eight weeks and three years, and possibly an afternoon ' (often associated with a primary school) for school-age children aged 6 to 10 who spend the time after their lessons there. Alongside nurseries, there are day-care nurses (' or \"\") working independently of any pre-school institution in individual homes and looking after only three to five children, typically up to the age of three. These nurses are supported and supervised by local authorities.\n\nThe term ' (\"pre-school\") is used both for educational efforts in ' and for a mandatory class that is usually connected to a primary school. Both systems are handled differently in each German state. The ' is a type of '.\n\nPre-primary Services in Hong Kong refers to provision of education and care to young children by kindergartens and child care centres. Kindergartens, registered with the Education Bureau, provide services for children from three to six years old. Child care centres, on the other hand, are registered with the Social Welfare Department and include nurseries, catering for children aged two to three, and creches, looking after infants from birth to two.\n\nAt present, most of the kindergartens operate on half-day basis offering upper, lower kindergarten classes and nursery classes. Some kindergartens operate full-day kindergarten classes too. Child care centres also provide full-day and half-day services with most centres providing full-day services.\n\nThe aim of pre-primary education in Hong Kong is to provide children with a relaxing and pleasurable learning environment to promote a balanced development of different aspects necessary to a child's development such as the physical, intellectual, language, social, emotional and aesthetic aspects.\n\nTo help establish the culture of self-evaluation in kindergartens and to provide reference for the public in assessing the quality and standard of pre-primary education, the Education Bureau has developed Performance Indicators for pre-primary institutions in Hong Kong. Commencing in the 2000/01 school year, Quality Assurance Inspection was launched to further promote the development of quality Early Childhood Education.\n\nIn Hungary a kindergarten is called an \"\" (\"place for caring\"). Children attend kindergarten between ages 3–6/7 (they go to school in the year in which they have their 7th birthday). Attendance in kindergarten is compulsory from the age of 3 years, though exceptions are made for developmental reasons. Though kindergartens may include programs in subjects such as foreign languages and music, children spend most of their time playing. In their last year, children begin to be prepared to attend elementary school.\n\nMost kindergartens are state-funded. Kindergarten teachers are required to have a diploma.\n\nIn India, there are only informal directives pertaining to pre-primary education, for which pre-primary schools and sections need no affiliation. Directives state that children who are three years old on 30 May in the given academic year are eligible to attend Nursery and Kindergarten classes. Typically, children spend 3 to 4 years of their time in pre-primary school after which they are eligible to attend 1st Standard in Primary School which falls under HRD ministry norms. Primary education is now compulsory in India, and accompanied with mid-day meals, in most parts of the country run by the government. Pre-primary is not mandatory, however preferred. All government schools and affiliated private schools allow children who are 5 years of age as of 30 May to enroll to standard 1 of a primary school.\n\nIn Italy, pre-school education refers to two different grades:\n\nItalian \" were officially instituted in a 1971 State Law (L. 1044/1971), and may be ruled by either private or public institutions. They were originally established to allow mothers a chance to work out of their homes, and were therefore seen as a social service. Today, they mostly serve the purpose of general education and social interaction. In Italy, much effort has been spent on developing a pedagogical approach to children's care: well known is the so-called Reggio Emilia approach, named after the city of Reggio Emilia, in Emilia-Romagna.\n\n' normally occupy small one-story buildings, surrounded by gardens; usually suitable for no more than 60 or 70 children. The heart of the ' are the classrooms, split into playroom and restroom; the playroom always has windows and doors leading to the outside playground and garden.\n\nMaternal schools (') were established in 1968 after State Law n. 444 and are a full part of the official Italian education system, though attendance is not compulsory. Like ' (nursery schools), maternal schools may be held either by public or private institutions.\n\nEarly childhood education begins at home, and there are numerous books and television shows aimed at helping mothers & fathers of preschool children to educate their children and to parent more effectively. Much of the home training is devoted to teaching manners, proper social behavior, and structured play, although verbal and number skills are also popular themes. Parents are strongly committed to early education and frequently enroll their children in preschools.\nKindergartens (幼稚園 yōchien), predominantly staffed by young female junior college graduates, are supervised by the Ministry of Education but are not part of the official education system. The 58% of kindergartens that are private accounted for 77% of all children enrolled. In addition to kindergartens, there exists a well-developed system of government-supervised day-care centers (保育園 hoikuen), supervised by the Ministry of Labor. Whereas kindergartens follow educational aims, preschools are predominantly concerned with providing care for infants and toddlers. Just as there are public and private kindergartens, there are both public and privately run preschools. Together, these two kinds of institutions enroll well over 90 percent of all preschool-age children prior to their entrance into the formal system at first grade. The Ministry of Education's 1990 Course of Study for Preschools, which applies to both kinds of institutions, covers such areas as human relationships, health, environment, language, and expression. Starting from March 2008 the new revision of curriculum guidelines for kindergartens as well as for preschools came into effect.\n\nIn South Korea, children normally attend kindergarten ( \"yuchi won\") between the ages of three or four and six or seven in the Western age system. (Korean ages are calculated differently from Western ages: when they are born they are considered one-year-olds, rather than one day old. Additionally, every January 1, everyone's age increases by one year regardless of when their birthday is. Hence in Korea, kindergarten children are called five-, six- and seven-year-olds.) The school year begins in March. It is followed by primary school. Normally the kindergartens are graded on a three-tier basis.\n\nKorean kindergartens are private schools, and monthly costs vary. Korean parents often send their children to English kindergartens to give them a head start in English. Such specialized kindergartens can be mostly taught in Korean with some English lessons, mostly taught in English with some Korean lessons, or completely taught in English. Almost all middle-class parents send their children to kindergarten.\n\nKindergarten programs in South Korea attempt to incorporate much academic instruction alongside more playful activities. Korean kindergartners learn to read, write (often in English as well as Korean) and do simple arithmetic. Classes are conducted in a traditional classroom setting, with the children focused on the teacher and one lesson or activity at a time. The goal of the teacher is to overcome weak points in each child's knowledge or skills.\n\nBecause the education system in Korea is very competitive, kindergartens are becoming more intensely academic. Children are pushed to read and write at a very young age. They also become accustomed to regular and considerable amounts of homework. These very young children may also attend other specialized afternoon schools, taking lessons in art, piano or violin, taekwondo, ballet, soccer or mathematics.\n\nIn Kosovo, kindergarten is known as \"Çerdhe\" or \"Kopshti i fëmijëve\", and they serve as Day Care Centers. There are public and private kindergartens, and they are for children under the age of 3. Children between 3–6 years old go to \"Institucione parashkollore\", which are different from the Day Care Centers, because here children start the basic learning process, and they serve as preparatory institutions for the Primary School. After the age of 6, children continue in Primary School. However, neither the Day Care Centers nor the Preparatory Institutions are mandatory.\n\nIn Kuwait, Kuwaiti children may go to free government kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn Luxembourg, a Kindergarten is called \"Spillschoul\" (literally \"Playschool\", plural \"Spillschoulen\"). It is a public education facility which is attended by children between the age of 4 (or 5) and 6 when they advance to the \"Grondschoul\" (elementary school).\n\nThe Macedonian equivalent of kindergarten is \"detska gradinka\" (), sometimes called \"zabavishte\" () when the kids are younger than 4 years. \"Detska gradinka\" is not part of the state's mandatory education, because the educational process in the country begins at the age of 5 or 6, i.e. first grade.\n\nIn Malaysia, kindergarten is known as \"\". Most kindergartens are available to children of ages five and six (and some are available to children as young as four). For children up to the age of three (or four), there are pre-school playgroups. There are no fixed rules for when a child needs to go to a kindergarten, but the majority will when the child turns 5 years old. The child will usually attend kindergarten for two years, before proceeding to primary school at age 7.\n\nIn Mexico, kindergarten is called \"kínder\", with the last year sometimes referred to as \"preprimaria\" (\"primaria\" is the name given to grades 1 through 6, so the name literally means \"prior to elementary school\"). The kindergarten system in Mexico was developed by professor Rosaura Zapata, who received the country's highest honor for her contribution. It consists of three years of pre-school education, which are mandatory before elementary school. Previous nursery is optional and may be offered in either private schools or public schools.\n\nAt private schools, kinders usually consist of three grades, and a fourth one may be added for nursery. The fourth one is called maternal. It goes before the other three years and is not obligatory. While the first grade is a playgroup, the other two are of classroom education.\n\nIn 2002, the Congress of the Union approved the \"Law of Obligatory Pre-schooling\", which made pre-school education for three to six-year-olds obligatory, and placed it under the auspices of the federal and state ministries of education.\n\nIn Mongolia, kindergarten is known as \"цэцэрлэг\" or \"tsetserleg\". As of September 2013, there are approximately 152 kindergartens registered in the country. From those 152 kindergartens, 142 are state owned. Children begin kindergarten at the age of 2 and finish it by 5. The education system before kindergarten in Mongolia is called \"ясль\", which accepts children between 0 and 2 years of age.\n\nIn Morocco, pre-school is known as \"école maternelle\", \"kuttab\", or \"ar-rawd\". State-run, free \"maternelle\" schools are available throughout the kingdom, welcoming children aged from 2 to 5 (although in many places, children under 3 may not be granted a place). It is not compulsory, yet almost 80% of children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Moroccan department of education.\n\nIn Nepal, kindergartens are run as private institutions, with their lessons conducted in English. The kindergarten education in Nepal is most similar to that of Hong Kong and India. Children start attending kindergarten from the age of 2 until they are at least 5 years old.\n\nThe kindergartens in Nepal have the following grades:\n\nIn the Netherlands, the equivalent term to kindergarten was '. From the mid-19th century to the mid-20th century the term ' was also common, after Friedrich Fröbel. However, this term gradually faded in use as the verb ' gained a slightly derogatory meaning in everyday language. Until 1985, it used to be a separate non-compulsory form of education (for children aged 4–6 years), after which children (aged 6–12 years) attended the primary school (\"lagere school\"). After 1985, both forms were integrated into one, called ' (Dutch for primary education). For children under 4, the country offers private, subsidized daycares (\"\"), which are noncompulsory but nevertheless very popular.\n\nIn New Zealand, kindergarten can refer to education in the 2 years preceding primary school, from age 3 to 4. Primary Education starts at age 5. \n\nIn Norway, \"barnehage\" (children garden) is the term equivalent to kindergarten, used for children in the ages between 10 months and 6 years. The first \"barnehager\" were founded in Norway in the late 19th century. Although they have existed for 120 years, they are not considered part of the education system. They are both publicly and privately owned and operated. The staff, at minimum the manager, should be educated as \"barnehagelærer\" (kindergarten teacher), previously known as \"førskolelærer\" (pre-school teachers). The children spend most of the time outdoors. There is also an institution called \"barnepark\" (children's park), which does not need to have certified staff.\n\nIn Peru, the term \"nido\" refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. It is followed by primary school classes, which last for six years. Some families choose to send their children to primary school at the age of 6. In 1902 the teacher Elvira Garcia and Garcia co-founder of the Society cited above, organized the first kindergarten for children 2 to 8 years old, Fanning annex to the Lyceum for ladies. Her studies and concern for children led her to spread through conferences and numerous documents, the importance of protecting children early and to respond to the formation of a personality based on justice and understanding, as well as the use of methods Fröbel and from Montessori and participation of parents in this educational task.\n\nIn the Philippines, education officially starts at the Elementary level and placing children into early childhood education through kindergarten is optional to parents. Early childhood education in the Philippines is classified into:\n\nEarly childhood education was strengthened through the creation of the Early Childhood Care and Development Act of 2000 (Republic Act No. 8980). In 2011, the Department of Education disseminated copies of the Kindergarten Education Act through Republic Act No. 10157 making it compulsory and mandatory in the entire nation. As a provision in this law, children under five years old are required to enroll in a kindergarten in any public elementary school in the country. This goes with the implementation of the K-12 system in the Basic Education Curriculum.\n\nIn Romania, ', which means \"little garden\", is the favored form of education for preschool children usually aged 3–6. The children are divided in three groups: \"little group\" (', age 3–4), \"medium group\" (', age 4-5) and \"big group\" (', age 5-6). In the last few years, private kindergartens have become popular, supplementing the state preschool education system. Kindergarten is optional. The \"preparatory school year\" (\"clasa pregătitoare\") is for children aged 6–7, and since it became compulsory in 2012, it usually takes place at school.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, (\"dyetskiy sad\", literal translation of \"children's garden\") is a preschool educational institution for children, usually 3 to 6 years of age.\n\nKindergartens (commonly known as creche) in South Africa provide from 0-6 years of age spent of preschool programs for children of all ages up to six. The one to three-year program, known as \"nursery\", \"kindergarten 1\" (K1), and \"kindergarten 2\" (K2), prepares children for their first year in primary school education. Some kindergartens further divide nursery into N1 and N2.\n\nIn Spain, kindergarten is called ', ' or ', and serves children from 3 to 6 years of age. It's commonly known by some people as '.\n\n1º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 0 to 3 years of age)\n2º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 3 to 6 years of age).\n\nKindergarten in Sudan is divided into private and public kindergarten. Preschool is compulsory in Sudan. The proper kindergarten age spans from 3–6 years. The curriculum covers Arabic, English, religion, mathematics and more.\n\nIn Sweden, kindergarten activities were established in the 19th century, and have been widely expanded since the 1970s. The first Swedish kindergarten teachers were trained by Henriette Schrader-Breymann at the Pestalozzi-Fröbel Haus, which she founded in 1882.\n\nWhile many public kindergartens and preschools exist in Taiwan, private kindergartens and preschools are also quite popular. Many private preschools offer accelerated courses in various subjects to compete with public preschools and capitalize on public demand for academic achievement. Curriculum at such preschools often encompasses subject material such as science, art, physical education and even mathematics classes. The majority of these schools are part of large school chains, which operate under franchise arrangements. In return for annual fees, the chain enterprises may supply advertising, curriculum, books, materials, training, and even staff for each individual school.\n\nThere has been a huge growth in the number of privately owned and operated English immersion preschools in Taiwan since 1999. These English immersion preschools generally employ native English speaking teachers to teach the whole preschool curriculum in an \"English only\" environment. The legality of these types of schools has been called into question on many occasions, yet they continue to prosper. Some members of Taiwanese society have raised concerns as to whether local children should be placed in English immersion environments at such a young age, and have raised fears that the students abilities in their mother language may suffer as a result. The debate continues, but at the present time, the market for English Immersion Preschools continues to grow.\n\nIn 2010, a total of 56% of children aged one to six years old had the opportunity to attend preschool education, the Education and Science Ministry of Ukraine reported in August 2010. Many preschools and kindergartens were closed previously in light of economic and demographic considerations.\n\nThe term kindergarten is rarely used in the UK to describe modern pre-school education or the first year(s) of compulsory primary school education. Pre-schools are usually known as creche, nursery schools or playgroups, while the first year of compulsory schooling is known as Reception in England, \"Dosbarth Derbyn\" in Welsh (\"reception class\") and Primary One in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Nursery forms part of the Foundation Stage of education. In the 1980s, England and Wales officially adopted the Northern Irish system whereby children start school either in the term or year in which they will become five depending on the policy of the local education authority. In Scotland, schooling becomes compulsory between the ages of 4½ and 5½ years, depending on their birthday (school starts in August for children who were 4 by the end of the preceding February).\n\nHowever, the word \"kindergarten\" is used for more specialist organisations such as forest kindergartens and is sometimes used in the naming of private nurseries that provide full-day child care for working parents. Historically the word was used during the nineteenth century when activists like Adelaide Manning were introducing educators to the work of Friedrich Fröbel.\n\nIn the UK, parents have the option of nursery for their children at the ages of three or four years, before compulsory education begins. Before that, less structured childcare is available privately. The details vary between England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.\n\nSome nurseries are attached to state infant or primary schools, but many are provided by the private sector. The Scottish government provides funding so that all children from the age of three until they start compulsory school can attend five sessions per week of two and a half hours each, either in state-run or private nurseries. Working parents can also receive from their employers childcare worth £55 per week free of income tax, which is typically enough to pay for one or two days per week.\n\nThe Scottish Government defines its requirements for nursery schools in the Early Years Framework and the Curriculum for Excellence. Each school interprets these with more or less independence (depending on their management structure) but must satisfy the Care Commission in order to retain their licence to operate. The curriculum aims to develop:\n\nIn the US, kindergarten is usually part of the K-12 educational system. In most state and private schools, children begin kindergarten at age 5 and attend for one year. They do activities such as addition (+), subtraction (-), and playing outside on the playground. Forty-three states require their school districts to offer a kindergarten year.\n\nIn a typical US kindergarten classroom, resources like toys, picture books, and crayons are available for children's use. The daily schedule varies from town to town, but there are some similarities. In the morning, the children usually do circle time. This includes saying the pledge of allegiance, looking at the calendar, and discussing the weather and season that day. Next, the children work on different subjects:\n\nIn math, kindergartners usually do single digit addition and subtraction, learn to count with \"more or less\" games, become acquainted with a clock, and learn skip counting to prepare them for one digit multiplication. \n\nIn language arts (English), children learn sight words, (cat, fun), rhyming, blends, and silent e. They then learn how to write, form sentences, and are required to write three complete sentences by the end of the year.\n\nIn social studies, kindergartners learn about the months, U.S. states, the continents, and sometimes about people performing community functions (e.g. doctor, barber, teacher) and places (e.g.\"You go to a hospital when you're sick or to have surgery.\" \"You go to a park to play.\")\n\nAfter a few lessons, there is a break for lunch. Children either fetch their own lunchboxes brought from home or get a lunch from the cafeteria and eat it (or take) there or in the classroom. Sometimes after lunch the children have recess, some students' favorite part of the day, when they can go outside to play on swings, slides, play basketball, or socialize. After recess kindergartners go back inside to do more learning. Some schools let children take a nap or do free choice (blocks, tic tac toe, play doh, etc.)\nWhen kindergarten is over for the day, parents or guardians come to pick up their child or the children ride a bus home.\n\n\nThe following reading list relates specifically to kindergarten in North America, where it is the first year of formal schooling and not part of the pre-school system as it is in the rest of the world:\n\n"}
{"id": "42633432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42633432", "title": "Learning artifact (education)", "text": "Learning artifact (education)\n\nIn educational psychology , a learning artifact (or educational artifact) is an object created by students during the course of instruction. To be considered an artifact, an object needs to be lasting, durable, public, and materially present. Under the constructionist theory of educational psychology, the concept of making knowledge visible is a central component. The creation of material artifacts is a technique used to allow students to display their knowledge in a public forum (usually the classroom). Artifacts can be in the form of paintings, drawings, sculptures, models, or anything else that is not erased after completion.\n\nStudents create evocative objects for the purpose of making their knowledge visible. The creation and display of these artifacts allow students opportunities for engagement, revision and feedback, all hallmarks of quality learning design.\n\nCognitive artifact is a term used to describe a physical representation of a conceptual idea, such as an experience, a memory, a thought, or a feeling. Cognitive artifacts can take on different forms, and are intended to aid or enhance one’s cognitive abilities. Because a cognitive artifact is a representation of a conceptual idea, the artifact may be interpreted in different ways. Cognitive artifacts use various mediums that often differ from the medium in which the situation initially occurred. These artifacts focus on the essentials, disregarding any irrelevant material in order to simplify the situation and elicit the most critical information from a particular scenario.\n"}
{"id": "1486259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1486259", "title": "Lectern", "text": "Lectern\n\nA lectern (from the Latin \"lectus\", past participle of \"legere\", \"to read\") is a reading desk, with a slanted top, usually placed on a stand or affixed to some other form of support, on which documents or books are placed as support for reading aloud, as in a scripture reading, lecture, or sermon. To facilitate eye-contact and improve posture when facing an audience, lecterns may have adjustable height and slant. People generally use lecterns while standing.\n\nIn pre-modern usage, the word lectern was used to refer specifically to the \"reading desk or stand ... from which the Scripture lessons (\"lectiones\") ... are chanted or read.\" One 1905 dictionary states that \"the term is properly applied only to the class mentioned [church book stands] as independent of the pulpit.\" By the 1920s, however, the term was being used in a broader sense, for example, in reference to a memorial service in Carnegie Hall, it was stated that \"the lectern from which the speakers talked was enveloped in black.\"\n\nLecterns used in academia—generally in seminar rooms and lecture theatres—may have certain features that common lecterns lack, based on the technological sophistication of the venue. These features usually include a microphone stand, audio-visual controls, sometimes even an integrated computer and recording system. Lecterns of this sort are generally attached or integrated into a large desk, as the amount of support material tends to be larger in academic contexts than in straightforward public talks.\n\nIn the Christian Church, the lectern is usually the stand on which the Bible rests and from which the \"lessons\" (reading from Scripture) are read during the service. The lessons may be read or chanted by a priest, deacon, minister, or layperson, depending upon the liturgical traditions of the community. The lectern is normally set in front of the pews, so that the reader or speaker faces the congregation.\n\nLecterns are often made of wood. They may be either fixed in place or portable. A lectern differs from a pulpit, the latter being used for sermons. Churches that have both a lectern and a pulpit will often place them on opposite sides. The lectern will generally be smaller than the pulpit, and both may be adorned with antipendia in the color of the liturgical season.\n\nIn monastic churches and cathedrals, a separate lectern is commonly set in the centre of the choir. Originally this would have carried the antiphonal book, for use by the cantor or precentor leading the singing of the divine office. Lecterns are often eagle-shaped to symbolise John the Apostle. Especially in North America and Great Britain lecterns are sometimes made as 'angel lecterns'.\n\nBecause the Torah scrolls are generally large, the central feature of the bimah in a synagogue is a table large enough to hold an open Torah along with a tikkun or Chumash (reference books used to check the reading). In some synagogues, this table may resemble a large lectern.\n\nIn traditional yeshivas and some synagogues, students and members of the congregation may use small desks called \"shtenders\" (). These closely resemble conventional lecterns, and indeed, one shtender may be used as a lectern by the Hazzan leading the service. Note however that each study group in a yeshivah may have its own shtender and in some older synagogues, individual members of the congregation may have their own shtenders.\n\nTraditional shtenders frequently incorporate a locker under the desktop where prayerbooks and study material may be locked when not in use, and many feature a footrest for comfort during extended study sessions or standing prayers. Some older synagogues have large collections of shtenders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1343032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343032", "title": "List of Friends schools", "text": "List of Friends schools\n\nFriends schools are institutions that provide an education based on the beliefs and testimonies of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). This article is a list of schools currently or historically associated with the Society of Friends, regardless of their current degree of affiliation.\n\nFriends schools vary greatly, both in their interpretation of Quaker principles and in how they relate to formal organizations that make up the Society of Friends. Most Friends schools are similar in their mission however: to provide an academically sound education while also instilling values of community, spirituality, responsibility and stewardship in their students.\n\nSome institutions founded by Friends were never formally \"Quaker schools.\" Some historically Friends institutions are no longer formally associated with the Society of Friends. Those that continue to call themselves \"Quaker schools\" may have formal oversight from a Friends yearly or monthly meetings (often called coming \"under care of\" a meeting), and others are governed by members of the Society of Friends and/or adhere to aspects of Quaker practice.\n\nBecause of the wide range of Friends, the branch (or branches) of Quakerism with which the school affiliates are included, and where applicable the Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly Meeting under whose care or governance the school is held is shown.\n\n\n\nBolivian Friends have established several schools, which are supported from the United States by the Bolivian Quaker Education Fund.\n\n\n\n\n\"For Northern Ireland, see Ireland below.\"\n\n\nNon-Friends schools with Friends connections\n\nDefunct Friends schools\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll Quaker schools and yearly meetings in Kenya are affiliated with Friends United Meeting. Note that the Friends World Committee for Consultation counts, but does not name, many more Kenyan Friends schools than are listed here,\n\n\n\n\nAbbreviations:\n\n\n\"\"Independent Quaker schools\" are operated using Quaker principles and often include a majority of Quakers among trustees, but are not formally under care of a meeting.\"\n\n\n\n\"Note: This section lists schools with grades only below 9th grade. Schools including high school grades are listed above.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52730540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52730540", "title": "List of countries by secondary education attainment", "text": "List of countries by secondary education attainment\n\nThis is a list of countries by the proportion of the population that has attained at least a secondary education. The list is composed of the percent of the population of the relevant age groups that have completed an upper secondary education in the listed countries. The lists are compiled from several sources.\n"}
{"id": "15763799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15763799", "title": "Lowry Bill", "text": "Lowry Bill\n\nThe Lowry Bill, also known as the Lowry Act and the Lowry Normal School Bill, was a bill introduced in 1910 in the Ohio state legislature which called for the establishment of two state normal schools in northern Ohio, one in the northeast and one in the northwest. It was named after its main sponsor, John Hamilton Lowry, a representative from northwest Ohio's Henry County. It was approved and signed into law by Ohio Governor Judson Harmon on May 19, 1910. Following its approval, the Commission on Normal School Sites was established and search committees were formed to determine the sites of the two schools with nearly forty communities applying. On November 25, 1910, the Commission announced that the villages of Kent in the northeast and Bowling Green in the northwest had been selected as the sites of the new schools. These schools would eventually evolve into what are today Kent State University and Bowling Green State University.\n\nLowry Hall, one of the oldest buildings at Kent State University (built 1913), was named for John Hamilton Lowry.\n\nOhio did not have schools of education at its public universities until 1902 when they were established at Ohio University in Athens and Miami University in Oxford, followed by The Ohio State University in Columbus in 1907. All three schools were located in the southern half of the state while the majority of the growth, population, and need for teachers were in northern Ohio. The Lowry bill was the first successful action to establish teacher training schools in northern Ohio after several failed attempts.\n"}
{"id": "13462045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13462045", "title": "Man: A Course of Study", "text": "Man: A Course of Study\n\nMan: A Course of Study, usually known by the acronym MACOS or M.A.C.O.S., was an American humanities teaching program, popular in America and Britain in the 1970s. It was based on the theories of Jerome Bruner, particularly his concept of the \"spiral curriculum\". This suggested that a concept might be taught repeatedly within a curriculum, but at a number of levels, each level being more complex than the first. The process of repetition would thus enable the child to absorb more complex ideas easily.\n\nIn MACOS, the concept was \"the chain of life\" or a \"lifeline\": the entire history of a living thing. The course started with a simple lifespan in the form of the Pacific Coast salmon. It then moved on to the more complex life form of the herring gull, introducing concepts such as nurturing. The lifespan of the baboon was next examined, particularly within the societal context afforded by the baboon troop. The differences between innate behaviour and learned behaviour were introduced. Finally, the study opened up into a study of a man's lifespan with a case study of Netsilik Inuit. This also included the interaction between the Netsilik and other life forms, such as reindeer and seals.\n\nThe course comprised a self-contained kit of course materials, film cassettes, visual aids, and games. Some of the activities were very imaginative; a game based upon reindeer migration had a loaded die to introduce discussion about instincts, and a paper seal would be cut up and shared among class members representing various people in the Netsilik community, according to a ritual governing who was entitled to which part of the animal.\n\nThe emphasis of the course was upon learning particular skills within the teaching process, not upon the significance of the content. This included the necessity to ask questions, discuss, and reach conclusions based on evidence and argument.\n\nThe course was much criticized in the United States because of its emphasis upon questioning aspects of life, including belief and morality. It was particularly targeted by fundamentalist groups, evidenced by quotations included in the course booklet. In 2004, the National Film Board of Canada produced \"Through These Eyes\", a documentary about the controversy surrounding MACOS, and more generally about the interplay between politics and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17182096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17182096", "title": "National Occupational Standards", "text": "National Occupational Standards\n\nNational Occupational Standards (NOS) specify UK standards of performance that people are expected to achieve in their work, and the knowledge and skills they need to perform effectively.\n\nNOS, which are approved by UK government regulators, are available for almost every role in every sector in the UK. For example, there are NOS for: \n\nAll approved National Occupational Standards are available for downloading free of charge from the NOS Directory.\n\nAccording to the SSDA (the Sector Skills Development Agency, replaced in 2008 by the UK Commission for Employment and Skills and the Federation for Industry Sector Skills and Standards, comprising all 19 Sector Skills Councils), a unit of NOS must comprise:\n\nNOS may also have sections covering:\n\nNOS can be used to support any and all human resource management and development activities, as shown in the toolkit developed for Skills for Justice to support the use of the NOS for Legal Advice.\n\nNOS are also used in the UK as the basis for National Vocational Qualifications and Scottish Vocational Qualifications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42561309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42561309", "title": "National Summer Learning Association", "text": "National Summer Learning Association\n\nThe National Summer Learning Association (NSLA) is an organization in the United States that claims to aspire \"for every child to be safe, healthy, and engaged in learning during the summer.\"\n\nIn 1992, Matthew Boulay, a student at Johns Hopkins University, recruited his fellow undergraduates to provide tutoring and academic support to Baltimore City public schools students during the summer months. This led to a successful program called Teach Baltimore. As a result of the growing research on summer learning loss, Teach Baltimore evolved into the Center for Summer Learning at Johns Hopkins University in 2001. In September 2009, the Center transformed into the National Summer Learning Association, an independent organization.\n\nNSLA serves as a network hub for different summer learning programs and others interested in summer learning across the United States. According to their website, their efforts are focused on achieving the following results:\n\n\nPartners of the NSLA include the American Camp Association and Sylvan Learning.\n\nNSLA has been cited in the many articles discussing summer learning loss and its implications for the achievement gap in the United States in publications including the \"New York Times\", the \"Washington Post\" and the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nNSLA is regularly cited in a number of local newspapers in connection with recommendations for summer activities.\n"}
{"id": "2830653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2830653", "title": "Networked learning", "text": "Networked learning\n\nNetworked learning is a process of developing and maintaining connections with people and information, and communicating in such a way so as to support one another's learning. The central term in this definition is connections. It takes a relational stance in which learning takes place both in relation to others and in relation to learning resources.\n\nNetworked learning can offer educational institutions more functional efficiency, in that the curriculum can be more tightly managed centrally, or in the case of vocational learning, it can reduce costs to employers and tax payers. However, it is also argued that networked learning is too often considered within the presumption of institutionalised or educationalised learning, thereby omitting awareness of the benefits that networked learning has to informal or situated learning.\n\nNetwork and networked learning theories can be traced back into the 19th Century, when commentators were considering the social implications of networked infrastructure such as the railways and the telegraph. More recently, networked learning has its roots in the 1970s, with the likes of Ivan Illich's book, Deschooling Society, through to more recent commentary in the early 2000s, largely inspired by the Internet and social media.\n\nIn 1971, Ivan Illich envisioned 'learning webs' as a model for people to network the learning they needed:\n\nIn 1977 Christopher Alexander, Sara Ishikawa, Murray Silverstein, Max Jacobson, Ingrid Fiksdahl-King and Shlomo Angel wrote and published \"A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction\". In this seminal text, mostly referred to by architects, lists a \"Network of Learning\" as the 18th pattern, and cites Illich's earlier book as \"the most penetrating analysis and proposal for an alternative framework for education.\" Alexander \"et al.\" go on to advise builders and town planners interested in establishing learning networks with:\n\nIn the 1970s, The Institute For The Future at Menlo Park in California experimented with networked learning practices based on the Internet and computer conferencing. Soon after their reports were published two educational pioneers in the use of Internet technologies, Hiltz and Turoff, linked education directly with this pioneering work.\n\nIn the late 1980s Dr. Charles A. Findley headed the Collaborative Networked Learning project at Digital Equipment Corporation on the East Coast of the United States. Findley's project conducted trend analysis and developed prototypes of collaborative learning environments, which became the basis for their further research and development of what they called Collaborative Networked Learning (CNL), and Collaborative Learning-Work (CLW).\n\nSince the development of the Internet as a significant medium for access to information and communication, the practice of networked learning has tended to focus on its use. In the first phase of the Internet its use for networked learning was restricted by low bandwidth and the emphasis was largely on written and text based interactions between people and the text based resources they referred to. This textual form of interaction was a familiar academic medium, even though there was recognition of the unique qualities hypertext emerging in the online form.\n\nIn 1991, Jean Lave and Etienne Wenger published \"Situated Learning: Legitimate Peripheral Participation\", in which they cited numerous examples of networked learning within a wide range of settings for informal learning and within communities of practice.\n\nIn the later half of the 1990s, open, interactive, situated and networked views of learning were marginalised by educational institutions as they tended to develop or deploy content and practice through proprietary learning management systems (e.g. Blackboard Inc, WebCT), and collaborative work tools such as IBM Lotus Notes/Learning Space and Quick Place), generally following concepts around \"e-learning\". These systems enabled the restriction of access and the management of students for the administrative concerns of educational institutions.\n\nSince 1998, an international Networked Learning Conference has been held biannually. The conference proceedings from all the conferences since 2002 are available via the conference web site.\n\nCSALT, a research group at Lancaster University, UK, associated with the Networked Learning Conference series and several edited collections, defined networked learning as \"learning in which information and communication technology is used to promote connections: between one learner and other learners, between learners and tutors; between a learning community and its learning resources\". This definition seems to ignore historical use of the term however, where computing was not of central importance.\n\nIn 2000, John Seely Brown and Paul Duguid released The Social Life of Information and introduced the concept of Networks of Practice (NoP's), an informal and emergent social network that supports the sharing of information between individuals clustered around a practice. Building on the work done by Jean Lave and Étienne Wenger on community of practice (CoP's), Seely Brown and Duguid argued that a network differed from a community in that the relationships among members were more informal and fluid when compared to communities. While CoP's were often localized with strong inter-personal relationships providing group cohesion, NoPs were more global with relationships that were both strong tie and weak tie relationships. \n\nSalmon (2001) wrote \"learning is built around learning communities & interaction, extending access beyond the bounds of time and space, but offering the promise of efficiency and widening access. Think of individuals as nodes on a network!\"\n\nFrom around 2004, the idea of networked learning had a popular resurgence, corresponding with the emergence of social media and concepts of open source, such as is covered in Yochai Benkler's 2006 book, \"The Wealth of Networks\".\n\nIn 2005, George Siemens published a paper in the \"International Journal for Instructional Technology and Distance Learning\", called \"Connectivism: A Learning Theory for the Digital Age\" in which he argued the need for a new learning theory, one that captured the essence and represented the process of networked knowledge creation and learning. In 2011, the International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning published the first peer reviewed collection of scholarly articles on Connectivism. This special issue was edited by George Siemens (Athabasca University and Grainne Conole (Open University, UK).\n\nIn 2007, Starke-Meyerring, Duin, & Palvetzian first described Globally Networked Learning Environments (GNLE)- networked learning environments which are specifically designed to connect students from different parts of the world. GNLEs are designed to facilitate dialogue and collaboration across and within groups of students, to develop greater understanding and competencies for global work and citizenship. GNLEs take many different shapes and forms.\n\nIn 2010, E-Learning and Digital Media published a special issue on globally networked learning titled Globally networked learning environments: Re-shaping the intersections of globalization and e-learning in higher education, and in 2011, COIL launched the first ever Institute for Globally Networked Learning in the Humanities.\n\nA massive open online course (MOOC) engages networked learning methods within the typical structure of a course. The first such course so named was Connectivism and Connective Knowledge 2008, hosted by Stephen Downes and George Siemens. More like an online event, MOOCs invite open online participation around a schedule or agenda, facilitated by people with reputation or expertise in the topics, relying on successful formations of learning networks to assist people studying the topics.\n\nEarlier examples of online courses using networked learning methods:\n\nSome researchers have used networked learning methods to collaborate and support each other's research. The is supporting a small group interested in pursuing a PhD title informally. They name their practice OpenPhD or Open and Networked PhD.\n\nAcademics at the CoCo Research Centre, University of Sydney, have been carrying out an extensive analysis of examples of networked learning, in collaboration with the developers and organisers of learning networks in various parts of the world. Their work has focussed on the \"architecture\" of learning networks - aiming to identify arrangements of tasks, tools and people that contribute to successful learning networks. Some conclusions from this work have been published in \"The architecture of productive learning networks\", which also includes a chapter on the history of networked learning.\n\nSome have argued that using formal education as a setting for researching networked learning misses most if not all of the value proposition of networked learning. Instead, Fox proposes situated learning and actor-network theory as the better approach for research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15022764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15022764", "title": "Out-of-school learning", "text": "Out-of-school learning\n\nOut-of-school learning is an educational concept first proposed by Lauren Resnick in her 1987 AERA presidential address, which consists of curricular and non-curricular learning experiences for pupils and students outside the school environment.\n\nThe point of out-of-school learning is to overcome learning disabilities, development of talents, strengthen communities and increase interest in education by creating extra learning opportunities in the real world. In a study performed by the UCLA National Center for Research on Evaluation, Standards, and Student Testing (CRESST) it was proven that out-of-school learning increases the interest in education and school itself.\n\nOut-of-school learning is typically not coordinated by the school itself. Out-of-school experiences are organized with community partners such as museums, sport facilities, charity initiatives, and more. Out-of-school experiences can range from service learning to summer school and expeditions or more commonly occur in day to day experiences at after-school with creative ventures such as arts courses and even sports. Some other examples of out-of-school learning are:\n\n\nIt has been found in research by the Wallace Foundation that out-of-school learning can be a great opportunity to discover and develop talents. Especially if a professional organization develops a learning environment that guides groups of pupils/students in their co-operation in creating a professional and publicly visible product, presentation or performance. Companies, cultural institutions and non governmental organizations can offer valuable out-of-school learning experiences.\n\nOrganizations will see results accordingly to the quality of the experience, whether they aim to promote active and healthy lifestyles, increase community involvement and visitors/members, to an interest in a company's corporate responsibility projects and employment opportunities.\n\nIn the United Kingdom alone several local and state bodies run out-of-school learning projects, with additional funding from the National Lottery (£9.1m in 2000). Some major examples of out-of-school learning projects are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1228447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228447", "title": "Pre-tertiary education", "text": "Pre-tertiary education\n\nPre-tertiary education, also referred to as basic education and pre-university, is education below the level of tertiary education or post-secondary education to include preschool education through secondary education. It may include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19651099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19651099", "title": "Predoctoral fellow", "text": "Predoctoral fellow\n\nIn the physical sciences and natural science a predoctoral fellow (pre-doc) refers to a researcher who has a bachelor's degree, but not a doctorate. As the name implies, predoctoral fellows often use their time as a fellow to develop their skills and résumé before applying to graduate school. They differ from lab managers or technicians in that they primarily pursue research, rather than maintain the day-to-day function of a lab, and may have external funding to support their research or educational activities, but typically are also reliant on the support of a research mentor whose lab they work in.\n\nIn Mathematics and some Science disciplines, typically a pre-doc is somebody already registered in a Ph.D. program at a host university to work together with a professor in a different topic with respect to his/her topic.\n"}
{"id": "1699468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699468", "title": "Private university", "text": "Private university\n\nPrivate universities (and private colleges) are typically not operated by governments, although many receive tax breaks, public student loans, and grants. Depending on their location, private universities may be subject to government regulation. This is in contrast to public universities and national universities. Most private universities are non-profit organizations.\n\nEgypt has many private universities, including The American University in Cairo, the German University in Cairo, The British University in Egypt, the Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport, Misr University for Science and Technology, Misr International University, Future University in Egypt and Modern Sciences and Arts University.\n\nThere were few private universities in Ghana before the beginning of the new millennium. Ghana has seen a flood of the establishment of private universities and colleges, which is a reflection of the country's stable governance and peaceful atmosphere, and most importantly the pace of economic growth. Most of these universities are not known to be sponsored by foreign corporate organisations and government universities, and the aim is to avoid the Ghana government's excessive payment of bond which is a requirement for all foreign institutions endeavouring to operate business in the country. Almost all the private universities in Ghana have a similar kind of academic discipline, like Business Administration, Human Resource, Accounting, Information Technology, etc., which are offered by universities like Ashesi, Regent, Valley View, Ghana Telecom and many others. The recent discovery of oil and gas in commercial quantities has influenced the development of oil and gas management courses within the private universities' curriculum.\n\nLibya has number of recognised private education institutions and universities, approved by the Ministry of Higher Education, ranked and qualified to specialise in academic programs in Business Administration, Computer Science, Law, Medicine and Humanitarian. These institutions include:\n\n\nThe National Universities Commission of Nigeria has the responsibility to approve private universities and accredit their courses. This ensures a minimum standard in curriculum and teaching. There are currently 60 approved private universities in Nigeria and still counting as there are hundreds of application under processing.\n\nIn South Africa there is a distinction between public universities and what the government calls private higher education institutions. Varsity College, Vega, The Design School Southern Africa, Milpark, Midrand Graduate Institute, Regenesys Business School, Akademia and Richfield Graduate Institute of Technology are all recognised as private higher education institutions.\n\nA number of private universities were established in Bangladesh after the Private University Act, 1992 was instituted, and amended as the Private University Act 2010. All private universities must be approved by University Grants Commission (UGC) before they are given a permit to operate. See external links for: \"Private Universities Act 1992\".\n\nAs of 2014, there were 91 private universities in Bangladesh.\n\nPrivate institutions must confer the students with external programmes such as BDTVEC (the largest awarding body in the country), BTEC and Cambridge International Examinations pathways. Accreditation by Brunei Darussalam National Accreditation Council (BDNAC) is very crucial in order to establish a private institution.\n\n\nSince 1997, private universities have been established in the Kingdom of Cambodia.\n\n\nSince 2003, joint-partnership private universities have been established in the People's Republic of China (PRC). Typically, the partners are a Chinese university and a non-Chinese institution. English is often the only language of instruction at such universities, and many focus on providing a comprehensive liberal arts education modeled after research universities in the United States and Europe.\n\n\n\n\nUniversities in India are recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC), which draws its power from the \"University Grants Commission Act, 1956\". Private universities in India are regulated under the UGC (Establishment and Maintenance of Standards in Private Universities) Regulations, 2003. Per the UGC act and these regulations, private universities are established by an act of a local legislative assembly and listed by the UGC in the Gazette upon receiving the act. As confirmed by ruling of the Supreme Court of India, recognition by the UGC is required for the university to operate. Also per the 2003 regulations, the UGC sends committees to inspect the private universities and publishes their inspection report. \n\nThe UGC publishes and regularly updates the lists of private universities. , the UGC list of private universities lists 279 universities. The earliest date of notification is that of Sikkim Manipal University, 11 October 1995. The newest addition to this list of Universities approved by UGC is Quantum University.\n\n\n\n\n Japan had 597 private universities, while there are 86 national universities and 95 public universities. Private universities thus account for about ¾ of all universities in Japan. Many, but not all, junior colleges in Japan are private. Like public and national universities, many private universities use National Center Test for University Admissions as an entrance exam.\n\nThe most famous colleges are:\n\nThere are four private universities and five colleges in Kuwait:\n\nThere are 19 private universities in Lebanon. Among these, the American University of Beirut and the Lebanese American University are internationally acknowledged.\n\nThe languages of teaching in private universities are mainly French and English, while Arabic is widely used in religious universities and Armenian is used in the Armenian university.\n\nThe first university opened in Lebanon was the Syrian Protestant College in 1866 (which became the American University of Beirut in 1921). It was founded by Daniel Bliss, a Protestant missionary. The second university opened in Lebanon was the Université Saint-Joseph, founded by the Jesuits in 1875.\n\nThe private universities include:\n\nFor complete list of private universities in Malaysia, see the list of private universities in Malaysia.\n\nby an Act, Kathmandu University became the first privately managed public institution of higher learning in Nepal.\n\nThe Higher Education Commission (HEC), formerly the University Grant Commission (UGC), is the primary regulator of higher education in Pakistan. It also facilitates the development of the higher educational system in Pakistan. Its main purpose is to upgrade the schools to be world-class centres of education, research and development. It also plays a leading role towards building a knowledge-based economy in Pakistan by giving out hundreds of doctoral scholarships for education abroad every year.\n\nIn spite of the criticism of the HEC, its creation has also had a positive impact on higher education in Pakistan. Its two-year report for 2004 to 2006 states that according to the Institute of Scientific Information, the total number of publications appearing in the 8,000 leading journals indexed in the web of science arising out of Pakistan in 2005 was 1,259 articles, representing a 41% increase over the past two years and a 60% increase since the establishment of HEC in 2002. The HEC digital library now provides access to over 20,000 leading research journals, covering about 75% of the world's peer-reviewed scientific journals.\n\nUntil 1991, there were only two recognized private universities in Pakistan: Aga Khan University, established in 1983 and Lahore University of Management Sciences, established in 1985. By 1997, however, there were 10 private universities. In 2001–2002, this number had doubled to 20. Among the first to gain degree awarding status was Hajvery University, Lahore (HU), established in 1990. In 2003–2004 Pakistan had a total of 83 private degree granting institutions.\n\nThere are nine private universities in Saudi Arabia:\n\nStansfield College, founded in 1993, is a private higher education institution and a provider of the University of London International Programmes in Singapore. Through its collaboration with the University of London, Stansfield offers undergraduate degrees and diplomas in a range of academic disciplines which include Law, the Humanities, and the EMFSS suite of programmes with specialisations in Accounting, Business & Management, Banking & Finance, Economics, Mathematics & Economics and the Social Sciences. The college has also expanded its range of programmes to include several university foundation awards including certificate and diploma programmes that allow students to progress academically at Stansfield or to gain admissions into overseas universities. The college also provides postgraduate diplomas and executive development courses and seminars.\n\nThe college enrolls over 500, with students from over 30 countries studying at its campus.\n\nAuston Institute of Management is another example of a private 'university' where students who study at the college receive university awards from degree-awarding partners overseas. Auston rose to fame in the early 2000s with a collaboration with Coventry University. This partnership ended in 2012 and was replaced with new partners including London South Bank University, University of Wolverhampton, Birmingham City University, Chichester University and De Montfort University. Auston is known for its hands-on approach and its emphasis in technical areas of study such as electronics, mechatronics, computer security, and various forms of software engineering.\n\nAuston graduates about 400 students per year from as many as eight different countries, all studying in Singapore for UK degree awards.\n\n\nSri Lanka does not officially recognise private universities, but does not explicitly forbid them either.But there are many private institutes(these institutes are registered under the company act), and several independent institutions that are non-government funded. These mostly provide undergraduate degrees, with a limited few proving postgraduate degrees. The Informatics Institute of Sri Lanka (IIT), Horizon Campus and Sri Lanka Institute for Information Technology (SLIIT) are examples. Some foreign universities franchise parts of their degree courses in Sri Lanka with local institutes. Students are charged for the study (some of these institutes are state funded institutions of their home countries) and these charges are often a fraction of the cost studying in the home countries of these institutions.\n\nEfforts to establish private universities have been blocked due to protests from state universities' undergraduates and leftist political parties.\n\nHowever many private colleges have sprung up one of which is the affiliated campus of Auston Institute of Management, Singapore. The Sri Lanka campus was established in 2010 and is a Board of Investment or (BOI) company. It retains a similar focus to the home campus and occupies a prime spot along Colombo's famous Galle Road.\n\nAuston has been visited by many foreign universities and continues to expand its provision of titles in engineering and computing.\n\n\nIn Taiwan, unlike the United States, private universities are typically not as prestigious as some public (national) universities. They are not as highly ranked as public institutions, and also cost nearly twice as much. This is due to the form of testing in schools in Taiwan, in which students take a national entrance exam to determine their university qualifications. The famous private university is Fu Jen Catholic University, and the earliest is Tunghai University.\n\n\nSince the 1990s a lot of private universities have opened in Vietnam. Hochiminh City Open University was one of the first. Typical characteristics of Vietnamese private universities are higher (very high in some cases) tuition fees, poor infrastructure, and limited faculty and human resources.\n\nPrivate universities are often named after scholars (Fulbright University William Fulbright, Vo Truong Toan University, Nguyen Trai University, Luong The Vinh University, Chu Van A University, Yersin University, Phan Chau Trinh University), or heroes/legends (Hung Vuong University, Quang Trung University), although there are exceptions, such as FPT University, named after the FPT Group and Tan Tao University, in Tan Tao Group.\n\nIn Vietnam, there exists the \"semi-private university\"; schools in this category can receive partial financial support from the government. Almost all private universities have to invite professors and lecturers from the state universities. Many lecturers from state-owned universities take up positions in private universities after their retirement.\n\nIn Austria, educational institutions must be authorised by the country to legally grant academic degrees. All state-run universities are governed by the 2002 Austrian Universities' and University Degree Programmes' Organisation Act (Federal Law Gazette No. 120/2002). In 1999, a federal law (\"Universitäts-Akkreditierungsgesetz\") was passed to allow the accreditation of private universities. The \"Akkreditierungsrat\" (Accreditation Council) evaluates applicants and issues recommendations to the responsible Austrian accreditation authority (the Austrian Federal Ministry of Science & Research).\n\nAccreditation by the council yields a couple of privileges: degrees issued by accredited private universities have the same legal status as those issued by state-run universities. Private universities can appoint or promote professors. Their students enjoy the same privileges pertaining to social security, foreigner law and state scholarships as students of the state universities. Educational services of private universities are not subject to value added tax, and donations are tax deductible.\n\nAccreditations must be renewed regularly and can be withdrawn, e.g. in the case of repeated academic misconduct as happened in 2003 when the accreditation of International University Vienna was withdrawn. In 2006, when the accreditation of Imadec University expired, the Accreditation Council rejected requests for renewal.\n\nAustrian law provides that private universities in Austria must use the term \"Privatuniversität\" (literally, \"private university\") in their German names, although their formal names in other languages are not regulated. Thus, there is the possibility of private institutions employing the term \"university\" as opposed to \"private university\" in their advertisements in all languages except German while still complying with Austrian law.\n\nWhile the legal definition of \"private university\" prohibits funding by the federal government of Austria, funding by other public bodies is not prohibited. Consequently, some of Austria's private universities are partly or wholly funded by provincial governments, while others are fully privately funded.\n\nAccreditation of private universities began in 2001. Austria has 12 private universities. Most are small (fewer than 1000 students) and specialise in only one or two fields of study:\n\n\nFour former private universities are not accredited any more:\n\nBulgaria has a number of private universities, among which the most renowned are New Bulgarian University, located in the capital city Sofia; Burgas Free University; Varna Free University; and American University in Bulgaria.\n\nFinland does not officially recognise private universities, but does not explicitly forbid them either. Helsinki School of Business is an example of one such educational institution operating in this market.\n\nFrance has a dual system: universities and \"grandes écoles.\"\n\nIt is forbidden by law for a private institution to be called \"university\", and almost all universities are public. Some private institutions still openly call themselves \"universities\", such as the Lille Catholic University, even if this has no legal basis. Universities provide courses in all academic fields (engineering, law, medical, economics, arts, business administration, sociology). One may join university after a high school degree and study there for a \"licence\" (bachelor), master's degree, or doctoral program, although again by law private institutions may not grant degrees called \"licence\" or \"doctorat\".\n\n\"Grandes écoles\" can be public or private, but the most prestigious ones are public. These institutions operate mostly in engineering studies and business administration. Universities and \"grandes écoles\" compete in these two fields. Some of them report to the Ministry of Higher Education, such as Arts et Métiers ParisTech and École Centrale Paris, and a few to the Ministry of Defense, such as École Polytechnique. Several private \"grandes écoles\" are members of the \"Conférence des Grandes Écoles\", a lobbying group representing grandes écoles. Most \"grandes écoles\" can be joined after following two years of \"classe préparatoire aux grandes écoles\", an intensive program following the \"baccalauréat\". A selective examination after the two additional years is taken to enter a \"grande école\". Following the Bologna Process, this full 5 year cursus (two years of preparatory classes plus 3 years in engineering or business school) is equivalent to a master's degree.\n\nGrandes écoles for studying business administration are usually part of the chambers of commerce. For example, HEC is part of the Chamber of Commerce of Paris (CCIP), and is therefore semi-private.\n\nGermany has 83 private universities (called \"Privathochschule\") and 45 church-run universities (called \"kirchliche Hochschule\"). Similar to the state-run universities, they are subdivided into \"Universitäten\" (research universities), \"Fachhochschulen\" (universities of applied science) and \"Kunst- und Musikhochschulen\" (art schools). Private universities in Germany need institutional accreditation by the state.\n\nThe first private university in Germany, the Ukrainian Free University, was established 16 September 1950 in Munich. Witten/Herdecke University opened in 1982 and Zeppelin University in 2003. Though private universities are numerous in Germany, they represent only less than 1% of all students. Some private universities, including Hanseatic University Rostock (2007–2009) and the International University in Germany in Bruchsal, have gone out of business.\n\nMost of the church universities are run by the Protestant or Catholic churches; however, there is one Jewish university (\"Hochschule für Jüdische Studien\") in Heidelberg.\n\nIn Greece private universities are prohibited by the constitution (Article 16). However, laboratories of liberal studies (Εργαστήρια ελευθέρων σπουδών, ergastiria eleftheron spoudon) operate freely in the country, and, based on a law from the 1930s they are registered as private for-profit businesses and regulated by the Greek Ministry of Commerce. Their academic degrees, which are not recognised in Greece, are directly provided to students by foreign universities in the United Kingdom, United States of America, or other countries, usually through franchise or validation agreements (the franchise agreement usually being considered better). This has limited access to the laboratories, which usually teach in English, to high-income Greeks who for various reasons (usually family matters) did not want to go abroad.\n\nIn 2008 a law was introduced that forced all private institutions collaborating with foreign universities to offer programmes in the country, to register with the Greek Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs as \"colleges\" (κολλέγια, kollegia) by August 2009. Further amendments to the framework in 2010, 2012 and 2013 (4111/2013, 4093/2012) were introduced. Today there are a series of private colleges mostly offering programmes in Business Administration and other fields.\n\n\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, a private university (more commonly known as a \"private college\") is one that is not funded by the state, and therefore not covered by the free-fees initiative. All universities, institutes of technology, colleges of education, and the National College of Ireland and some religious institutions are publicly funded and therefore covered by \"free-fees\" initiative. There are few private colleges, and they are highly specialised, such as Griffith College Dublin, Dorset College and Dublin Business School. The major representative body for private colleges in Ireland is the Higher Education Colleges Association. Private colleges in Ireland can seek to have their programmes validated/accredited by the Higher Education and Training Awards Council.\n\nSee external links for: \"free-fees initiative\" and \"Higher Education Colleges Association\".\n\nNyenrode is the only private university in the Netherlands at the graduate level. The university was founded in 1946. It serves as a graduate school for business and management. Both programs are taught in English. Recently, Nyenrode merged with the Institute for CPA Education and both institutions share their facilities. The Nyenrode Business University also contains a campus and active student body.\n\nOther Dutch private universities are universities of applied science (HBOs) where one can obtain a bachelor's or master's degree but not a PhD. These include Wittenborg University, Business School Notenboom (founded in 1958) and IVA Driebergen for the automotive industry with its earliest beginnings in 1930.\n\nThere are 321 accredited private colleges in Poland. They award bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and doctorate degrees.\n\nThe oldest non-state-run university, the \"Universidade Católica Portuguesa\" – UCP (Catholic University of Portugal), a catholic private university (concordatory status), with branches in the cities of Lisbon, Porto, Braga, Viseu, and Caldas da Rainha, was founded before the others, in 1967, and officially recognized in 1971. UCP offers some well-recognized degrees and is reputed for the economics, law and business management degrees it awards at its Lisbon branch. Other degrees awarded by UCP, like biotechnology and dental medicine, amassed increasing success and popularity since the 2000s.\n\nAfter the Carnation Revolution of 1974, in the 1980s and 1990s, a boom of educational private institutions was experienced in Portugal, and many private universities started to open. Most had a poor reputation and were known for making it easy for students to enter and also to get high grades. In 2007, several of those private universities, or their heirs, were investigated and faced compulsory closing (for example, the infamous Independente University and Internacional University closings, and the Moderna University scandal) or official criticism with recommendations that the state-managed investigation proposed for improving their quality and avoid termination.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, within the Bologna process, a reorganization of higher education was started which included more stringent regulations for private education and expanded state policies with regard to private education quality assurance and educational accreditation. In general, the private higher education institutions were often considered the schools of last resort for underachieving applicants who didn't score enough points in the admission examinations to enter the main public institutions.\n\nNearly open-admission policies have hurt private universities' reputation and the actual quality of their alumni. Without large endowments like those received, for example, by many US private universities and colleges which are attractive to the best scholars, researchers and students, the private higher education institutions of Portugal, with a few exceptions, do not have either the financial support or the academic profile to reach the highest teaching and research standards of the top Portuguese public universities. In addition, most private universities have faced a restrictive lack of collaboration with the major enterprises which, however, have developed fruitful relationships with many public higher education institutions. Most Portuguese private universities specialise in a limited number of fields, most often in the social sciences and humanities.\n\nThere is a number of private universities and independent faculties in Serbia, mostly in Belgrade. They were founded in the 1990s and 2000s. Some, but not all of them are accredited by the state Commission for Accreditation and Quality Assurance. Serbian private universities and faculties have a general reputation of low-quality institutions where nouveau riche businesspeople, popular music/TV stars, sportspeople and politicians, as well as their children, obtain degrees for money.\n\nFurther to the public Universities in Switzerland, the country is well known for its high-quality private education system.\nFor a more complete listing, please consult:\n\nIn Turkey there are now 66 private universities. Bilkent University, founded in 1984, was the first. Actually they have to be and all belong to NGOs due to the high Education Law, article 3-c and annexed article 2.\n\nIn Turkey, according to the laws of private universities, on the recommendation of the Higher Education Council is established by law. The establishment of such universities, established a new university building or in the form of a higher education institution will be the name of the university. Foundations for the establishment of the university, the university faculty, the formation of at least two of the bodies of the faculties of arts and science education programs related to the fields to be present, the university of arts and science programs to be among the first to be launched training programs and eligible to attend the university's commitment to the education of students in these programs start year necessary.\n\nThe well known private universities in Turkey are:\n\nThere are five fully private universities in the United Kingdom: the University of Buckingham, BPP University, Regent's University London, the University of Law and Arden University.\n\nAll other British universities are partly publicly funded and regulated: the government regulates their tuition fees, student funding and student loans and commissions and regulates research assessments and teaching reviews. However, unlike in Continental European countries, the British government does not own universities' assets, and university staff are not civil servants: government regulation arises as a condition of accepting funding from bodies such as HEFCE and any university can in principle choose to leave the HEFCE regulated system at any time. Since September 2012 government funding for teaching and background funding for research has been substantially reduced, with one study from that year indicating that annual government funding for teaching and research would make up just 15% of universities’ income by 2015.\n\nIn the UK, an institution can only use the title \"University\" or \"University College\" if it has been granted by the Privy Council, under the terms of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.\n\nChile has 31 completely private universities and an additional 14 universities which are run by private organizations (mostly religious) but receive some state funding.\n\n\nIn Guatemala, the only public university is Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala. The rest of the degree offering institutions in the country are private. See list of universities in Guatemala for a list of the private universities in the country.\n\nMexico has private and public (government managed) universities. Public universities are free or require a very minimum fee and private universities usually charge for an initial enrollment and monthly fees.\n\nIn the US, many universities and colleges are private, mostly operating as educational and research nonprofit organizations, while there are also for-profit universities. About 20% of American college students attend private colleges. Most of the remainder attend state-supported schools.\n\nLegally, private universities may not discriminate, but generally have a somewhat free hand in setting admissions policies. Universities base their selections on many secondary factors other than academic performance.\n\nTuition fees at private universities tend to be higher than at public universities, though many private universities offer financial aid as well. For example, at Princeton University, 60% of the Class of 2013 received financial aid, with an average grant amount of $36,000. The average grant now exceeds Princeton’s $35,340 annual tuition.\n\nThere are currently three private universities in Australia. Bond University, Australia's first private university, dates from 1987. Situated on the Gold Coast, it runs three semesters per year (correlating exactly with the Northern and Southern Hemispheres' schedules), which allows a student to complete a six semester degree in two years, and an eight semester degree (e.g. Law) in under three years. The University of Notre Dame Australia, a private Catholic university based in Fremantle, was established two years later in 1989, and the newest of the three, Torrens University Australia, opened in Adelaide in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "327839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327839", "title": "Social promotion", "text": "Social promotion\n\nSocial studies the practice of promoting a student (usually a general education student, rather than a special education student) to the next grade after the current school year, regardless of if they learned the necessary material or if they are often absent. This is done in order to keep the students with their peers by age, that being the intended social grouping. It is sometimes referred to as promotion based on seat time, or the amount of time the child spent sitting in school. This is based on the enrollment criteria for Kindergarten, which is being 4 or 5 years old (5 or 6 years old for 1st graders) at the beginning of the school year. The intention is for the students to be able to graduate from high school level education before their 19th birthday.\n\nAdvocates of social promotion argue that promotion is done in order not to harm the students' or their classmates' self-esteem, to encourage socialization by age (together with their age cohort), to facilitate student involvement in sports teams, or to promote a student who is weak in one subject on the basis of strength in the other areas.\n\nIn Canada and the United States, social promotion is normally limited to primary education, because comprehensive secondary education is more flexible about determining which level of students take which classes due to the graduation requirements, which makes the concept of social promotion much less meaningful.\nIn some countries, grade retention is allowed when students haven't learned the necessary material or if they are often absent.\n\nThe opposite of social promotion would be to promote students once they learned the necessary material. This might be called \"merit promotion\", similar to the concept of a \"merit civil service\". The scope of the promotion might then be either to the next grade or to the next course in the same field. In a curriculum based on grades, this is usually called \"mid-term promotion\". In a curriculum based on courses rather than grades, the promotion is open-ended and is better understood as satisfying a prerequisite for the next course.\n\nSupporters of social promotion policies do not defend social promotion so much as say that retention is even worse. They argue that retention is not a cost-effective response to poor performance when compared to cheaper or more effective interventions, such as additional tutoring and summer school. They point to a wide range of research findings that show no advantage to, or even harm from, retention, and the tendency for gains from retention to wash out.\n\nHarm from grade retention cited by these critics include:\n\nCritics of retention also note that retention has hard financial costs for school systems: requiring a student to repeat a grade is essentially to add one student for a year to the school system, assuming that the student does not drop out. Some parents worry that older retained students will victimize younger students.\n\nOpponents of social promotion argue that it cheats children of education. When socially promoted children reach higher levels of education, they may be unprepared, may fail courses, and may not make normal progress towards graduation.\n\nOpponents of social promotion argue that it has the following negative impacts:\n\nSome hold that most students at the elementary school level don't take their education seriously and therefore retention is most likely not to be effective. Since most middle school students value their education more , retention should be used if they are judged not to have adequate skills before entering high school.\n\nIt can also be argued that social promotion, by keeping most students at the elementary school level from advancing at their own pace, is the reason they don't take their education seriously. Eliminating the social promotion system would then make the incentives of merit promotion more effective at the beginning of each student's academic career.\n\nIn the United States, retention is more common for boys and non-white students than it is for girls and white students. By the time students reach high school, the retention rate for boys is about ten percentage points higher than for girls. In the early grades, retention rates are similar among white Americans, African Americans, and Hispanic Americans. By high school, the rate is about 15 percentage points higher for African Americans and Hispanics than for whites.\n\nThere is much to be said about social promotion and retention. If students are socially promoted, some argue that they are being disadvantaged because they haven't learned the material. If they are retained, students will be older than their peers in the classroom, which may cause problems as well. African American boys are the group that are most often retained in school. By the time the students reach the ages of 15-17, 50% of African American boys are either below the grade of their peers that age or have dropped out of school. In contrast, only 30% of white girls ages 15–17 are below the modal grade of their peers.\n\nIn 1999, educational researcher Robert Hauser said of the New York City school district: \"In its plan to end social promotion the administration appears to have [included] ... an enforcement provision—flunking kids by the carload lot—about which the great mass of evidence is strongly negative. And this policy will hurt poor and minority children most of all.\" [Glavin, C. (2014, February 5). Studies. Retrieved from http://www.k12academics.com/education-issues/social-promotion/studies#.WSBLyLwrK8o]\n\nIn a study of 99,000 Florida students, Jay P. Greene and Marcus A. Winters found that \"retained students slightly outperformed socially promoted students in reading in the first year after retention, and these gains increased substantially in the second year. Results were robust across two distinct IV comparisons: an across-year approach comparing students who were essentially separated by the year in which they happened to have been born, and a regression discontinuity design.\" [\"Revisiting Grade Retention: An evaluation of Florida's test-based Promotion Policy in Education and Finance Policy, MIT Press, 2006]\n\nWith the proliferation of graded schools in the middle of the 19th century, retention became a common practice, as were mid-term promotions. In fact, a century ago, approximately half of all American students were retained at least once before the age of 13.\n\nSocial promotion began to spread in the 1930s along with concerns about the psychosocial effects of retention. This trend reversed in the 1980s, as concern about slipping academic standards rose.\n\nThe practice of grade retention in the U.S. has been climbing steadily since the 1980s, although local educational agencies may or may not follow this trend. For example, in 1982, New York City schools stopped social promotions. Within a few years, the problems caused by the change in policy led the city to start social promotion again. In 1999, the city once again eliminated social promotion; it reinstated it after the number of repeaters had mounted to 100,000 by 2004, driving up costs and leading to cutbacks in numerous programs, including those for helping underachievers.\n\nApart from the social promotion, there is the grade retention, in which students repeat a grade when they are judged to be a low performer. The aim of grade retention is to help the student learn and sharpen skills such as organization, management, study skills, literacy and academic which are very important before entering the next grade, college and the labor force.\n\nIn the US simple social promotion was not held to be an adequate alternative to the grade retention. Current theories among academic scholars prefer to address underperformance problems with remedial help. Students with singular needs or disabilities require special teaching approaches, equipment, or care within or outside a regular classroom. Since students with intellectual disabilities are handled separately, schools may treat two students with identical achievements differently, if one of the students is low-performing, but typically developing, and the other student is low-performing due to a disability.\n\nApart from the social promotion, there is the merit promotion, either by mid-term promotion or by using a course-based curriculum with a directed acyclic graph of prerequisites similar to college curricula. This alternative is unique in allowing each student to advance at his or her own pace. It would also save school districts money by ending the practice of warehousing \"talented and gifted students\" and allowing those students to graduate early.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1614658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1614658", "title": "Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge", "text": "Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge\n\nThe Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge (SPCK) is the oldest Anglican mission organisation, and the leading publisher of Christian books in the United Kingdom. It was founded in 1698 by Thomas Bray (an Anglican priest), and a small group of friends including Lord Guilford, Sir Humphrey Mackworth, Mr Justice Hooke, and Colonel Maynard Colchester. The emphasis was on setting up schools. The SPCK was influential in setting up church schools across Britain, when there were few schools for poor childen. In the 21st century, the SPCK is most widely known for its publishing of Christian books.\n\nThe Society was founded to encourage Christian education and the production and distribution of Christian literature. SPCK has always sought to find ways to communicate the basic principles of the Christian faith to a wider audience, both in Britain and overseas. A related Scottish society was founded in 1709. It sent missions to Scotland's Highlands, and a handful to Indians in the American colonies.\n\nIn its first two hundred years, the Society founded many charity schools for poor children in the 7 to 11 age group. It is from these schools that the modern concept of primary and secondary education has grown. The Society also provided teacher training. SPCK continues to support education in the UK by provide free assembly resources via its website.\n\nThomas Bray believed passionately in the power of the printed word. From its earliest days, the SPCK commissioned tracts and pamphlets, making it the third-oldest publishing house in England. (Only the Oxford and Cambridge University Presses have existed longer.)\n\nThroughout the eighteenth century SPCK was by far the largest producer of Christian literature in Britain. The range of its output was considerable—from pamphlets aimed at specific groups such as farmers, prisoners, soldiers, seamen, servants and slave-owners, to more general works on subjects such as baptism, confirmation, Holy Communion, the Prayer Book, and private devotion. Increasingly, more substantial books were also published, both on Christian subjects and, from the 1830s onwards, on general educational topics as well. At present, key authors for SPCK include Anglican New Testament Scholar N. T. Wright, former Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, Paula Gooder, and Alister McGrath. Recent exciting additions to SPCK's list include Guvna B, and Ben Cooley, founder of Hope for Justice.\n\nIn the early 21st century, SPCK's publishing team produces around 80 titles per year, for audiences from a wide range of Christian traditions and none. Books range from the academic to the popular, from devotional literature and works on spirituality to books addressing contemporary issues in the Church and society. SPCK also raises funds for and project manages a number of charitable programs, including books for prisoners via Diffusion, and other forms of mission. Recent publishing innovations include the launch of a fiction imprint, Marylebone House, in 2014, and a move to support the InterVarsity Press UK (IVP) in 2015/16.\n\nSPCK's early publications were distributed through a network of supporters who received books and tracts to sell or give away in their own localities. Large quantities of Christian literature were provided for the Navy, and the Society actively encouraged the formation of parish libraries, to help both clergy and laity. By the nineteenth century, members had organized local district committees, many of which established small book depots—which at one time numbered over four hundred. These were overseen by central committees such as the [Committee of General Literature and Education]. In 1899 the addresses of their 'depositories' in London were given as Northumberland Avenue, W.C.; Charing Cross, W.C. and 43 Queen Victoria Street, E.C. Six years later in edition 331 the depository was closed at Charing Cross, but a new one added Brighton: 129, North Street.\n\nIn the 1930s a centrally co-ordinated network of SPCK Bookshops was established, offering a wide range of books from many different publishers. At its peak, the SPCK bookshop chain consisted of 40 shops in the UK and 20 overseas. The latter were gradually passed into local ownership during the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nHoly Trinity Church, Marylebone, Westminster, London is a former Anglican church, built in 1828 by Sir John Soane. By the 1930s, it had fallen into disuse and in 1936 was used by the newly founded Penguin Books company to store books. A children's slide was used to deliver books from the street into the large crypt.\n\nIn 1937 Penguin moved out to Harmondsworth, and the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge (SPCK) moved in. It was their headquarters until 2004, when they relocated to London Diocesan House in Causton Street, Pimlico. The bookshop relocated to Tufton St in 2003.\n\nOn 1 November 2006, St. Stephen The Great Charitable Trust [SSG] took over the Bookshops but continued to trade under the SPCK name, under licence from SPCK. That licence was withdrawn in October 2007. However, some shops continued trading as SPCK Bookshops without licence until the SSG operation was closed down in 2009. After October 2006, SPCK no longer owned or operated any bookshops.\n\nSPCK has worked overseas since its foundation. The initial focus was the British colonies in the Americas. Libraries were established for the use of clergy and their parishioners, and books were frequently shipped across the Atlantic by sail throughout the eighteenth century. By 1709 SPCK was spreading further afield: a printing press and trained printer were sent to Tranquebar in East India to assist in the production of the first translation of the Bible into Tamil. This was accomplished by the German Lutheran missionaries Bartholomaeus Ziegenbalg and Heinrich Pluetschau from the Danish-Halle Mission. For its time this was a remarkably far-sighted example of ecumenical co-operation. The SPCK has continued to work closely with churches of many different denominations, whilst retaining a special relationship with churches within the Anglican Communion.\n\nAs the British Empire grew in the nineteenth century, so SPCK developed an important role in supporting the planting of new churches around the world. Funds were provided for church buildings, for schools, for theological training colleges, and to provide chaplains for the ships taking emigrants to their new homes.\n\nDuring the twentieth century SPCK's overseas mission concentrated on providing free study literature for those in a number of ministerial training colleges around the world, especially in Africa. It also supported translation in India through its sister organisation there, ISPCK. Today, SPCK is working with a number of partner institutions across Africa to assist in funding and launching an African Theological Network Press, designed to facilitate the writing and distribution of contextual African theology.\n\n\nThe Scottish sister society, the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge (SSPCK), was formed by royal charter in 1709 as a separate organisation with the purpose of founding schools \"where religion and virtue might be taught to young and old\" in the Scottish Highlands and other \"uncivilised\" areas of the country. It was intended to counter the threat of Catholic missionaries achieving \"a serious landslide to Rome\" and of growing Highland Jacobitism. Their schools were a valuable addition to the Church of Scotland programme of education in Scotland, which was based on a tax on landowners to provide a school in every parish. Some — but by no means all — Society schoolmasters were inferior in comparison to burgh and parish schools, however, \"particularly in [their] acquaintance with the Evangelical System\" rather than more pragmatic literacy, numeracy and teaching ability. The SSPCK had five schools by 1711, 25 by 1715, 176 by 1758 and 189 by 1808, by then with 13,000 pupils attending.\n\nAt first the SSPCK avoided using the Gaelic language, with the result that pupils ended up learning by rote without understanding what they were reading. SSPCK rules from 1720 required the teaching of literacy and numeracy \"but not any Latin or Irish\" (then a common term for Gaelic on both sides of the Irish Sea), and the Society boasted \"that barbarity and the Irish language ... are almost rooted out\" by their teaching. In 1753 an act of the Society forbade students \"either in the schoolhouse or when playing about the doors thereof to speak Erse, under pain of being chastised\". \n\nIn 1741 the SSPCK introduced a Gaelic–English vocabulary, then in 1767 introduced a New Testament designed with facing pages of Gaelic and English texts for both languages to be read alongside one another, with more success. In 1766 they allowed their Highland schools to use Gaelic alongside English as languages of instruction. In 1790, a Society preacher still insisted that English monolingualism was a Society goal and a decade later Society schools continued to use corporal punishment against students speaking Gaelic. In the early 19th century the Society's activity declined. Its educational work was taken over by the Gaelic Societies of Edinburgh, Glasgow and Inverness.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2883641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2883641", "title": "Some Thoughts Concerning Education", "text": "Some Thoughts Concerning Education\n\nSome Thoughts Concerning Education is a 1693 treatise on the education of gentlemen written by the English philosopher John Locke. For over a century, it was the most important philosophical work on education in England. It was translated into almost all of the major written European languages during the eighteenth century, and nearly every European writer on education after Locke, including Jean-Jacques Rousseau, acknowledged its influence.\n\nIn his \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690), Locke outlined a new theory of mind, contending that the gentleman's mind was a \"tabula rasa\" or \"blank slate\"; that is, it did not contain any innate ideas. \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" explains how to educate that mind using three distinct methods: the development of a healthy body; the formation of a virtuous character; and the choice of an appropriate academic curriculum.\n\nLocke wrote the letters that would eventually become \"Some Thoughts\" for an aristocratic friend, but his advice had a broader appeal since his educational principles suggested anyone could acquire the same kind of character as the aristocrats for whom Locke originally intended the work.\n\nRather than writing a wholly original philosophy of education, Locke, it seems, deliberately attempted to popularise several strands of seventeenth-century educational reform at the same time as introducing his own ideas. English writers such as John Evelyn, John Aubrey, John Eachard, and John Milton had previously advocated \"similar reforms in curriculum and teaching methods,\" but they had not succeeded in reaching a wide audience. Curiously, though, Locke proclaims throughout his text that his is a revolutionary work; as Nathan Tarcov, who has written an entire volume on \"Some Thoughts\", has pointed out, \"Locke frequently explicitly opposes his recommendations to the 'usual,' 'common,' 'ordinary,' or 'general' education.\"\n\nAs England became increasingly mercantilist and secularist, the humanist educational values of the Renaissance, which had enshrined scholasticism, came to be regarded by many as irrelevant. Following in the intellectual tradition of Francis Bacon, who had challenged the cultural authority of the classics, reformers such as Locke, and later Philip Doddridge, argued against Cambridge and Oxford's decree that \"all Bachelor and Undergraduates in their Disputations should lay aside their various Authors, such that caused many dissensions and strives in the Schools, and only follow Aristotle and those that defend him, and take their Questions from him, and that they exclude from the Schools all steril and inane Questions, disagreeing from the ancient and true Philosophy [sic].\" Instead of demanding that their sons spend all of their time studying Greek and Latin texts, an increasing number of families began to demand a practical education for their sons; by exposing them to the emerging sciences, mathematics, and the modern languages, these parents hoped to prepare their sons for the changing economy and, indeed, for the new world they saw forming around them.\n\nIn 1684 Edward Clarke asked his friend, John Locke, for advice on raising his son and heir, Edward, Jr.; Locke responded with a series of letters that eventually served as the basis of \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\". But it was not until 1693, encouraged by the Clarkes and another friend, William Molyneux, that Locke actually published the treatise; Locke, \"timid\" when it came to public exposure, decided to publish the text anonymously.\n\nAlthough Locke revised and expanded the text five times before he died, he never substantially altered the \"familiar and friendly style of the work.\" The \"Preface\" alerted the reader to its humble origins as a series of letters and, according to Nathan Tarcov, who has written an entire volume on \"Some Thoughts\", advice that otherwise might have appeared \"meddlesome\" became welcome. Tarcov claims Locke treated his readers as his friends and they responded in kind.\n\nOf Locke's major claims in the \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" and \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\", two played a defining role in eighteenth-century educational theory. The first is that education makes the man; as Locke writes at the opening of his treatise, \"I think I may say that of all the men we meet with, nine parts of ten are what they are, good or evil, useful or not, by their education.\" In making this claim, Locke was arguing against both the Augustinian view of man, which grounds its conception of humanity in original sin, and the Cartesian position, which holds that man innately knows basic logical propositions. In his \"Essay\" Locke posits an \"empty\" mind—a \"tabula rasa\"—that is \"filled\" by experience. In describing the mind in these terms, Locke was drawing on Plato's \"Theatetus\", which suggests that the mind is like a \"wax tablet\". Although Locke argued strenuously for the \"tabula rasa\" theory of mind, he nevertheless did believe in innate talents and interests. For example, he advises parents to watch their children carefully to discover their \"aptitudes,\" and to nurture their children's own interests rather than force them to participate in activities which they dislike—\"he, therefore, that is about children should well study their natures and aptitudes and see, by often trials, what turn they easily take and what becomes them, observe what their native stock is, how it may be improved, and what it is fit for.\"\n\nLocke also discusses a theory of the self. He writes: \"the little and almost insensible impressions on our tender infancies have very important and lasting consequences.\" That is, the \"associations of ideas\" made when young are more significant than those made when mature because they are the foundation of the self—they mark the \"tabula rasa\". In the \"Essay\", in which he first introduces the theory of the association of ideas, Locke warns against letting \"a foolish maid\" convince a child that \"goblins and sprites\" are associated with the darkness, for \"darkness shall ever afterwards bring with it those frightful ideas, and they shall be so joined, that he can no more bear the one than the other.\"\n\nLocke's emphasis on the role of experience in the formation of the mind and his concern with false associations of ideas has led many to characterise his theory of mind as passive rather than active, but as Nicholas Jolley, in his introduction to Locke's philosophical theory, points out, this is \"one of the most curious misconceptions about Locke.\" As both he and Tarcov highlight, Locke's writings are full of directives to seek out knowledge actively and reflect on received opinion; in fact, this was the essence of Locke's challenge to innatism.\n\nLocke advises parents to carefully nurture their children's physical \"habits\" before pursuing their academic education. As many scholars have remarked, it is unsurprising that a trained physician, as Locke was, would begin \"Some Thoughts\" with a discussion of children's physical needs, yet this seemingly simple generic innovation has proven to be one of Locke's most enduring legacies—Western child-rearing manuals are still dominated by the topics of food and sleep. To convince parents that they must attend to the health of their children above all, Locke quotes from Juvenal's \"Satires\"—\"a sound mind in a sound body.\" Locke firmly believed that children should be exposed to harsh conditions while young to inure them to, for example, cold temperatures when they were older: \"Children [should] be not too \"warmly clad or covered\", winter or summer\" (Locke's emphasis), he argues, because \"bodies will endure anything that from the beginning they are accustomed to.\" Furthermore, to prevent a child from catching chills and colds, Locke suggests that \"his \"feet to be washed\" every day in cold water, and to have his \"shoes\" so thin that they might leak and \"let in water\" whenever he comes near it\" (Locke's emphasis). Locke posited that if children were accustomed to having sodden feet, a sudden shower that wet their feet would not cause them to catch a cold. Such advice (whether followed or not) was quite popular; it appears throughout John Newbery's children's books in the middle of the eighteenth century, for example, the first best-selling children's books in England. Locke also offers specific advice on topics ranging from bed linens to diet to sleeping regimens.\n\nLocke dedicates the bulk of \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" to explaining how to instill virtue in children. He defines virtue as a combination of self-denial and rationality: \"that a man is able to \"deny himself\" his own desires, cross his own inclinations, and purely follow what reason directs as best, though the appetite lean the other way\" (Locke's emphasis). Future virtuous adults must be able not only to practice self-denial but also to see the rational path. Locke was convinced that children could reason early in life and that parents should address them as reasoning beings. Moreover, he argues that parents should, above all, attempt to create a \"habit\" of thinking rationally in their children. Locke continually emphasises habit over rule—children should internalise the habit of reasoning rather than memorise a complex set of prohibitions. This focus on rationality and habit corresponds to two of Locke's concerns in the \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\". Throughout the \"Essay\", Locke bemoans the irrationality of the majority and their inability, because of the authority of custom, to change or forfeit long-held beliefs. His attempt to solve this problem is not only to treat children as rational beings but also to create a disciplinary system founded on esteem and disgrace rather than on rewards and punishments. For Locke, rewards such as sweets and punishments such as beatings turn children into sensualists rather than rationalists; such sensations arouse passions rather than reason. He argues that \"such a sort of \"slavish discipline\" makes a \"slavish temper\"\" (Locke's emphasis).\n\nWhat is important to understand is what exactly Locke means when he advises parents to treat their children as reasoning beings. Locke first highlights that children \"love to be treated as Rational Creatures,\" thus parents should treat them as such. Tarcov argues that this suggests children can be considered rational only in that they respond to the desire to be treated as reasoning creatures and that they are \"motivated only [by] rewards and punishments\" to achieve that goal.\n\nUltimately, Locke wants children to become adults as quickly as possible. As he argues in \"Some Thoughts,\" \"the only fence against the world is a thorough knowledge of it, into which a young gentleman should be entered by degrees as he can bear it, and the earlier the better.\" In the \"Second Treatise on Government\" (1689), he contends that it is the parents' duty to educate their children and to act for them because children, though they have the ability to reason when young, do not do so consistently and are therefore usually irrational; it is the parents' obligation to teach their children to become rational adults so that they will not always be fettered by parental ties.\n\nLocke does not dedicate much space in \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" to outlining a specific curriculum; he is more concerned with convincing his readers that education is about instilling virtue and what Western educators would now call critical-thinking skills. Locke maintains that parents or teachers must first teach children \"how\" to learn and to enjoy learning. As he writes, the instructor \"should remember that his business is not so much to teach [the child] all that is knowable, as to raise in him a love and esteem of knowledge; and to put him in the right way of knowing and improving himself.\" But Locke does offer a few hints as to what he thinks a valuable curriculum might be. He deplores the long hours wasted on learning Latin and argues that children should first be taught to speak and write well in their native language, particularly recommending \"Aesop's Fables\". Most of Locke's recommendations are based on a similar principle of utility. So, for example, he claims that children should be taught to draw because it would be useful to them on their foreign travels (for recording the sites they visit), but poetry and music, he says, are a waste of time. Locke was also at the forefront of the scientific revolution and advocated the teaching of geography, astronomy, and anatomy. Locke's curricular recommendations reflect the break from scholastic humanism and the emergence of a new kind of education—one emphasising not only science but also practical professional training. Locke also recommended, for example, that every (male) child learn a trade. Locke's pedagogical suggestions marked the beginning of a new bourgeois ethos that would come to define Britain in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.\n\nWhen Locke began writing the letters that would eventually become \"Some Thoughts on Education\", he was addressing an aristocrat, but the final text appeals to a much wider audience. For example, Locke writes: \"I place \"Vertue\" [sic] as the first and most necessary of those Endowments, that belong to a Man or a Gentleman.\" James Axtell, who edited the most comprehensive edition of Locke's educational writings, has explained that although \"he was writing for this small class, this does not preclude the possibility that many of the things he said about education, especially its main principles, were equally applicable to \"all\" children\" (Axtell's emphasis). This was a contemporary view as well; Pierre Coste, in his introduction in the first French edition in 1695, wrote, \"it is certain that this Work was particularly designed for the education of Gentlemen: but this does not prevent its serving also for the education of all sorts of Children, of whatever class they are.\"\n\nWhile it is possible to apply Locke's general principles of education to all children, and contemporaries such as Coste certainly did so, Locke himself, despite statements that may imply the contrary, believed that \"Some Thoughts\" applied only to the wealthy and the middle-class (or as they would have been referred to at the time, the \"middling sorts\"). One of Locke's conclusions in \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" is that he \"think[s] a Prince, a Nobleman, and an ordinary Gentleman's Son, should have different Ways of Breeding.\" As Peter Gay writes, \"[i]t never occurred to him that every child should be educated or that all those to be educated should be educated alike. Locke believed that until the school system was reformed, a gentleman ought to have his son trained at home by a tutor. As for the poor, they do not appear in Locke's little book at all.\"\n\nIn his \"Essay on the Poor Law,\" Locke turns to the education of the poor; he laments that \"the children of labouring people are an ordinary burden to the parish, and are usually maintained in idleness, so that their labour also is generally lost to the public till they are 12 or 14 years old.\" He suggests, therefore, that \"working schools\" be set up in each parish in England for poor children so that they will be \"from infancy [three years old] inured to work.\" He goes on to outline the economics of these schools, arguing not only that they will be profitable for the parish, but also that they will instill a good work ethic in the children.\n\nLocke wrote \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" in response to his friend Samuel Clarke's query on how to educate his son, so the text's \"principal aim\", as Locke states at the beginning, \"is how a young gentleman should be brought up from his infancy.\" This education \"will not so perfectly suit the education of \"daughters\"; though where the difference of sex requires different treatment, it will be no hard matter to distinguish\" (Locke's emphasis). This passage suggests that, for Locke, education was fundamentally the same for men and women—there were only small, obvious differences for women. This interpretation is supported by a letter he wrote to Mrs. Clarke in 1685 stating that \"since therefore I acknowledge no difference of sex in your mind relating ... to truth, virtue and obedience, I think well to have no thing altered in it from what is [writ for the son].\" Martin Simons states that Locke \"suggested, both by implication and explicitly, that a boy's education should be along the lines already followed by some girls of the intelligent genteel classes.\" Rather than sending boys to schools which would ignore their individual needs and teach them little of value, Locke argues that they should be taught at home as girls already were and \"should learn useful and necessary crafts of the house and estate.\" Like his contemporary Mary Astell, Locke believed that women could and should be taught to be rational and virtuous.\n\nBut Locke does recommend several minor \"restrictions\" relating to the treatment of the female body. The most significant is his reining in of female physical activity for the sake of physical appearance: \"But since in your girls care is to be taken too of their beauty as much as health will permit, this in them must have some restriction ... 'tis fit their tender skins should be fenced against the busy sunbeams, especially when they are very hot and piercing.\" Although Locke's statement indicates that he places a greater value on female than male beauty, the fact that these opinions were never published allowed contemporary readers to draw their own conclusions regarding the \"different treatments\" required for girls and boys, if any. Moreover, compared to other pedagogical theories, such as those in the best-selling conduct book \"The Whole Duty of a Woman\" (1696), the female companion to \"The Whole Duty of Man\" (1657), and Rousseau's \"\" (1762), which both proposed entirely separate educational programs for women, Locke's \"Some Thoughts\" appears far more egalitarian.\n\nAlong with Rousseau's \"\" (1762), Locke's \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" was one of the foundational eighteenth-century texts on educational theory. In Britain, it was considered the standard treatment of the topic for over a century. For this reason, some critics have maintained that \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" vies with the \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" for the title of Locke's most influential work. Some of Locke's contemporaries, such as seventeenth-century German philosopher and mathematician Gottfried Leibniz, believed this as well; Leibniz argued that \"Some Thoughts\" superseded even the \"Essay\" in its impact on European society.\n\nLocke's \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" was a runaway best-seller. During the eighteenth century alone, \"Some Thoughts\" was published in at least 53 editions: 25 English, 16 French, six Italian, three German, two Dutch, and one Swedish. It was also excerpted in novels such as Samuel Richardson's \"Pamela\" (1740–1), and it formed the theoretical basis of much children's literature, particularly that of the first successful children's publisher, John Newbery. According to James Secord, an eighteenth-century scholar, Newbery included Locke's educational advice to legitimise the new genre of children's literature. Locke's imprimatur would ensure the genre's success.\n\nBy the end of the eighteenth century, Locke's influence on educational thought was widely acknowledged. In 1772 James Whitchurch wrote in his \"Essay Upon Education\" that Locke was \"an Author, to whom the Learned must ever acknowledge themselves highly indebted, and whose Name can never be mentioned without a secret Veneration, and Respect; his Assertions being the result of intense Thought, strict Enquiry, a clear and penetrating Judgment.\" Writers as politically dissimilar as Sarah Trimmer, in her periodical \"The Guardian of Education\" (1802–06), and Maria Edgeworth, in the educational treatise she penned with her father, \"Practical Education\" (1798), invoked Locke's ideas. Even Rousseau, while disputing Locke's central claim that parents should treat their children as rational beings, acknowledged his debt to Locke.\n\nJohn Cleverley and D. C. Phillips place Locke's \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" at the beginning of a tradition of educational theory which they label \"environmentalism\". In the years following the publication of Locke's work, Etienne Bonnot de Condillac and Claude Adrien Helvétius eagerly adopted the idea that people's minds were shaped through their experiences and thus through their education. Systems of teaching children through their senses proliferated throughout Europe. In Switzerland, Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, relying on Locke's theories, developed the concept of the \"object lesson.\" These lessons focused pupils' attention on a particular thing and encouraged them to use all of their senses to explore it and urged them to use precise words to describe it. Used throughout Europe and America during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, these object lessons, according to one of their practitioners \"if well-managed, cultivate Sense-Perception, or Observation, accustom children to express their thoughts in words, increase their available stock of words and of ideas, and by thus storing material for thinking, also prepare the way for more difficult and advanced study.\"\n\nSuch techniques were also integral to Maria Montessori's methods in the twentieth century. According to Cleverley and Phillips, the television show Sesame Street is also \"based on Lockean assumptions—its aim has been to give underprivileged children, especially in the inner cities, the simple ideas and basic experiences that their environment normally does not provide.\" In many ways, despite Locke's continuing influence, as these authors point out, the twentieth century has been dominated by the \"nature vs. nurture\" debate in a way that Locke's century was not. Locke's optimistic \"environmentalism,\" though qualified in his text, is now no longer just a moral issue – it is also a scientific issue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339779", "title": "Sophomore", "text": "Sophomore\n\nIn the United States, a sophomore ( or ) is a student in the second year of study at high school or college.\n\nThe 10th grade is the second year of a student's high school period (usually aged 15–16) and is referred to as sophomore year.\n\nIn \"How to Read a Book\", the Aristotelean philosopher and founder of the \"Great Books of the Western World\" program Mortimer Adler says, \"There have always been literate ignoramuses, who have read too widely, and not well. The Greeks had a name for such a mixture of learning and folly which might be applied to the bookish but poorly read of all ages. They are all 'sophomores.'\"\n\nHigh-school sophomores are expected to begin preparing for the college application process, including increasing and focusing their extracurricular activities. Students at this level are also considered to be developing greater ability for abstract thinking.\n\nIn the United States, college sophomores are advised to begin thinking of career options and to get involved in volunteering or social organisations on or near campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "1022417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022417", "title": "Sudbury school", "text": "Sudbury school\n\nA Sudbury school is a type of school, usually for the K-12 age range, where students have complete responsibility for their own education, and the school is run by direct democracy in which students and staff are almost equals. Students independently decide what to do with their time, and tend to learn as a by-product of ordinary experience rather than through coursework. There is no predetermined educational syllabus, prescriptive curriculum or standardized instruction. This is a form of democratic education. Daniel Greenberg, one of the founders of the original Sudbury Model school, writes that the two things that distinguish a Sudbury Model school are that everyone - adults and children - are treated equally and that there is no authority other than that granted by the consent of the governed.\n\nWhile each Sudbury Model school operates independently and determines their own policies and procedures, they share a common culture. The intended culture within a Sudbury school has been described with such words as freedom, trust, respect, responsibility and democracy.\n\nThe name 'Sudbury' originates from the Sudbury Valley School, founded in 1968 in Framingham, Massachusetts, near Sudbury, Massachusetts. Though there is no formal or regulated definition of a Sudbury Model school, there are now more than 60 schools that identify themselves with Sudbury around the world. Some, though not all, include \"Sudbury\" in their name. These schools operate as independent entities and are not formally associated in any way.\n\nSudbury schools are based on:\n\n\n\"The fundamental premises of the school are simple: that all people are curious by nature; that the most efficient, long-lasting, and profound learning takes place when started and pursued by the learner; that all people are creative if they are allowed to develop their unique talents; that age-mixing among students promotes growth in all members of the group; and that freedom is essential to the development of personal responsibility.\"\n\nAll aspects of governing a Sudbury School are determined by the weekly School Meeting, modeled after the traditional New England town meeting. School Meeting passes, amends and repeals school rules, manages the school's budget, and decides on hiring and firing of staff. Each individual present — including students and staff — has an equal vote, and most decisions are made by simple majority\n\nSchool rules are normally compiled in a law book, updated repeatedly over time, which forms the school's code of law. Usually, there is a set procedure to handle complaints, and most of the schools follow guidelines that respect the idea of due process of law. There are usually rules requiring an investigation, a hearing, a trial, a sentence, and allowing for an appeal, generally following the philosophy that students face the consequences of their own behavior.\n\nThe Sudbury pedagogical philosophy may be summarized as the following:\nLearning is a natural by-product of all human activity. Learning is self-initiated and self-motivated.\n\nThe educational model states that there are many ways to learn and that learning is a process someone does, not a process that is done to him or her; According to the model the presence and guidance of a teacher is not necessary.\n\nThe free exchange of ideas and free conversation and interplay between people provides broad exposure to areas that may prove relevant and interesting to students. Students are of all mixed ages. The older students learn from younger students and vice versa. The presence of older students provides role models, both positive and negative, for younger students. The pervasiveness of play has led to a recurring observation by first-time visitors to a Sudbury school that the students appear to be in perpetual \"recess\".\n\nImplicitly and explicitly, students are given responsibility for their own education: The only person designing what a student will learn is the student. Exceptions are when a student asks for a particular class or arranges an apprenticeship. Sudbury schools do not compare or rank students — the school requires no tests, evaluations, or transcripts.\n\nReading is treated the same as any other subject: Students learn to read when they choose, or simply by going about their lives.\n\n\"Only a few kids seek any help at all when they decide to learn. Each child seems to have their own method. Some learn from being read to, memorizing the stories and then ultimately reading them. Some learn from cereal boxes, others from game instructions, others from street signs. Some teach themselves letter sounds, others syllables, others whole words. To be honest, we rarely know how they do it, and they rarely tell us.\"\n\nSudbury Valley School claims that all of their students have learned to read. While students learn to read at a wide variety of ages, there appears to be no drawback to learning to read later: No one who meets their older students could guess the age at which they first learned to read.\n\nThe model differs in some ways from other types of democratic schools and free schools, but there are many similarities:\n\n"}
{"id": "15167207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15167207", "title": "Talibe", "text": "Talibe\n\nA talibé (also called \"talibe\", plural \"talibés\", Arabic, ṭālib, \"\"student\", lit. \"seeker\"\"; pl. \"ṭullāb\") is a boy, usually from Senegal, the Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali or Mauritania, who studies the Quran at a daara (West African equivalent of madrasa). This education is guided by a teacher known as a marabout. In most cases talibés leave their parents to stay in the daara.\n\nWithin Senegal, the term ‘talibé’ can be used in a wider context, “for instance to denote a militant adherent of a political party.”\n\nThe talibé’s relationship with his marabout is one of “devotion and strict obedience.” The marabout provides “guidance, protection, and intercession” for the talibé. A talibé’s allegiance to his marabout is expressed through economic support or tithes.\n\nThe views on talibés in Senegalese society are diverse. Some individuals, ethnic groups and religious denominations promote the raising of talibés while others reject the practice. Among those who support it there is a range of views of the best way to manage a daara.\nMany theories exist to explain the motivations of parents to send their children to a daara. These include; de facto fostering because of financial difficulties; securing a better future for the child by building a relationship with the Muslim brotherhood to which the marabout belongs, and; preparing the child for a career as a marabout. Donna L. Perry disagrees with those who portray parents of talibés as “ignorant traditionalists or economic victims,” and marabouts as being “warped by the stresses of modernity.” Based on interviews with Wolof farmers, she contends that the popularity of raising talibés remains essentially linked to West African values on child-rearing, rather than a response to “rampant population growth, intensified poverty, and neoliberal policy.” The framing of the plight of talibés in socio-economic terms is, according to Perry, an intentional strategy of NGOs to “avoid accusations of cultural imperialism.”\n\nDaaras have existed for hundreds of years. They grew in significance during the French colonial period. The number of rural daaras declined during the latter half of the 20th century in favour of Arab-styled medersas (madrasa). Medersas grew in popularity as they enabled farmers to keep their children working outside of school hours, provided a secular and Quaranic education, and exposed children to fewer hardships. During this time many daaras moved to the cities.\n\nIn 1992, UNICEF launched a five-year operation to raise awareness about talibés, and sought to work alongside marabouts to improve talibes’ living conditions. In 1997, this work was picked up on an ad hoc basis by NGOs. These agencies sought to avoid the shortcomings of UNICEF’s model which supplied marabouts with resources which were not always used for the benefit of talibés. Instead, these humanitarian groups worked directly with talibés. Talibés continue to be a topic of discourse in Senegalese society.\n\nBegging used to be characterised by the talibé asking for food to supplement the daara’s supplies when it could not sustain its own demands from the harvests provided by the marabout's fields. The increasing number of daaras in urban settings has stemmed the traditional forms of support that sustained daaras. The prevalence of almsgiving in Senegalese society has made child begging profitable in cities. In the 1970s, some urban daaras ran seasonally, allowing for marabouts to return to their villages for the harvest. However, it became more economically viable for urban daaras to remain open all year round:\n\nPerry warns that the above view can imply that only urban daaras exploit talibés. She contends that urban and rural daaras “are the same. There is just one difference: the urban talibe’s ‘farm’ is the urban street, and [the] ‘crop’ he harvests is cash, and not peanuts.”\n\nThe practice of marabouts taking on talibés is seldom subject to state regulation, making it easier for abuse of this relationship to occur. The Senegalese government has recently created state-regulated daaras in order to reduce abuses. However, urban daaras with resident talibés form the most common form of Quranic schools.\n\nSome marabouts, instead of teaching their talibés about the Quran, exploit them for labour, typically through forced begging on the streets. The nature of this exploitation exposes such talibés to disease, injury, death, physical abuse and sexual abuse.\n\nRecent studies show that talibés average just less than 8 hours per day, every day, begging. The exact sums that a talibé must yield each day vary between daaras. A survey of 175 talibes revealed that the average sum demanded by a marabout is 373 CFA ($0.79 USD), rising to 445 CFA ($0.94 USD) on holy days when greater almsgiving is customary. World Bank statistics show that just under 30 percent of Senegal’s population lives on less than 593 CFA ($1.25 USD) per day, and over 55 percent live on less than 949 CFA ($2.00 USD). This highlights the difficulty talibés have in meeting the quotas requested by marabouts. In addition to financial quotas, some marabouts set quotas for basic foodstuffs such as sugar and rice.\n\nTalibés are sometime required by their marabouts to meet a quota of money or basic foods. Failure to meet that quota can result in physical abuse. Human Rights Watch (HRW) documented boys exhibiting scars and welts, usually resulting from the application of electric cables, clubs and canes.\n\nIn some daaras, an older, senior talibé, or assistant marabout will be responsible for punishing younger talibés who fail to return their daily quota, or are late returning. In other cases, a marabout might not supervise the children living in the daara, leaving the senior talibés to steal from the younger, as well as abuse them physically and sexually.\n\nTalibés are seldom provided with necessities such as basic shelter and food. Some are punished for failing to meeting their quotas by being refused entry into the daara. This forces the child to sustain even longer hours begging, or to sleep on the streets. Hundreds of talibés are estimated to flee abusive marabouts every year, compounding the issue of street children in urban areas. The fear of punishments for not meeting the marabouts demands also increases instances of thefts by talibés.\n\nLiving conditions in urban daaras are often characterised by malnourishment, lack of clothing and footwear, exposure to illnesses, and poor medical treatment. In many cases, talibés are still required to beg while ill and to pay for their own treatment. Urban daaras are often sites of overcrowding and poor sanitation, and many lack running water. The poor structures which are sometimes converted into daaras leave the resident boys exposed to the elements.\n\nLittle research has been done on the extent of sexual abuse of talibés. HRW, however, noted several of instances of rape in daaras by older talibés, or assistant marabouts. Other instances of rape were reported to have taken place outside of the daara against children living on the street who had fled from violence at their daara. These cases were recorded in interviews with talibés who witnessed the abuse, or with social workers assisting the victims.\n\nA 2007 UNICEF study of child begging in Dakar, the capital of Senegal, found that “the large majority of child beggars (90%) are talibés.” UNICEF has estimated there to be between 50,000-100,000 begging talibés in Senegal. A 2010 report suggests that the number of talibés is on the rise. Other researchers, however, warn that “estimates on the numbers of street children rest upon largely elastic and nebulous definitions.” Indeed, there are no official statistics to substantiate these claims. Others respond that the rise of Arabic-maderas is causing the number of talibés to decline.\n\nHRW has warned that the social status enjoyed by marabouts has emboldened “those responsible for the proliferation of forced child begging and other abuses committed by the marabouts against talibé children.” Perry cautiously agrees that “reverence of marabouts and respect for the talibé institution may be a dominant ideology, but it is not now, nor ever was, totalising or uncontested.”\n\nA variety of views exist about how the treatment of talibés engages international conventions.\n\nSome NGOs argue that, where a marabout acquires custody over a talibé in order to force the child to beg, this meets the definition of a practice ‘akin to slavery’, as defined by the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery. That convention states that receiving a child “with a view to the exploitation of the child or young person or of his labour,” is a practice akin to slavery which is subject to the Convention.\n\nThe Convention concerning Forced or Compulsory Labour describes forced labour as work “which is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for which the said person has not offered himself voluntarily.” The Convention goes on to impose a duty on signatory states to “completely suppress such forced or compulsory labour.”\n\nThe International Labour Organization (ILO) has opined that the practice of exploiting talibés for labour also falls within the ambit of the Convention on the Worst Forms of Child Labour. This is because, its opinion, forced begging is akin to slavery, and because the labour exposes children to a plethora of dangers to their wellbeing.\n\nGiven the ILO’s views on forced begging, HRW has argued that marabouts, when transporting talibés with the primary intention of obtaining labour from them, are engaging in child trafficking. Article 3(c) of the Trafficking in Persons Protocol includes in the definition of ‘trafficking in persons,’ the “recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of a child for the purpose of exploitation.”\n\nThe CRC creates rights to adequate living standards for children, with regard to the means of the primary caregivers, as well as the means of the state to support the primary caregivers. HRW argues that states, parents and marabouts are in breach of CRC in failing to oversee the adequate housing, care and nourishment of talibés.\n\nHRW also cites the following as other abuses of talibés which breach CRC.\n\nThe Convention against Torture only applies where the actions are carried out by a state official. However, the committee which oversees that treaty issued an opinion stating that:\n\nGiven the punishments used against talibés, such as stress positions and chaining, HRW argues that this construction of the Convention indicates that instances of torture are occurring against talibés.\n\nIt has been reported by the Senegalese non-governmental organisation XALAAT, a leading institution that works to confront the issue in this country, that while the subject being very controversial, in some communities there are conclusive evidences that ill-treatment has always been very common practice in most of the traditional Koranic Schools called Daara. Additionally, this ngo is arguing to have efficiently brought practitioners in this field to connect together the different clusters that have until now ignored while considering the problem. \n"}
{"id": "37441922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37441922", "title": "The Democratic Intellect", "text": "The Democratic Intellect\n\nThe Democratic Intellect: Scotland and her Universities in the Nineteenth Century is a 1961 book by philosopher George Elder Davie.\n"}
{"id": "47681764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47681764", "title": "Think-pair-share", "text": "Think-pair-share\n\nThink-pair-share is a collaborative teaching strategy first proposed by Frank Lyman of the University of Maryland in 1981. It can be used to help students form individual ideas, discuss and share with the others in-group. It can be used before reading or teaching a concept and works better with smaller groups.\n\nIn think-pair-share strategy the teacher acts as a facilitator, and poses a question or a problem to the students. The students are given sufficient time to think and gather their thoughts, after which the teacher asks them to pair themselves and share their thoughts with each other.\n\nAs the students begin to share their thoughts and views, each learns to see the different perspective of thinking among their peers. By doing so the students learning is enhanced by the formation and articulation of an idea. This also enables the students to have clarity of thought and have the ability to communicate their thoughts and ideas to another student.\n\nIf time permits the paired students can share their thought with other paired students, and teachers can ask one or two pairs to share their ideas with the entire class.\n\nThink-pair-share is designed to help the student to understand the concept of the given topic, develop ability to filter the information and formulate an idea or thought, and draw conclusions. The most important aspect of the think-pair-share is that students will develop the ability to consider and appreciate the different viewpoints of their peers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23391400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23391400", "title": "Thomas Jefferson Education", "text": "Thomas Jefferson Education\n\nThomas Jefferson Education, also known as \"TJEd\" or \"Leadership Education\" is a philosophy and methodology of education which is popular among some alternative educators, including private schools, charter schools and homeschoolers. It is based on the Seven Keys of Great Teaching and the Phases of Learning. This educational paradigm was popularized through the writing and teaching of Oliver and Rachel DeMille, co-authors of the TJEd resource materials. TJED is the reestablishment of a classical Liberal Arts Education based on the education of the founding American era and other classic periods on history.\n\nIn TJEd, the \"Seven Keys of Great Teaching\" are Classics, not Textbooks; Mentors, not Professors; Inspire, not Require; Structure Time, not Content; Quality, not Conformity; Simplicity, not Complexity; and You, not Them.\n\nTJEd prescribes a distinct approach for students of different developmental ages. These are called \"Phases\", and correspond with the physical/emotional/intellectual readiness for the lessons of each phase. The suggested corresponding ages are a general guide, with exceptions that vary widely. DeMille cites such developmental psychologists as Jean Piaget, Lev Vygotsky and Erik Erikson in support of their paradigm of \"Phases\".\n\nThe \"Foundational Phases\" of TJEd are as follows:\n\nThe \"Educational Phases\" are as follows:\n\nThe \"Applicational [sic] Phases\" are as follows:\n\nThe books note that while the above timeline is in some respects ideal, it is possible to \"renegotiate\" lost lessons from previous phases, and \"catch up\" to the natural flow of the Phases.\n\nTJEd parents and educators wanting an introduction to teaching through the classics can receive orientation and training to do so by completing The Five Pillar Certification. The Five Pillars of Statesmanship are: Classics, Mentors, Simulations, Field Experience and God. Certification endorses an individual’s knowledge and ability in the Classics/Mentors approach to teaching leaders by incorporating all Five Pillars into an overall system of education. The 5 Pillar Certification program is divided into three levels to facilitate progress. \n\nLevel I is an introduction to the Five Pillars and the Classics/Mentors model of education includes attending a seminar, submitting a form to a facilitator, and reading and discussing the following books: \"The Chosen\", \"Jane Eyre\", \"The Lonesome Gods\", \"Little Britches\", \"Laddie\", \"The Merchant of Venice\", and \"A Thomas Jefferson Education\".\n\nLevel II is a comprehensive study of additional classics. It also requires seminar attendance and a reading and one-page summary for 12 of the following books: \"Pride and Prejudice\", \"What is Seen and What is Not Seen\" from \"Essays on Political Economy\", \"The One Minute Teacher\", \"The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People\", \"Leadership Education: The Phases of Learning\", \"Great Expectations\", \"Alas, Babylon\", \"Multiple Intelligences\", \"The 7 Lesson School Teacher\" from \"Dumbing Us Down\", \"Market-Based Education\", \"How Children Learn\", \"Les Misérables\", \"Spiritual Lives of the Great Composers\", \"The Abolition of Man\", \"Understanding the Times\", \"Uncle Tom’s Cabin\", \"The Fourth Turning\", \"Walden\", and \"The Virginian\".\n\nLevel III is considered a practical application of the Five Pillars in an educational setting. One must administrate or teach in a public, private or home school or class and apply the 5 Pillar system for a minimum of six months; keep a journal of the entire project and write a project summary when the project is complete; pass an oral board covering the content of the three levels, as well as the practicum; and attend a seminar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54519146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54519146", "title": "Traditional student", "text": "Traditional student\n\nA traditional student is a category of students at colleges and universities. \n\nIn the United States, it is used to refer to post-secondary students between 18-22 years old who enroll directly from high school, attend full-time, live on campus, and do not have major life and work responsibilities (e.g., full-time job or dependents). Historically, traditional students made up the majority of students. However, traditional-aged college students are now a minority in the United States. It is frequently observed that traditional higher education programs and policies are geared toward, and the outcome of, the previous era when traditional students were the main market for higher education. \n\nTraditional students are contrasted with non-traditional students, which typically refers to adult students who are not participating in higher education immediately after high school, are 25 years old and older, and/or have major life and work roles and responsibilities.\n"}
{"id": "3662045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3662045", "title": "Web-based Inquiry Science Environment", "text": "Web-based Inquiry Science Environment\n\nThe Web-based Inquiry Science Environment (WISE) is a program hosted by Berkeley University and supported by the National Science Foundation. It provides a platform for creating inquiry-based science projects for middle school and high school students to work collaboratively using evidence and resources from the Web. WISE inquiry projects are typically developed by teams including teachers, researchers, and scientists. These projects range in duration from 2 days to 4 weeks, suitable for teachers in every science topic at all grade levels. The use of Internet materials provides the foundation of WISE. All projects make use of some content from the World Wide Web, as well as additional Web pages authored for purposes of the project. This approach helps students learn to use the Internet for inquiry, critiquing Web sites, designing approaches, or comparing arguments. Typical projects engage students in designing solutions to problems (e.g. building a desert house that is warm at night and cool during the day), debating contemporary science controversies (e.g. the causes of declining amphibian populations), investigating scientific phenomena (e.g. thermal equilibrium in the classroom), or critiquing scientific claims found in web sites (e.g. arguments for life on Mars).\n\nWISE projects can also incorporate Java applets, flash models, forums to facilitate online discussions, data collection, drawing, argument creation, resource sharing, branching, concept mapping and other built-in components. WISE is entirely browser-based, meaning that students only need access to a computer with an Internet connection, with no required software other than the Web browser). All student work is saved on central project servers that enable student accounts and teacher accounts to be coordinated, with special Web environments designed to support teachers and students. Students can access their work from any computer on the Internet. Teachers can choose from the library of curriculum projects in the WISE Teacher's Portal, each accompanied by a set of materials including a detailed lesson plan, pre and post assessments, connections to the AAAS National standards, tools for setting up a custom grading scheme, and even a software tool that enables customization of the WISE project for local issues, geographical features or student populations. Teachers can monitor and grade student work in real time, provide formative feedback during a project run, and manage their student accounts. \n\nFinally, WISE provides a user-friendly interface to facilitate the authoring of new projects, with numerous technology-based components including online discussions, data collection, drawing, argument creation, resource sharing, concept mapping and other built-in tools. Developers can also include custom tools of their own design. Projects are further customizable by teachers and other end users through the same interface to better meet the needs of their students and constraints of local educational settings. The website provides rich descriptions of the WISE learning environment, a library of inquiry projects for students and teachers, a teacher support center, and the complete authoring environment.\n\n"}
