{"id": "17606723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17606723", "title": "3D city models", "text": "3D city models\n\n3D city models are digital models of urban areas that represent terrain surfaces, sites, buildings, vegetation, infrastructure and landscape elements in three-dimensional scale as well as related objects (e.g., city furniture) belonging to urban areas. Their components are described and represented by corresponding two-dimensional and three-dimensional spatial data and geo-referenced data. 3D city models support presentation, exploration, analysis, and management tasks in a large number of different application domains. In particular, 3D city models allow \"for visually integrating heterogeneous geoinformation within a single framework and, therefore, create and manage complex urban information spaces.\" \n\nTo store 3D city models, both file-based and database approaches are used. There is no single, unique representation schema due to the heterogeneity and diversity of 3d city model contents.\n\nComponents of 3D city models are encoded by common file and exchange formats for 2D raster-based GIS data (e.g., GeoTIFF), 2D vector-based GIS data (e.g., AutoCAD DXF), 3D models (e.g., .3DS, .OBJ), and 3D scenes (e.g., Collada, Keyhole Markup Language) such as supported by CAD, GIS, and computer graphics tools and systems. All components of a 3D city model have to be transformed into a common geographic coordinate system.\n\nA database for 3D city models stores its components in a hierarchically structured, multi-scale way, which allows for a stable and reliable data management and facilitates complex GIS modeling and analysis tasks. For example, the 3D City Database is a free 3D geo database to store, represent, and manage virtual 3D city models on top of a standard spatial relational database. A database is required if 3D city models have to be continuously managed. 3D city model databases form a key element in 3D spatial data infrastructures that require support for storing, managing, maintenance, and distribution of 3D city model contents. Their implementation requires support of a multitude of formats (e.g., based on FME multi formats). As common application, geodata download portals can be set up for 3D city model contents (e.g., virtualcityWarehouse).\n\nThe Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) defines an explicit XML-based exchange format for 3D city models, CityGML, which supports not only geometric descriptions of 3D city model components but also the specification of semantics and topology information.\n\n3D city models are typically constructed at various levels of detail (LOD) to provide notions of multiple resolutions and at different levels of abstraction. Other metrics such as the level of spatio-semantic coherence and resolution of the texture can be considered a part of the LOD. For example, CityGML defines five LODs for building models: \n\nThere exist also approaches to generalize a given detailed 3D city model by means of automated generalization. For example, a hierarchical road network (e.g., OpenStreetMap) can be used to group 3D city model components into \"cells\"; each cell is abstracted by aggregating and merging contained components.\n\nGIS data provide the base information to build a 3D city model such as by digital terrain models, road networks, land use maps, and related geo-referenced data. GIS data also includes cadastral data that can be converted into simple 3D models as, for example, in the case of extruded building footprints. Core components of 3D city models form digital terrain models (DTM) represented, for example, by TINs or grids.\n\nTypical sources of data for 3D city model also include CAD models of buildings, sites, and infrastructure elements. They provide a high level of detail, possible not required by 3D city model applications, but can be incorporated either by exporting their geometry or as encapsulated objects.\n\nBuilding information models represent another category of geo-spatial data that can be integrated into a 3D city model providing the highest level of detail for building components.\n\nComplex 3D city models typically are based on different sources of geodata such as geodata from GIS, building and site models from CAD and BIM. It is one of their core properties to establish a common reference frame for heterogeneous geo-spatial and geo-referenced data, i.e., the data need not to be merged or fusioned based on one common data model or schema. The integration is possible by sharing a common geo-coordinate system at the visualization level.\n\nThe simplest form of building model construction consist in extruding the footprint polygons of buildings, e.g., taken from the cadaster, by pre-compute average heights. In practice, 3D models of buildings of urban regions are generated based on capturing and analyzing 3D point clouds (e.g., sampled by terrestrial or aerial laser scanning) or by photogrammetric approaches. To achieve a high percentage of geometrically and topologically correct 3D building models, digital terrain surfaces and 2D footprint polygons are required by automated building reconstruction tools such as BREC. One key challenge is to find building parts with their corresponding roof geometry. \"Since fully automatic image understanding is very hard to solve, semi-automatic components are usually required to at least support the recognition of very complex buildings by a human operator.\" Statistical approaches are common for roof reconstruction based on airborne laser scanning point clouds. \nFully automated processes exist to generate LOD1 and LOD2 building models for large regions. For example, the Bavarian Office for Surveying and Spatial Information is responsible for about 8 million building models at LOD1 and LOD2.\n\nThe visualization of 3D city models represents a core functionality required for interactive applications and systems based on 3D city models.\n\nProviding high quality visualization of massive 3D city models in a scalable, fast, and cost efficient manner is still a challenging task due to the complexity in terms of 3D geometry and textures of 3D city models. Real-time rendering provides a large number of specialized 3D rendering techniques for 3D city models. \nExamples of specialized real-time 3D rendering include: \n\nReal-time rendering algorithms and data structures are listed by the virtual terrain project.\n\nService-oriented architectures (SOA) for visualizing 3D city models offer a separation of concerns into management and rendering and their interactive provision by client applications. For SOA-based approaches, 3D portrayal services are required, whose main functionality represents the portrayal in the sense of 3D rendering and visualization. SOA-based approaches can be distinguished into two main categories, currently discussed in the Open Geospatial Consortium:\n\n\nA map-based technique, the \"smart map\" approach, aims at providing \"massive, virtual 3D city models on different platforms namely web browsers, smartphones or tablets, by means of an interactive map assembled from artificial oblique image tiles.\" The map tiles are synthesized by an automatic 3D rendering process of the 3D city model; the map tiles, generated for different levels-of-detail, are stored on the server. This way, the 3D rendering is completely performed on the server's side, simplifying access and usage of 3D city models. The 3D rendering process can apply advanced rendering techniques (e.g., global illumination and shadow calculation, illustrative rendering), but does not require client devices to have advanced 3D graphics hardware. Most importantly, the map-based approach allows for distributing and using complex 3D city models with having to stream the underlying data to client devices - only the pre-generated map tiles are sent. This way, \"(a) The complexity of the 3D city model data is decoupled from data transfer complexity (b) the implementation of client applications is simplified significantly as 3D rendering is encapsulated on server side (c) 3D city models can be easily deployed for and used by a large number of concurrent users, leading to a high degree of scalability of the overall approach.\" \n\n3D city models can be used for a multitude of purposes in a growing number of different application domains. Examples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5719208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5719208", "title": "45×90 points", "text": "45×90 points\n\nThe 45×90 points are the four points on earth which are halfway between the geographical poles, the equator, the Prime Meridian, and the 180th meridian.\n\nThe best-known and most frequently visited such point is which is located on land at above sea level in the town of Rietbrock, Wisconsin near the unincorporated community of Poniatowski. An incorrect geographic marker was placed there by the Marathon County Park Commission, but in 2017, it was removed and relocated to the actual location. It re-opened September 12, 2017.\n\nThe point has become something of a pop culture phenomenon thanks to Gesicki's Tavern in the tiny cluster of establishments in Poniatowski. They once sold 45×90 T-shirts and registered visitors as members of the \"45x90 Club\". Since 2006, the Wausau/Central Wisconsin Convention & Visitors Bureau has been the holder of the official \"45x90 Club\" registration book. The book is on loan from the Gesicki family. Upon becoming a member of the \"45x90 Club\", the Wausau/Central Wisconsin Convention & Visitors Bureau will give new members a commemorative coin.\n\nThe only other 45×90 point located on land is which has a height of above sea level and is located in a desolate region of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China near the Mongolian border, some northeast of Ürümqi. Administratively, it is on the border of Qitai and Qinggil Counties. Greg Michaels, an American, and Ru Rong Zhao, a taxi driver from the closest town of Qitai, itself 110 km to the south-southwest, visited this point on April 13, 2004 and documented the visit on the Degree Confluence Project. Their visit shows that there is no monument or any physical sign that recognition has been given to this location.\n\nLocated in the southern Indian Ocean, has an ocean floor depth of below sea level and is southeast of the nearest uninhabited island of Île Saint-Paul, northeast of Elephant Spit on Heard Island, east north east of Port aux Français in the Kerguelen Islands, north of Antarctica, southwest of the closest inhabited land of Augusta, Western Australia, southeast of Réunion Island, and southeast of Benguerra Island, Mozambique, and southeast of Mossel Bay, South Africa.\n\nThe antipode of the southern Indian Ocean location is the (45°N,90°W) location in Wisconsin.\n\nIn March 2014, the location in the southern Indian Ocean was the subject of an aerial search for the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, after potential debris were spotted by satellite centered on the 45°S, 90°E location.\n\nLocated in the southern Pacific Ocean, west south west of Guaitecas in Chile, and north of Antarctica, has an ocean floor depth of below sea level.\n\nThe antipode of the southern Pacific Ocean location is the (45°N,90°E) location in China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18622896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622896", "title": "Africa Specialty Group", "text": "Africa Specialty Group\n\nThe Africa Specialty Group is one of many specialty groups within the Association of American Geographers. The group is composed of academic geographers with research interests in Africa. This group publishes the African Geographical Review, a peer-reviewed academic journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "38819300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38819300", "title": "Ambrose Channel pilot cable", "text": "Ambrose Channel pilot cable\n\nThe Ambrose Channel pilot cable, also called the Ambrose Channel leader cable, was a cable laid in Ambrose Channel at the entrance to the Port of New York and New Jersey that provided an audio tone for guiding ships in and out of port at times of low visibility. The cable was laid during 1919 and 1920; it had been removed from the channel and replaced by wireless technology by the end of the 1920s.\nAmbrose Channel is the only shipping channel in and out of the Port of New York and New Jersey, an important commercial port. Delays posed a major problem for shipping en route to New York City, and bad weather could close the channel for days. Ships were forced to wait at the harbor's entrance for conditions to clear. These delays cost shipping companies substantial amounts of money, with each ship costing between $500 and $4000 per hour it was stopped (roughly $5,700 to $46,000 in 2013 dollars).\n\nThe Ambrose leader cable was an armored cable with a single internal conductor (see picture) that acted like a long radio antenna laid on the channel floor. It originated at Fort Lafayette (near the present day Verrazano-Narrows Bridge), then extended 16 miles down the Ambrose Channel to the vicinity of Lightship Ambrose offshore. It was powered by a generator at Fort Lafayette that produced 500 Hz (cycles per second) current at 400 volts, resulting in an alternating electromagnetic field along the length of the cable that could be detected to approximately a thousand yards away. The current was mechanically keyed to send the word \"NAVY\" in Morse Code.\n\nA ship received by a pair of induction coils hung on opposite sides of the ship, and fed through an amplifier into a headset (see diagram, below). By switching between coils, the relative strength of the signal on each side could be compared. The ship maintained a course parallel to the cable by maneuvering to keep the signal strength constant.\n\nThe pilot cable required a series of prior discoveries and inventions. In 1882, A. R. Sennett patented the use of a submerged electrical cable to communicate with a ship at a fixed location. Around the same time Charles Stevenson patented a means of navigating ships over an electrically charge cable using a galvanometer. The method became practical when Earl Hanson adapted early vacuum tube circuits to amplify the signal.\n\nRobert H. Marriott was a radio pioneer employed by the Navy in Puget Sound, where he conducted early experiments with underwater pilot cables. His results were sufficiently promising that he recommended further development to Commander Stanford C. Hooper. In October, 1919 Commander Hooper instructed A. Crossley, an expert radio aid, to develop and test the concept on a larger scale at the New London Naval Base. Crossley installed a longer version of the cable that Marriott had designed. He used a wooden hulled launch for the first round of tests before moving to a steel-hulled submarine for later tests. Both types of vessel picked up the signal and followed the underwater test cable without problem.\n\nFollowing the successful tests at New London, the Navy proceeded to large scale testing in Ambrose Channel late in 1919. The minelayer \"Ord\" laid a pilot cable composed of 2,000 feet of leaded and armored cable, 2,000 feet of leaded cable, and 83,000 feet of standard rubber-insulated cable. The USS \"O'Brien\" was fitted with receiving equipment and attempted to follow the cable out of the channel. Unfortunately, it was unable to detect a signal past the 1,000 foot mark, where a break in the cable had prevented the signal from continuing. The break in the cable was repaired, but over the course of the winter of 1919-1920, crews found that the cable had broken in a total of fifty-two different places due to the strain placed on it while it was being laid. The damage was irreparable. Going back to the drawing board, engineers tested 150-foot segments of three different types of cable and used the results to design a new full-size pilot cable. The Navy ordered 87,000 feet of cable from the Simplex Wire and Cable Company in Boston.\n\nOnce complete, the cable was loaded onto the USS \"Pequot\" in the Boston Navy Yard. The ship arrived in New York on July 31, 1920. Ambrose Channel was already crossed by three telegraph cables, owned by Western Union, the Army, and the police, all of which had to be raised to the surface so the pilot cable could be laid underneath them. The installation of the cable was completed on August 6, 1920, and by August 28, electrical tests showed that both the sending and receiving circuits were functioning properly. The Navy tested the cable using the seagoing tug USS \"Algorma\". It then invited \"representatives of various radio companies, shipping interests, pilots' associations, governmental bureaus, naval attaches, and others\" for a public demonstration on board the destroyer USS \"Semmes\" from October 6 through October 9. The ship's windows were covered with canvas and the captains took turns navigating using only the audio cues from the cable.\n\nThe cable was well received. Even before the New London tests, the Washington Post called it \"the greatest development in marine travel since the invention of the steam turbine\" and the Los Angeles Times declared the technology to be \"one of the greatest peacetime gifts that science has devised.\" Once operational, the latter newspaper called it \"the greatest safeguard devised for shipping in modern history\". According to a 1921 trade magazine, leader cables had five functions: \"to enable a ship to make a good landfall in thick weather, to lead a ship up the harbor, to lead a ship from open water through a restricted channel to open water on the far side, to give warning of outlying dangers, and to assist a vessel to keep a straight course from port to port and thus save fuel.\"\nIn 1922, the publication \"Radio World\" stated that the cable's first two years of operation had been successful. Also in 1922, \"Radio Broadcast\" boasted about the money saved by the cable as well as the ease of using it. The cable itself was paid for using public funds, but it was the responsibility of ship owners to outfit their vessels with receiving equipment. Installation of the cable cost roughly $50,000 and the listening apparatus installed on each ship using the channel cost $1,200, compared with hourly costs of delays that ranged from $500 to $4,000. \"Radio Broadcast\" expressed the belief that navigation cables would become common for both ships and aircraft: \"...there is a future for the audio cable... Its fullest usefulness at American ports and elsewhere waits, however, on that large appreciation of radio devices for sea as well as air navigation which pilots, both on the sea and in the air, expect, but do not as yet demand.\"\n\nDespite the media hype, it appears that the Ambrose Channel pilot cable never met with large scale commercial success. Initially, some contemporaries of the cable proposed that it be extended several miles past the Ambrose light. Such plans never came to fruition, as advances in technology rendered the pilot cable obsolete. By 1929 the \"Baltimore Sun\" reported ships navigating the Channel blindly without making any reference to the cable. In that year, Marriott publicly complained that navigation cables still had unrealized potential for guiding ships. \n\nLeader cable systems appear to have been made obsolete by the refinement of radio direction finding and the placement of radio beacons (low-power radio transmitters) at strategic locations. Those beacons are analogous to lighthouses, but can be \"seen\" in all weather, and are used for navigation in the same way as regular lighthouses. The first successful application of these radio beacons as \"radio fog signals\" were three stations installed near New York in 1921. In 1924, there were eleven stations in operation in the United States and nearly three hundred ships suitably equipped. By 1930, an article in the \"Journal of the Royal Society of Arts\" declared that \"wireless aids and echo sounding have superseded [the leader cable]\". Today, more modern navigation tools such as radar, GPS, and lighted buoys help ships navigate Ambrose Channel.\n\nEarl Hanson, one of the key players in designing the Ambrose Channel cable, writing for \"Popular Mechanics,\" viewed it as a step toward applying radio cable technology in vast swaths of everyday life, including guiding aircraft and navigating and powering automobiles. The Ambrose Channel cable was removed from the channel and used in testing an early system of autolanding. The cable found no more success in that role than it did in guiding ships. The Blind Landing Experimental Unit later tried a similar system briefly before also abandoning it in favor of wireless.\n\nNotes\nCited sources\n\n"}
{"id": "57656591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57656591", "title": "Australian Geographer", "text": "Australian Geographer\n\nAustralian Geographer (The Australian Geographer until 1975) is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Geographical Society of New South Wales since August 1928. Covering all aspects of Australian geography, it is currently copublished with Taylor & Francis.\n"}
{"id": "7275586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7275586", "title": "Boundary marker", "text": "Boundary marker\n\nA boundary marker, border marker, boundary stone, or border stone is a robust physical marker that identifies the start of a land boundary or the change in a boundary, especially a change in direction of a boundary. There are several other types of named border markers, known as pillars, obelisks, and corners. Border markers can also be markers through which a border line runs in a straight line to determine that border. They can also be the markers from which a border marker has been fixed.\n\nAccording to Josiah Ober, boundary markers are \"a way of imposing human, cultural, social meanings upon a once-undifferentiated natural environment.\" Boundary markers are linked to social hierarchies, since they derive their meaning from the authority of a person or group to declare the limits of a given space of land for political, social or religious reasons. Ober notes that \"determining who can use parcels of arable land and for what purpose, has immediate and obvious economic implications.\"\n\nMany borders were drawn along invisible lines of latitude or longitude, which often created a need to mark these borders on the ground, as accurately as possible, using the technology of the day. Advances in GPS technology have shown that there are many borders inaccurately marked on the ground.\n\nBoundary markers have often been used to mark critical points on political boundaries, i.e. those between countries, states or local administrations, but have also been used to mark out the limits of private landholdings, especially in areas where fences or walls are impractical or unnecessary.\n\nIn developed countries the use of markers for land ownership has in many places been replaced by maps and land ownership registration. Boundary markers are not legal markers in Western countries and may have troublesome legal effects. However, boundary markers have legal meaning in Japan, and are generally installed across the country. Markers are still used extensively for marking international borders, which are traditionally classified into two categories: natural boundaries, correlating to topographical features such as rivers or mountain ranges, and artificial boundaries, which have no obvious relation to topography. The latter category includes borders defined by boundary markers such as stones and walls. International boundary markers are placed and can be maintained by mutual agreement of the bordering countries.\n\nBoundary markers, traditionally, were often made of stone, but later many have been made with concrete or a mixture of materials. They are typically placed at a notable or especially visible point. Many are inscribed with relevant information such as the abbreviation of the boundary holder and often a date.\n\nThe oldest known boundary stone in China is from Jiangsu Province. Dating from 12 A.D., it bears the inscription \"the sea area from Jiaozhou Bay to the east of Guixan county belongs to Langya Shire and the waters from the south of Guixan county to the east of the estuary of Guanhe River belongs to Donghai Shire.\" More recently, the border between Russia and China was formally demarcated with boundary stones as the result of the Treaty of Kiakhta in 1727. In the nineteenth century, stones were used to outline the limits of the International Settlement in Shanghai.\n\nIn ancient Thailand, sacred boundary stones called \"Sema Hin\" delimited Buddhist temple precincts. In some cases they feature inscriptions recounting the history of the temple; others were carved with wheels of the law, while some specimens consist of unfinished stone. In addition to temples, \"sema\" could enclose statues of Buddha or sacred mounds.\n\nAccording to B. S. Jackson, stones were put in place in ancient Israel to \"mark the boundary of a territory (public or private), and to seek to deter potential violators of that boundary through the use of threats.\" The Hebrew Bible contains a strict prohibition against the unauthorized displacement or removal of boundary markers.\n\nAn example of boundary markers in ancient Egypt were the boundary stelae of Akhenaten. They defined the limits of the sacred city of Akhet-Aten, built by Akhenaten as the center of the Aten religious cult which he founded. Egyptologists categorize the stelae based on whether they are inscribed with the \"Earlier Proclamation,\" a general explanation of why the location was selected and how the city would be designed, or the \"Later Proclamation,\" which provides additional details about the perimeters of the city.\n\nGlacial erratics and similar natural stones were often used as boundary markers between properties. Knowledge of their locations was typically maintained by oral tradition, wherein men of each house would walk the length of the border. These stones then became boundary markers for municipalities, and eventually provinces and countries. For example, Kuhankuono is a stone that marks the multipoint border between seven municipalities in Kurjenrahka National Park near Turku. Today, however, steel rods topped with a cube painted orange are usually used. Municipalities often post a traffic sign featuring their coat of arms on the border on major roads. On the Finnish-Russian border, many historical border stones, marked with Swedish and Imperial Russian symbols, are still in use. The actual Finnish-Russian border is marked by small white bollard, but on both sides of the border there are large striped bollards decorated with a coat of arms: a blue/white bollard on the Finnish side, a red/green bollard on the Russian side. Artificial cairns are found on the Norway-Russia-Finland tripoint (Treriksrøysa) and Norway-Sweden-Finland tripoint (Three-Country Cairn). The Sweden-Finland border on Märket is marked with holes drilled to the rock, because seasonal pack ice can shear off any protruding markers. In folklore, a type of haltija, \"rajahaltija\", a kind of a local spirit, was believed to haunt borders that had been unjustly moved.\n\nThe earliest reference to a boundary stone in Greek literature is in the \"Iliad\", which describes the goddess Athena using one as a projectile. Boundary stones, known as \"horos\", could be made of either carved or undressed stones, and were typically inscribed with the Greek word \"horos\". One such stone was used to indicate the edge of the Athenian \"agora\". The practice of separating areas of land with boundary stones, though common, was widely considered by classical writers to be a violation of the principle of communal land ownership.\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, the god Terminus was worshiped as the patron god of boundary markers. Ovid, in a hymn directed to the god, wrote: \"O Terminus, whether thou art a stone or a stump buried in the field, … thou dost set bounds to people and cities and vast kingdoms\". Numa Pompillius made the first Roman law requiring boundary stones around private property and instituting capital punishment for anyone found guilty of moving these stones.\n\nIn 1828, the Principality of Monaco and the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia established a physical border with 91 boundary stones, each numbered 1 to 91, running along the border from present-day Fontvieille to Menton-Garavan. Prior to 1848, the Principality of Monaco included the villages of Roquebrune, Monti, Garavan and Menton. Of the original 91 boundary stones only 12 remain: 6 within the Principality of Monaco, 3 in Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, and 3 in Menton. The boundary stones numbered 9, 12, 15, and 31 are located in Monaco. Another stone has been cast in concrete in the Sainte-Cécile area of Monaco thus rendering its number illegible. Stone number 55, originally located in Roquebrune, was given as a gift from the city of Roquebrune to the Principality of Monaco and is now located in Monaco's city hall. Stones numbered 56, 57, and 58 are located in Roquebrune. Stones numbered 62, 71, and 73 are located in Menton. All the boundary stones have three engraved sides: one side with their individual numbers (1 to 91), one side with the letter \"M\" indicating Monaco's territory, and one side with a cross (+) indicating the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia's territory. The cross represents the coat of arms of the House of Savoy, rulers of Piedmont-Sardinia.\n\nThe history of marking the Western Australian border on the ground states that the \"Austral Pillar\" and the \"Deakin Pillar\" are points used to determine their position east of Greenwich and then fix a border from, in this case used to determine the line of the 129th meridian east longitude, as the Western Australian border. The Deakin Obelisk and the Kimberley Obelisk in Australia are used in a slightly different way, in that a line is run north and south through a point on the obelisks, formed by a copper plug embedded into the top centre of the concrete obelisks. The \"corners\" in Australia, such as Cameron Corner, Haddon Corner, Poeppel Corner, and Surveyor Generals Corner, are where multiple borders meet or a border changes direction.\n\nThe basic unit of the ancient Hawaiian land division system was the \"ahupua'a\", a self-sustaining agricultural district. The places where a road crossed the border of an \"ahupua'a\" were marked with distinctive altars, known as \"ahu\" or (stone) piles. These altars served not only as boundary markers but also as sites for the performance of religious rituals related to land taxation. C. J. Lyons, an early surveyor of Hawaii, recorded that „[u]pon this altar at the annual progress of the akua makahiki (year god) was deposited the tax paid by the land whose boundary it marked, and also an image of a hog, \"puaa\", carved out of kukui wood and stained with red ochre. … [F]rom this came the name, \"ahupuaa\"“. Naturally occurring landscape features were also used as points of reference for district borders.\n\nThe original boundaries of the District of Columbia were marked using boundary stones. These were made of saw-cut sandstone blocks and stood two feet high when set in the ground. Ten boundary stones were placed along each side of the 100 square mile (259 square kilometer) district of Columbia. Although the original surveyors intended each side to be ten miles (16 kilometers) long, their measurements were often inaccurate, resulting in the sometimes significant misplacement of stones and the overall skewing of the District boundaries. Some of these discrepancies are intentional, because the ground at the exact mile point was covered in water; “in such cases,” Andrew Ellicott, the leader of the surveying crew, noted in 1793, “the stones are placed on the nearest firm ground and the true distance in miles and poles is marked on them”.\n\nInformation engraved on the stones includes the number (1 through 10) of the stone within the sequence on that side of the District, the date of placement, and the words \"Jurisdiction of the United States.\" In the twentieth century, the Daughters of the American Revolution voluntarily took responsibility for preserving the stones, which had fallen victim to vandalization and urban development. In the late 1990s renewed interest in the boundary stones led to increased preservation efforts by the DAR and other organizations.\n\nIn 1773, a Franciscan friar named Francisco Palou erected the first boundary marker between Alta and Baja California. Commissioned by the Spanish Crown, it consisted of a cross made from alder wood and placed standing upright on a rock. In the British colonies, milestones were shipped from England to mark the Mason–Dixon line. A block cut from sandstone was placed at the intersection of Wyoming, Colorado and Utah in 1879, and stone posts were used along the western border of South Dakota. Boundaries were occasionally resurveyed and boundary stones replaced or restored, depending on their condition.\n\nDreieckiger Pfahl, Germany\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "337871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337871", "title": "Butte", "text": "Butte\n\nIn geomorphology, a butte () is an isolated hill with steep, often vertical sides and a small, relatively flat top; buttes are smaller landforms than mesas, plateaus, and tablelands. The word \"butte\" comes from a French word meaning \"small hill\"; its use is prevalent in the Western United States, including the southwest where \"mesa\" is used for the larger landform. Because of their distinctive shapes, buttes are frequently landmarks in plains and mountainous areas. In differentiating mesas and buttes, geographers use the rule of thumb that a mesa has a top that is wider than its height, while a butte has a top that is narrower than its height.\n\nThe Mitten Buttes of Monument Valley in Arizona are two of the most distinctive and widely recognized buttes. Monument Valley and the Mittens provided backgrounds in scenes from many western-themed films, including seven movies directed by John Ford. The Devils Tower in northeastern Wyoming is a laccolithic butte composed of igneous rock rather than sandstone, limestone or other sedimentary rocks.\n\nThree other notable formations that are either named \"butte\" or may be considered buttes even though they do not conform to the formal geographer's rule are Scotts Bluff in Nebraska which is actually a collection of five bluffs, Crested Butte which is a mountain in Colorado, and Elephant Butte which is now an island in Elephant Butte Reservoir in New Mexico.\n\nAmong the well-known non-flat-topped buttes in the United States are Bear Butte, South Dakota, Black Butte, Oregon, and the Sutter Buttes in California. In many cases, buttes have been given other names that do not use the word \"butte\", for example, Courthouse Rock, Nebraska. Also, some large hills that are technically not buttes have names using the word \"butte\", examples of which are Kamiak Butte and Chelan Butte in Washington state.\n\nButtes form by weathering and erosion when hard caprock overlies a layer of less resistant rock that is eventually worn away. The harder rock on top of the butte resists erosion. The caprock provides protection for the less resistant rock below from wind abrasion which leaves it standing isolated. As the top is further eroded by abrasion and weathering, the excess material that falls off adds to the scree or talus slope around the base. On a much smaller scale, the same process forms hoodoos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23513601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23513601", "title": "Community greens", "text": "Community greens\n\nCommunity Greens, sometimes referred to as \"backyard commons\", \"urban commons\", or pocket neighborhoods, are shared open green spaces on the inside of city blocks, created either when residents merge backyard space or reclaim underutilized urban land such as vacant lots and alleyways. These shared spaces are communally used and managed only by the residents whose homes abut them. They are not a public park, a private backyard, or a community garden; however, they can function as all three.\n\nCommunity Greens is an organization concerned with the development of shared green spaces in residential neighborhoods in American cities. These green spaces are community greens. The Community Greens movement believes that such an approach presents the best opportunity to add usable green space to American cities, by converting under utilized backyards and dysfunctional alleys into functional and beautiful shared green spaces that are owned, managed, and enjoyed by the people who live around them.\n\nThis has led communities in numerous American cities, including Boston, Sacramento, Baltimore, New York, and San Francisco, taking down their backyard fences, to create backyard commons.\n\nCommunity Greens are multi-functional spaces for gardening, recreation, and leisure which are designed to provide social, economic, and environmental benefits to urban residents. The creation of backyard commons can lead to an increased interaction with neighbors throughout the planning and implementation process, which may result in a stronger overall sense of community. Other possible social benefits that are claimed include decreased crime, from having more eyes on the street, and safe places where children can play and adults relax. Community Greens, like other types of urban green spaces, can significantly improve the ecological functioning of urban habitats. Vegetation and permeable pavement can slow storm water runoff and increase groundwater, which in turn can reduce pollutant flowing into nearby bodies of water during a storm. Urban environments are often significantly warmer than outlying suburbs, mostly due to the prevalence of heat retentive concrete surfaces. City trees can mitigate this effect through shading, etc.. The taking down of backyards fences transforms fragmented habitats to connected corridors for urban wildlife. Furthermore because city dwellers recognize value in green space, often simply from an aesthetic standpoint, and this may be reflected through increased property values.\n\n\nIn 2002, a group of residents from the Patterson Park neighborhood approached the Patterson Park Community Development Corporation (CDC) looking for a way to improve the dirty, crime-ridden alley that ran behind their homes. Simultaneously, Community Greens also approached the Patterson Park CDC looking for an alley they could use as a pilot project in Baltimore, and these two groups were put into contact. The Luzerne-Glover block was granted a temporary permit from the city to gate their alleyway, despite the fact that it was not yet legal to gate a right-of-way. Community Greens, the Patterson Park CDC, the Patterson Park Neighborhood Association and the Luzurne‐Glover block group turned to University of Maryland law professor Barbara Bezdek, who enlisted the help of her law students, who researched existing laws and current uses of Baltimore alleyways.\n\nLooking for a permanent solution, these groups aligned themselves with the Mayor's Department of Neighborhoods and took their case to Annapolis. Maryland Delegate Peter A. Hammen sponsored House Bill 1533 to amend the Baltimore City Charter, allowing the City to close alleyways and lease them to interested parties. The Luzerne-Glover group testified before the Environmental Committee of the state legislature and House Bill 1533 passed in 2004. Community Greens then worked with law firm Hogan & Hartson, in collaboration with Barbara Bezdek, to draft a city alley gating and leasing ordinance, which was then submitted to the City of Baltimore.\n\nIn April 2007, the Baltimore City Council under the leadership of newly elected Mayor Shelia Dixon, passed the Gating and Greening Alleys ordinance, enabling Baltimore residents to legally gate and green the alleys behind their homes, contingent on a requirement that 80% of the homeowners on the alley submit consent forms and 100% of property owners to approve projects that impede traffic flow. Projects requiring 100% consent include removal of existing concrete and installation of permeable pavement and large tree plantings; beautification and smaller greening projects that do not impede traffic only require 80% approval.\n\nInterested communities need approval from several Baltimore City Departments, including Solid Waste, Transportation, Fire, and Police to ensure that proposed alley projects meet the necessary infrastructural conditions. Once initial approval is received, residents submit an application to the Department of Public Works, which includes the necessary consent forms from homeowners and a signed affidavit stating that attempts were made to obtain approval from all homeowners.\n\nThe Luzerne Glover neighborhood now has their green alleyway, and is the first community in Baltimore to use the Gating and Greening Alleys ordinance. So far, seven Baltimore communities have successfully completed this process and have created eight useful Community Greens from the underutilized alleyways in their backyards.\n\nMontgomery Park is a third of an acre common space shared by 85 households in Boston's South End neighborhood. From the time the neighborhood was first developed in the 1860s through the 1970s, the park was separated from the residents' backyards by an alley and fence. In more recent years, residents began to connect the park to their individual yards by replacing the alley separating their private backyards from the park with a narrower brick walkway and tearing down backyard fences. Additionally, residents have moved garbage collection to the front street and convinced utility companies to bury service lines. Residents now enjoy greater access to the shared Community Green, and use it for gardening and recreation.\n\nStoney Creek Apartments were constructed in 1992 to address a lack of affordable housing in Livermore, California. Ten residential buildings share five courtyards, accessible from a small alleyway. Homes have front and back patios in addition to the shared courtyards, and neighbors have the opportunity to enjoy this shared outdoor space and experience a heightened sense of community. The inward-facing position of these patios allows parents to keep a watchful eye on children playing in the courtyard.\n\nLocated in the Federal Hill neighborhood of downtown Baltimore and hidden behind eleven narrow rowhouses, Chandler's Yard is a tree-shaded courtyard that was carved out of the backyards of the surrounding homes by developer Bill Struever who wanted to make living on the block more attractive to potential buyers. Struever convinced some of the property owners in this block to give up part of their backyards for this shared courtyard and pay a small construction fee. The result is a beautiful shared space for these residents, who enjoy a heightened sense of security and increased property values.\n\nThe Village Homes development is situated on a sixty-acre parcel in suburban Davis, California. While home lots are smaller than the average for Davis, clusters of eight homes share common green spaces accessible from private backyards. In addition to these courtyards, Village Homes residents share two large parks, two vineyards, and numerous small orchards and community gardens. Gardens are irrigated by naturally-flowing creeks, which also serve as natural filters that eliminate the need for an expensive storm-water sewer system. Residents enjoy environmental and aesthetic benefits from their shared spaces, and the increased sense of community is evident; Village Homes residents on average know 40 neighbors, compared to an average of 17 acquaintances reported in a nearby traditional suburban development.\n\nFor nearly nine decades, the historic neighborhood of Jackson Heights in Queens has maintained its fourteen block-long shared interior courtyards, and is considered to be the first \"garden apartments\" constructed in the United States. These spaces have helped to sustain the blocks' distinctive appeal since their development in the early decades of the last century. Over the years, Jackson Heights residents fought to hold on to their gardens and green spaces in the midst of a city where high property values create an intense pressure to develop any available open space. The preservation of these shared spaces has increased both community pride and residential property values; if these inner courtyards had been developed, Jackson Heights property values would have dropped by one-third. In 1993, Jackson Heights was officially declared a historic district by the NYC Landmark Preservation Commission, furthering sense of place for this community.\n\nA cooperative apartment community, St. Francis Square consists of 299 apartments wrapped around three shared, open spaces. These community greens are full of gardens, basketball courts, playgrounds, and quiet places to relax. St. Francis Square was established as a limited equity co-operative apartment, although it converted to market rate ownership in 2004.\n\nFifteen years ago, this community was situated in an area of Minneapolis plagued by urban flight and crime. Instrumental to the rehabilitation and renovation of this neighborhood is a local community development corporation, Hope Community, Inc. In the late 1980s, residents were selling their properties for one dollar because they had lost all value; this is when the Hope Community began purchasing houses in the hopes of developing affordable rental units clustered together on a single block. Today, nine rehabilitated houses abut community areas, a playground, and gardens. Property values are steadily increasing and the community itself is stabilizing. By following principles of Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) and creating defensible space, the Hope Community has created a sense of shared ownership and community in a troubled urban area.\n\nSomething similar has taken place in various cities in North America, involving the greening of back lanes or alleys. This includes Chicago, Seattle, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and Montréal, Canada, who have started to reclaim their alleys from garbage and crime by greening the service lanes, or back ways, that run behind some houses.\n\nChicago, Illinois has about of alleyways. In 2007, the Chicago Department of Transportation started converting conventional alleys which were paved with asphalt into so called Green Alleys. This program, called the Green Alley Program, is supposed to enable easier water runoff, as the alleyways in Chicago are not connected to the sewer system. With this program, the water will be able to seep through semi-permeable concrete or asphalt in which a colony of fungi and bacteria will establish itself. The bacteria will help breakup oils before the water is absorbed into the ground. The lighter color of the pavement will also reflect more light, making the area next to the alley cooler. The greening of such alleys or laneways can also involve the planting of native plants to further absorb rain water and moderate temperature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2370900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2370900", "title": "Dell (landform)", "text": "Dell (landform)\n\nIn physical geography, a dell is a small secluded hollow, (implying also) a grassy, park-like, usually partially-wooded valley. The word \"dell\" comes from the Old English word \"dell\", which is related to the Old English word \"dæl\", modern 'dale'. Dells in literature are often portrayed as pleasant safe havens. The term may also be used interchangably with dingle, which specifically refers to deep ravines or hollows that are embowered with trees.\n\n"}
{"id": "26271869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26271869", "title": "Eye2eye Software", "text": "Eye2eye Software\n\nEye2eye Software Ltd is a UK educational software publisher, which has systematically photographed Britain in 360 degree panoramas and stills, publishing the collection as the school resource and home reference Eye2eye Britain. Using a portable panoramic camera developed by themselves they have followed a 'points of interest' approach--taking panoramas on mountains, beaches, inside parliaments, factories, heritage sites, etc. rather than a street (car) based approach like Google street view.\n\nEye2eye Software Ltd, based in Cambridge, England, was founded in 1998 by Martin Clemoes, son of the late Peter Clemoes. Eye2eye Britain may have been partly inspired by 1986 BBC Domesday Project developed by Acorn Computers Ltd where Martin worked before.\n\nNovember 1998 - first edition of Eye2eye Britain (1.0) published. Supplied on CD-ROM, this mapped out Britain in 10,000 digital photos (no panoramas). Each photo is captioned and indexed using metadata, e.g. topic, date of heritage sites on a timeline, as well as map location.\n\n1999 - Press interest in Eye2eye Britain.\n\nJanuary 2005 - First Panoramic Edition of Eye2eye Britain published. Added 950 full screen 360 by 105 degree panoramas, of England from Leeds in Yorkshire South, to 10,000 photos.\n\n2005-06 - Consumer press critical, better feedback for education.\n\nJanuary 2010 - Latest edition - Eye2eye Britain Panoramic 5 - published. 1,500 panoramas and 10,800 photos now cover mainland England, Wales and Scotland plus the largest of Britain's many islands. Edition 5 also supports other school needs such as Virtual learning environment.\n\nEye2eye's approach to panoramic photography depends on two technologies they have developed themselves:\n\nThis technology has shaped their approach to panorama-photographing Britain. They have used their portable camera system to capture points of interest panoramas on foot, e.g. interiors, beaches, tower-top or mountain-top views. Single-click capture copes well with places with movement, e.g. crowds, waves on beach. This approach has the advantage of covering places of [inter]national interest, but the disadvantage of being labour-intensive, so the quantity of panoramas (currently around 1,500) is less than in car-based projects like Google Street View. Eye2eye have also been able to write captions and indexes for each panorama.\n"}
{"id": "74263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74263", "title": "Frame of reference", "text": "Frame of reference\n\nIn physics, a frame of reference (or reference frame) consists of an abstract coordinate system and the set of physical reference points that uniquely fix (locate and orient) the coordinate system and standardize measurements.\n\nIn n dimensions, n+1 reference points are sufficient to fully define a reference frame. Using rectangular (Cartesian) coordinates, a reference frame may be defined with a reference point at the origin and a reference point at one unit distance along each of the n coordinate axes.\n\nIn Einsteinian relativity, reference frames are used to specify the relationship between a moving observer and the phenomenon or phenomena under observation. In this context, the phrase often becomes \"observational frame of reference\" (or \"observational reference frame\"), which implies that the observer is at rest in the frame, although not necessarily located at its origin. A relativistic reference frame includes (or implies) the coordinate time, which does not correspond across different frames moving relatively to each other. The situation thus differs from Galilean relativity, where all possible coordinate times are essentially equivalent.\n\nThe need to distinguish between the various meanings of \"frame of reference\" has led to a variety of terms. For example, sometimes the type of coordinate system is attached as a modifier, as in \"Cartesian frame of reference\". Sometimes the state of motion is emphasized, as in \"rotating frame of reference\". Sometimes the way it transforms to frames considered as related is emphasized as in \"Galilean frame of reference\". Sometimes frames are distinguished by the scale of their observations, as in \"macroscopic\" and \"microscopic frames of reference\".\n\nIn this article, the term \"observational frame of reference\" is used when emphasis is upon the \"state of motion\" rather than upon the coordinate choice or the character of the observations or observational apparatus. In this sense, an observational frame of reference allows study of the effect of motion upon an entire family of coordinate systems that could be attached to this frame. On the other hand, a \"coordinate system\" may be employed for many purposes where the state of motion is not the primary concern. For example, a coordinate system may be adopted to take advantage of the symmetry of a system. In a still broader perspective, the formulation of many problems in physics employs \"generalized coordinates\", \"normal modes\" or \"eigenvectors\", which are only indirectly related to space and time. It seems useful to divorce the various aspects of a reference frame for the discussion below. We therefore take observational frames of reference, coordinate systems, and observational equipment as independent concepts, separated as below:\n\n\n\nHere is a quotation applicable to moving observational frames formula_1 and various associated Euclidean three-space coordinate systems [\"R\", \"R′\", \"etc.\"]:\nand this on the utility of separating the notions of formula_1 and [\"R\", \"R′\", \"etc.\"]:\n\nand this, also on the distinction between formula_1 and [\"R\", \"R′\", \"etc.\"]:\n\nand from J. D. Norton:\n\nThe discussion is taken beyond simple space-time coordinate systems by Brading and Castellani. Extension to coordinate systems using generalized coordinates underlies the Hamiltonian and Lagrangian formulations of quantum field theory, classical relativistic mechanics, and quantum gravity.\n\nAlthough the term \"coordinate system\" is often used (particularly by physicists) in a nontechnical sense, the term \"coordinate system\" does have a precise meaning in mathematics, and sometimes that is what the physicist means as well.\n\nA coordinate system in mathematics is a facet of geometry or of algebra, in particular, a property of manifolds (for example, in physics, configuration spaces or phase spaces). The coordinates of a point r in an \"n\"-dimensional space are simply an ordered set of \"n\" numbers: \nIn a general Banach space, these numbers could be (for example) coefficients in a functional expansion like a Fourier series. In a physical problem, they could be spacetime coordinates or normal mode amplitudes. In a robot design, they could be angles of relative rotations, linear displacements, or deformations of joints. Here we will suppose these coordinates can be related to a Cartesian coordinate system by a set of functions:\n\nwhere \"x\", \"y\", \"z\", \"etc.\" are the \"n\" Cartesian coordinates of the point. Given these functions, coordinate surfaces are defined by the relations:\nThe intersection of these surfaces define coordinate lines. At any selected point, tangents to the intersecting coordinate lines at that point define a set of basis vectors {e, e, …, e} at that point. That is:\n\nwhich can be normalized to be of unit length. For more detail see curvilinear coordinates.\n\nCoordinate surfaces, coordinate lines, and basis vectors are components of a coordinate system. If the basis vectors are orthogonal at every point, the coordinate system is an orthogonal coordinate system.\n\nAn important aspect of a coordinate system is its metric tensor \"g\", which determines the arc length \"ds\" in the coordinate system in terms of its coordinates:\n\nwhere repeated indices are summed over.\n\nAs is apparent from these remarks, a coordinate system is a mathematical construct, part of an axiomatic system. There is no necessary connection between coordinate systems and physical motion (or any other aspect of reality). However, coordinate systems can include time as a coordinate, and can be used to describe motion. Thus, Lorentz transformations and Galilean transformations may be viewed as coordinate transformations.\n\nGeneral and specific topics of coordinate systems can be pursued following the See also links below.\n\nAn observational frame of reference, often referred to as a \"physical frame of reference\", a \"frame of reference\", or simply a \"frame\", is a physical concept related to an observer and the observer's state of motion. Here we adopt the view expressed by Kumar and Barve: an observational frame of reference is characterized \"only by its state of motion\". However, there is lack of unanimity on this point. In special relativity, the distinction is sometimes made between an \"observer\" and a \"frame\". According to this view, a \"frame\" is an \"observer\" plus a coordinate lattice constructed to be an orthonormal right-handed set of spacelike vectors perpendicular to a timelike vector. See Doran. This restricted view is not used here, and is not universally adopted even in discussions of relativity. In general relativity the use of general coordinate systems is common (see, for example, the Schwarzschild solution for the gravitational field outside an isolated sphere).\n\nThere are two types of observational reference frame: inertial and non-inertial. An inertial frame of reference is defined as one in which all laws of physics take on their simplest form. In special relativity these frames are related by Lorentz transformations, which are parametrized by rapidity. In Newtonian mechanics, a more restricted definition requires only that Newton's first law holds true; that is, a Newtonian inertial frame is one in which a free particle travels in a straight line at constant speed, or is at rest. These frames are related by Galilean transformations. These relativistic and Newtonian transformations are expressed in spaces of general dimension in terms of representations of the Poincaré group and of the Galilean group.\n\nIn contrast to the inertial frame, a non-inertial frame of reference is one in which fictitious forces must be invoked to explain observations. An example is an observational frame of reference centered at a point on the Earth's surface. This frame of reference orbits around the center of the Earth, which introduces the fictitious forces known as the Coriolis force, centrifugal force, and gravitational force. (All of these forces including gravity disappear in a truly inertial reference frame, which is one of free-fall.)\n\nA further aspect of a frame of reference is the role of the measurement apparatus (for example, clocks and rods) attached to the frame (see Norton quote above). This question is not addressed in this article, and is of particular interest in quantum mechanics, where the relation between observer and measurement is still under discussion (see measurement problem).\n\nIn physics experiments, the frame of reference in which the laboratory measurement devices are at rest is usually referred to as the laboratory frame or simply \"lab frame.\" An example would be the frame in which the detectors for a particle accelerator are at rest. The lab frame in some experiments is an inertial frame, but it is not required to be (for example the laboratory on the surface of the Earth in many physics experiments is not inertial). In particle physics experiments, it is often useful to transform energies and momenta of particles from the lab frame where they are measured, to the center of momentum frame \"COM frame\" in which calculations are sometimes simplified, since potentially all kinetic energy still present in the COM frame may be used for making new particles.\n\nIn this connection it may be noted that the clocks and rods often used to describe observers' measurement equipment in thought, in practice are replaced by a much more complicated and indirect metrology that is connected to the nature of the vacuum, and uses atomic clocks that operate according to the standard model and that must be corrected for gravitational time dilation. (See second, meter and kilogram).\n\nIn fact, Einstein felt that clocks and rods were merely expedient measuring devices and they should be replaced by more fundamental entities based upon, for example, atoms and molecules.\n\n\nConsider a situation common in everyday life. Two cars travel along a road, both moving at constant velocities. See Figure 1. At some particular moment, they are separated by 200 metres. The car in front is travelling at 22 metres per second and the car behind is travelling at 30 metres per second. If we want to find out how long it will take the second car to catch up with the first, there are three obvious \"frames of reference\" that we could choose.\n\nFirst, we could observe the two cars from the side of the road. We define our \"frame of reference\" \"S\" as follows. We stand on the side of the road and start a stop-clock at the exact moment that the second car passes us, which happens to be when they are a distance \"d\" = 200 m apart. Since neither of the cars is accelerating, we can determine their positions by the following formulas, where formula_12 is the position in meters of car one after time \"t\" in seconds and formula_13 is the position of car two after time \"t\".\n\nNotice that these formulas predict at \"t\" = 0 s the first car is 200 m down the road and the second car is right beside us, as expected. We want to find the time at which formula_15. Therefore, we set formula_15 and solve for formula_17, that is:\n\nAlternatively, we could choose a frame of reference \"S′\" situated in the first car. In this case, the first car is stationary and the second car is approaching from behind at a speed of . In order to catch up to the first car, it will take a time of , that is, 25 seconds, as before. Note how much easier the problem becomes by choosing a suitable frame of reference. The third possible frame of reference would be attached to the second car. That example resembles the case just discussed, except the second car is stationary and the first car moves backward towards it at 8 m / s.\n\nIt would have been possible to choose a rotating, accelerating frame of reference, moving in a complicated manner, but this would have served to complicate the problem unnecessarily. It is also necessary to note that one is able to convert measurements made in one coordinate system to another. For example, suppose that your watch is running five minutes fast compared to the local standard time. If you know that this is the case, when somebody asks you what time it is, you are able to deduct five minutes from the time displayed on your watch in order to obtain the correct time. The measurements that an observer makes about a system depend therefore on the observer's frame of reference (you might say that the bus arrived at 5 past three, when in fact it arrived at three).\n\nFor a simple example involving only the orientation of two observers, consider two people standing, facing each other on either side of a north-south street. See Figure 2. A car drives past them heading south. For the person facing east, the car was moving towards the right. However, for the person facing west, the car was moving toward the left. This discrepancy is because the two people used two different frames of reference from which to investigate this system.\n\nFor a more complex example involving observers in relative motion, consider Alfred, who is standing on the side of a road watching a car drive past him from left to right. In his frame of reference, Alfred defines the spot where he is standing as the origin, the road as the x-axis and the direction in front of him as the positive y-axis. To him, the car moves along the \"x\" axis with some velocity \"v\" in the positive x-direction. Alfred's frame of reference is considered an inertial frame of reference because he is not accelerating (ignoring effects such as Earth's rotation and gravity).\n\nNow consider Betsy, the person driving the car. Betsy, in choosing her frame of reference, defines her location as the origin, the direction to her right as the positive \"x\"-axis, and the direction in front of her as the positive \"y\"-axis. In this frame of reference, it is Betsy who is stationary and the world around her that is moving – for instance, as she drives past Alfred, she observes him moving with velocity \"v\" in the negative \"y\"-direction. If she is driving north, then north is the positive \"y\"-direction; if she turns east, east becomes the positive \"y\"-direction.\n\nFinally, as an example of non-inertial observers, assume Candace is accelerating her car. As she passes by him, Alfred measures her acceleration and finds it to be \"a\" in the negative x-direction. Assuming Candace's acceleration is constant, what acceleration does Betsy measure? If Betsy's velocity \"v\" is constant, she is in an inertial frame of reference, and she will find the acceleration to be the same as Alfred in her frame of reference, \"a\" in the negative \"y\"-direction. However, if she is accelerating at rate \"A\" in the negative \"y\"-direction (in other words, slowing down), she will find Candace's acceleration to be \"a′\" = \"a\" − \"A\" in the negative \"y\"-direction - a smaller value than Alfred has measured. Similarly, if she is accelerating at rate \"A\" in the positive y-direction (speeding up), she will observe Candace's acceleration as \"a′\" = \"a\" + \"A\" in the negative \"y\"-direction – a larger value than Alfred's measurement.\n\nFrames of reference are especially important in special relativity, because when a frame of reference is moving at some significant fraction of the speed of light, then the flow of time in that frame does not necessarily apply in another frame. The speed of light is considered to be the only true constant between moving frames of reference.\n\nIt is important to note some assumptions made above about the various inertial frames of reference. Newton, for instance, employed universal time, as explained by the following example. Suppose that you own two clocks, which both tick at exactly the same rate. You synchronize them so that they both display exactly the same time. The two clocks are now separated and one clock is on a fast moving train, traveling at constant velocity towards the other. According to Newton, these two clocks will still tick at the same rate and will both show the same time. Newton says that the rate of time as measured in one frame of reference should be the same as the rate of time in another. That is, there exists a \"universal\" time and all other times in all other frames of reference will run at the same rate as this universal time irrespective of their position and velocity. This concept of time and simultaneity was later generalized by Einstein in his special theory of relativity (1905) where he developed transformations between inertial frames of reference based upon the universal nature of physical laws and their economy of expression (Lorentz transformations).\n\nIt is also important to note that the definition of inertial reference frame can be extended beyond three-dimensional Euclidean space. Newton's assumed a Euclidean space, but general relativity uses a more general geometry. As an example of why this is important, let us consider the geometry of an ellipsoid. In this geometry, a \"free\" particle is defined as one at rest or traveling at constant speed on a geodesic path. Two free particles may begin at the same point on the surface, traveling with the same constant speed in different directions. After a length of time, the two particles collide at the opposite side of the ellipsoid. Both \"free\" particles traveled with a constant speed, satisfying the definition that no forces were acting. No acceleration occurred and so Newton's first law held true. This means that the particles were in inertial frames of reference. Since no forces were acting, it was the geometry of the situation which caused the two particles to meet each other again. In a similar way, it is now common to describe that we exist in a four-dimensional geometry known as spacetime. In this picture, the curvature of this 4D space is responsible for the way in which two bodies with mass are drawn together even if no forces are acting. This curvature of spacetime replaces the force known as gravity in Newtonian mechanics and special relativity.\n\nHere the relation between inertial and non-inertial observational frames of reference is considered. The basic difference between these frames is the need in non-inertial frames for fictitious forces, as described below.\n\nAn accelerated frame of reference is often delineated as being the \"primed\" frame, and all variables that are dependent on that frame are notated with primes, e.g. \"x′\", \"y′\", \"a′\".\n\nThe vector from the origin of an inertial reference frame to the origin of an accelerated reference frame is commonly notated as R. Given a point of interest that exists in both frames, the vector from the inertial origin to the point is called r, and the vector from the accelerated origin to the point is called r′.\nFrom the geometry of the situation, we get\nTaking the first and second derivatives of this with respect to time, we obtain\nwhere V and A are the velocity and acceleration of the accelerated system with respect to the inertial system and v and a are the velocity and acceleration of the point of interest with respect to the inertial frame.\n\nThese equations allow transformations between the two coordinate systems; for example, we can now write Newton's second law as\n\nWhen there is accelerated motion due to a force being exerted there is manifestation of inertia. If an electric car designed to recharge its battery system when decelerating is switched to braking, the batteries are recharged, illustrating the physical strength of manifestation of inertia. However, the manifestation of inertia does not prevent acceleration (or deceleration), for manifestation of inertia occurs in response to change in velocity due to a force. Seen from the perspective of a rotating frame of reference the manifestation of inertia appears to exert a force (either in centrifugal direction, or in a direction orthogonal to an object's motion, the Coriolis effect).\n\nA common sort of accelerated reference frame is a frame that is both rotating and translating (an example is a frame of reference attached to a CD which is playing while the player is carried). This arrangement leads to the equation (see Fictitious force for a derivation):\n\nor, to solve for the acceleration in the accelerated frame,\n\nMultiplying through by the mass \"m\" gives\nwhere\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57425862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57425862", "title": "Geographic contiguity", "text": "Geographic contiguity\n\nGeographic contiguity is the characteristic in geography of political or geographical land divisions, as a group, not being interrupted by other land or water. Such divisions are referred to as being \"contiguous.\" In the United States, for example, the \"48 contiguous states\" excludes Hawaii and Alaska, which do not share borders with other U.S. states.\n\nOther examples of geographical contiguity might include the \"contiguous European Union\" excluding member states such as the United Kingdom, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Malta and Cyprus (these being non-contiguous), or the \"contiguous United Kingdom\" referring to all parts of the country excepting Northern Ireland (it being geographically non-contiguous).\n\nTwo or more contiguous municipalities can be consolidated into one, or one municipality can consist of many noncontiguous elements. For example, the Financially Distressed Municipalities Act allows the commonwealth of Pennsylvania to merge contiguous municipalities to reduce financial distress.\n\nGeographic contiguity is important in biology, especially animal ranges. For a particular species, its habitat may be a 'contiguous range', or it might be broken, requiring periodic, typically seasonal migrations (see: Disjunct distribution). The same concept of contiguous range is true for human transportation studies in an attempt to understand census geography. It also comes into play with electoral geography and politics.\n"}
{"id": "36254678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36254678", "title": "Geohash-36", "text": "Geohash-36\n\nThe Geohash-36 geocode is an opensource compression algorithm for world coordinate data. It was developed as a variation of the OpenPostcode format developed as a candidate geolocation postcode for the Republic of Ireland. It is similar in function to the original public domain Geohash code. It is calculated differently and uses a more concise base 36 (or rather radix 36) representation rather than the base 32 representation used by Geohash.\n\nDesigned for URLs and electronic storage and communication rather than human memory and conversation, it is case-sensitive, using a 36 character alphabet: \"23456789bBCdDFgGhHjJKlLMnNPqQrRtTVWX\".\n\nCharacter Conversion:\n\nCharacters are chosen to avoid vowels, vowel-like numbers, character confusion, and to use lowercase characters which are generally distinct from their uppercase equivalents in standard typefaces.\n\nThe code can be of varying length and thus precision. Each character represents a further subdivision in a 6 by 6 grid - starting at the North-West (top-left) coordinate and continuing, row by row, to the South-East (bottom-right). Neighbouring coordinates have largely similar encodings and generally vary at the rightmost characters only; however extreme edge cases exist where neighbouring coordinates are on opposing sides of a grid division. Codes sort logically but not in ordinary coordinate order.\n\nWithout vowels, unintended English-language words are avoided that may appear in the original Geohash code. As vowels are not used, an altitude component of encoded meters is optional with a prefixing \"A\" character (below sea-level prefixed by a lowercase \"a\").\n\nAn optional checksum is represented using the lowercase English alphabet. It confirms the code as a Geohash-36 and provides a check for incorrect or transposed characters. It is calculated as modulus 26 of the sum of each character value (the altitude delimiters of \"A\" or \"a\" are valued at zero) multiplied by its position reading from left to right.\n\nCompared to storing GPS coordinates using the Decimal datatype in SQL the Geohash-36 does not save significantly on database bytes. Using DECIMAL(8,5) and DECIMAL(7,5) requires 10-bytes. An equivalent 10-bytes of the Geohash-36 code is accurate to approximately a 6th of square meter.\n\nThe Statue of Liberty, at coordinates 40.689167, -74.044444, is encoded as 9LVB4BH89g-m. The reverse decoding equates to 40.68916\"8\",-74.044445.\n\nThe Shard building, London, at coordinates 51.504444, -0.086667 is encoded as bdrdC26BqH-m (decodes to 51.504444,-0.08666\"6\"), or may be successfully shorted to bdrdC26B.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47470974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47470974", "title": "Glacial refugium", "text": "Glacial refugium\n\nA glacial refugium (\"plural refugia\") is a geographic region which made possible the survival of flora and fauna in times of ice ages and allowed a post-glacial re-colonization. Different types of glacial refugia can be distinguished, namely nunatak, peripheral and lowland refugia. Glacial refugia have been suggested as a major cause of the distributions of flora and fauna in both temperate and tropical latitudes. However, in spite of the continuing use of historical refugia to explain modern-day species distributions, especially in birds, doubt has been cast on the validity of such inferences, as much of the differentiation between populations observed today may have occurred before or after their restriction to refugia.\n\n"}
{"id": "33330773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33330773", "title": "Global Map", "text": "Global Map\n\nGlobal Map is a set of digital maps that accurately cover the whole globe to express the status of global environment. It is developed through the cooperation of National Geospatial Information Authorities (NGIAs) in the world. An initiative to develop Global Map under international cooperation, the Global Mapping Project, was advocated in 1992 by Ministry of Construction, Japan (MOC) at the time (the current Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan-MLIT).\n\nGlobal Map is digital geospatial information in 1 km resolution which satisfies the following conditions:\nThe global geospatial information developed as Global Map mainly consists of the following thematic layers:\n\nSince the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in 1972, global environmental challenges have been recognized as an issue which is common to humankind. “The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (the Earth Summit)” in Brazil in 1992 adopted “An action plan of humankind for sustainable development: Agenda 21.” Agenda 21 describes in many parts the importance of information for decision-making to appropriately cope with global environmental challenges. Especially geospatial information is regarded to be critical.\n\nIn response to the objectives of Agenda 21 and in recognition of the need for further contribution to the development of geospatial information, the MOC at the time (the current MLIT) advocated, in the same year, the Global Mapping Project, an international cooperation initiative to develop global geospatial information to understand the present status and changes of global environment. This concept was presented at the Fifth United Nations Regional Cartographic Conference for the Americas in New York in 1993. At the same time, resolution\ncalling for the promotion of the development of global geospatial data was adopted at this conference. Following this conference, a similar resolution\nwas adopted at Thirteenth United Nations Regional Cartographic Conference for Asia and the Pacific in Beijing in 1994.\nIn 1996, International Steering Committee for Global Mapping (ISCGM), which consists of heads or its equivalents of NGIAs, was established to promote the Global Mapping Project. Thus the mechanism for the international promotion was formed. The Geospatial Information Authority of Japan (GSI) has been serving as the secretariat of the ISCGM. In the following year, in 1997, which was five years after the Earth Summit, the nineteenth special session of the United Nations General Assembly (19th UNGASS) was held. At the paragraph 112 of the resolution adopted by the 19th UNGASS, importance of a supportive environment to enhance national capacities and capabilities for information collection and processing, especially in developing countries, to facilitate public access to information on global environmental issues was mentioned along with the description mentioning the significance of international cooperation, including global mapping, as a means to develop the supportive environment.\n\nAs a result of such movement, In 1998, a recommendatory letter to participate in the Global Mapping Project was sent from the United Nations to NGIAs of respective countries in the world.\n\nFurther, at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Summit) held in 2002, global mapping was included in the Plan of Implementation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1516960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516960", "title": "Highest unclimbed mountain", "text": "Highest unclimbed mountain\n\nAn unclimbed mountain is a mountain peak that has yet to be climbed to the top. Determining which unclimbed peak is highest is often a matter of controversy. In some parts of the world, surveying and mapping are still unreliable, and there are no comprehensive records of the routes of explorers, mountaineers and local inhabitants. In some cases, even modern ascents by larger parties have been poorly documented and, with no universally recognized listing, the best that can be achieved in determining the world's highest unclimbed peaks is somewhat speculative. Most sources indicate that Gangkhar Puensum () in Bhutan or on the Bhutan-China border is the tallest mountain in the world that has yet to be fully summited. Gangkhar Puensum has been off limits to climbers since 1994 when Bhutan prohibited all mountaineering above due to spiritual/religious beliefs.\n\nUnclimbed mountains are sometimes referred to as \"virgin peaks\". Many virgin peaks exist because the mountain is unreachable, due to either geographic isolation or political instability. Some mountains remain off limits due to religious beliefs of a country or region that hold such mountains are sacred and should remain inviolate. Additionally, since the endeavor to scale taller mountains of the world is usually a major undertaking, lesser peaks, while still very formidable, simply get less attention than the taller ones, and instead these taller peaks are summited by parties following a new route or perhaps during the winter when conditions are generally more treacherous.\n\nMany mountains, in addition to their highest point or peak, will also have subsidiary subpeaks. Generally, the topographic prominence of a peak or subpeak, as well as the general topography, all come into consideration when determining whether such apexes are considered to be independent peaks or subpeaks. Although objective criteria have been proposed for distinguishing peaks from subpeaks, there is no widely agreed standard. In 1994, the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation (UIAA) classified 82 mountain peaks in the Alps whose summits were at least above sea level and with at least of topographic prominence over any adjacent mountain pass or col, as a distinct peak.\n\nIt can be difficult sometimes to determine whether or not a mountain peak has been fully summited. Long before modern mountaineering commenced in the middle of the 19th century, evidence indicates that people did indeed travel up to the summits or near to the summits of major mountain peaks. Archaeological excavations in the Andes have shown that humans travelled up to in pre-historic times. Permanent settlements as high as were established as long as 12,000 years ago in the Andes as well. In the Greater Himalaya region, Lhasa, in Tibet, sitting at has been permanently occupied since the 7th century and many smaller settlements across the Greater Himalaya thrive at elevations exceeding . With humans living at high elevations for many millennia, nearby peaks to such settlements may or may not have been summited at some point in the past. However, many regions away from settlements may have never before been explored, especially since some high peaks in the Greater Ranges are so remote that they were unknown to local inhabitants when first sighted by European explorers.\n\nThe worlds third tallest peak, Kangchenjunga, has been summited a number of times, but after the first climbers of the peak agreed to honor the wishes of locals and not set foot on the topmost part of the mountain, succeeding mountaineering parties may have followed this tradition. Similarly, Nanda Devi has also been climbed but the topmost summit was not ascended and the primary summit is now off limits to climbers. Machapuchare had only one summit attempt back in 1957 when climbers came within of the summit; Nepal then banned future attempts.\n\nThe mountain most widely claimed to be the highest unclimbed mountain in the world in terms of elevation is Gangkhar Puensum (). It is in Bhutan, on or near the border with China. In Bhutan, the climbing of mountains higher than has been prohibited since 1994. The rationale for this prohibition is based on local customs that consider this and similar peaks to be the sacred homes of protective deities and spirits, and the lack of high-altitude rescue resources from any locale closer than India. The prohibition was further expanded in 2003 when mountaineering of any kind was disallowed entirely within Bhutan. Gangkhar Puensum will likely remain unclimbed so long as the government of Bhutan prohibits it.\n\nIt is unclear which is the highest unclimbed non-prohibited mountain. While some recognize only peaks with of topographical prominence as individual summits, the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation uses a as the cutoff for determining individual summits. Based on the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation's criteria, Muchu Chhish ( with a prominence of ) in Pakistan is currently the world's tallest that has not been climbed even though it is legal to do so. Other unclimbed summits include one on the massif known as Kabru ( prominence c. ), Labuche Kang III/East () with prominence of and Karjiang ( with a prominence of ).\nUnclimbed candidates with high topographic prominence are by definition independent mountains, but some have relatively modest elevations. With such peaks there is a greater possibility of undocumented ascents, perhaps occurring long ago.\n\nSauyr Zhotasy (, prominence of ), the highpoint in the Saur Range on the border between Kazakhstan and China, and Mount Siple (, prominence of ) on Siple Island off the coast of Antarctica, have no record of successful ascents, but the unclimbed status of each of these peaks is difficult to confirm.\n\n"}
{"id": "10806432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10806432", "title": "Imaginary line", "text": "Imaginary line\n\nIn general, an imaginary line is any sort of geometric line that has only an abstract definition and does not physically exist. In fact, is used to identify a map properly.\n\nAs a geographical concept, an imaginary line may serve as an arbitrary division, such as a border. It may also be a standardized marking that serves as a measurement or line of reference, such as a circle of latitude or the Prime Meridian.\n"}
{"id": "27284843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27284843", "title": "International Map of the World", "text": "International Map of the World\n\nThe International Map of the World (also called the Millionth Map, after its scale of 1:1000000) was a project begun in 1913 to create a complete map of the world according to internationally agreed standards. Roads were depicted in red, towns and railways were depicted in black, and the labels were written in the Roman alphabet. The map was the brainchild of Albrecht Penck, a German geographer who first proposed it in 1891.\n\nThe Central Bureau of the Map of the World was established at the Ordnance Survey in London. After the Second World War, the United Nations took over the project. By 1953 only 400 of about 1000 sheets had been produced; though this covered most of the land surface outside North America, many sheets were decades out of date, and almost none of the open ocean was covered. In 1964, Arthur H. Robinson dismissed the IMW as \"cartographic wallpaper\" of no practical use. There were few updates thereafter, and in 1989, UNESCO declared the project was no longer feasible and stopped monitoring it.\n\nA map indexing system was developed for dividing the globe into sections spanning six degrees of longitude by four degrees latitude. Longitudinal slices are numbered 1 (180-174°West) through 60 (174-180°East). Latitudinal slices are named NA (0-4°North) through NV (84-88°North) and SA (0-4°South) through SV (84-88°South). For example\n\nDue to shortening of longitudinal distances with increasing latitude, longitudinal span beyond 60 degrees latitude doubles to twelve degrees. Beyond 76 degrees it doubles again to 24 degrees.\n\nThis indexing system outlived the international project and is still used in national and international mapping programs by Australia, Russia and the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56028198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56028198", "title": "Journal of Coastal Research", "text": "Journal of Coastal Research\n\nThe Journal of Coastal Research is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on coastal studies and processes. It was established in 1984 as Litoralia, obtaining its current name in 1985. It is published by the Coastal Education and Research Foundation, whose president and executive director, Charles W. Finkl, is also the journal's editor-in-chief. The journal has been a member of BioOne since 2005. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.915, ranking it 193rd out of 229 journals in the category \"Environmental Sciences\".\n"}
{"id": "625551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625551", "title": "Land claim", "text": "Land claim\n\nA land claim is a legal declaration of desired control over areas of property, including bodies of water. The phrase is usually only used with respect to disputed or unresolved land claims. Some types of land claims include aboriginal land claims, Antarctic land claims, and post-colonial land claims.\n\nLand claims is sometimes used as a term when referring to disputed territories like Western Sahara or to refer to the claims of displaced persons. \n\nIn the colonial times of the United States American men could claim a piece of land for themselves and the claim has different level of merit according to the de facto conditions:\n\nToday, only small areas of unclaimed land remain, yet large plots of land with little economical value (e.g., in Alaska) can still be bought for very low prices. Also, in certain parts of the world, land can still be obtained by making productive use of it.\n\nA mining claim is the claim of the right to extract minerals from a tract of public land. In the United States, the practice began with the California gold rush of 1849. In the absence of effective government, the miners in each new mining camp made up their own rules, and chose to essentially adopt Mexican mining law then in effect in California. The Mexican law gave the right to mine to the first one to discover the mineral deposit and begin mining it. The area that could be claimed by one person was limited to that which could be mined by a single individual or a small group.\n\nThe US system of mining claims is an application of the legal theory of \"prior appropriation\", by which public property is granted to the first one to put it to beneficial use. Other applications of appropriation theory were the Homestead Act, which granted public land to farmers, and water rights in the west.\n\nThe California miners spread the concept of mining claims to other mining districts all over the western United States. The US Congress legalized the practice in 1866, and amended it in the Mining Act of 1872. All land in the public domain, that is, federal land whose use has not been restricted by the government to some specific purpose, was subject to being claimed. The mining law has been changed numerous times, but still retains some features similar to those settled on by the California 49ers.\n\nThe concept was also used in other countries, for example during the Australian gold rushes which occurred at a similar time starting from the 1850s, and included similar groups of people including miners that migrated from the American gold rushes. The Oriental Claims in Victoria are one example of this.\n\nStaking a claim involves first the discovery of a valuable mineral in quantities that a \"prudent man\" (the Prudent Man Rule) would invest time and expenses to recover. Next, marking the claim boundaries, typically with wooden posts or capped steel posts, which must be four feet tall, or stone cairns, which must be three feet tall. Finally, filing a claim with both the land management agency (USFS or BLM), and the local county registrar.\n\nThere are four main types of mining claims: \n\nA mining claim always starts out as an unpatented claim. The owner of an unpatented claim must continue mining or exploration activities on an unpatented claim, or he may pay a fee to the land management agency by September 1 of each year, or it is considered abandoned and becomes null. Activities on unpatented claims must be restricted to those necessary to mining. A patented claim is one for which the federal government has issued a \"patent\" (deed). To obtain a patent, the owner of a mining claim must prove to the federal government that the claim contains locatable minerals that can be extracted at a profit. A patented claim can be used for any purpose desired by the owner, just like any other real estate. However, Congress has ceased funding for the patenting process, so at this time a claim cannot be patented.\n\n"}
{"id": "48693870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48693870", "title": "Leif Erikson Awards", "text": "Leif Erikson Awards\n\nThe Leif Erikson Awards, sometimes referred to as the Exploration Awards, are awarded annually by the Exploration Museum in Húsavík, Iceland, for achievements in exploration and for work in the field of exploration history. They are awarded in three categories; to an explorer for a lifetime achievement in exploration; to a young explorer under the age of 35 for achievements in exploration; and to a person or an organization that has worked to promote and preserve exploration history. \n\nThe awards ceremony takes place annually in Húsavík. The Leif Erikson Awards are the main and final event of the annual \"Húsavík Explorers Festival\". They were first awarded in 2015 and will be awarded next in September 2018.\n\nThe awards are named for Icelandic explorer Leif Erikson, considered as the first European to land in North America and who, according to the Sagas of Icelanders, established the first Norse settlement at Vinland, tentatively identified with the Norse L'Anse aux Meadows on the northern tip of Newfoundland in modern-day Canada.\n\nThe President of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, and his predecessor, President Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, have both presented the awards.\n\nThe winners of the Leif Erikson awards are voted by the members of the Exploration Museum's Scientific Committee. The committee is appointed for one year by the board of the museum, except for the chairperson, who is the winner of the previous year's Exploration History Award.\n\nThe 2015 Leif Erikson Awards were announced by the President of Iceland, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, on 9 July at the Reykjavík University Auditorium.\n\nThe 2016 Leif Erikson Awards were announced by the President of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, on 22 October at the Explorers Festival in Húsavík.\n\nThe 2017 Leif Erikson Awards were presented by BBC World News Anchor Babita Sharma, on 23 September at the Explorers Festival in Húsavík.\n\nThe 2018 Leif Erikson Awards will be announced in September 2018. Nominations are scheduled to be accepted in January 2018. \n\nThe Leif Erikson Awards are the main event of the annual Húsavík Explorers Festival. The festival was first held in 2015 with events in Húsavík and Reykjavík. The format of the festival took shape in 2016 and has stayed the same since, with the festival consisting of short expeditions and outdoor activities around Húsavík, young explorers workshops, talks by explorers, concerts, film screenings and art exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "493833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493833", "title": "Light characteristic", "text": "Light characteristic\n\nA light characteristic is a graphic and text description of a navigational light sequence or colour displayed on a nautical chart or in a Light List with the chart symbol for a lighthouse, lightvessel, buoy or sea mark with a light on it. The graphic indicates how the real light may be identified when looking at its actual light output type or sequence. Different lights use different colours, frequencies and light patterns, so mariners can identify which light they are seeing.\n\nWhile light characteristics can be described in prose, e.g. \"Flashing white every three seconds\", lists of lights and navigation chart annotations use abbreviations. The abbreviation notation is slightly different from one light list to another, with dots added or removed, but it usually follows a pattern similar to the following (see the chart to the right for examples).\n\nAn example of a complete light characteristic is \"Gp Oc(3) W 10s 15m 10M\". This indicates that the light is a \"group occulting light\" in which a group of three eclipses repeat every 10 seconds; the light is white; the light is 15 metres above the chart datum and is visible for .\n\nA fixed light, abbreviated \"F\", is a continuous and steady light.\n\nA flashing light is a rhythmic light in which the total duration of the light in each period is clearly shorter than the total duration of the darkness and in which the flashes of light are all of equal duration. It is most commonly used for a single-flashing light which exhibits only single flashes which are repeated at regular intervals, in which case it is abbreviated simply as \"Fl\". It can also be used with a group of flashes which are regularly repeated, in which case the abbreviation is \"Fl.(2)\" or \"Gr Fl.(2)\", for a group of two flashes. Another possibility is a composite group, in which successive groups in the period have different numbers of flashes, e.g. \"Fl. (2+1)\" indicates a group of two flashes, followed by one flash.\n\nA specific case sometimes used is when the flashes are longer than two seconds. Such a light is sometimes denoted \"long flashing\" with the abbreviation \"L.Fl\".\n\nIf the frequency of flashes is large (more than 30 or 50 per minute) the light is denoted as a \"quick light\", see below.\n\nAn occulting light is a rhythmic light in which the duration of light in each period is longer than the total duration of darkness. In other words, it is the opposite to a flashing light where the total duration of darkness is longer than the duration of light. It has the appearance of flashing off, rather than flashing on. Like a flashing light, it can be used for a single occulting light that exhibits only a single period of darkness or the periods of darkness can be grouped and repeated at regular intervals (abbreviated \"Oc\"), a group (Oc (3)) or a composite group (Oc (2+1)).\n\nAn isophase light, abbreviated \"Iso\", is a light which has dark and light periods of equal length. The prefix derives from the Greek \"iso-\" meaning \"same\".\n\nA quick light, abbreviated \"Q\", is a special case of a flashing light with a large frequency (more than 30 or 50 per minute). If the sequence of flashes is interrupted by regularly repeated eclipses of constant and long duration, the light is denoted \"interrupted quick\", abbreviated \"I.Q\". \n\nGroup notation similar to flashing and occulting lights is also sometimes used (e.g. Q.(9)). \n\nAnother distinction sometimes made is between quick (more than 50 and less than 80 flashes per minute), very quick (more than 80 and less than 160 flashes per minutes, abbreviated \"V.Q\") and ultra quick (no less than 160 flashes per minute, abbreviate \"U.Q\"). This can be combined with notations for interruptions, e.g. I.U.Q. for interrupted ultra quick, or grouping, e.g. V.Q.(9) for a very quick group of nine flashes. Quick characteristics can also be followed by other characteristics, e.g. V.Q.(6)+L.Fl. for a very quick group of six flashes, followed by a long flash.\n\nA Morse code light is light in which appearances of light of two clearly different durations (dots and dashes) are grouped to represent a character or characters in the Morse Code. For example, \"Mo. (A)\" is a light in which in each period light is shown for a short period (dot) followed by a long period (dash), the Morse Code for \"A\".\n\nA fixed and flashing light, abbreviated \"F. Fl\", is a light in which a fixed low intensity light is combined with a flashing high intensity light.\n\nAn alternating light, abbreviated \"Al\", is a light which shows alternating colors. For example, \"Al WG\" shows white and green lights alternately.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20586173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20586173", "title": "List of countries by westernmost point", "text": "List of countries by westernmost point\n\nThis is a list of countries by westernmost point on land (dependent territories included). A selection of dependent territories are listed in \"italics\" and are not ranked.\n\nThere are five countries with territory on both sides of the 180th meridian, and thus can be said to be both the westernmost and easternmost countries: Russia, New Zealand, Fiji, United States, and Kiribati (as well as Antarctica). Russia, New Zealand, and Fiji have most of their territories west of the 180th meridian, in the Eastern Hemisphere, so they are considered in this article to belong to the easternmost countries with their territory stretching east beyond the 180th meridian into the Western Hemisphere. Conversely, the United States and Kiribati have most of their territories east of the 180th meridian, into the Western Hemisphere, so they are considered to belong to the westernmost countries, with their territory stretching west beyond the 180th meridian into the Eastern Hemisphere.\n"}
{"id": "50638813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50638813", "title": "List of geographical noses", "text": "List of geographical noses\n\nNose is used in the name of several geographical features and their associated settlements:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1760214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1760214", "title": "List of natural phenomena", "text": "List of natural phenomena\n\nTypes of natural phenomena include:\n\nWeather, fog, thunder, tornadoes; biological processes, decomposition, germination; physical processes, wave propagation, erosion; tidal flow, and natural disasters such as electromagnetic pulses, volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes.\n\n\n\nGeological processes include erosion, sedimentation, and volcanic activities such as geysers and earthquakes.\n\nViolent meteorological phenomena are called storms. Regular, cyclical phenomena include seasons and atmospheric circulation. Climate change is often semi-regular.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46249271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46249271", "title": "List of programs for point cloud processing", "text": "List of programs for point cloud processing\n\nThis is an overview of programs for processing 3D point clouds from appropriate photos or surveys with laser scanners.\n\nThe programs create point clouds based on appropriate photos to process them to 3D models, e.g. for meshing.\nThe programs can import data of laser scanners or point clouds to preprocess them for 3D modeling.\nThe programs can import data of laser scanners, images or point clouds and process them for 3D modeling.\n"}
{"id": "11485926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485926", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: F", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: F\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11486186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486186", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: S", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: S\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11485542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485542", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/country: G-H-I-J-K", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/country: G-H-I-J-K\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe numbers here do not indicate the rank of population in each city, merely it is to keep count of how many cities there are.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe numbers here do not indicate the rank of population in each city, merely it is to keep count of how many cities there are.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhttp://www.geonames.org/GN/largest-cities-in-guinea.html"}
{"id": "20089853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20089853", "title": "Lists of extreme points", "text": "Lists of extreme points\n\nThis is a list of lists of the points that are the farthest, highest, lowest, greatest or least.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9895080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9895080", "title": "Local Notice to Mariners", "text": "Local Notice to Mariners\n\nA Local Notice to Mariners is an authoritative instruction issued by a designated official, typically the harbormaster.\n\nIn the United States, notices are issued by each U.S. Coast Guard District to disseminate important information affecting navigational safety within that District. This Notice reports changes and deficiencies in aids to navigation maintained by the Coast Guard. Other marine information such as new charts, channel depths, naval operations, and regattas is included. Since temporary information of short duration is not included in the weekly Notice to Mariners, the \"Local Notice to Mariners\" may be the only source of such information. Small craft using the Intracoastal Waterway and small harbors not normally used by oceangoing vessels need it to keep charts and publications up-to-date.\n\nSince correcting information for U.S. charts in the \"Notice to Mariners\" is obtained from the Coast Guard Local Notices, it is normal to expect a lag of 1 or 2 weeks for the \"Notice to Mariners\" to publish a correction from this source.\n\nThe \"Local Notice to Mariners\" may be obtained free of charge by contacting the appropriate Coast Guard District Commander. Vessels operating in ports and waterways in several districts must obtain the \"Local Notice to Mariners\" from each district. \n\nThe text of the US material originated from section 422 of The American Practical Navigator, a document produced by the government of the United States of America.\n\nLNTMs are, by definition, concerned with local issues. Each issuing authority has its own series of LNTMs – there is no international standard numbering or indexing scheme. Individual LNTMs may concern short or long term situations. At Portsmouth, mariners are instructed by LNTM 28/07 to \"keep clear of warship berths\". At Holyhead, LNTM 5/2008 concerns \"Bunkering or transferring oil in port\". At Chichester, No 16 of 2008 \"Sea defence works at Hayling Island\" gives timely information about dredging operations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4070299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4070299", "title": "Lunar distance (navigation)", "text": "Lunar distance (navigation)\n\nIn celestial navigation, lunar distance is the angular distance between the Moon and another celestial body. The lunar distances method uses this angle, also called a lunar, and a nautical almanac to calculate Greenwich time. That calculated time can be used in solving a spherical triangle. The method was published in 1763 and used until about 1850 when it was superseded by the marine chronometer. A similar method uses the positions of the Galilean moons of Jupiter.\n\nIn celestial navigation, knowledge of the time at Greenwich and the measured positions of one or more celestial objects allows the navigator to calculate latitude and longitude. Reliable marine chronometers were unavailable until the late 18th century and not affordable until the 19th century.\nAfter the method was first published in 1763 by British astronomer royal Nevil Maskelyne, for about a hundred years (until about 1850) mariners lacking a chronometer used the method of lunar distances to determine Greenwich time as a key step in determining longitude. Conversely, a mariner with a chronometer could check its accuracy using a lunar determination of Greenwich time. The method saw usage all the way up to the beginning of the 20th century on smaller vessels that could not afford a chronometer or had to rely on this technique for correction of the chronometer.\n\nThe method relies on the relatively quick movement of the moon across the background sky, completing a circuit of 360 degrees in 27.3 days (the sidereal month), or 13.2 degrees per day. In an hour then, it will move about half a degree, roughly its own diameter, with respect to the background stars and the Sun. Using a sextant, the navigator precisely measures the angle between the moon and another body. That could be the Sun or one of a selected group of bright stars lying close to the Moon's path, near the ecliptic; Regulus was particularly commonly used. At that moment, anyone on the surface of the earth who can see the same two bodies will, after correcting for parallax error, observe the same angle. The navigator then consults a prepared table of lunar distances and the times at which they will occur. By comparing the corrected lunar distance with the tabulated values, the navigator finds the Greenwich time for that observation. \nKnowing Greenwich time and local time, the navigator can work out longitude. \nLocal time can be determined from a sextant observation of the altitude of the Sun or a star. Then the longitude (relative to Greenwich) is readily calculated from the difference between local time and Greenwich Time, at 15 degrees per hour.\n\nHaving measured the lunar distance and the heights of the two bodies, the navigator can find Greenwich time in three steps.\n\n\n\n\nHaving found the (absolute) Greenwich time, the navigator either compares it with the observed local apparent time (a separate observation) to find his longitude, or compares it with the Greenwich time on a chronometer (if available) if one wants to check the chronometer.\n\nIn the early days of lunars, predictions of the Moon's position were good to approximately half an arc-minute, a source of error of up to approximately 1 minute in Greenwich time, or one quarter degree of longitude. By 1810, the errors in the almanac predictions had been reduced to about one-quarter of a minute of arc. By about 1860 (after lunar distance observations had mostly faded into history), the almanac errors were finally reduced to less than the error margin of a sextant in ideal conditions (one-tenth of a minute of arc).\n\nThe best sextants at the very beginning of the lunar distance era could indicate angle to one-sixth of an arc-minute and later sextants (after c. 1800) to 0.1 arc-minutes, after the use of the vernier was popularized by its description in English in the book \"Navigatio Britannica\" published in 1750 by John Barrow, the mathematician and historian. In practice at sea, actual errors were somewhat larger. Experienced observers can typically measure lunar distances to within one-quarter of a minute of arc under favourable conditions, introducing an error of up to one quarter degree in longitude. If the sky is cloudy or the Moon is \"New\" (hidden close to the glare of the Sun), lunar distance observations could not be performed.\nA lunar distance changes with time at a rate of roughly half a degree, or 30 arc-minutes, in an hour. The two sources of error, combined, typically amount to about one-half arc-minute in Lunar distance, equivalent to one minute in Greenwich time, which corresponds to an error of as much as one-quarter of a degree of Longitude, or about at the equator.\n\nCaptain Joshua Slocum, in making the first solo circumnavigation in 1895–1898, somewhat anachronistically used the lunar method along with dead reckoning in his navigation. He comments in Sailing Alone Around the World on a sight taken in the South Pacific. After correcting an error he found in his log tables, the result was surprisingly accurate:\nI found from the result of three observations, after long wrestling with lunar tables, that her longitude agreed within five miles of that by dead-reckoning.\nThis was wonderful; both, however, might be in error, but somehow I felt confident that both were nearly true, and that in a few hours more I should see land; and so it happened, for then I made out the island of Nukahiva, the southernmost of the Marquesas group, clear-cut and lofty. The verified longitude when abreast was somewhere between the two reckonings; this was extraordinary. All navigators will tell you that from one day to another a ship may lose or gain more than five miles in her sailing-account, and again, in the matter of lunars, even expert lunarians are considered as doing clever work when they average within eight miles of the truth...\n\nThe result of these observations naturally tickled my vanity, for I knew it was something to stand on a great ship’s deck and with two assistants take lunar observations approximately near the truth. As one of the poorest of American sailors, I was proud of the little achievement alone on the sloop, even by chance though it may have been...\n\nThe work of the lunarian, though seldom practised in these days of chronometers, is beautifully edifying, and there is nothing in the realm of navigation that lifts one’s heart up more in adoration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11191489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11191489", "title": "Manhauling", "text": "Manhauling\n\nManhauling, sometimes expressed as man-hauling: is the pulling forward of sledges, trucks or other load-carrying vehicles by human power unaided by animals or machines. The term is used primarily in connection with travel over snow and ice, and was common during Arctic and Antarctic expeditions before the days of modern motorised traction.\n\nIn the years following the end of the Napoleonic wars the British Royal Navy took up polar/cold climate exploration as its chief peacetime activity. Due to its simplicity, manhauling was adopted by the early British naval expeditions, where it quickly became the preferred even the 'traditional' technique. In time it would be hailed as inherently more noble than the sole use of dogs as practised by the native Arctic-dwelling peoples. The technique’s chief advocate was Sir Clements Markham, President of the Royal Geographical Society during the latter part of the 19th century. A figure of considerable influence, he brought his prejudices to bear on the series of great British Antarctic ventures during the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration, in all of which manhauling was predominant.\n\nMany later writers would condemn manhauling, particularly with heavily loaded sledges, as inefficient and wasteful, citing it as a direct cause of the great Antarctic tragedy of 1910–12—the deaths of Captain Scott and his four companions as they man-hauled their way across the Ross Ice Shelf on their return from the South Pole.\n\nLong before the nations of Europe and America became fascinated with polar exploration the native populations of Northern Canada, Greenland, Lapland and Siberia had trained dogs to draw sledges. Attempts by the early polar explorers to adopt these techniques were rarely successful—the handling of “Eskimo” dogs was recognised as a specialized art; This led to the use of manhauling as a simpler alternative, when the Royal Navy began its long association with polar exploration. The first example of manhauling on a naval Arctic expedition was the journey by William Edward Parry across Melville Island in 1820, when he and his party dragged of equipment on a two-wheeled cart. Thereafter man-hauling began to be seen as a natural, even a 'nobler' alternative to the use of dogs. Francis Leopold McClintock earned the title of \"Father of Arctic Sledging\" for his feats of manhauling travel during one of the many expeditions despatched to search for the missing Franklin expedition. Among McClintock’s admirers on that expedition was a 21-year-old midshipman, Clements Markham\n\nBased on his experiences with McClintock and his love for naval traditions, Markham, future President of the Royal Geographical Society, became a fervent believer in the principle that manhauling was the purest form of polar travel. Markham became the driving force behind British Antarctic exploration endeavours in the early 20th century, and was the mentor of Robert Falcon Scott, to whom his thinking and drive were transferred. After his unhappy experiences with dogs in the Antarctic on the \"Discovery\" Expedition, 1901–04 Scott wrote, in his account of the expedition: \"In my mind no journey ever made with dogs can approach the height of that fine conception which is realised when a party of men go forth to face hardships, dangers, and difficulties with their own unaided efforts […] Surely in this case the conquest is more nobly and splendidly won.\"\n\nAn aversion to the use of dogs pervaded all the British expeditions during the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration (including those led by Ernest Shackleton), This was baffling to the great Norwegian explorers Fridtjof Nansen and Roald Amundsen. To them manhauling was \"futile toil\", to be avoided at all costs. Edward Wilson, however, on the fatal southern journey during Scott’s 1910–1913 \"Terra Nova\" Expedition expressed a profound relief, as the pole-bound party began its ascent of the Beardmore Glacier after the last of the ponies had been shot: \"Thank God the horses are now done with, and we begin the heavier work ourselves\", he wrote. His companion Lawrence Oates thought differently but kept his counsel. Later, when the Pole had been attained and Amundsen’s prior arrival discovered, Oates privately castigated “our wretched manhauling” as a cause of his party’s defeat.\n\nSome chroniclers have suggested that excessive reliance on manhauling may have cost the lives of Scott’s polar party. Each man pulling a sledge was burning around 6,000 calories a day, and consuming rations producing only 4,500 calories. Max Jones concludes that they were slowly starving to death. Much earlier, an expedition account by James Gordon Hayes had highlighted two principal causes of Scott’s disaster: dietary deficiencies and the decision to rely on men instead of dogs. In 1997, in another history of the expedition, Michael de-la-Noy concludes: “…the whole expedition had been founded upon a blind and very British belief in the moral superiority of human muscle power…Scott thought it more manly for men to haul the sledges themselves. Five of them died as a result”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6252791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6252791", "title": "Marconi Plaza, Philadelphia", "text": "Marconi Plaza, Philadelphia\n\nMarconi Plaza is an urban park square located in South Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Plaza was named to recognize the 20th Century cultural identity in Philadelphia of the surrounding Italian-American enclave neighborhood and became the designation location of the annual Columbus Day Parade.\n\nMarconi Plaza has two main halves, East and West, which are divided in the middle by Broad Street. It is located at the most southern end of the city and within the northern border of the Sports Complex Special Services District. The park plaza is accessible via the Oregon Avenue Station of the Broad Street Subway. \nBoundaries of Marconi Plaza Neighborhood:\nThe urban park plaza itself, from which the neighborhood derives its name(Marconi East and \"Marco\" Marconi West), is a rectangular park. The Roman styled plaza is divided in the center by Broad Street and is bordered by 13th Street, 15th Street, Bigler Street, and Oregon Avenue.\n\nThe plaza design is credited to the strong influence of renowned architect Paul Philippe Cret in 1904 as part of his participation in the Art Jury reviewing the preliminary plans presented by landscape architects the Olmsted Brothers, who were then charged with a modified design to complete the work. \n. The Plaza later served as the grand pre-entrance for the 1926 Sesquicentennial Exposition, leading visitors south along a tree lined Southern Boulevard Parkway (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) ( landscaped segment of South Broad Street) to the exhibition grounds that started at Packer Avenue and continued to League Island Park. This neighborhood twin park is mirrored on both sides of Broad Street and became property of the Fairmount Park system. It held the common name of Oregon Plaza until October 18, 1937 when it was officially named Marconi Plaza in honor of the Nobel Prize Laureate Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor of Radio.\n\nThe F. Amadee Bregy School was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.\n\nThe original design of the Plaza was a two level terrace with pathways, marble trims, urns, influenced by landscaped architecture modeling after Roman gardens and English gardens. The east and west plaza reflected the same winding pathways leading to a raised stepped terrace surrounded by stone railings and entrance sculptures of large urns with two small \"reflecting\" pools of water facing Broad Street at the center point, which at that time was cut away from the curbline forming half circles open to traffic on both the east and west. This accent was used in 1926 to position a large Liberty Bell at the center of the street permitting traffic to circle around.\n\nOver the years many of the fine details have been erased including the half circled indented curbline on either side of Broad Street at the center. This location also had on both sides of the plaza, two reflecting pools of water. The pools were filled in to provide the foundation for the two statues that were later erected to support the cultural history of the immigrant Italian community and respond to Anti-Italianism.\n\nThe park is currently lushly covered with 25% trees adorned with park benches, open areas for two tot lots, a baseball field, basketball court, and country cottage style enclosed bocce court. The sidewalk border surrounding the park is densely lined with large maple trees with heights of 30–50 feet high.\n\nA bronze statue of Guglielmo Marconi, sculpted by Saleppichi Giancarlo was erected on the east Plaza in 1975 though the efforts of the Marconi Memorial Association headed by Dr. Frank P. DiDio. The statue was dedicated on April 25, 1980, to commemorate the 106th anniversary of the birthday of the world-famous Italian scientist and inventor.\n\nA statue of Christopher Columbus was erected on the west plaza in 1982. This work was originally located along Belmont Avenue in Fairmount Park, having been erected on October 12, 1876 for Philadelphia's Centennial Exposition. Thought to be the work of Emanuele Caroni, this is said to be first publicly funded monument to Christopher Columbus in the United States. It was purchased for $18,000 with money raised by Italian-Americans and the Columbus Monument Association, through the efforts of Alonzo Viti of Philadelphia and his brothers. The statue's initial installation began an annual tradition for the colony of mostly Italian Americans in South Philadelphia to march each year on Columbus Day to the statue in Fairmount Park. The journey was found to be too exhausting and in 1920 the celebration changed locations.\n\nMollbore Terraces of Marconi: The 1930s Mollbore Terrace was a unique urban change from the densely lined row houses that characterized most of South Philadelphia. The design included front porches and a rear yard with an access service roadway for trash pick-up. Three separate Mollbore Terrace sections were constructed east of the plaza within the boundaries of 13th Street to 7th Street, and from Oregon Ave to Johnston Street. The layout departed from the standard street grid, offsetting the numbered streets that permitted placing a \"mini-public-square\" of green space for houses to face inward on all four sides and directions. The center large rectangular common parks space was originally designated as a \"Terrace\" that included pathways, grass and trees with an octagon-shaped wading pool at the west end and a raised octagon sand pit platform with a flag pole at the east end.\n\nRoman Terraces of Marconi: The Greco-Roman–accented homes west of the plaza from 15th to 19th street, using the same concept but on a smaller scale, include two oval-shaped terrace streets at Smedley and Colorado. The terrace at Colorado Street became well known citywide for its annual decorations and street lighting during the Christmas holidays from 1950 to 2000.\n\nMoyamensing Avenue Parkway of Marconi: This main angular dual street with an approximately 50-foot center median landscaped area and tree-lined street, crosses the standard street grid and was designed as an alternative roadway access to the 1926 Sesquicentennial Exposition. It begins at Oregon Avenue, that once was a headhouse entrance for the 1926 Expo, through to the intersection of 20th Street, Penrose Avenue and Packer Avenue. An architectural design for a grand public square like the squares of Center City Philadelphia (inspired by the Benjamin Franklin Parkway) was planned at the parkway's end point of Penrose Avenue, which was viewed by city planners to be the significant southern gateway to the City. The 1926 square was never developed.\n\nIn 2002 the City of Philadelphia legislated boundaries of the Sports Complex Special Service District. The residential communities defined included Marconi Plaza. The Special District established an overlay providing the basis for a new definition to Marconi East as community \"three\" and Marconi West as community \"four\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37758978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37758978", "title": "Munzee", "text": "Munzee\n\nMunzee is a freemium scavenger hunt game where places have to be found in the real world. The game is similar to geocaching but uses QR code technology, in addition to device GPS location, to prove the find instead of a logbook. Launched in Texas in 2011, the game caught on first in Germany, along with California and Michigan. It is now played in more than 188 countries around the world, and there is at least one physical Munzee deployed on every continent, including Antarctica.\n\nThe places are marked by other players using QR codes, which are hidden and often printed on weatherproof stickers. The places can also be marked by a NFC tag. These stickers are called Munzees. Both the finding and the hiding players receive points for deploying and finding Munzees. The QR codes on the Munzees are read by means of a smartphone app for iOS, Android or Windows.\n\nVirtual Munzees are also available for purchase. These also appear in app lists and on maps, and they are \"captured\" by locating the app device within 300 feet of the designated location. The device must also be within 300 feet of a QR code Munzee to verify \"capture.\"\n\nA common misconception is that the idea for Munzee was inspired by geocaching, a game in which participants search for a hidden cache using GPS technology. However, Munzee co-founder Aaron Benzick (having never been a geocacher) came up with the idea of using QR codes for a game in 2008, but smartphone technology and capability were not available at the time. Benzick, and co-founders, Scott Foster, Chris Pick, and Josh Terkelsen launched the game on July 1, 2011. The term Munzee was derived from the German word for coin, Münze. Since the domain name munze.com was no longer available, an e was added, which also resulted in what the company felt was a catchy name. The original idea was to use poker chips or rounded coins with QR codes.\nMunzees can consist of any material; they must have at minimum a QR-code and physically meet the conditions of the location (waterproof, weatherproof, etc.). Munzees either can be self-generated and printed or be purchased via the web store or through authorised distributors. NFC Munzees and Virtual Munzees can be purchased from the web store.\n\nTo generate or to order Munzees one has to be logged in on the central platform with a unique username. When generating a Munzee, the platform creates a web link, over which the generated Munzee can be managed. This web link is represented as a QR code on the Munzee. A descriptive name and an arbitrarily long comment can be assigned to the Munzee as properties. Both are stored on the central platform (not in the QR code) and can be changed later.\n\nAfter a Munzee is physically created, it can be assigned coordinates anywhere outdoors or indoor and then deployed via the app. Business Munzees are also available which are deployed inside a business. Once the Munzee has been deployed it goes live on the map and is ready to be found or \"captured\" by other players. If a Munzee is damaged or taken down, players can report the malfunction and after two reports the Munzee is taken off the map.\n\nThe coordinates of all globally mounted Munzees are managed on the game platform at munzee.com.\n\nAs of January 2018, there are more than 7 million munzees worldwide in 235 countries, and more than 189 million Munzee captures had been recorded.\n\n"}
{"id": "4229819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4229819", "title": "Navigation system", "text": "Navigation system\n\nA navigation system is a (usually electronic) system that aids in navigation. Navigation systems may be entirely on board a vehicle or vessel (on the ships) bridge, or they may be located elsewhere and communicate via radio or other signals with a vehicle or vessel, or they may use a combination of these methods.\n\nNavigation systems may be capable of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23266725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23266725", "title": "North Atlantic Track Agreement", "text": "North Atlantic Track Agreement\n\nThe North Atlantic Track Agreement was an agreement in November 1898 among thirteen passenger steamship companies to use a set series of trans-Atlantic routes that stretched from the northeast of North America to western Europe for the Atlantic crossing. Following the tracks was recommended but not compulsory.\n\nThere were seven routes: three to Canada and four to New York and Boston. The two main routes are apart to prevent collisions.\n\nThe agreement was given government recognition in the 1948 Safety-at-Sea-Convention.\n"}
{"id": "166459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166459", "title": "Park", "text": "Park\n\nA park is an area of natural, semi-natural or planted space set aside for human enjoyment and recreation or for the protection of wildlife or natural habitats. It may consist of grassy areas, rocks, soil and trees, but may also contain buildings and other artifacts such as monuments, fountains or playground structures. In North America, many parks have fields for playing sports such as association football, baseball and football, and paved areas for games such as basketball. Many parks have trails for walking, biking and other activities. Some parks are built adjacent to bodies of water or watercourses and may comprise a beach or boat dock area. Often, the smallest parks are in urban areas, where a park may take up only a city block or less and is ideally within a 10-Minute Walk of its residents. Urban parks often have benches for sitting and may contain picnic tables and barbecue grills. Parks have differing rules regarding whether dogs can be brought into the park: some parks prohibit dogs; some parks allow them with restrictions (e.g., use of a leash); and some parks, which may be called \"dog parks\", permit dogs to run off-leash.\n\nThe largest parks can be vast natural areas of hundreds of thousands of seventy meters (thousands of square miles), with abundant wildlife and natural features such as mountains and rivers. There are also amusement parks which have live shows, fairground rides, refreshments, and games of chance/skill. Amusement parks are the largest types of park in the world. In many large parks, camping in tents is allowed with a permit. Many natural parks are protected by law, and users may have to follow restrictions (e.g., rules against open fires or bringing in glass bottles). Large national and sub-national parks are typically overseen by a park ranger or a park warden. Large parks may have areas for canoeing and hiking in the warmer months and, in some northern hemisphere countries, cross-country skiing and snowshoeing in colder months.\n\nThe first parks were English deer parks, land set aside for hunting by royalty and the aristocracy in medieval times. They had walls or thick hedges around them to keep game animals (e.g., stags) in and people out. It was strictly forbidden for commoners to hunt animals in these deer parks.\n\nThese game preserves evolved into landscaped parks set around mansions and country houses from the sixteenth century onwards. These may have served as hunting grounds but they also proclaimed the owner's wealth and status. An aesthetic of landscape design began in these stately home parks where the natural landscape was enhanced by landscape architects such as Capability Brown. As cities became crowded, the private hunting grounds became places for the public.\n\nWith the Industrial revolution parks took on a new meaning as areas set aside to preserve a sense of nature in the cities and towns. Sporting activity came to be a major use for these urban parks. Areas of outstanding natural beauty were also set aside as national parks to prevent their being spoiled by uncontrolled development.\n\nPark design is influenced by the intended purpose and audience, as well as by the available land features. A park intended to provide recreation for children may include a playground. A park primarily intended for adults may feature walking paths and decorative landscaping. Specific features, such as riding trails, may be included to support specific activities.\n\nThe design of a park may determine who is willing to use it. Walkers may feel unsafe on a mixed-use path that is dominated by fast-moving cyclists or horses. Different landscaping and infrastructure may even affect children's rates of use of parks according to sex. Redesigns of two parks in Vienna suggested that the creation of multiple semi-enclosed play areas in a park could encourage equal use by boys and girls.\n\nParks are part of the urban infrastructure: for physical activity, for families and communities to gather and socialize, or for a simple respite. Research reveals that people who exercise outdoors in green-space derive greater mental health benefits. Providing activities for all ages, abilities and income levels is important for the physical and mental well-being of the public.\n\nParks can also benefit pollinators, and some parks (such as Saltdean Oval) have been redesigned to accommodate them better. Some organisations, such as Xerces Society are also promoting this idea.\n\nCity parks play a role in improving cities and improving the futures for residents and visitors - for example, Millennium Park in Chicago, Illinois or the Mill River Park and Green way in Stamford, CT. One group that is a strong proponent of parks for cities is The American Society of Landscape Architects . They argue that parks are important to the fabric of the community on an individual scale and broader scales such as entire neighborhoods, city districts or city park systems.\n\nParks need to feel safe for people to use them. Research shows that perception of safety can be more significant in influencing human behavior than actual crime statistics. If citizens perceive a park as unsafe, they might not make use of it at all.\n\nA study done in four cities; Albuquerque, NM, Chapel Hill/Durham, NC, Columbus, OH, and Philadelphia, PA, with 3815 survey participants who lived within a half mile of a park indicated that in addition to safety that park facilities also played a significant role in park utilization and that increasing facilities instead of creating an image of a safe park would increase utilization of the park.\n\nThere are a number of features that contribute to whether or not a park feels safe. Elements in the physical design of a park, such as an open and welcoming entry, good visibility (sight lines), and appropriate lighting and signage can all make a difference. Regular park maintenance, as well as programming and community involvement can also contribute to a feeling of safety.\n\nWhile Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) has been widely used in facility design, use of CPTED in parks has not been. Iqbal and Ceccato performed a study in Stockholm, Sweden to determine if it would be useful to apply to parks. Their study indicated that while CPTED could be useful, due to the nature of a park, increasing the look of safety can also have unintended consequences on the aesthetics of the park. Creating secure areas with bars and locks and lower the beauty of the park, as well as the nature of who is in charge of observing the public space and the feeling of being observed.\n\nIn the United States, the standard for safety in parks is increasingly measured by whether women feel safe in that particular location. This was originally identified by the urban sociologist William H. Whyte in his 1988 studies in New York. Research reveals that women have a different sense of safety compared to men, whether they are walking in their neighborhood or in a park. Dan Biederman, President of the Bryant Park Corp. stated \"Women pick up on visual cues of disorder better than men do... And if women don't see other women, they tend to leave.\" Whether or not a woman feels safe can determine how much physical activity she has and if it will reach the recommended level for good health and disease prevention. Park designers and planners can take several steps to increase safety from assault, including providing sufficient lighting, having patrols by police officers or other safety officials, and providing emergency buttons for summoning assistance.\n\nParks can be divided into active and passive recreation areas. Active recreation is that which has an urban character and requires intensive development. It often involves cooperative or team activity, including playgrounds, ball fields, swimming pools, gymnasiums, and skateparks. Active recreation such as team sports, due to the need to provide substantial space to congregate, typically involves intensive management, maintenance, and high costs. Passive recreation, also called \"low intensity recreation\" is that which emphasizes the open-space aspect of a park and allows for the preservation of natural habitat. It usually involves a low level of development, such as rustic picnic areas, benches and trails.\n\nMany smaller \"neighborhood parks\" are receiving increased attention and valuation as significant community assets and places of refuge in heavily populated urban areas. Neighborhood groups around the world are joining together to support local parks that have suffered from urban decay and government neglect.\n\nPassive recreation typically requires little management and can be provided at very low costs. Some open space managers provide nothing other than trails for physical activity in the form of walking, running, horse riding, mountain biking, snow shoeing, or cross-country skiing; or sedentary activity such as observing nature, bird watching, painting, photography, or picnicking. Limiting park or open space use to passive recreation over all or a portion of the park's area eliminates or reduces the burden of managing active recreation facilities and developed infrastructure. Many ski resorts combine active recreation facilities (ski lifts, gondolas, terrain parks, downhill runs, and lodges) with passive recreation facilities (cross-country ski trails).\n\nA national park is a reserve of land, usually, but not always declared and owned by a national government, protected from most human development and pollution. Although this may be so, it is not likely that the government of a specific area owns it, rather the community itself. National parks are a protected area of International Union for Conservation of Nature Category II. This implies that they are wilderness areas, but unlike pure nature reserves, they are established with the expectation of a certain degree of human visitation and supporting infrastructure.\n\nWhile this type of national park had been proposed previously, the United States established the first \"public park or pleasuring-ground for the benefit and enjoyment of the people\", Yellowstone National Park, in 1872, although Yellowstone was not gazetted as a national park. The first officially designated national park was Mackinac Island, gazetted in 1875. Australia's Royal National Park, established in 1879, was the world's second officially established national park.\n\nThe largest national park in the world is the Northeast Greenland National Park, which was established in 1974 and currently protects \n\nIn some Federal systems, many parks are managed by the sub-national levels of government. In Brazil, the United States, and some states in Mexico, as well as in the Australian state of Victoria, these are known as state parks, whereas in Argentina, Canada and South Korea, they are known as provincial or territorial parks. In the United States, it is also common for individual counties to run parks, these are known as county parks.\n\nA park is an area of open space provided for recreational use, usually owned and maintained by a local government. Parks commonly resemble savannas or open woodlands, the types of landscape that human beings find most relaxing. Grass is typically kept short to discourage insect pests and to allow for the enjoyment of picnics and sporting activities. Trees are chosen for their beauty and to provide shade.\n\nSome early parks include the la Alameda de Hércules, in Seville, a promenaded public mall, urban garden and park built in 1574, within the historic center of Seville; the City Park, in Budapest, Hungary, which was property of the Batthyány family and was later made public.\n\nAn early purpose built public park was Derby Arboretum which was opened in 1840 by Joseph Strutt for the mill workers and people of the city. This was closely followed by Princes Park in the Liverpool suburb of Toxteth, laid out to the designs of Joseph Paxton from 1842 and opened in 1843. The land on which the Princes park was built was purchased by Richard Vaughan Yates, an iron merchant and philanthropist, in 1841 for £50,000. The creation of Princes Park showed great foresight and introduced a number of highly influential ideas. First and foremost was the provision of open space for the benefit of townspeople and local residents within an area that was being rapidly built up. Secondly it took the concept of the designed landscape as a setting for the suburban domicile, an idea pioneered by John Nash at Regent's Park, and re-fashioned it for the provincial town in a most original way. Nash's remodeling of St James's Park from 1827 and the sequence of processional routes he created to link The Mall with Regent's Park completely transformed the appearance of London's West End. With the establishment of Princes Park in 1842, Joseph Paxton did something similar for the benefit of a provincial town, albeit one of international stature by virtue of its flourishing mercantile contingent. Liverpool had a burgeoning presence on the scene of global maritime trade before 1800 and during the Victorian era its wealth rivalled that of London itself.\n\nThe form and layout of Paxton's ornamental grounds, structured about an informal lake within the confines of a serpentine carriageway, put in place the essential elements of his much imitated design for Birkenhead Park. The latter was commenced in 1843 with the help of public finance and deployed the ideas he pioneered at Princes Park on a more expansive scale. Frederick Law Olmsted visited Birkenhead Park in 1850 and praised its qualities. Indeed, Paxton is widely credited as having been one of the principal influences on Olmsted and Calvert's design for New York's Central Park of 1857.\n\nAnother early public park is the Peel Park, Salford, England opened on August 22, 1846. Another possible claimant for status as the world's first public park is Boston Common (Boston, Massachusetts, USA), set aside in 1634, whose first recreational promenade, Tremont Mall, dates from 1728. True park status for the entire common seems to have emerged no later than 1830, when the grazing of cows was ended and renaming the Common as Washington Park was proposed (renaming the bordering Sentry Street to Park Street in 1808 already acknowledged the reality).\n\nA linear park is a park that has a much greater length than width. A typical example of a linear park is a section of a former railway that has been converted into a park called a rail trail or greenway (i.e. the tracks removed, vegetation allowed to grow back). Parks are sometimes made out of oddly shaped areas of land, much like the vacant lots that often become city neighborhood parks. Linked parks may form a greenbelt.\n\nIn some countries, especially the United Kingdom, \"country parks\" are areas designated for recreation, and managed by local authorities. They are often located near urban populations, but they provide recreational facilities typical of the countryside rather than the town.\n\nPrivate parks are owned by individuals or businesses and are used at the discretion of the owner. There are a few types of private parks, and some which once were privately maintained and used have now been made open to the public.\n\n\"Hunting parks\" were originally areas maintained as open space where residences, industry and farming were not allowed, often originally so that nobility might have a place to hunt – see medieval deer park. These were known for instance, as \"deer parks\" (deer being originally a term meaning any wild animal). Many country houses in Great Britain and Ireland still have parks of this sort, which since the 18th century have often been landscaped for aesthetic effect. They are usually a mixture of open grassland with scattered trees and sections of woodland, and are often enclosed by a high wall. The area immediately around the house is the garden. In some cases this will also feature sweeping lawns and scattered trees; the basic difference between a \"country house's park\" and its garden is that the park is grazed by animals, but they are excluded from the garden.\n"}
{"id": "154487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154487", "title": "Parkway", "text": "Parkway\n\nA parkway is a broad, landscaped highway thoroughfare. The term is particularly used for a roadway in a park or connecting to a park from which trucks and other heavy vehicles are excluded. Many parkways originally intended for scenic, recreational driving have evolved into major urban and commuter routes.\n\nThe term \"parkway\" is sometimes applied more generally to a variety of limited-access roads.\n\nIn Russia, long, broad (multi-lane) and beautified thoroughfares are referred to as prospekts.\n\nOver the years, many different types of roads have been labeled parkways.\n\nThe first parkways in the United States were developed during the late 19th century by landscape architects Frederick Law Olmsted and Beatrix Farrand as roads segregated for pedestrians, bicyclists, equestrians, and horse carriages, such as the Eastern Parkway, which is credited as the world's first parkway, and Ocean Parkway in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. The terminology \"parkway\" to define this type of road was coined by Calvert Vaux and Frederick Law Olmsted in their proposal to link city and suburban parks with \"pleasure roads\".\n\nNewer roads such as Bidwell in Buffalo, New York and Park Presidio Boulevard in San Francisco, California were designed for automobiles and are broad and divided by large landscaped central medians. \n\nDuring the early 20th century, the meaning of the word was expanded to include limited-access highways designed for recreational driving of automobiles, with landscaping. These parkways originally provided scenic routes without very slow or commercial vehicles, at grade intersections, or pedestrian traffic. Examples are the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut and the Vanderbilt Motor Parkway in New York. But their success led to more development, expanding a city's boundaries, eventually limiting the parkway's recreational driving use. The Arroyo Seco Parkway between Downtown Los Angeles and Pasadena, California is an example of lost pastoral aesthetics. It and others have become major commuting routes, while retaining the name \"parkway\".\n\nIn New York City, construction on the Long Island Motor Parkway (Vanderbilt Parkway) began in 1906 and planning for the Bronx River Parkway in 1907. In the 1920s, the New York City Metropolitan Area's parkway system grew under the direction of Robert Moses, the president of the New York State Council of Parks and Long Island State Park Commission, who used parkways to create and access state parks, especially for city dwellers. As Commissioner of New York City Parks under Mayor LaGuardia, he extended the parkways to the heart of the city, creating and linking its parks to the greater metropolitan systems.\n\nMost of the New York metropolitan parkways were designed by Gilmore Clark. The famed \"Gateway to New England\" Merritt Parkway in Connecticut was designed in the 1930s as a pleasurable alternative for affluent locals to the congested Boston Post Road, running through forest with each bridge designed uniquely to enhance the scenery. Another example is the Sprain Brook Parkway from The Bronx to become the Taconic State Parkway to Chatham, New York. Landscape architect George Kessler designed extensive parkway systems for Kansas City, Missouri; Memphis, Tennessee; Indianapolis; and other cities at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nIn the 1930s, as part of the New Deal the U.S. federal government constructed National Parkways designed for recreational driving and to commemorate historic trails and routes. These divided four-lane parkways have lower speed limits and are maintained by the National Park Service. An example is the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) built Blue Ridge Parkway in the Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina and Virginia.\n\nOthers are: Skyline Drive in Virginia; the Natchez Trace Parkway in Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee; and the Colonial Parkway in eastern Virginia's Historic Triangle area. The George Washington Memorial Parkway and the Clara Barton Parkway, running along the Potomac River near Washington, D.C. and Alexandria, Virginia, were also constructed during this era.\n\nIn Kentucky the term \"parkway\" designates a controlled-access highway in the , with nine built in the 1960s and 1970s. They were toll roads until the construction bonds were repaid, and are now freeways since 2006.\n\nThe Arroyo Seco Parkway from Pasadena to Los Angeles, built in 1940, was the first segment of the vast Southern California freeway system. It became part of State Route 110 and was renamed the Pasadena Freeway. A 2010 restoration of the freeway brought the Arroyo Seco Parkway designation back.\nIn the New York metropolitan area, contemporary parkways are predominantly controlled-access highways restricted to non-commercial traffic, excluding trucks and tractor-trailers. Some have low overpasses that also exclude buses. The Vanderbilt Parkway, an exception in western Suffolk County, is a surviving remnant of the Long Island Motor Parkway that became a surface street, no longer with controlled-access or non-commercial vehicle restrictions. The Palisades Interstate Parkway is a post-war parkway that starts at the George Washington Bridge, heads north through New Jersey, continuing through Rockland and Orange counties in New York. The Palisades Parkway was built to allow for a direct route from New York City to Harriman State Park.\n\nIn New Jersey, the Garden State Parkway, connecting the urban Northeast U.S. with the Jersey Shore and Atlantic City, is restricted to buses and non-commercial traffic north of the Route 18 interchange but is one of the busiest toll roads in the country.\n\nIn the Pittsburgh region, two of the major Interstates are referred to informally as parkways. The Parkway East (I-376, formally the Penn-Lincoln Parkway) connects Downtown Pittsburgh to Monroeville, Pennsylvania. The Parkway West (I-376) runs through the Fort Pitt Tunnel and links Downtown to Pittsburgh International Airport, southbound I-79, Imperial, Pennsylvania, and westbound US 22/US 30. The Parkway North (I-279) connects Downtown to Franklin Park, Pennsylvania and northbound I-79.\nIn the suburbs of Philadelphia, U.S. Route 202 follows an at-grade parkway alignment known as the \"U.S. Route 202 Parkway\" between Montgomeryville and Doylestown. The parkway varies from two to four lanes in width, has shoulders, a walking path called the US 202 Parkway Trail on the side, and a speed limit. The parkway opened in 2012 as a bypass of a section of US 202 between the two towns; it had originally been proposed as a four-lane freeway before funding for the road was cut.\n\nIn Minneapolis, the Grand Rounds Scenic Byway system has of streets designated as parkways. These are not freeways; they have a slow speed limit, pedestrian crossings, and stop signs.\n\nIn Cincinnati, parkways are major roads which trucks are prohibited from using. Some Cincinnati parkways, such as Columbia Parkway, are high-speed, limited-access roads, while others, such as Central Parkway, are multi-lane urban roads without controlled access. Columbia Parkway carries US-50 traffic from downtown towards east-side suburbs of Mariemont, Anderson, and Milford, and is a limited access road from downtown to the Village of Mariemont.\n\n\"Parkway\" is used in the names of many Canadian roads, including major routes through national parks, scenic drives, major urban thoroughfares, and even regular freeways that carry commercial traffic.\n\nParkways in the National Capital Region are administered by the National Capital Region (Canada). However, some of them are named \"drive\" or \"driveway\".\n\nThe term in Canada is also applied to multi-use paths and greenways used by walkers and cyclists.\n\n\nThe United Kingdom has parkways (known in that region as a carriageway) in many large towns and cities. Most examples are motorways or A roads. Some parkways including Chelmsford Parkway have flyovers leading to major roads.\n\nSeveral mainly park-and-ride-status railway stations in England have the suffix \"parkway\" in their name. The etymology is from the original U.S. meaning as the Bristol Parkway railway station was named after the adjacent M32 motorway, originally known as The Parkway because of its green-buffered route into the city. Bristol Parkway was the first railway station so named, in 1972. The majority of such stations were opened in the late 20th century to relieve pressure on existing city centre stations. Examples such as Didcot Parkway are renamings following the expansion of the car parking facilities where the name is used promotionally (for example commuters to Oxford are encouraged to leave their car at Didcot and travel to Oxford by train) whereas in others with multi-storey car parks serving modest settlements such as Brookwood and Fleet the suffix has not been adopted.\n\nLuton Airport Parkway and Southampton Airport Parkway are examples serving Luton and Southampton airports. Some were so named as they are not in easy walking distance of an airport terminal; passengers use shuttle bus services, although Southampton Airport station is within easy walking distance of Southampton Airport and has no separate car parking facilities of its own.\n\nThe city and third-generation new town of Peterborough (population of 184,500 as at 2011 census) has an overall free-capacity system roads branded as \"parkways\", which together with other roads provide routes for much through traffic and local traffic sufficient to cope in most peak hours. The majority are dual carriageways, with many of their junctions numbered. Five main parkways (Soke Parkway, Nene Parkway, Fletton Parkway, Frank Perkins Parkway, Paston Parkway) form an orbital outer ring road. Orton Parkway, Werrington Parkway, Longthorpe Parkway are named after the settlements they serve. For example, Werrington Parkway is an arbitrary renaming of a short section of the A15 Lincoln Road.\n\nIn the City of Plymouth, the A38 is called \"The Parkway\" and bisects a rural belt of the local authority area, which coincides with the geographical centre; it has two junctions to enter the downtown part of the city.\n\nThe Australian Capital Territory uses the term \"parkway\" to refer to roadways of a standard approximately equivalent to what would be designated as an \"expressway\", \"freeway\", or \"motorway\" in other areas. Parkways generally have multiple lanes in each direction of travel, no intersections (crossroads are accessed by interchanges), high speed limits, and are of dual carriageway design (or have high crash barriers on the median).\n\nVictoria uses the term \"parkway\" to sometimes refer to smaller local access roads that travel through parkland. Unlike other uses of the term, these parkways are not high-speed routes but may still have some degree of limited access.\n\nSingapore uses the term \"parkway\" as an alternative to \"expressway\". As such, parkways are also dual carriageways with high speed limits and interchanges. The East Coast Parkway is currently the only expressway in Singapore that uses this terminology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2437324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437324", "title": "Rope stretcher", "text": "Rope stretcher\n\nIn ancient Egypt, a rope stretcher (or harpedonaptai) was a surveyor who measured real property demarcations and foundations using knotted cords, stretched so the rope did not sag. The practice is depicted in tomb paintings of the Theban Necropolis. Rope stretchers used 3-4-5 triangles and the plummet, which are still in use by modern surveyors.\n\nThe commissioning of a new sacred building was a solemn occasion, and officials as high-ranking as the Pharaoh participated in a ceremony that involved personally stretching ropes to define the foundation. This important ceremony, and therefore rope-stretching itself, are attested over 3000 years from the early dynastic period to the Ptolemaic kingdom.\n\nRope stretching technology spread to ancient Greece and India, where it stimulated the development of geometry and mathematics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1515653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1515653", "title": "Satellite navigation", "text": "Satellite navigation\n\nA satellite navigation or satnav system is a system that uses satellites to provide autonomous geo-spatial positioning. It allows small electronic receivers to determine their location (longitude, latitude, and altitude/elevation) to high precision (within a few metres) using time signals transmitted along a line of sight by radio from satellites. The system can be used for providing position, navigation or for tracking the position of something fitted with a receiver (satellite tracking). The signals also allow the electronic receiver to calculate the current local time to high precision, which allows time synchronisation. Satnav systems operate independently of any telephonic or internet reception, though these technologies can enhance the usefulness of the positioning information generated.\n\nA satellite navigation system with global coverage may be termed a global navigation satellite system (GNSS). , the United States' Global Positioning System (GPS) and Russia's GLONASS are fully operational GNSSs, with China's BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS) and the European Union's Galileo scheduled to be fully operational by 2020. India, France and Japan are in the process of developing regional navigation and augmentation systems as well.\n\nGlobal coverage for each system is generally achieved by a satellite constellation of 18–30 medium Earth orbit (MEO) satellites spread between several orbital planes. The actual systems vary, but use orbital inclinations of >50° and orbital periods of roughly twelve hours (at an altitude of about ).\n\nSatellite navigation systems that provide enhanced accuracy and integrity monitoring usable for civil navigation are classified as follows:\n\n\nGround based radio navigation has long been practiced. The DECCA, LORAN, GEE and Omega systems used terrestrial longwave radio transmitters which broadcast a radio pulse from a known \"master\" location, followed by a pulse repeated from a number of \"slave\" stations. The delay between the reception of the master signal and the slave signals allowed the receiver to deduce the distance to each of the slaves, providing a fix.\n\nThe first satellite navigation system was Transit, a system deployed by the US military in the 1960s. Transit's operation was based on the Doppler effect: the satellites travelled on well-known paths and broadcast their signals on a well-known radio frequency. The received frequency will differ slightly from the broadcast frequency because of the movement of the satellite with respect to the receiver. By monitoring this frequency shift over a short time interval, the receiver can determine its location to one side or the other of the satellite, and several such measurements combined with a precise knowledge of the satellite's orbit can fix a particular position. Satellite orbital position errors are induced by variations in the gravity field and radar refraction, among others. These were resolved by a team led by Harold L Jury of Pan Am Aerospace Division in Florida from 1970-1973. Using real-time data assimilation and recursive estimation, the systematic and residual errors were narrowed down to a manageable level to permit accurate navigation. \n\nPart of an orbiting satellite's broadcast included its precise orbital data. In order to ensure accuracy, the US Naval Observatory (USNO) continuously observed the precise orbits of these satellites. As a satellite's orbit deviated, the USNO would send the updated information to the satellite. Subsequent broadcasts from an updated satellite would contain its most recent ephemeris.\n\nModern systems are more direct. The satellite broadcasts a signal that contains orbital data (from which the position of the satellite can be calculated) and the precise time the signal was transmitted. The orbital ephemeris is transmitted in a data message that is superimposed on a code that serves as a timing reference. The satellite uses an atomic clock to maintain synchronization of all the satellites in the constellation. The receiver compares the time of broadcast encoded in the transmission of three (at sea level) or four different satellites, thereby measuring the time-of-flight to each satellite. Several such measurements can be made at the same time to different satellites, allowing a continual fix to be generated in real time using an adapted version of trilateration: see GNSS positioning calculation for details.\n\nEach distance measurement, regardless of the system being used, places the receiver on a spherical shell at the measured distance from the broadcaster. By taking several such measurements and then looking for a point where they meet, a fix is generated. However, in the case of fast-moving receivers, the position of the signal moves as signals are received from several satellites. In addition, the radio signals slow slightly as they pass through the ionosphere, and this slowing varies with the receiver's angle to the satellite, because that changes the distance through the ionosphere. The basic computation thus attempts to find the shortest directed line tangent to four oblate spherical shells centred on four satellites. Satellite navigation receivers reduce errors by using combinations of signals from multiple satellites and multiple correlators, and then using techniques such as Kalman filtering to combine the noisy, partial, and constantly changing data into a single estimate for position, time, and velocity.\n\nThe original motivation for satellite navigation was for military applications. Satellite navigation allows precision in the delivery of weapons to targets, greatly increasing their lethality whilst reducing inadvertent casualties from mis-directed weapons. (See Guided bomb). Satellite navigation also allows forces to be directed and to locate themselves more easily, reducing the fog of war.\n\nThe ability to supply satellite navigation signals is also the ability to deny their availability. The operator of a satellite navigation system potentially has the ability to degrade or eliminate satellite navigation services over any territory it desires.\n\nThe United States' Global Positioning System (GPS) consists of up to 32 medium Earth orbit satellites in six different orbital planes, with the exact number of satellites varying as older satellites are retired and replaced. Operational since 1978 and globally available since 1994, GPS is the world's most utilized satellite navigation system.\n\nThe formerly Soviet, and now Russian, \"Global'naya Navigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema\", (GLObal NAvigation Satellite System or GLONASS), is a space-based satellite navigation system that provides a civilian radionavigation-satellite service and is also used by the Russian Aerospace Defence Forces. GLONASS has full global coverage with 24 satellites.\n\nThe European Union and European Space Agency agreed in March 2002 to introduce their own alternative to GPS, called the Galileo positioning system. Galileo became operational on 15 December 2016 (global Early Operational Capability (EOC)) At an estimated cost of €3 billion, the system of 30 MEO satellites was originally scheduled to be operational in 2010. The original year to become operational was 2014. The first experimental satellite was launched on 28 December 2005. Galileo is expected to be compatible with the modernized GPS system. The receivers will be able to combine the signals from both Galileo and GPS satellites to greatly increase the accuracy. Galileo is expected to be in full service in 2020 and at a substantially higher cost.\nThe main modulation used in Galileo Open Service signal is the Composite Binary Offset Carrier (CBOC) modulation.\n\nChina has indicated their plan to complete the entire second generation Beidou Navigation Satellite System (BDS or BeiDou-2, formerly known as COMPASS), by expanding current regional (Asia-Pacific) service into global coverage by 2020. The BeiDou-2 system is proposed to consist of 30 MEO satellites and five geostationary satellites. A 16-satellite regional version (covering Asia and Pacific area) was completed by December 2012.\n\nChinese regional (Asia-Pacific, 16 satellites) network to be expanded into the whole BeiDou-2 global system which consists of all 35 satellites by 2020.\n\nThe NAVIC or NAVigation with Indian Constellation is an autonomous regional satellite navigation system developed by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) which would be under the total control of Indian government. The government approved the project in May 2006, with the intention of the system completed and implemented on 28 April 2016. It will consist of a constellation of 7 navigational satellites. 3 of the satellites will be placed in the Geostationary orbit (GEO) and the remaining 4 in the Geosynchronous orbit(GSO) to have a larger signal footprint and lower number of satellites to map the region. It is intended to provide an all-weather absolute position accuracy of better than 7.6 meters throughout India and within a region extending approximately 1,500 km around it. A goal of complete Indian control has been stated, with the space segment, ground segment and user receivers all being built in India. All seven satellites, IRNSS-1A, IRNSS-1B, IRNSS-1C, IRNSS-1D, IRNSS-1E, IRNSS-1F, and IRNSS-1G, of the proposed constellation were precisely launched on 1 July 2013, 4 April 2014, 16 October 2014, 28 March 2015, 20 January 2016, 10 March 2016 and 28 April 2016 respectively from Satish Dhawan Space Centre. The system is expected to be fully operational by August 2016.\n\nThe Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS) is a proposed four-satellite regional time transfer system and enhancement for GPS covering Japan and the Asia-Oceania regions. QZSS services are available on a trial basis as of January 12, 2018, and are scheduled to be launched in November 2018. The first satellite was launched in September 2010.\n\nSources: \n\nGNSS augmentation is a method of improving a navigation system's attributes, such as accuracy, reliability, and availability, through the integration of external information into the calculation process, for example, the Wide Area Augmentation System, the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service, the Multi-functional Satellite Augmentation System, Differential GPS, GPS Aided GEO Augmented Navigation (GAGAN) and inertial navigation systems.\n\nDoppler Orbitography and Radio-positioning Integrated by Satellite (DORIS) is a French precision navigation system. Unlike other GNSS systems, it is based on static emitting stations around the world, the receivers being on satellites, in order to precisely determine their orbital position. The system may be used also for mobile receivers on land with more limited usage and coverage. Used with traditional GNSS systems, it pushes the accuracy of positions to centimetric precision (and to millimetric precision for altimetric application and also allows monitoring very tiny seasonal changes of Earth rotation and deformations), in order to build a much more precise geodesic reference system.\n\nThe two current operational low Earth orbit satellite phone networks are able to track transceiver units with accuracy of a few kilometers using doppler shift calculations from the satellite. The coordinates are sent back to the transceiver unit where they can be read using AT commands or a graphical user interface. This can also be used by the gateway to enforce restrictions on geographically bound calling plans.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67610", "title": "Shade tree", "text": "Shade tree\n\nA shade tree is a large tree whose primary role is to provide shade in the surrounding environment due to its spreading canopy and crown, where it may give shelter from sunlight in the heat of the summer for people who seek recreational needs in urban parks and house yards, and thus, also protecting them from the sun's harmful UV rays and sunburns. Therefore, some shade trees may be grown specifically for the comfort of the population due to their convenient shelter. \n\nFurthermore, shade trees are also effective in reducing the energy used in cooling homes.\n\nSome of the most popular shade trees in temperate countries are oaks, plane trees, willows, birches, beeches, maples, ashes, lindens, and elms. In subtropical countries like Australia and India, figs are popular choices as shade trees. In tropical countries, trees such as the African tulip tree and some Erythrina species are often planted as shade trees.\n\nThese trees are commonly grown, and/or used, as shade trees due to their protuberant size:\n\n\nThere are a few factors to consider when choosing a shade tree: deciduousness, coverage, longevity, and the ability of the roots to damage foundations. Shade trees can enhance the privacy of a garden, patio, or back yard, by obstructing the view of outsiders. A disadvantage is that in cool climates, an abundance of shade trees may lead to a dank environment in any nearby buildings or gardens. Shade trees must not be planted near chimneys as flying fire sparks can ignite tree branches which could cause rapidly expanding fires.\n\nPlanting shade trees around a home can also reduce the energy that homeowners use in the summer months. Planting shade trees in locations near a home air conditioner can keep the air conditioner cooler which helps it run more efficiently, so less energy is used.\n\n"}
{"id": "292617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292617", "title": "Southern Levant", "text": "Southern Levant\n\nThe Southern Levant is a geographical region encompassing the southern half of the Levant. It corresponds approximately to modern-day Israel, Palestine, and Jordan; some definitions also include southern Lebanon, southern Syria and/or the Sinai Peninsula. As a strictly geographical description, it is sometimes used by archaeologists and historians to avoid the religious and political connotations of other names for the area.\n\nLike much of Southwestern Asia, the Southern Levant is an arid region consisting mostly of desert and dry steppe, with a thin strip of wetter, temperate climate along the Mediterranean coast. Geographically it is dominated by the Jordan Valley, a section of the Great Rift Valley bisecting the region from north to south, and containing the Sea of Galilee, the Jordan River and the Dead Sea – the lowest point on the earth's land surface.\n\nThe Southern Levant has a long history and is one of the areas of the world most intensively investigated by archaeologists. It is considered likely to be the first place that both early hominins and modern humans colonised outside of Africa. Consequently, it has a rich Stone Age archaeology, stretching back as early as 1.5 million years ago.\n\nThe Southern Levant refers to the lower half of the Levant but there is some variance of geographical definition, with the widest definition including Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon, southern Syria and the Sinai Desert. In the field of archaeology, the southern Levant is \"the region formerly identified as Syria-Palestine and including Canaan.\"\n\nMany scholars studying the region's archaeology have adopted the term Levant (including northern and southern halves) as the \"term of choice\" due to it being a \"wider, yet relevant, cultural corpus\" that does not have the \"political overtones\" of Syria-Palestine. A survey of North American dissertations shows the \"overwhelming emphasis and scope of these works has been the southern Levant, an area formerly identified as Syria-Palestine including Canaan\", but with most modern Ph.D. dissertations using the terms ‘Israel’ and ‘Canaan’.\n\nThe term Southern Levant has also been criticized as imprecise and an awkward name. The term Southern Levant has been described in academic discourse as a \"at least a strictly geographical\" description of the region, avoiding religious and political connotations of names such as \"Canaan\", \"Holy Land\", \"Land of Israel\", or \"Palestine\".\n\nThe Southern Levant lies on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea, in the world region known variously as the Near East, the Middle East or Western or Southwestern Asia. It is bordered to the east, southeast and southwest by the Syrian, Arabian and Sinai deserts, respectively. Some definitions include parts of these deserts in the region. The Litani River is commonly considered the dividing line between the Southern Levant and the Northern Levant (i.e. Syria), or sometimes the Orontes River, also in central Lebanon.\n\nFor the most part, the climate of the Southern Levant is arid or semi-arid, however a narrow strip along the coast experiences a temperate, Mediterranean climate due to its proximity to the sea. Average annual rainfall decreases sharply away from the coast, from over per year in Galilee, to in the Rift Valley, and less than in the eastern deserts and the Negev. Across the region, precipitation is both highly seasonal―most rain falls between October and May, and hardly any in the summer—and subject to large, unpredictable interannual variation. Temperature is also highly variable, with cool winters and hot summers.\n\nThe Jordan River bisects much of the region into the Cisjordan and Transjordan. The Huleh basin feeds into the upper Jordan, which moves southward through a natural basalt barrier into the Sea of Galilee before dropping several hundred metres as it flows through the Jordan Valley. The Jordan River terminates at the Dead Sea, whose banks, at below sea level, are the world's lowest point on dry land.\n\nThe archaeology of the southern Levant is generally conceived as a series of phases or stages in human cultural and evolutionary development based, for the most part, on tool technology for early pre-historic, proto-historic and early historic periods. Later phases are generally associated with historical periods and are named accordingly. While there is no single, accepted sequence that all archaeologists agree upon, the basic conventions indicate a number of Stone Ages, followed by a Copper/Stone age, in turn followed by a Bronze Age. The names given to them, derived from the Greek, are also used widely for other regions. The different ages in turn are often divided up into sequential or sometimes parallel chrono-cultural facies, sometimes called “cultures” or “periods”. Sometimes their names are derived from European prehistory, at other times from local sites, often where they were first discovered.\n\nArchaeologically, it is among the most extensively excavated regions in the world.\n\nThe Southern Levant is amongst the oldest inhabited parts of Eurasia, being on one of three plausible routes by which early hominins could have dispersed out of Africa (along with the Bab al Mandab and the Strait of Gibraltar). \"Homo erectus\" left Africa and became the first hominin species to colonise Europe and Asia approximately two million years ago, probably via the Southern Levant. During this phase of the Pleistocene epoch the region was wetter and greener, allowing \"H. erectus\" to find places with fresh water as it followed other African animals that were dispersing out of Africa at the same time. One such location was 'Ubeidiya, on the southern shore of the Sea of Galilee, where some of the oldest hominin remains in Eurasia have been discovered, dating to between 1.2 million and 1.5 million years ago.\n\nSeveral stone ages, when stone tools prevailed and make up the bulk of artifacts, are followed by periods when other technologies came into use. They lent their names to the different periods. The basic framework for the southern Levant is, as follows: Paleolithic or Old Stone Age is often divided up into phases called, from early-to-late: Lower Paleolithic, Middle Paleolithic and Upper Paleolithic. An Epipaleolithic (latest Paleolithic) period, also known as Mesolithic (transition to Neolithic) follows and is, in turn succeeded by a Neolithic (New Stone Age).\n\nThe following Chalcolithic period includes the first evidence of metallurgy with copper making its appearance. However, as stone technology remains prevalent, the name, Chalcolithic (Copper/Stone) age combines the two.\n\nBronze is used for the following periods, but is actually a misnomer for a good part of that time. An Early Bronze Age is divided into three major phases, Early Bronze I, II and III, but copper and not bronze was the most common metal in use, while stone technology continued to contribute the bulk of tools. Early Bronze III is followed by another period, alternately named Early Bronze IV, Middle Bronze I, Intermediate Bronze or Early Bronze-Middle Bronze. In this period the name is apt; true bronze (a tin alloy of copper) makes its appearance in this time span.\n\nThe next period is generally known as Middle Bronze II and is generally broken down into two sub-periods, Middle Bronze IIa and Middle Bronze IIb. Some scholars acknowledge a Middle Bronze III. The next period is known as Late Bronze and is often sub-divided into Late Bronze I and II.\n\nThe introduction of iron, although relatively rare, especially in the earliest phases, caused the following phase to be named the Iron Age. It is variously sub-divided into Iron I, Iron II and sometimes Iron III, with subdivisions becoming increasingly popular as sequences become better known. Some archaeologists suggest that there in the transition from the Late Bronze Age to the Early Iron Age, the large cultural differences are explained by foreign invasion, that is, the introduction of new ethnicity. More recent evidence indicates that the large culture changes were not the result of a foreign invasion. Rather, the Iron Age people of the southern Levant were related to their Bronze Age predecessors.\n\nThe post Iron Age is generally thought of as historical and accordingly names of periods reflect this. The very latest Iron Age phase is sometimes called “Assyrian” and the following period is universally known as the Persian period.\n\nThe 333 BC conquest of the region is accepted as the beginning of the Hellenistic period. The Deuterocanonical book 2 Maccabees records: \"Apollonius the son of Tharseas, who at that time was governor of Celesyria and Phenicia\", Celesyria being the transliteration of Coele-Syria. It is followed by Early Roman and Late Roman periods. The 4th century is recognized as the beginning of the Byzantine period that lasted until the Arab conquest of the region.\n\nLater periods are alternately known as Early Arab and sub-periods by the names of reigning dynasties. The Crusader conquest of the region is known, appropriately as the Crusader period and it is followed by a Mameluke period after the conquering dynasty. In 1517 the Ottoman empire conquered the region and gave its name to the period that lasted until 1917, when the British conquered it in World War I.\n\n"}
{"id": "43576000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43576000", "title": "Temporary adjustments of theodolites", "text": "Temporary adjustments of theodolites\n\nTemporary adjustments are set of operations which are performed on a theodolite to make it ready for taking observations. These include its initial setting up on a tripod or other stand, centering, levelling up and focusing of eyepiece.\n\n Exact centering is done by using the shifting head of the instrument. During this, first the screw-clamping ring of the sliding head is loosened and the upper plate of the shifting head is slid over the lower one until the plumb bob is exactly over the station mark. After the exact centering, the screw clamping ring is tightened. This can be done by means of a forced centering plate or tribrach. An optical or laser plummet is normally used for the most accurate setting. The centering and levelling of the instrument is interactive and iterative; a re-levelling may change the centering, so error each is eliminated in successively until negligible.\n\nLeveling of an instrument is done to make it vertical axis with respect to the apparent force of gravity at the station.\n\nFor two spirit vials at right angles;\n\nOtherwise, repeat the whole process starting from step 1 to step 5.\n\nThe same principle applies for a bulls-eye level:\n\n\nTo obtain an accurate clear sighting, the cross hairs should be in focus; adjust the eyepiece to do this.\n\nFor focusing of the eye piece, point the telescope to the sky or hold a piece of white paper in front of telescope. Move the eye-piece in and out until a distinct sharp black image of the cross-hairs is seen. This confirms proper focusing.\nTo Clearly view the object being sighted Focus the objective lens.\n\nIt is done for each independent observation to bring the image of the object in the plane of cross hairs. It includes following steps of operation: First, direct the telescope towards the object for observation. Next, turn the focusing screw until the image of the object appears clear and sharp as the observer looks through properly focused eye-piece. If focusing has been done properly, there will be no parallax i.e., there will be no apparent movement of the image relative to the cross hairs if the observer moves his eye from one side to the other or from top to bottom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1572569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572569", "title": "Travellers Club", "text": "Travellers Club\n\nThe Travellers Club is a private gentlemen's club situated at 106 Pall Mall in London, United Kingdom. It is the oldest of the surviving Pall Mall clubs and one of the most exclusive, having been established in 1819. It was described as \"the quintessential English gentleman's club\" by the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 2004.\n\nThe original concept of the club, by Lord Castlereagh and others, dates from the conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars. They envisaged a club where gentlemen who travelled abroad might meet and offer hospitality to distinguished foreign visitors. The original rules of 1819 excluded from membership anyone \"“who has not travelled out of the British islands to a distance of at least five hundred miles from London in a direct line”\".\n\nThe members of the club's first Committee included the Earl of Aberdeen (later Prime Minister), Lord Auckland (after whom Auckland, New Zealand is named), the Marquess of Lansdowne (who had already served as Chancellor of the Exchequer and later refused office as Prime Minister) and Viscount Palmerston (later Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister).\n\nSubsequent members included statesmen and travellers such as Prime Minister George Canning, the Duke of Wellington, Lord John Russell, Prime Minister Arthur Balfour, Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin, Prime Minister Alec Douglas-Home, Francis Beaufort (creator of the Beaufort scale), Robert FitzRoy of HMS \"Beagle\", Sir William Edward Parry (explorer of the Northwest Passage), Sir Roderick Murchison (after whom the Murchison crater on the Moon is named) and Sir Wilfred Thesiger. Novelist Anthony Powell was a member, and the club is featured in various guises in the work of Graham Greene, Jules Verne, William Makepeace Thackeray and John le Carré.\n\nThe club's members include members of the British and foreign royal families, the British Foreign Secretary whilst in office, and various ambassadors to London; a tradition still continued today and there is also a special category of membership for particularly distinguished travellers, explorers and travel writers. Such well-known current members include Field Marshal Lord Bramall, and Terry Waite. Its membership remains exclusive, although there are a number of connections with other clubs throughout the world whose members may use its premises from time to time.\n\nJustin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury, announced in 2014 that he would resign from the club, owing to its refusal to admit women.\n\nThe club's original premises were at 12 Waterloo Place. It moved to 49 Pall Mall in 1821 (a building which had once been occupied by Brooks's). However, it quickly outgrew this building and in 1826 the members decided to spend £25,000 on the construction of a purpose built club house on the present site at 106 Pall Mall, backing onto Carlton gardens.\n\nThe architect was Sir Charles Barry who was later to be the architect for the Houses of Parliament, and the Travellers Club building proved to be one of his masterpieces. It takes the form of a Renaissance palace which is said to have been inspired by Raphael's Palazzo Pandolfini in Florence. It was completed in 1832, with the tower (which had been in Barry's original design) added in 1842.\n\nThe club building includes a smoking room (a large common room which looks over Carlton Gardens), the cocktail bar and adjacent Bramall room (which gives access to Carlton Gardens), the Outer Morning Room (a large drawing room overlooking Pall Mall, and connecting to an Inner Morning Room), and the dining room (known as the Coffee Room). \"The Times\" on 10 January 2004 noted \"the wonderful dining, heavy on fish and game (partridges to potted shrimps) with echoes of public school food (bread pudding) and a superb wine cellar\".\n\nThe magnificent library is decorated with a cast of the Bassae Frieze from the 5th century BCE Greek temple of Apollo Epicurius at Bassae. The originals of this frieze were discovered by the architect Charles Robert Cockerell, who was on the first Committee of the Club in 1819, and they are now in the British Museum. The library has a large and important collection of books, from the antiquarian to the modern, mainly on travel.\n\nThere are a number of bedrooms at the club for out-of-town members. The dress code is formal at all times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21898118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21898118", "title": "Underwater acoustic positioning system", "text": "Underwater acoustic positioning system\n\nAn underwater acoustic positioning system is a system for the tracking and navigation of underwater vehicles or divers by means of acoustic distance and/or direction measurements, and subsequent position triangulation. Underwater acoustic positioning systems are commonly used in a wide variety of underwater work, including oil and gas exploration, ocean sciences, salvage operations, marine archaeology, law enforcement and military activities.\n\nFigure 1 describes the general method of operation of an acoustic positioning system, this is an example of a long baseline (LBL) positioning system for ROV\n\n\nAcoustic positioning systems measure positions relative to a framework of baseline stations, which must be deployed prior to operations. In the case of a long-baseline (LBL) system, a set of three or more baseline transponders are deployed on the sea floor. The location of the baseline transponders either relative to each other or in global coordinates must then be measured precisely. Some systems assist this task with an automated acoustic self-survey, and in other cases GPS is used to establish the position of each baseline transponder as it is deployed or after deployment.\n\n\nFollowing the baseline deployment and survey, the acoustic positioning system is ready for operations. In the long baseline example (see figure 1), an interrogator (A) is mounted on the ROV that is to be tracked. The interrogator transmits an acoustic signal that is received by the baseline transponders (B, C, D, E). The reply of the baseline transponders is received again at the ROV. The signal time-of-flight or the corresponding distances A-B, A-C, A-D and A-E are transmitted via the ROV umbilical (F) to the surface, where the ROV position is computed and displayed on a tracking screen. The acoustic distance measurements may be augmented by depth sensor data to obtain better positioning accuracy in the three-dimensional underwater space.\n\nAcoustic positioning systems can yield an accuracy of a few centimeters to tens of meters and can be used over operating distance from tens of meters to tens of kilometers. Performance depends strongly on the type and model of the positioning system, its configuration for a particular job, and the characteristics of the underwater acoustic environment at the work site.\n\nUnderwater acoustic positioning systems are generally categorized into three broad types or classes\n\nLong-baseline (LBL) systems, as in figure 1 above, use a sea-floor baseline transponder network. The transponders are typically mounted in the corners of the operations site. LBL systems yield very high accuracy of generally better than 1 m and sometimes as good as 0.01m along with very robust positions This is due to the fact that the transponders are installed in the reference frame of the work site itself (i.e. on the sea floor), the wide transponder spacing results in an ideal geometry for position computations, and the LBL system operates without an acoustic path to the (potentially distant) sea surface.\nUltra-short-baseline (USBL) systems and the related super-short-baseline (SSBL) systems rely on a small (ex. 230 mm across), tightly integrated transducer array that is typically mounted on the bottom end of a strong, rigid transducer pole which is installed either on the side or in some cases on the bottom of a surface vessel. Unlike LBL and SBL systems, which determine position by measuring multiple distances, the USBL transducer array is used to measure the target \"distance\" from the transducer pole by using signal run time, and the target \"direction\" by measuring the phase shift of the reply signal as seen by the individual elements of the transducer array. The combination of distance and direction fixes the position of the tracked target relative to the surface vessel. Additional sensors including GPS, a gyro or electronic compass and a vertical reference unit are then used to compensate for the changing position and orientation (pitch, roll, bearing) of the surface vessel and its transducer pole. USBL systems offer the advantage of not requiring a sea floor transponder array. The disadvantage is that positioning accuracy and robustness is not as good as for LBL systems. The reason is that the fixed angle resolved by a USBL system translates to a larger position error at greater distance. Also, the multiple sensors needed for the USBL transducer pole position and orientation compensation each introduce additional errors. Finally, the non-uniformity of the underwater acoustic environment cause signal refractions and reflections that have a greater impact on USBL positioning than is the case for the LBL geometry.\n\nShort-baseline (SBL) systems use a baseline consisting of three or more individual sonar transducers that are connected by wire to a central control box. Accuracy depends on transducer spacing and mounting method. When a wider spacing is employed as when working from a large working barge or when operating from a dock or other fixed platform, the performance can be similar to LBL systems. When operating from a small boat where transducer spacing is tight, accuracy is reduced. Like USBL systems, SBL systems are frequently mounted on boats and ships, but specialized modes of deployment are common too. For example, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution uses a SBL system to position the Jason deep-ocean ROV relative to its associated MEDEA depressor weight with a reported accuracy of 9 cm\n\nGPS intelligent buoys (GIB) systems are inverted LBL devices where the transducers are replaced by floating buoys, self-positioned by GPS. The tracked position is calculated in realtime at the surface from the Time-Of-Arrival (TOAs) of the acoustic signals sent by the underwater device, and acquired by the buoys. Such configuration allow fast, calibration-free deployment with an accuracy similar to LBL systems. At the opposite of LBL, SBL or USBL systems, GIB systems use one-way acoustic signals from the emitter to the buoys, making it less sensitive to surface or wall reflections. GIB systems are used to track AUVs, torpedoes, or divers, may be used to localize airplanes black-boxes, and may be used to determine the impact coordinates of inert or live weapons for weapon testing and training purposes references: Sharm-El-Sheih, 2004; Sotchi, 2006; Kayers, 2005; Kayser, 2006; Cardoza, 2006 and others...).\n\nAn early use of underwater acoustic positioning systems, credited with initiating the modern day development of these systems, involved the loss of the American nuclear submarine USS \"Thresher\" on 10 April 1963 in a water depth of 2560m. An acoustic short baseline (SBL) positioning system was installed on the oceanographic vessel USNS \"Mizar\". This system was used to guide the bathyscaphe Trieste 1 to the wreck site. Yet, the state of the technology was still so poor that out of ten search dives by Trieste 1, visual contact was only made once with the wreckage. Acoustic positioning was again used in 1966, to aid in the search and subsequent recovery of a nuclear bomb lost during the crash of a B-52 bomber at sea off the coast of Spain.\n\nIn the 1970s, oil and gas exploration in deeper waters required improved underwater positioning accuracy to place drill strings into the exact position referenced earlier thorough seismic instrumentation and to perform other underwater construction tasks.\n\nBut, the technology also started to be used in other applications. In 1998, salvager Paul Tidwell and his company Cape Verde Explorations led an expedition to the wreck site of the World War 2 Japanese cargo submarine I-52 in the mid-Atlantic. Resting at a depth of 5240 meters, it had been located and then identified using side scan sonar and an underwater tow sled in 1995. War-time records indicated the I-52 was bound for Germany, with a cargo including 146 gold bars in 49 metal boxes. This time, Mr. Tidwell's company had hired the Russian oceanographic vessel, the \"Akademik Mstislav Keldysh\" with its two manned deep-ocean submersibles \"MIR-1\" and \"MIR-2\" (figure 3). In order to facilitate precise navigation across the debris field and assure a thorough search, \"MIR-1\" deployed a long baseline transponder network on the first dive. Over a series of seven dives by each submersible, the debris field was progressively searched. The LBL positioning record indicated the broadening search coverage after each dive, allowing the team to concentrate on yet unsearched areas during the following dive. No gold was found, but the positioning system had documented the extent of the search.\n\nIn recent years, several trends in underwater acoustic positioning have emerged. One is the introduction of compound systems such the combination of LBL and USBL in a so-called LUSBL configuration to enhance performance. These systems are generally used in the offshore oil & gas sector and other high-end applications. Another trend is the introduction of compact, task optimized systems for a variety of specialized purposes. For example, the California Department of Fish and Game commissioned a system (figure 4), which continually measures the opening area and geometry of a fish sampling net during a trawl. That information helps the department improve the accuracy of their fish stock assessments in the Sacramento River Delta.\n\n"}
{"id": "50345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50345", "title": "Urban design", "text": "Urban design\n\nUrban design is the process of designing and shaping the physical features of cities, towns and villages and planning for the provision of municipal services to residents and visitors. In contrast to architecture, which focuses on the design of individual buildings, urban design deals with the larger scale of groups of buildings, streets and public spaces, whole neighborhoods and districts, and entire cities, with the goal of making urban areas functional, attractive, and sustainable.\n\nUrban design is an inter-disciplinary field that utilizes elements of many built environment professions, including landscape architecture, urban planning, architecture, civil engineering and municipal engineering. It is common for professionals in all these disciplines to practice urban design. In more recent times different sub-subfields of urban design have emerged such as strategic urban design, landscape urbanism, water-sensitive urban design, and sustainable urbanism.\n\nUrban design demands an understanding of a wide range of subjects from physical geography to social science, and an appreciation for disciplines, such as real estate development, urban economics, political economy and social theory.\n\nUrban design is about making connections between people and places, movement and urban form, nature and the built fabric. Urban design draws together the many strands of place-making, environmental stewardship, social equity and economic viability into the creation of places with distinct beauty and identity. Urban design draws these and other strands together creating a vision for an area and then deploying the resources and skills needed to bring the vision to life.\n\nUrban design theory deals primarily with the design and management of public space (i.e. the 'public environment', 'public realm' or 'public domain'), and the way public places are experienced and used. Public space includes the totality of spaces used freely on a day-to-day basis by the general public, such as streets, plazas, parks and public infrastructure. Some aspects of privately owned spaces, such as building facades or domestic gardens, also contribute to public space and are therefore also considered by urban design theory. Important writers on urban design theory include Christopher Alexander, Peter Calthorpe, Gordon Cullen, Andres Duany, Jane Jacobs, Mitchell Joachim, Jan Gehl, Allan B. Jacobs, Kevin Lynch, Aldo Rossi, Colin Rowe, Robert Venturi, William H. Whyte, Camillo Sitte, Bill Hillier (Space syntax) and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk.\n\nAlthough contemporary professional use of the term 'urban design' dates from the mid-20th century, urban design as such has been practiced throughout history. Ancient examples of carefully planned and designed cities exist in Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas, and are particularly well known within Classical Chinese, Roman and Greek cultures (see Hippodamus of Miletus).\n\nEuropean Medieval cities are often, and often erroneously, regarded as exemplars of undesigned or 'organic' city development. There are many examples of considered urban design in the Middle Ages (see, e.g., David Friedman, \"Florentine New Towns: Urban Design in the Late Middle Ages\", MIT 1988). In England, many of the towns listed in the 9th century Burghal Hidage were designed on a grid, examples including Southampton, Wareham, Dorset and Wallingford, Oxfordshire, having been rapidly created to provide a defensive network against Danish invaders. 12th century western Europe brought renewed focus on urbanisation as a means of stimulating economic growth and generating revenue. The burgage system dating from that time and its associated burgage plots brought a form of self-organising design to medieval towns. Rectangular grids were used in the Bastides of 13th and 14th century Gascony, and the new towns of England created in the same period.\n\nThroughout history, design of streets and deliberate configuration of public spaces with buildings have reflected contemporaneous social norms or philosophical and religious beliefs (see, e.g., Erwin Panofsky, \"Gothic Architecture and Scholasticism\", Meridian Books, 1957). Yet the link between designed urban space and human mind appears to be bidirectional. Indeed, the reverse impact of urban structure upon human behaviour and upon thought is evidenced by both observational study and historical record. There are clear indications of impact through Renaissance urban design on the thought of Johannes Kepler and Galileo Galilei (see, e.g., Abraham Akkerman, \"Urban planning in the founding of Cartesian thought,\" \"Philosophy and Geography\" 4(1), 1973). Already René Descartes in his \"Discourse on the Method\" had attested to the impact Renaissance planned new towns had upon his own thought, and much evidence exists that the Renaissance streetscape was also the perceptual stimulus that had led to the development of coordinate geometry (see, e.g., Claudia Lacour Brodsky, \"Lines of Thought: Discourse, Architectonics, and the Origins of Modern Philosophy\", Duke 1996).\n\nThe beginnings of modern urban design in Europe are associated with the Renaissance but, especially, with the Age of Enlightenment. Spanish colonial cities were often planned, as were some towns settled by other imperial cultures. These sometimes embodied utopian ambitions as well as aims for functionality and good governance, as with James Oglethorpe's plan for Savannah, Georgia. In the Baroque period the design approaches developed in French formal gardens such as Versailles were extended into urban development and redevelopment. In this period, when modern professional specialisations did not exist, urban design was undertaken by people with skills in areas as diverse as sculpture, architecture, garden design, surveying, astronomy, and military engineering. In the 18th and 19th centuries, urban design was perhaps most closely linked with surveyors (engineers) and architects. The increase in urban populations brought with it problems of epidemic disease, the response to which was a focus on public health, the rise in the UK of municipal engineering and the inclusion in British legislation of provisions such as minimum widths of street in relation to heights of buildings in order to ensure adequate light and ventilation.\n\nMuch of Frederick Law Olmsted's work was concerned with urban design, and the newly formed profession of landscape architecture also began to play a significant role in the late 19th century.\n\nUrban planning focuses on public health and urban design. Within the discipline, modern urban design developed.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, planning and architecture underwent a paradigm shift because of societal pressures. During this time, cities were industrializing at a tremendous rate; private business largely dictated the pace and style of this development. The expansion created many hardships for the working poor and concern for health and safety increased. However, the laissez-faire style of government, in fashion for most of the Victorian era, was starting to give way to a New Liberalism. This gave more power to the public. The public wanted the government to provide citizens, especially factory workers, with healthier environments. Around 1900, modern urban design emerged from developing theories on how to mitigate the consequences of the industrial age.\n\nThe first modern urban planning theorist was Sir Ebenezer Howard. His ideas, although utopian, were adopted around the world because they were highly practical. He initiated the garden city movement in 1898 garden city movement. His garden cities were intended to be planned, self-contained communities surrounded by parks. Howard wanted the cities to be proportional with separate areas of residences, industry, and agriculture. Inspired by the Utopian novel \"Looking Backward\" and Henry George's work \"Progress and Poverty\", Howard published his book \"Garden Cities of To-morrow\" in 1898. His work is an important reference in the history of urban planning. He envisioned the self-sufficient garden city to house 32,000 people on a site . He planned on a concentric pattern with open spaces, public parks, and six radial boulevards, wide, extending from the center. When it reached full population, Howard wanted another garden city to be developed nearby. He envisaged a cluster of several garden cities as satellites of a central city of 50,000 people, linked by road and rail. His model for a garden city was first created at Letchworth and Welwyn Garden City in Hertfordshire. Howard's movement was extended by Sir Frederic Osborn to regional planning.\n\nIn the early 1900s, urban planning became professionalized. With input from utopian visionaries, civil engineers, and local councilors, new approaches to city design were developed for consideration by decision makers such as elected officials. In 1899, the Town and Country Planning Association was founded. In 1909, the first academic course on urban planning was offered by the University of Liverpool. Urban planning was first officially embodied in the Housing and Town Planning Act of 1909 Howard's ‘garden city’ compelled local authorities to introduce a system where all housing construction conformed to specific building standards. In the United Kingdom following this Act, surveyor, civil engineers, architects, and lawyers began working together within local authorities.\nIn 1910, Thomas Adams became the first Town Planning Inspector at the Local Government Board and began meeting with practitioners. In 1914, The Town Planning Institute was established. The first urban planning course in America wasn’t established until 1924 at Harvard University. Professionals developed schemes for the development of land, transforming town planning into a new area of expertise.\n\nIn the 20th century, urban planning was forever changed by the automobile industry. Car oriented design impacted the rise of ‘urban design’. City layouts now had to revolve around roadways and traffic patterns.\nIn 1956, 'Urban design' was first used at a series of conferences Harvard University. The event provided a platform for Harvard's Urban Design program. The program also utilized the writings of famous urban planning thinkers: Gordon Cullen, Jane Jacobs, Kevin Lynch, and Christopher Alexander.\n\nIn 1961, Gordon Cullen published \"The Concise Townscape\". He examined the traditional artistic approach to city design of theorists including Camillo Sitte, Barry Parker and Raymond Unwin. Cullen also created the concept of 'serial vision'. It defined the urban landscape as a series of related spaces.\n\nIn 1961, Jane Jacobs published ' \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\". She critiqued the Modernism of CIAM (International Congresses of Modern Architecture). Jacobs also crime rates in publicly owned spaces were rising because of the Modernist approach of ‘city in the park’. She argued instead for an 'eyes on the street' approach to town planning through the resurrection of main public space precedents (e.g. streets, squares).\n\nIn the same year, Kevin Lynch published \"The Image of the City\". He was seminal to urban design, particularly with regards to the concept of legibility. He reduced urban design theory to five basic elements: paths, districts, edges, nodes, landmarks. He also made the use of mental maps to understanding the city popular, rather than the two-dimensional physical master plans of the previous 50 years.\n\nOther notable works:\n\n\"Architecture of the City\" by Rossi (1966)\n\n\"Learning from Las Vegas\" by Venturi (1972)\n\n\"Collage City\" by Colin Rowe(1978)\n\n\"The Next American Metropolis\" by Peter Calthorpe(1993)\n\n\"The Social Logic of Space\" by Bill Hillier and Julienne Hanson (1984)\n\nThe popularity of these works resulted in terms that become everyday language in the field of urban planning. Aldo Rossi introduced 'historicism' and 'collective memory' to urban design. Rossi also proposed a 'collage metaphor' to understand the collection of new and old forms within the same urban space. Peter Calthorpe developed a manifesto for sustainable urban living via medium density living. He also designed a manual for building new settlements in his concept of Transit Oriented Development (TOD). Bill Hillier and Julienne Hanson introduced Space Syntax to predict how movement patterns in cities would contribute to urban vitality, anti-social behaviour and economic success. 'Sustainability', 'livability', and 'high quality of urban components' also became commonplace in the field.\n\nUrban design seeks to create sustainable urban environments with long-lasting structures, buildings and overall livability. Walkable urbanism is another approach to practice that is defined within the \"Charter of New Urbanism\". It aims to reduce environmental impacts by altering the built environment to create smart cities that support sustainable transport. Compact urban neighborhoods encourage residents to drive less. These neighborhoods have significantly lower environmental impacts when compared to sprawling suburbs. To prevent urban sprawl, Circular flow land use management was introduced in Europe to promote sustainable land use patterns.\n\nAs a result of the recent New Classical Architecture movement, sustainable construction aims to develop smart growth, walkability, architectural tradition, and classical design. It contrasts from modernist and globally uniform architecture. In the 1980s, urban design began to oppose the increasing solitary housing estates and suburban sprawl.\n\nUrban planners frequently act as urban designers when preparing design guidelines, regulatory frameworks, legislation, and advertising. Urban planners also work in urban design with architects, landscape architects, transportation engineers and industrial designers. They must also deal with ‘place management’ to guide and assist the use and maintenance of urban areas and public spaces. Public agencies, authorities, and the interests of nearby property owners manage public spaces. Users often compete over the spaces and negotiate across a variety of spheres. Input is frequently needed from a wide range of stakeholders.\n\nWhile there are some professionals who identify themselves specifically as urban designers, a majority have backgrounds in urban planning, architecture, or landscape architecture. Many collegiate programs incorporate urban design theory and design subjects into their curricula. There are an increasing number of university programs offering degrees in urban design at the post-graduate level.\n\nUrban design considers:\n\nUntil the 1970s, the design of towns and cities took little account of the needs of people with disabilities. At that time, disabled people began to form movements demanding recognition of their potential contribution if social obstacles were removed. Disabled people challenged the 'medical model' of disability which saw physical and mental problems as an individual 'tragedy' and people with disabilities as 'brave' for enduring them. They proposed instead a 'social model' which said that barriers to disabled people result from the design of the built environment and attitudes of able-bodied people. 'Access Groups' were established composed of people with disabilities who audited their local areas, checked planning applications and made representations for improvements. The new profession of 'access officer' was established around that time to produce guidelines based on the recommendations of access groups and to oversee adaptations to existing buildings as well as to check on the accessibility of new proposals. Many local authorities now employ access officers who are regulated by the Access Association. A new chapter of the Building Regulations (Part M) was introduced in 1992. Although it was beneficial to have legislation on this issue the requirements were fairly minimal but continue to be improved with ongoing amendments. The Disability Discrimination Act 1995 continues to raise awareness and enforce action on disability issues in the urban environment.\n\n<div style=\"font-size:95%\">\n\n<div style=\"font-size:95%\">\n"}
{"id": "18315951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18315951", "title": "Visual odometry", "text": "Visual odometry\n\nIn robotics and computer vision, visual odometry is the process of determining the position and orientation of a robot by analyzing the associated camera images. It has been used in a wide variety of robotic applications, such as on the Mars Exploration Rovers.\n\nIn navigation, odometry is the use of data from the movement of actuators to estimate change in position over time through devices such as rotary encoders to measure wheel rotations. While useful for many wheeled or tracked vehicles, traditional odometry techniques cannot be applied to mobile robots with non-standard locomotion methods, such as legged robots. In addition, odometry universally suffers from precision problems, since wheels tend to slip and slide on the floor creating a non-uniform distance traveled as compared to the wheel rotations. The error is compounded when the vehicle operates on non-smooth surfaces. Odometry readings become increasingly unreliable as these errors accumulate and compound over time.\n\nVisual odometry is the process of determining equivalent odometry information using sequential camera images to estimate the distance traveled. Visual odometry allows for enhanced navigational accuracy in robots or vehicles using any type of locomotion on any surface.\n\nThere are various types of VO.\n\nDepend on the camera setup, VO can be categorized as Monocular VO (single camera), Stereo VO (two camera in stereo setup).\n\nTraditional VO's visual information is obtained by Feature Based Method, which extract image feature points and tracking them in the image sequence. Recent development in VO research provided an alternative, called Direct Method, which uses pixel intensity in the image sequence directly as visual input. There are also hybrid methods.\n\nIf an inertial measurement unit (IMU) is used within the VO system, it is commonly referred to as Visual Inertial Odometry (VIO).\n\nMost existing approaches to visual odometry are based on the following stages.\n\n\nAn alternative to feature-based methods is the \"direct\" or appearance-based visual odometry technique which minimizes an error directly in sensor space and subsequently avoids feature matching and extraction.\n\nAnother method, coined 'visiodometry' estimates the planar roto-translations between images using Phase correlation instead of extracting features.\n\nEgomotion is defined as the 3D motion of a camera within an environment. In the field of computer vision, egomotion refers to estimating a camera's motion relative to a rigid scene. An example of egomotion estimation would be estimating a car's moving position relative to lines on the road or street signs being observed from the car itself. The estimation of egomotion is important in autonomous robot navigation applications.\n\nThe goal of estimating the egomotion of a camera is to determine the 3D motion of that camera within the environment using a sequence of images taken by the camera. The process of estimating a camera's motion within an environment involves the use of visual odometry techniques on a sequence of images captured by the moving camera. This is typically done using feature detection to construct an optical flow from two image frames in a sequence generated from either single cameras or stereo cameras. Using stereo image pairs for each frame helps reduce error and provides additional depth and scale information.\n\nFeatures are detected in the first frame, and then matched in the second frame. This information is then used to make the optical flow field for the detected features in those two images. The optical flow field illustrates how features diverge from a single point, the \"focus of expansion\". The focus of expansion can be detected from the optical flow field, indicating the direction of the motion of the camera, and thus providing an estimate of the camera motion.\n\nThere are other methods of extracting egomotion information from images as well, including a method that avoids feature detection and optical flow fields and directly uses the image intensities.\n\n"}
