{"id": "4056835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4056835", "title": "Abby Kelley", "text": "Abby Kelley\n\nAbby Kelley Foster (January 15, 1811 – January 14, 1887) was an American abolitionist and radical social reformer active from the 1830s to 1870s. She became a fundraiser, lecturer and committee organizer for the influential American Anti-Slavery Society, where she worked closely with William Lloyd Garrison and other radicals. She married fellow abolitionist and lecturer Stephen Symonds Foster, and they both worked for equal rights for women and for slaves/ African Americans.\n\nHer former home of Liberty Farm in Worcester, Massachusetts has been designated a National Historic Landmark.\n\nOn January 15, 1811, Abigail (Abby) Kelley was born the seventh daughter of Wing and Lydia Kelley, farmers in Pelham, Massachusetts. Kelley grew up helping with the family farms in Worcester where she received a loving, yet strict Quaker upbringing. Kelley and her family were members of the Quaker Meeting in nearby Uxbridge, Massachusetts. She began her education in a single-room schoolhouse in the Tatnuck section of Worcester. Foster's daughter later wrote that Abby \"attended the best private school for girls in Worcester.\" In 1826, as Worcester had no high school for girls and her parents could not afford a private seminary, Kelley continued her education at the New England Friends Boarding School in Providence, Rhode Island. After her first year of school, Kelley taught for two years to make enough money to further her education. In 1829, she attended her final year of schooling, having received the highest form of education any New England woman of her relatively moderate economic standing could hope to obtain.\n\nAbby returned to her parents' home to teach in local schools and, in 1835, helped her parents move to their new home in Millbury. Then in 1836, she moved to Lynn, Massachusetts, where she taught at a local school. There she met fellow Quakers who preached the ideas of dietary restriction, temperance, pacifism, and antislavery. She became interested in the health theories of Sylvester Graham and gained a general interest in the abolition of slavery after hearing a lecture by William Lloyd Garrison, editor of the abolitionist publication \"The Liberator\". Kelley joined the Female Anti-Slavery Society of Lynn and was soon elected to a committee charged with collecting signatures for petitions to the Federal government to end slavery in the District of Columbia. Kelley passionately carried out her assignment, and in 1837 collected the signatures of nearly half the women of Lynn.\n\nKelley's views became progressively more radical as she worked with abolitionists such as Angelina Grimké. She became an \"ultra\", advocating not only the abolition of slavery, but also full civil equality for blacks. In addition, Garrison's influence led her to adopt the position of \"non-resistance\", which went beyond opposing war to opposing all forms of government coercion. Radical abolitionists led by Garrison refused to serve on juries, join the military, or vote. The Garrisonian call for the end of slavery and the extension of civil rights to African Americans caused controversy. Kelley's advocacy of the radical abolitionist movement prompted some opponents to call her a \"Jezebel\", as what she proposed threatened their sense of social structure. On the other hand, many fellow abolitionists praised her public speaking skills and her dedication to the cause. Kelley's influence was shown by activist women being called \"Abby Kelleyites\". Radical abolitionism became known as \"Abby Kelleyism.\"\n\nFollowing the financial Panic of 1837, Kelley took charge of fundraising for the Lynn Female Society. She donated a generous portion of her own money to the American Anti-Slavery Society. With the encouragement of Angelina Grimke, Abby served as the Lynn Female Society's first delegate to the national convention of the Anti-Slavery Society in New York. There she spoke out about fundraising, and participated in drafting the Society's declaration for abolition. After the convention, Kelley became even more engaged in the Anti-Slavery Society, for which she distributed petitions, raised funds, and participated in conferences to raise public awareness.\n\nIn 1838, Kelley gave her first public speech to a \"promiscuous\" (mixed-gender) audience at the women's anti-slavery convention in Philadelphia. At this time women generally did not address such audiences in public forums. Despite vociferous protesters, Kelley eloquently proclaimed the doctrine of abolitionism. In the following months, she further established herself as a public figure by speaking to more mixed-gender crowds, such as that at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention. She also worked on a committee composed of both genders.\n\nLater in 1838, she moved to Connecticut to spread the anti-slavery message. By 1839, Kelley was fully involved in the Anti-Slavery Society, while still acknowledging Quaker tradition by refusing payment for her efforts. In 1841, however, she resigned from the Quakers over disputes about not allowing anti-slavery speakers in meeting houses (including the Uxbridge monthly meeting where she had attended with her family), and the group disowned her.\n\nIn the following years, Kelley contributed to the Anti-Slavery Society as a lecturer and fundraiser. Although she encountered constant objections to her public activism as a woman working closely with and presenting public lectures to men, Kelley continued her work. She often shared her platform with ex-slaves despite disapproval by some in the audience. \"I rejoice to be identified with the despised people of color. If they are to be despised, so ought their advocates to be\". In October 1849, Kelley wrote to her friend, Milo Townsend, and told of the work she was doing for the anti-slavery society: \"We know our cause is steadily onward\".\n\nSome male members of the Society objected to the ideas propounded by Garrison, Kelley, and other radicals. As a result, when Kelley was elected to the national business committee of the Anti-Slavery Society, conservative members left in protest. The two groups of abolitionists officially severed. Pacifist radical abolitionists controlled the Society, who promoted complete egalitarianism, to be obtained without the aid of any government, as all such institutions were constructed on the violence of war. In 1854 Kelley became the Anti-Slavery Society's chief fundraiser and general financial agent, and in 1857 she took the position of general agent in charge of lecture and convention schedules.\n\nFighting for women's rights soon became a new priority for many ultra abolitionists and Kelley was among them speaking on women's rights in Seneca Falls, New York five years before the Seneca Falls convention would be held there. Kelley influenced future suffragists such as Susan B. Anthony and Lucy Stone by encouraging them to take on a role in political activism. She helped organize and was a key speaker at the first National Women's Rights Convention in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1850. (The Seneca Falls Convention, the first women's rights convention, held in 1848, was not national).\n\nAfter the American Civil War, Kelley supported passage of the 15th Amendment to the Constitution. Some female activists resisted any amendment that did not include women's suffrage. Kelley split with Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton due to their strong opposition to the amendment. After the amendment passed and Garrison dissolved the Anti-Slavery Society, Kelley continued to work for equal rights for both African Americans and women.\n\nIn 1872, Kelley and her husband Stephen Symonds Foster refused to pay taxes on their jointly owned property; they argued that as Kelley could not vote, she was a victim of taxation without representation. Although their farm was consequently seized and sold and repurchased for them by friends, Kelley continued her activism in the face of financial difficulties and poor health. She wrote letters to fellow radicals and other political figures until her death in 1887.\n\nAfter a four-year courtship, Kelley married fellow abolitionist Stephen Symonds Foster in 1845. In 1847, she and her husband purchased a farm in the Tatnuck region of Worcester, Massachusetts and named it \"Liberty Farm\". She gave birth to their only daughter in 1847. The farm served both as a stop on the Underground railroad and as a refuge for fellow reformers. Kelley continued her efforts as a lecturer and fundraiser throughout the North until 1850, when declining health forced her to reduce traveling. She carried on an active correspondence and local meetings to work for the cause.\n\nAbby Kelley Foster died January 14, 1887, one day before her 76th birthday.\n\nLiberty Farm in Worcester, Massachusetts, the home of Abby Kelley and Stephen Symonds Foster, was designated a National Historic Landmark because of its association with their lives of working for abolitionism. It is privately owned and not open for visits.\n\nAbby's House, a shelter for women that opened in Worcester in 1976, is named in her honor.\n\nIn 2011, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nAbby Kelley Foster Charter Public School, a K-12 school in Worcester, Massachusetts that opened in 1998 is named in her honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3613142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3613142", "title": "Agricultural philosophy", "text": "Agricultural philosophy\n\nAgricultural philosophy (or philosophy of agriculture) is, roughly and approximately, a discipline devoted to the systematic critique of the philosophical frameworks (or ethical world views) that are the foundation for decisions regarding agriculture. Many of these views are also used to guide decisions dealing with land use in general. (Please see the Wikipedia article on environmental philosophy.) In everyday usage, it can also be defined as the love of, search after, and wisdom associated with agriculture, as one of humanity's founding components of civilization. However, this view is more aptly known as agrarianism. In actuality, agrarianism is only one philosophy or normative framework out of many that people use to guide their decisions regarding agriculture on an everyday basis. The most prevalent of these philosophies will be briefly defined below.\n\nThis view was first put forth by Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill. Though there are many varieties of utilitarianism, generally the view is that a morally right action is an action that produces the maximum good for people. This theory is a form of consequentialism; which basically means that the correct action is understood entirely in terms of the consequences of that action. Utilitarianism is often used when deciding farming issues. For example, farmland is commonly valued based upon its capacity to the grow crops that people want. This approach to valuing land is called Asset Theory (in contrast to Location Theory) and it is based upon utilitarian principles. Another example is when a community decides on what to do with a particular parcel of land. Let's say that this community must decide to use it for industry, residential uses, or for farming. By using a utilitarian approach, the council would judge which use would benefit the greatest number of people in the community and then make their choice based upon that information. Finally, it also forms the foundation for industrial farming; as an increase in yield, which would increase the number of people able to receive goods from farmed land, is judged from this view to be a good action or approach. Indeed, a common argument in favor of industrial agriculture is this it is a good practice because it increases the benefits for humans; benefits such as food abundance and a drop in food prices.\n\nHowever, several scholars and writers, such as Peter Singer, Aldo Leopold, Vandana Shiva, Barbara Kingsolver, and Wendell Berry have argued against this view. For example, Singer argues that the suffering of animals (farm animals included) should be included in the cost/benefit calculus when deciding whether or not to do an action such as industrial farming. It has also been challenged on the grounds that farmland and farm animals are instrumentalized in this view and not valued in and of themselves. In addition, systems thinkers, deep ecologists, and agrarian philosophers (such as Aldo Leopold & Wendell Berry) critique this view on the grounds that it ignores aspects of farming which are morally applicable and/or intrinsically valuable. The Slow Food Movement and the Buy Local Agricultural Movements are also built upon philosophical views morally opposed to extreme versions of this approach. Other critiques will be explored below when different philosophical approaches to agriculture are briefly explained. However, it is important to note that the Utilitarian approach to agriculture is currently the most widespread approach within the modern Western World.\n\nAnother philosophical approach often used when deciding land or farming issues is Libertarianism. Libertarianism is, roughly, the moral view that agents own themselves and have certain moral rights including the right to acquire property. In a looser sense, Libertarianism is commonly identified with the belief that each person has a right to a maximum amount of liberty when this liberty does not interfere with other people's freedom. A well known Libertarian theorist is John Hospers. Within this view, property rights are natural rights. Thus, it would be acceptable for a farmer to inefficiently farm their land as long as they don't harm others while doing it. In 1968, Garrett Harden applied this philosophy to land/farming issues when he argued that the only solution to the \"Tragedy of the Commons\" was to place soil and water resources into the hands of private citizens. He then supplied utilitarian justifications to support his argument and, indeed, you could argue that Libertarianism is rooted in utilitarian ideals. However, this leaves Libertarian based land ethics open to the above critiques lodged against Utilitarian approaches to agriculture. Even excepting these critiques, the Libertarian view has been specifically challenged by the critique that people making self-interested decisions can cause large ecological and social disasters such as the Dust Bowl disaster. Even so, it is a philosophical view commonly held within the United States and, especially, by U.S. ranchers and farmers.\n\nEgalitarian based views are often developed as a response to Libertarianism. This is because, while Libertarianism provides for the maximum amount of human freedom, it does not require a person to help others. In addition, it also leads to the grossly uneven distribution of wealth. A well known Egalitarian philosopher is John Rawls. When focusing on agriculture, what this translates into is the uneven distribution of land and food. While both Utilitarian and Libertarian approaches to agriculture ethics could conceivably rationalize this mal-distribution, an Egalitarian approach typically favors equality whether that be equal entitlement and/or opportunity to employment or access to food. However, if you recognize that people have a right to something, then someone has to supply this opportunity or item; whether that be an individual person or the government. Thus, the Egalitarian view links land and water with the right to food. With the growth of human populations and the decline of soil and water resources, Egalitarianism could provide a strong argument for the preservation of soil fertility and water.\n\nIn addition to Utilitarian, Libertarian, and Egalitarian philosophies, there are also normative views that are based upon the principle that land has intrinsic value and positions coming out of an ecological or systems view. Two main examples of this are James Lovelock's Gaia hypothesis which postulates that the Earth is an organism and deep ecologists who argue that human communities are built upon a foundation of the surrounding ecosystems or the biotic communities. While the above philosophies can be useful for guiding decision making on issues concerning land in general, they have limited usefulness when applied to agriculture because these philosophies privilege natural ecosystems and agricultural ecosystems are often considered not natural. One philosophy grounded in the principle that land has intrinsic value which is directly applicable to agriculture is Aldo Leopold's stewardship ethic or land ethic. For Leopold, an action is correct if it tends to \"preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the biotic community\". Similar to Egalitarian-based land ethics, many of the above philosophies were also developed as alternatives to utilitarian and libertarian based approaches. Leopold's ethic is currently one of the most popular ecological approaches to agriculture commonly known as agrarianism. Other agrarianists include Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, J. Hector St. John de Crèvecœur (1735–1813), Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803–1882), Henry David Thoreau (1817–1862), John Steinbeck (1902–1968), Wendell Berry (b. 1934), Gene Logsdon (b. 1932), Paul B. Thompson, and Barbara Kingsolver.\n"}
{"id": "24788621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24788621", "title": "An Essay on the History of Civil Society", "text": "An Essay on the History of Civil Society\n\nAn Essay on the History of Civil Society is a book by the Scottish Enlightenment philosopher Adam Ferguson, first published in 1767. The \"Essay\" established Ferguson's reputation in Britain and throughout Europe.\n\nPart I. Of the General Characteristics of Human Nature.\nPart II. Of the History of Rude Nations.\nPart III. Of the History of Policy and Arts.\nPart IV. Of Consequences that result from the Advancement of Civil and Commercial arts.\nPart V. Of the Decline of Nations.\nPart VI. Of Corruption and Political Slavery.\n\nThe \"Essay\" was critically acclaimed upon publication with a wide readership for about thirty years after it was published. Voltaire praised Ferguson for \"civilizing the Russians\" as it was being taught in the University of Moscow.\n\nDavid Hume, a friend of Ferguson's and an admirer of his earlier \"Essay on Refinement\" (1759), disliked the book.\n\nFerguson's writings on the division of labour in Part IV influenced Karl Marx.\n"}
{"id": "212373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212373", "title": "Barthélemy Prosper Enfantin", "text": "Barthélemy Prosper Enfantin\n\nBarthélemy Prosper Enfantin (8 February 17961 September 1864) was a French social reformer, one of the founders of Saint-Simonianism. He was also a proponent of a Suez canal.\n\nEnfantin was born in Paris, the son of a banker of Dauphiné. After receiving his early education at a lyceum, he was sent in 1813 to the École polytechnique. In March 1814 he was one of the band of students who, on the heights of Montmartre and Saint-Chaumont, attempted resistance to the armies of the Sixth Coalition which had engaged in the invasion of Paris. In consequence of this outbreak of patriotic enthusiasm, the school was soon after closed by Louis XVIII, and the young student was compelled to seek another career.\n\nInitially, he began working for a country wine merchant, travelling to Germany, Russia and the United Kingdom of the Netherlands. In 1821 he entered a banking-house newly established at Saint Petersburg, but returned two years later to Paris, where he was appointed cashier to the \"Caisse Hypothécaire\". At the same time, he became a member of the secret society of the \"Carbonari\".\n\nIn 1825 a new turn was given to his thoughts and his life by the friendship which he formed with Olinde Rodriguez, who introduced him to the Comte de Saint-Simon. He affiliated to Saint-Simon's version of utopian socialism, and, by 1829, he had become one of the acknowledged heads of the sect.\n\nAfter the July Revolution of 1830 Enfantin resigned his office of cashier, and devoted all his energy to the cause. Besides contributing to \"Le Globe\", he made appeals to the people by systematic preaching, and organized centres of action in some of the main cities of France.\n\nThe headquarters in Paris were moved from the modest rooms in the Rue Taranne to the large halls near the Boulevard des Italiens. Enfantin and Amand Bazard were proclaimed \"Pères Suprêmes\" (\"Supreme Fathers\") – a union which was, however, only nominal, as a divergence was already manifest. Bazard, who concentrated on organizing the group, had devoted himself to political reform, while Enfantin, who favoured teaching and preaching, dedicated his time to social and moral change. The antagonism was widened by Enfantin's announcement of his theory of the relation of man and woman, which would substitute a system of \"free love\" for the \"tyranny of marriage\".\n\nBazard and his disciples broke with Enfantin's group. The latter became sole \"father\", leading a chiefly religiously-oriented movement, joined by new converts (according to Enfantin's estimate, the total number of followers would have reached 40,000). He wore on his breast a badge with his title of \"Père\", was referred to by his preachers as \"the living law\", declared himself to be the chosen of God, and sent out emissaries in a quest of a woman predestined to be the \"female Messiah,\" and the mother of a new Saviour (the latter quest was very costly and altogether fruitless).\n\nMeanwhile, the new religion gathered believers in all parts of Europe. His extravagances and success at length brought him to the attention of authorities, who argued that he was endangering public morality - Enfantin had announced that the gulf between the sexes was too wide and this social inequality would impede rapid growth of society. Enfantin called for the abolition of prostitution and for the ability for women to divorce and obtain legal rights. This was considered radical for the time. In May 1832 the halls of the new sect were closed by the government, and the \"Père\", with some of his followers, appeared before the tribunals. He then retired to his estate at Menilmontant, near Paris, where with forty disciples, all of them men, he continued to carry out his socialist views. In August of the same year he was again arrested, and on his appearance in court he desired his defence to be undertaken by two women who were with him, alleging that the matter was of special concern to women; the request was promptly refused. The trial occupied two days and resulted in a verdict of guilty, and a sentence of imprisonment for a year with a small fine.\n\nThis prosecution discredited the new society. Enfantin was released in a few months. \n\nThen, accompanied by twenty of his followers, many of whom were also engineers from the Ecole Polytechnique, including , also known as Lambert-Bey, and some women, he went first to Constantinople. Enfantin had declared 1933 the Year of the Mother, and upon arrival in Constantinople the group began to strongly preach their views about gender relations and New Christianity. The Ottoman Empire told them to leave to avoid prison.\n\nEnfantin and his group then arrived in Egypt, where he planned to penetrate the feminine Orient with the masculine Occident in a consumation of progression - build a canal connecting the Mediterranean Sea with the Red Sea. In Egypt at that time, Muhammad Ali, the Egyptian Viceroy, was at odds with the Ottoman Sultan in Constantinople, and also practiced public-private contracts known as concessions with mostly European companies to build cheap infrastructure. Ali did not agree to a project linking the two seas because he did not want to cut out the duties he collected from overland trade in Egypt, but did allow Enfantin's group to work on the Delta Barrage - a type of dam - north of Cairo - with unpaid laborers - that would act to limit Nile flooding and create predictable crop yields. During his time in Egypt, Enfantine also established technical schools based on the Ecole Polytechnique model with Ali's blessing. Also in Egypt he encountered and influenced Ferdinand de Lesseps. Enfantine returned to France in 1836, lacking the patience to finish the Nile barrage project that was encountering delays.\n\nOn his return to France, he occupied minor offices. He became first a postmaster near Lyon, and in 1841 was appointed, through the influence of some of his friends who had risen to posts of power, member of a scientific commission on Algeria, which led him to engage in researches concerning North Africa and colonization in general.\n\nIn 1845 he was appointed a director of the Paris & Lyons railway. Three years later he established, in conjunction with Duveyrier, a daily journal, entitled \"Le Credit\", which was discontinued in 1850. He was afterwards attached to the administration of the railway from Lyons to the Mediterranean. \n\nFather Enfantin held fast by his ideal to the end, but he had renounced the hope of giving it a local habitation and a name in the degenerate obstinate world. His personal influence over those who associated with him was immense. \"He was a man of a noble presence, with finely formed and expressive features. He was gentle and insinuating in manner, and possessed a calm, graceful and winning delivery\" (\"Gent. M .\" Jan. 1865). His evident sincerity, his genuine enthusiasm, gave him his marvellous ascendancy. The Société d'Études du Canal de Suez was established by Enfantin in 1846 to continue study of the Suez Canal. Its members included Arlès-Dufour, Jules, Lon and Paulin Talabot, the British Robert Stephenson and Edward Starbuck, the Austrian Alois Negrelli, inspector of the Emperor Ferdinand Northern Railway, and Feronce and Sellier of Leipzig as representatives of the German interest.\n\nThe Société sent surveying teams to Egypt, developed engineering plans, determined that the elevation difference between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean Sea was negligible, but Muhammad Ali was still reticent to the idea of a canal. Upon his death in 1848, the activities of the Société were minimized until his successor was assassinated in 1854 and Ferdinand de Lesseps took up the initiative to build a canal. Lessups had corresponded at least once with the Société in the intervening years and had known the new Egyptian viceroy, Sa'id, when he was a young man. Enfantin was listed by Lessups as a founder of the Suez Canal Company.\n\nNot a few of his disciples ranked afterwards amongst the most distinguished men of France. Enfantin died suddenly at Paris on September 1, 1864.\n\nAmongst his works are: \"Doctrine de Saint-Simon\" (written in conjunction with several of his followers), published in 1830, and several times republished; \"Economie politique et politique Saint-Simonienne\" (1831); \"\" (1835–1840); \"Corresp. philos. et religieuse\" (1843–1845); and \"La Vie eternelle passee, presente, future\" (1861). A large number of articles by his hand appeared in \"Le Producteur\", \"L'Organisateur\", \"Le Globe\", and other periodicals. He also wrote in 1832 \"Le Livre nouveau\", intended as a substitute for the Christian Scriptures, but it was not published.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "3809916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3809916", "title": "Bioculture", "text": "Bioculture\n\nBioculture is the combination of biological and cultural factors that affect human behavior. Bioculture is an area of study bounded by the medical sciences, social sciences, landscape ecology, cultural anthropology, biotechnology, disability studies, the humanities, and the economic and global environment. Along these lines, one can see the biosphere — the earth as it is affected by the human — as the adaptation of the natural to the human and biocultures as the inter-adaptation of the human to the new technologies and ways of knowing characterized by the 21st century’s attitude toward the body. It assumes that in bioculture there's a diverse way to know the workings of the body and mind, and that these are primarily culturally derived, and an expert's way of knowing produces specific strong results. However the results do not have an exclusive purview over the body and mind. Plus it seeks to develop and encourage not only the experts but also parts of people's bodies and minds as the subject of study.\n\nAn alternative definition of the term bioculture is all the practical aspects of the use of living things in culture, including agriculture, production of food and clothing, forestry, animal breeding and training, the pet trade, use of living things in science, zoos and aquariums, animal sports, and the raising of game for sport hunting.\n"}
{"id": "43349091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349091", "title": "Civic application", "text": "Civic application\n\nCivic application is application software aiming at users' activation to participate in public good development through this application. In civil societies, civic applications are created to enhance public good, civic engagement, and generally social capital.\n\nCivic applications can for example aim at:\n\nCivic applications are to some extent often social networking services, but what distinguishes them is the civic goal, the mission funding its existence.\n\nInteraction between the user and the application is what differentiates civic applications from any IT service (website, portal) speaking about any citizen's topics, where interaction is not necessary and if exists often takes form of commenting under articles.\n\nCivic application can be accessed from a server via an Internet browser (online) or using mobile devices, such as mobile phones or tablets (mobile), less often from user's local drive (offline).\n\nNon-Governmental Organisations and public national institutions are noticing the value of the civic apps and invite people working in Information Technology domain to participate in their development (e.g. in Greater Portland, Chicago, Boston, Boulder, Washington D.C, Seattle and other American cities as part of the Code For America initiative). Very often they are created as part of \"hackatons\", IT development competitions.\n\nCivic applications are part of a greater concept of civic technologies, which encompass variety of civic applications, together with any software tools and platforms, enabling its development or hosting, and the software supporting local and national governments in performing their public functions.\n"}
{"id": "44680623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44680623", "title": "Civicus", "text": "Civicus\n\nCIVICUS is an international non-profit organisation, which describes itself as “a global alliance dedicated to strengthening citizen action and civil society around the world. Founded in 1993, the organisation today has members in more than 145 countries, with its headquarters in Johannesburg and offices in London, Geneva and New York.\n\nIn 1991, an international group of 20 leaders from Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and social movements met to explore how to support citizen participation in governmental decision-making processes. This process culminated in 1993 when a founding board established CIVICUS from the Latin term meaning \"of the community\".\n\nThe organisation works to protect and grow civic space where people can express and organise themselves. In particular, the organisation focuses on regions where participatory democracy and freedom of association are at risk. CIVICUS counts among its central values: Justice and Equality, where all people are free to exercise their rights as citizens as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn service of its mission and values, the organisation’s primary areas of activity are: \n\nCIVICUS has approximately 30 members of staff and is led by Dr Dhananjayan Sriskandarajah, who became Secretary General in January 2013. The governing body of CIVICUS is an International Board of 13 civil society leaders from 13 countries.\n\n\nRevenue to support the operations of CIVICUS is derived from multiple sources, including institutional funders, individual contributions, membership fees, and registration fees for the CIVICUS World Assembly. The aggregated income for 2013/2014 was roughly $3.5 million USD with notable contributions from SIDA, Department of Foreign Affairs (Ireland), Freedom House and the European Commission.\n\nSince its establishment in 1993, CIVICUS has built successively on its core programmatic activities:\n"}
{"id": "30994679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30994679", "title": "Cyprus Civil Society Awards", "text": "Cyprus Civil Society Awards\n\nThe Cyprus Civil Society Awards were established in 2008 as part of a United Nations-funded project aiming to strengthen the role of civil society in Cyprus. One organization from the Greek Cypriot and one organization from the Turkish Cypriot community was each presented an award for their contribution to social development in six unique categories:\n\n\nThe awards have been established in order to promote reconciliation and facilitate interactions between the non-governmental organization between the two conflicting communities on the island. The awards are managed and presented by a consortium consisting of The Management Centre from the Turkish Cypriot community, the NGO Support Centre< from the Greek Cypriot community and INTRAC from the UK.\n"}
{"id": "7746391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7746391", "title": "Denialism", "text": "Denialism\n\nIn the psychology of human behavior, denialism is a person's choice to deny reality, as a way to avoid a psychologically uncomfortable truth. Denialism is an essentially irrational action that withholds the validation of a historical experience or event, when a person refuses to accept an empirically verifiable reality. In the sciences, denialism is the rejection of basic facts and concepts that are undisputed, well-supported parts of the scientific consensus on a subject, in favor of radical and controversial ideas. The terms \"Holocaust denialism\" and \"AIDS denialism\" describe the denial of the facts and the reality of the subject matters, and the term \"climate change denial\" describes denial of the scientific consensus that the climate change of planet Earth is a real and occurring event primarily caused by human activity. The forms of denialism present the common feature of the person rejecting overwhelming evidence and the generation of political controversy with attempts to deny the existence of consensus.\nThe motivations and causes of denialism include religion and self-interest (economic, political, financial) and defence mechanisms meant to protect the psyche of the denialist against mentally disturbing facts and ideas.\n\nAnthropologist Didier Fassin distinguishes between \"denial\", defined as \"the empirical observation that reality and truth are being denied\", and \"denialism\", which he defines as \"an ideological position whereby one systematically reacts by refusing reality and truth\".\n\nPersons and social groups who reject propositions on which there exists a mainstream and scientific consensus engage in \"denialism\" when they use rhetorical tactics to give the appearance of argument and legitimate debate, when there is none. Rick Stoff quoted Chris Hoofnagle—a senior staff attorney at the Samuelson Law, Technology & Public Policy Clinic and a senior fellow at the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology at the UC Berkeley School of Law—as follows:\nIn a 2003 newspaper article, Edwin Cameron—a senior South African judge who has AIDS—described the tactics used by those who deny the Holocaust and by those who deny that the AIDS pandemic is due to infection with HIV. He states that \"For denialists, the facts are unacceptable. They engage in radical controversion, for ideological purposes, of facts that, by and large, are accepted by almost all experts and lay persons as having been established on the basis of overwhelming evidence\". To do this they employ \"distortions, half-truths, misrepresentation of their opponents' positions and expedient shifts of premises and logic.\" Edwin Cameron notes that a common tactic used by denialists is to \"make great play of the inescapable indeterminacy of figures and statistics\", as scientific studies of many areas rely on probability analysis of sets of data, and in historical studies the precise numbers of victims and other facts may not be available in the primary sources.\n\nA 2009 article published in the journal \"Globalization and Health\" also notes \"recourse to data debates and pseudo-scientific 'evidence as a common feature of several types of denialism. This is an area which British historian Richard J. Evans mentioned as part of his analysis of the David Irving's work which he presented for the defence when Irving sued Deborah Lipstadt for libel:\nMark Hoofnagle (brother of Chris Hoofnagle) has described denialism as \"the employment of rhetorical tactics to give the appearance of argument or legitimate debate, when in actuality there is none\". It is a process that operates by employing one or more of the following five tactics in order to maintain the appearance of legitimate controversy:\n\nTara Smith of the University of Iowa also stated that moving goalposts, conspiracy theories, and cherry-picking evidence are general characteristics of denialist arguments, but went on to note that these groups spend the \"majority of their efforts critiquing the mainstream theory\" in an apparent belief that if they manage to discredit the mainstream view, their own \"unproven ideas will fill the void\".\n\nIn 2009 author Michael Specter defined group denialism as \"when an entire segment of society, often struggling with the trauma of change, turns away from reality in favor of a more comfortable lie\".\n\nIf one party to a debate accuses the other of \"denialism\" they are framing the debate. This is because an accusation of denialism is both prescriptive and polemic. Prescriptive because it carries implications that there is truth to the denied claim; polemic since the accuser implies that continued denial in the light of presented evidence raises questions about the other's motives.\n\nSome people have suggested that because denial of the Holocaust is well known, advocates who use the term \"denialist\" in other areas of debate may intentionally or unintentionally imply that their opponents are little better than holocaust deniers. For example, in an essay discussing the general importance of skepticism, Clive James objected to the use of the word denialist to describe climate change skeptics, stating that it \"calls up the spectacle of a fanatic denying the Holocaust\"; and Celia Farber has objected to the term \"AIDS denialists\", arguing that it is unjustifiable to place this belief on the same moral level with the Nazi crimes against humanity. However, Robert Gallo \"et al.\" defended this latter comparison, stating that AIDS denialism is similar to Holocaust denial since it is a form of pseudoscience that \"contradicts an immense body of research\".\n\nEdward Skidelsky, a lecturer in philosophy at Exeter University, has suggested that this is a new use for the word denial and it may have its origins in an old sense of \"deny\", akin to \"disown\" (as in the Apostle Peter denying Jesus), but that its more immediate antecedence is from the Freudian sense of deny as a refusal to accept a painful or humiliating truth. He writes that \"An accusation of 'denial' is serious, suggesting either deliberate dishonesty or self-deception. The thing being denied is, by implication, so obviously true that the denier must be driven by perversity, malice or wilful blindness.\" He suggests that, by the introduction of the word \"denier\" into further areas of historical and scientific debate, \"One of the great achievements of The Enlightenment—the liberation of historical and scientific enquiry from dogma—is quietly being reversed\", and that this should worry liberal-minded people.\n\nThe superseded belief that the Earth is flat, and denial of all of the overwhelming evidence that supports an approximately spheroid globe that rotates around its axis and revolves around the Sun, persists into the 21st century. Modern proponents of flat-Earth cosmology (or flat-earthers) refuse to accept any kind of contrary evidence, dismissing all spaceflights and images from space as hoaxes and accusing all organizations and even private citizens of conspiring to \"hide the truth\". They also claim that no actual satellites are orbiting the Earth, that the International Space Station is fake, and that these are lies from all governments involved in this grand cover-up.\n\nAdherents of the modern flat-Earth model propose that a dome-shaped firmament encloses a disk-shaped Earth. They commonly claim that the Sun is only 3,000 miles above the Earth and that the Moon and the Sun orbit above, but not around, a flat Earth. Modern flat-earthers believe that Antarctica is not a continent but a massive ice flow, with a wall 150 feet or higher, which circles the perimeter of the Earth and keeps everything (including all the oceans' water) from falling off the edge.\n\nFlat-earthers also assert that no one is allowed to fly over or explore Antarctica, despite contrary evidence. According to them, all photos and videos of ships sinking under the horizon and of the bottoms of city skylines and clouds below the horizon, revealing the curvature of the Earth, have been manipulated, CGI, or somehow faked. Therefore, regardless of any scientific or empirical evidence provided, flat-earthers will stubbornly conclude it is fabricated or altered in some way.\n\nWhen linked to other observed phenomena such as gravity, sunsets, tides, eclipses, distances and other measurements that challenge the flat earth model, claimants replace commonly-accepted explanations with piecemeal models that distort how perspective, mass, boyancy, light or other physical systems work. These piecemeal replacements rarely conform with each other, finally leaving many flat-Earth claimants to agree that such phenomena remain \"mysteries\" and more investigation is to be done. In this conclusion, adherents remain open to all explanations except the commonly accepted globular Earth model, shifting the debate from ignorance to denialism.\n\nAIDS denialism is the denial that the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the cause of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). AIDS denialism has been described as being \"among the most vocal anti-science denial movements\". Some denialists reject the existence of HIV, while others accept that the virus exists but say that it is a harmless passenger virus and not the cause of AIDS. Insofar as denialists acknowledge AIDS as a real disease, they attribute it to some combination of recreational drug use, malnutrition, poor sanitation, and side effects of antiretroviral medication, rather than infection with HIV. However, the evidence that HIV causes AIDS is scientifically conclusive and the scientific community rejects and ignores AIDS-denialist claims as based on faulty reasoning, cherry picking, and misrepresentation of mainly outdated scientific data. With the rejection of these arguments by the scientific community, AIDS-denialist material is now spread mainly through the Internet.\n\nThabo Mbeki, former president of South Africa, embraced AIDS denialism, proclaiming that AIDS was primarily caused by poverty. About 365,000 people died from AIDS during his presidency; it is estimated that around 343,000 premature deaths could have been prevented if proper treatment had been available.\n\nSome international corporations, such as ExxonMobil, have contributed to \"fake citizens' groups and bogus scientific bodies\" that claim that the science of global warming is inconclusive, according to a criticism by George Monbiot. ExxonMobil did not deny making the financial contributions, but its spokesman stated that the company's financial support for scientific reports did not mean it influenced the outcome of those studies. \"The recycling of this type of discredited conspiracy theory diverts attention from the real challenge at hand: how to provide the energy needed to improve global living standards while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions.\" \"Newsweek\" and \"Mother Jones\" have published articles stating corporations are funding the \"denial industry\".\n\nIn the context of consumer protection, denialism has been defined as \"the use of rhetorical techniques and predictable tactics to erect barriers to debate and consideration of any type of reform, regardless of the facts.\" The Bush Administration's replacement of previous science advisers with industry experts or scientists tied to industry, and its refusal to submit the Kyoto Protocol for ratification due to uncertainties they asserted were present in the climate change issue, have been cited by the press as examples of politically motivated denialism.\n\nReligious beliefs may prompt an individual to deny the validity of the scientific theory of evolution. Evolution is still considered an undisputed fact within the scientific community and in academia, where the level of support for evolution is essentially universal, yet this view is often met with opposition by biblical literalists. The alternative view is often presented as a literal interpretation of the Book of Genesis's creation myth. Many fundamentalist Christians teach creationism as if it were fact under the banners of creation science and intelligent design. Beliefs that typically coincide with creationism include the belief in the global flood myth, geocentrism, and the belief that the Earth is only 6,000-10,000 years old. These beliefs are viewed as pseudoscience in the scientific community and are widely regarded as erroneous.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nHowever, opponents have objected to GM foods on grounds including safety. Psychological analyses indicate that over 70% of GM food opponents in the US are \"absolute\" in their opposition, experience disgust at the thought of eating GM foods, and are \"evidence insensitive\".\n\nDespite wide scientific consensus that some animals can experience pain and suffering, this is often denied when it is convenient for people to do so. Such denial occurs for animals on farms, in laboratories, and those used for entertainment, where animals may come to be viewed as commodities. A study in 2013 reported that male undergraduates in the US denied animal suffering to justify eating meat.\n\nThe denial of animal pain and suffering is often inconsistent between related species. Such beliefs have led to the publication of books such as \"Why We Love Dogs, Eat Pigs, and Wear Cows\" written by social psychologist Melanie Joy in which she popularised the term \"carnism\".\n\nDenial of animal pain and suffering can also lead to denial of broader concepts, such as denial of moral status or the existence of \"mind\" in non-human animals. Among those who eat meat, it can lead to their experiencing the meat paradox. Philosopher Marc Bekoff wrote that denialism is a feature of moral thinking about animals, and that there is a \"self-serving disconnect\" between scientific facts and the way some people think about animals.\n\nThe idea that animals might not feel pain goes back to the 17th-century French philosopher, René Descartes, who argued that animals do not experience pain and suffering because they lack consciousness.\n\nThe term has been used with \"Holocaust denialism\" as \"the refusal to accept an empirically verifiable reality. It is an essentially irrational action that withholds validation of a historical experience or event.\" The general class of genocide denial, of which holocaust denial is a subset, is a form of denialism for political reasons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11324649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324649", "title": "Digital India Corporation", "text": "Digital India Corporation\n\nMedia Lab Asia (MLAsia) was founded in 2001 as a not-for-profit research entity as a result of cooperation between the MIT Media Lab and the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology of the Government of India. The objectives of MLAsia are to bring the benefits of Information and communications technology (ICT) to the people in Asia and around the world.\n\nMedia Lab Asia started with the projects such as World Computer (affordable computing and access devices), Bits for All (low cost, high bandwidth connectivity) and Tomorrow's Tool (rurally relevant applications). It later switched to application development, including ICT for Healthcare, Education, Livelihood and Empowerment of Disabled. Since then, MLAsia has taken up 75 development projects. After development, the new technology is taken from the lab to pilot testing, and then for large scale deployment through a scheme of provider/user membership.\n\nMLAsia utilizes a way of growth by working with a network of research academic and private organizations for undertaking development work. It serves as a research hub for the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). The other partners are a combination of academic and industry R&D institutions, NGOs and governmental agencies. The projects are sponsored by corporate bodies, non-profits and the government. The list of project partners has grown to more than 58.\n\n"}
{"id": "338096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338096", "title": "Dowager", "text": "Dowager\n\nA dowager is a widow who holds a title or property—a \"dower\"—derived from her deceased husband. As an adjective, \"dowager\" usually appears in association with monarchical and aristocratic titles.\n\nIn popular usage, the noun \"dowager\" may refer to any elderly widow, especially one of both wealth and dignity.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the widow of a peer may continue to use the style she had during her husband's lifetime, e.g. \"Countess of Loamshire\", provided that his successor, if any, has no wife to bear the plain title. Otherwise she more properly prefixes either her forename or the word \"Dowager\", e.g. \"Jane, Countess of Loamshire\" or \"Dowager Countess of Loamshire\" (In any case she would continue to be called \"Lady Loamshire\").\n\nThe term \"queen dowager\" is used in the United Kingdom and several other countries for the widow of a king.\n\nThis form of address used for noble ladies whose husbands have died. It was used for the late Queen Dowager, Fabiola of Belgium and for the Dowager countess d'Udekem d'Acoz. \n\nQueen Victoria Eugenia of Spain was known as dowager queen after the death of her husband.\n"}
{"id": "382766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382766", "title": "Edwin Chadwick", "text": "Edwin Chadwick\n\nSir Edwin Chadwick KCB (24 January 1800 – 6 July 1890) was an English social reformer who is noted for his leadership in reforming the Poor Laws in England and instituting major reforms in urban sanitation and public health. A disciple of Utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, he was most active between 1832 and 1854; after that he held minor positions, and his views were largely ignored. Chadwick pioneered the use of scientific surveys to identify all phases of a complex social problem, and pioneered the use of systematic long-term inspection programmes to make sure the reforms operated as planned.\n\nEdwin Chadwick was born on 24 January 1800 at Longsight, Manchester, to James Chadwick. His mother died when he was still a young child, yet to be named. His father, James Chadwick, tutored the scientist John Dalton in music and botany and was considered an advanced liberal politician, thus exposing young Edwin to political and social ideas. His grandfather, Andrew Chadwick, had been a close friend of the Methodist theologian John Wesley.\n\nHe began his education at a small school in Lancashire and moved to a boarding school in Stockport, where he studied until he was 10. When his family moved to London in 1810, Chadwick continued his education with the help of private tutors, his father and a great deal of self-teaching.\n\nHis father remarried in the early 1820s and Edwin's younger half-brother was baseball icon Henry Chadwick, born in 1824.\n\nAt 18, he decided to pursue a career in law and undertook an apprenticeship at an attorney's office. In 1823, he enrolled in law school at The Temple in London. On 26 November 1830 he was called to the bar, becoming a barrister, also known as a court lawyer.\n\nCalled to the bar without independent means, he sought to support himself by literary work such as his work on \"Applied Science and its Place in Democracy\", and his essays in the \"Westminster Review\", mainly on different methods of applying scientific knowledge to the practice of government. He became friends with two of the leading philosophers of the day, John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham. Bentham engaged him as a literary assistant and left him a large legacy. He also became acquaintances with Thomas Southwood Smith, Neil Arnott, and James Kay-Shuttleworth, all doctors.\n\nFrom his exposure to social reform and under the influence of his friends, he began to devote his efforts to sanitary reform. In 1832, Chadwick began on his path to make improvements with sanitary and health conditions.\n\nIn 1832, he was employed by the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the operation of the Poor Law, and in 1833, he was made a full member of that commission. Chadwick and Nassau William Senior drafted the famous report of 1834, recommending the reform of the old law. Under the 1834 system, individual parishes were formed into Poor Law Unions, and each Poor Law Union was to have a union workhouse. Chadwick favoured a more centralised system of administration than the one adopted, and he felt the Poor Law reform of 1834 should have provided for the management of poor law relief by salaried officers controlled from a central board, with the boards of guardians acting merely as inspectors.\n\nIn 1834, he was appointed secretary to the Poor Law commissioners. Unwilling to administer an act of which he was largely the author in any way other than as he thought best, he found it hard to get along with his superiors. The disagreement, among others, contributed to the dissolution of the Poor Law Commission in 1847. His chief contribution to political controversy was his belief in entrusting certain departments of local affairs to trained and selected experts instead of to representatives, elected on the principle of local self-government.\n\nFollowing a serious outbreak of typhus in 1838, Chadwick convinced the Poor Law Board that an enquiry was required, and this was initially carried out by his doctor friends Arnot and Southwood Smith, assisted by another doctor from Manchester, James Kay Shuttleworth. This was the first time in British history that doctors were employed to look at the conditions which might contribute to ill health in the population. Chadwick sent questionaires to every Poor Law Union, and talked to surveyors, builders, prison governors, police officers and factory inspectors to obtain additional data about the lives of the poor. He edited the information himself, and prepared it for publication. His \"Report on The Sanitary Condition of the Labouring Population of Great Britain\", begun in 1839 and published in 1842, was researched and published at his own expense, and became the best-selling publication produced by the Stationery Office to date. A supplementary report was also published in 1843.\n\nHe employed John Roe, the surveyor for the district of Holborn and Finsbury who had invented the egg-shaped sewer, to conduct experiments on the most efficient ways to construct drains, the results of which were incorporated into the report, and the summary included eight points, including the absolute necessity of better water supplies and of a drainage system to remove waste, as ways to diminish premature mortality. Evidence given by Dr Dyce Guthrie convinced Chadwick that every house should have a permanent water supply, rather than the intermittent supplies from standpipes that were often provided. The report caught the public imagination, and the government had to set up a Health of Towns Commission to consider the issues and recommend legislation. Its chairman was the Duke of Baccleuch, and there were thirteen members, including then engineers Robert Stephenson and William Cubitt. Chadwick acted as secretary in an unofficial capacity, and seems to have dominated the proceedings.\n\nThe Commission took evidence from Robert Thom, who had designed a water supply system for Greenock, Thomas Wicksteed, who was the engineer for the East London Waterworks Company, and Thomas Hawksley from the Trent Waterworks, Nottingham. These confirmed his ideas about constant water supplies, and he developed a model which he called the \"venous and arterial system.\" Each house would have a constant water supply, and water-closets would ensure that soil was discharged into egg-shaped sewers, to be carried away and spread on the land as manure, preventing rivers from becoming polluted. Followed the publication of the Commission's report, the Health of Towns Association was formed and various city-based branches were created. Chadwick later helped to ensure that the Waterworks Clauses Act 1847 became law, to limit the profits that water supply companies could make to 10 percent, and requiring them to comply with reasonable demands for water. This included a constant supply of wholesome water for houses, and a supply for cleansing sewers and watering streets.\n\nChadwick wanted to see his ideas implemented over a wide area, and set about forming a company to supply water to towns, to ensure their drainage and cleansing, and to use the refuse for agricultural production. It was to have the grandiose title \"The British, Colonial and Foreign Drainage, Water Supply and Towns Improvement Company\", with an initial capital of £1 million, but it was the time of the Railway Mania, and he struggled to raise the finance against such competition. The company when it was eventually registered became the more modest Towns Improvement Company. Railways continued to dominate the money market, and the company was wound up after just three years. Chadwick understood that both water supply and drainage were important, since replacing earth-closets with water closets resulted in cesspools overflowing and making sanitary conditions worse, unless there were sewers to carry the waste away. This let to a rift forming between him and Hawksley, who had initially worked closely with him but who later took on water supply projects which did not include any requirement for drainage.\n\nChadwick's report led to the Public Health Act 1848, which was the first instance of the British government taking responsibility for the health of its citizens. It had been introduced by Lord Morpeth in 1847, with the aim or requiring every town to supply water to every house, which they could do by building their own waterworks or by liaising with water companies, and to undertake drainage, sewerage and street paving projects. Most of its grand aims were considerably watered down by the time it became law, but it established a Central Board of Health, whose members were Lord Morpeth, Lord Shaftesbury, and Chadwick. They were later joined by Southwood Smith, who acted as a medical advisor. Districts could pay for a survey from an inspector employed by the Board, and could then proceed without the need to obtain a costly local Act to authorise the work. Chadwick chose all of the inspectors himself, ensuring that they shared his views on glazed sewer pipes, constant water supply and arterial drainage. They worked enthusiastically, ensuring that districts considered comprehensive schemes for water supply, drainage and sewerage.\n\nRatepayers in a district could request an inspector to attend if ten percent of them signed a petition. The Board could also hold an enquiry if the death rate of a district exceeded 23 per 1000, but gauged the level of local support, and formed a local Board if there was support, and withdrew tactfully if there was opposition. By 1853, they had received requests for inspections from 284 towns, and 13 combined water supply, sewerage and drainage schemes had been completed under the legislation. Relationships with engineers were not always easy, with J M Rendel calling Chadwick's ideas \"sanitary humbug\" and Robert Stephenson stating that he hated the ideas of pipes, rather than brick-built sewers. Even Joseph Bazalgette, who went on to design London's trunk sewer network, spoke out against glazed sewer pipes. As time went by, there was growing opposition to what was seen as central control by the Board. The rift between Chadwick and Hawksley had become open hostility, and Hawksley made serious complaints against Chadwick and one of the Board's inspectors to a Select Committee of the House of Commons in 1853. Opposition from engineers increased, and a \"Private Enterprise Society\" was formed by Hawksley and James Simpson, with the intent of bringing down the Board. Shaftsbury, Chadwick and Southwood Smith all had to resign in 1854, and the Board did not last for long afterwards. Chadwick lived to see his position vindicated, when the Local Government Board was established in 1871, which led to the formation of the Ministry of Health. Since then, it has been widely acknowledged that public health is a matter of government responsibility, working through local authorities.\n\nIn 1851, Chadwick made a recommendation that a single authority should take over the nine separate water supply companies that operated in London. Although this idea was rejected by the Government, the Metropolitan Water Supply Act 1852 forced the companies to move the intakes for their water to locations above Teddington weir, to filter water before it was used for domestic supply, to cover filtered water reservoirs, and to ensure that there was a constant water supply to all users by 1857. This was not achieved until 1899, and Chadwick's recommendation for a single authority was eventually implemented in 1902, with the formation of the Metropolitan Water Board.\nIn 1852, Chadwick conversed with Lewis Llewelyn Dillwyn in relation to the construction of a sewerage system in Swansea.\n\nChadwick's efforts were acknowledged by at least one health reformer of the day: William James Erasmus Wilson dedicated his 1854 book \"Healthy Skin\" to Chadwick \"In admiration of his strenuous and indefatigable labors in the cause of Sanitary Reform\".\n\nHe corresponded with Florence Nightingale on methodology. He encouraged her to write up her research into the book \"Notes on Nursing.\" He promoted it among well placed intellectuals, making her more visible.\n\nChadwick was a commissioner of the Metropolitan Commission of Sewers in London from 1848 to 1849. He was also a commissioner of the General Board of Health from its establishment in 1848 to its abolition in 1854, when he retired on a pension. He occupied the remainder of his life in voluntary contributions to sanitary, health and economic questions.\n\nIn January 1884, he was appointed as the first president of the Association of Public Sanitary Inspectors, now the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health. Its head office, in Waterloo, London, is named Chadwick Court, in his honour.\n\nWhile he is well known for his work with the Poor Law and with sanitation, he also contributed to other areas of public policy. These included tropical hygiene, criminal justice institutions, policy regarding funerals and burials in urban areas, school architecture, utilisation of sewage, military sanitation and the education of paupers. He was involved in investigations into child labour in factories, the organisation of the police force, drunkenness, the treatment of labourers on the railways, the building and maintenance of roads, organisation of the civil service, and various aspects of education. Most of these benefitted from his use of statistical methods to collect and organise data, and of the use of anecdotal evidence to support his conclusions. He was involved in a number of organisations, including the British Association for the Advancement of Science, the Institute of Civil Engineers, the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science, the Royal Society of Arts, the Royal Statistical Society, the London Debating Society and the Political Economy Club.\n\nIn recognition of his public service, he was knighted in 1889. He served in his post until his death, at 90, in 1890, at East Sheen, Surrey.\n\nChadwick is remembered at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine where his name appears among the names of 23 pioneers of public health and tropical medicine chosen to be honoured when the School was built in 1929.\nHe is also commemorated at Heriot Watt University in Edinburgh, Scotland for the engineering building.\n\nAccording to Priti Joshi in 2004 the evaluation of his career has drastically changed since the 1950s:\n\nSuch views are not universally held. Thus Eckland and Price in their assessment of Chadwick's economic policies in 2012 can write:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7975769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7975769", "title": "Fence insert", "text": "Fence insert\n\nA fence insert is an object designed to fit or clip into standard chain link fencing. There are three main objectives typically fulfilled by fence inserts. One is to provide privacy by converting chain link fencing into an opaque surface. Another is to exploit the fence as a site for signage, often providing low-resolution displays of corporate logos, sports mascots or verbal messages. A third objective of fence inserts is to decorate otherwise plain fencing.\n\nThe origin of fence inserts can be traced back to U.S. patent #507,952, filed by Clarence White of Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1893. The invention consists of \"marbles or other loose independent filling pieces\" sized to allow placement within the cells of a wire mesh. The purpose of the invention is described as providing \"a convenient and economical means of lettering, ornamenting, or filling\" the wire mesh.\n\nCurrent products on the market include privacy slats that weave through the fence, plastic-shaped cups designed to clip into open cells, and two-part interlocking units which attach together at the crossover of fence wires.\n"}
{"id": "67500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67500", "title": "Festival", "text": "Festival\n\nA festival is an event ordinarily celebrated by a community and centering on some characteristic aspect of that community and its religion or cultures. It is often marked as a local or national holiday, mela, or eid. Next to religion and folklore, a significant origin is agricultural. Food is such a vital resource that many festivals are associated with harvest time. Religious commemoration and thanksgiving for good harvests are blended in events that take place in autumn, such as Halloween in the northern hemisphere and Easter in the southern.\n\nFestivals often serve to fulfill specific communal purposes, especially in regard to commemoration or thanksgiving. The celebrations offer a sense of belonging for religious, social, or geographical groups, contributing to group cohesiveness. They may also provide entertainment, which was particularly important to local communities before the advent of mass-produced entertainment. Festivals that focus on cultural or ethnic topics also seek to inform community members of their traditions; the involvement of elders sharing stories and experience provides a means for unity among families.\n\nIn Ancient Greece and Rome, festivals such as the Saturnalia were closely associated with social organisation and political processes as well as religion. In modern times, festivals may be attended by strangers such as tourists, who are attracted to some of the more eccentric or historical ones. The Philippines is one example of a modern society with a large number of festivals, as each day of the year has at least one specific celebration. There are more than 42,000 known major and minor festivals in the country, the majority of which are specific to the barangay (village) level.\n\nThe word \"festival\" was originally used as an adjective from the late fourteenth century, deriving from Latin via Old French. In Middle English, a \"festival dai\" was a religious holiday. Its first recorded used as a noun was in 1589 (as \"Festifall\"). Feast first came into usage as a noun circa 1200, and its first recorded use as a verb was circa 1300. The term \"feast\" is also used in common secular parlance as a synonym for any large or elaborate meal. When used as in the meaning of a festival, most often refers to a religious festival rather than a film or art festival. In the Philippines and many other former Spanish colonies, the Spanish word fiesta is used to denote a communal religious feast to honor a patron saint.\n\nMany festivals have religious origins and entwine cultural and religious significance in traditional activities. The most important religious festivals such as Christmas, Rosh Hashanah, Diwali, and Eid al-Adha serve to mark out the year. Others, such as harvest festivals, celebrate seasonal change. Events of historical significance, such as important military victories or other nation-building events also provide the impetus for a festival. An early example is the festival established by Ancient Egyptian Pharaoh Ramesses III celebrating his victory over the Libyans. In many countries, royal holidays commemorate dynastic events just as agricultural holidays are about harvests. Festivals are often commemorated annually.\n\nThere are numerous types of festivals in the world and most countries celebrate important events or traditions with traditional cultural events and activities. Most culminate in the consumption of specially prepared food (showing the connection to \"feasting\") and they bring people together. Festivals are also strongly associated with national holidays. Lists of national festivals are published to make participation easier.\n\nAmong many religions, a feast is a set of celebrations in honour of Gods or God. A feast and a festival are historically interchangeable. Most religions have festivals that recur annually and some, such as Passover, Easter and Eid al-Adha are moveable feasts – that is, those that are determined either by lunar or agricultural cycles or the calendar in use at the time. The Sed festival, for example, celebrated the thirtieth year of an Egyptian pharaoh's rule and then every three (or four in one case) years after that.\n\nIn the Christian liturgical calendar, there are two principal feasts, properly known as the Feast of the Nativity of our Lord (Christmas) and the Feast of the Resurrection, (Easter). In the Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Anglican liturgical calendars there are a great number of lesser feasts throughout the year commemorating saints, sacred events or doctrines. In the Philippines, each day of the year has at least one specific religious festival, either from Catholic, Islamic, or indigenous origins.\n\nBuddhist religious festivals, such as Esala Perahera are held in Sri Lanka and Thailand. Hindu festivals, such as Holi are very ancient. The Sikh community celebrates the Vaisakhi festival marking the new year and birth of the Khalsa.\n\nAmong the many offspring of general arts festivals are also more specific types of festivals, including ones that showcase intellectual or creative achievement such as science festivals, literary festivals and music festivals. Sub-categories include comedy festivals, rock festivals, jazz festivals and buskers festivals; poetry festivals, theatre festivals, and storytelling festivals; and re-enactment festivals such as Renaissance fairs. In the Philippines, aside from numerous art festivals scattered throughout the year, February is known as national arts month, the culmination of all art festivals in the entire archipelago.\n\nFilm festivals involve the screenings of several different films, and are usually held annually. Some of the most significant film festivals include the Berlin International Film Festival, the Venice Film Festival and the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nA food festival is an event celebrating food or drink. These often highlight the output of producers from a certain region. Some food festivals are focused on a particular item of food, such as the National Peanut Festival in the United States, or the Galway International Oyster Festival in Ireland. There are also specific beverage festivals, such as the famous Oktoberfest in Germany for beer. Many countries hold festivals to celebrate wine. One example is the global celebration of the arrival of Beaujolais nouveau, which involves shipping the new wine around the world for its release date on the third Thursday of November each year. Both Beaujolais nouveau and the Japanese rice wine sake are associated with harvest time. In the Philippines, there are at least two hundred festivals dedicated to food and drinks.\n\nSeasonal festivals, such as Beltane, are determined by the solar and the lunar calendars and by the cycle of the seasons, especially because of its effect on food supply, as a result of which there is a wide range of ancient and modern harvest festivals. Ancient Egyptians relied upon the seasonal inundation caused by the Nile River, a form of irrigation, which provided fertile land for crops. In the Alps, in autumn the return of the cattle from the mountain pastures to the stables in the valley is celebrated as \"Almabtrieb\". A recognized winter festival, the Chinese New Year, is set by the lunar calendar, and celebrated from the day of the second new moon after the winter solstice. Dree Festival of the Apatanis living in Lower Subansiri District of Arunachal Pradesh is celebrated every year from July 4 to 7 by praying for a bumper crop harvest.\n\nMidsummer or St John's Day, is an example of a seasonal festival, related to the feast day of a Christian saint as well as a celebration of the time of the summer solstice in the northern hemisphere, where it is particularly important in Sweden. Winter carnivals also provide the opportunity to utilise to celebrate creative or sporting activities requiring snow and ice. In the Philippines, each day of the year has at least one festival dedicated to harvesting of crops, fishes, crustaceans, milk, and other local goods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53431942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53431942", "title": "Foreign direct investment and the environment", "text": "Foreign direct investment and the environment\n\nForeign direct investment and the environment involves international businesses and their interactions and impact on the natural world. These interactions can be observed through the stringency applied to foreign direct investment policy and the responsiveness of capital or labor incentive for investment inflows. The laws and regulations created by a country that focuses on environmental regimes can directly impact the levels of competition involving foreign direct investment they are exposed to. Fiscal and financial incentives stemming from ecological motivators, such as carbon taxation, are methods used based on the desired outcome within a country in order to attract foreign direct investment.\n\nExternal funding sources that come from foreign direct investment, stimulates the increase of innovative ideas surrounding technological advances while it also holds the potential to decrease unemployment. When financial and fiscal motives are combined with environmental consciousness, the promotion of green and sustainable innovations increases. Such environmental consciousness can result in the decrease of industrial pollutants, which contributes to infant mortality and other health issues. Policies created that attract innovative and environmentally conscious technological advancements have been stated as a great way to encourage increase in the abundance of environmentally friendly foreign direct investments. The \"Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development\" promotes policies that can have positive social and economic impacts.\n\nForeign direct investment does have the potential in initiating negative effects on countries as well. Foreign direct investments allow for the chance of compromise and collaboration between policies of negotiating countries which brings the opportunity for new perspectives on green innovation. However, intensifying regulations around production costs, such as environmental effect, can decrease the attraction of foreign direct investment to that country. Businesses or governments may wish to negotiate with a country with less complicated policies therefore decreasing a country's competitive edge on the international market.\n\nA complete list of foreign direct investment incentives that can be applied in regards to international business can be found in Foreign direct investment.\n\nSome researchers find foreign direct investment leads to strict environmental policy. Environmental consciousness has been a pressing topic for discussion and concern in the global community as has been seen in the recent Paris Agreement. For a country to become more attractive to foreign investors, one may consider implementing incentives that simultaneously reduce cost while also enabling environmental initiatives. Incentives are policy or regulation measures that are implemented to serve both as a reason to increase foreign direct investment while also maintaining control over the impact investment may have.\n\nFiscal incentives alone, such as taxation laws that aim to reduce the tax burden of a firm, do not largely contribute to attracting foreign direct investment in research and development. Financial incentives direct monetary contributions from a government to a firm; this could include direct capital subsidies or subsidized loans. Incentives that combine both fiscal and financial aspects, have the capacity to increase interest in investment.\n\nCanada is part of the OECD, an amalgamation of countries dedicated to working in unison to increase environmental sustainability. Research shows that the total amounts of CO emissions have been increasing for Canada. One study shows that Canada is not prepared to avoid the effects of environmental issues that come with economic growth as it does not have a high level of per capita GDP to avoid these negative effects at this time. While another study shows that Quebec which is a major exporter of hydropower, decreased their green house gas emissions by 35%.\n\nSince the 1980s, Canada has developed more lenient foreign direct investment policies in order to attract investment. For example, recent Chinese investment in Canada's oil and gas industry has raised concerns that such investments may increase global emissions. Furthermore, Canada is involved in trade agreements over water with the United States such as NAFTA. Researchers argue trade agreements concerning water is affecting the sustainability of water management. It is stated that water governance and management is changing in Canada. There are many commodities that are produced with water, which may increase the competition for water resources and this may affect water security.\n\nCanada has been taking preliminary steps to become more environmentally conscious within their trade agreements and environmental regulation policies. In order to address air pollution and its effects on the environment such as acid rain, Canada has partnered with the United States through Canada-United States Air Quality Agreement. Canada and the United States work together to address acid rain issues. Moreover, chemicals and waste industries have economic benefits however also pollute the environment. Canada is part of multiple groups such as United Nations Commission for Sustainable Development and Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, to ensure waste management is effectively managed. In addition, Canada is part of multiple trade agreements to ensure economic growth as well as protection of the environment. Canada has made trade agreements that focus on both labor and the environment with countries such as Chile, which focus on promoting environmental transparency and strengthening the effectiveness of domestic environmental laws and regulations.\n\nFor the past 30 years China has experienced rapid economic growth. Many studies have been dedicated to documenting the impact foreign direct investment has on the environment in China. However, there have been varying conclusions as to whether or not such investment is environmentally beneficial for the country. Jiajia Zheng and Pengfei Sheng discovered that provinces in the East have higher evidence of market development and lower CO emissions while provinces in the West have lower evidence of market development and higher CO emissions. It has been documented by the scientific community that there is a correlation between foreign direct investment and increases in China’s CO emissions as energy consumption in the long term impacts CO emissions. Researchers found that a 1% increase in foreign direct investment stocks, increase industrial SO2 levels by 0.099%, which shows that increases in foreign direct investment impacts the level of emissions. When market development increases, so do the CO emissions. Moreover, sulfur dioxide emissions are said to be one of the main sources of pollution in the air.\n\nSome researchers conclude that foreign direct investment does not have negative effects on China’s natural environment. Studies have shown that the presence of foreign direct investment has the potential to reduce air pollution. Foreign direct investment can be beneficial to China’s environment as the foreign companies bring more efficient technology which could improve productivity and energy efficiency. China progressed in its market oriented economy as this market oriented reform improved electricity generation efficiency. In addition, cleaner technology helps China’s environment. Further, there is an openness of trade, which can impact the environment and has been studied. The results found that international trade would raise income, promote consumer spending on environmentally friendly goods and curb emissions as trade openness brings more technology through from developed countries which help the environment.\n\nChina is taking some steps towards a cleaner environment through policy-making. Studies have shown that environmental regulations have the potential to encourage industrial relocations. China has energy saving and airborne emissions reduction policies which have been stated to help move air-polluting industries. China has accomplished reducing carbon emissions through far reaching efficiency programs as in 2004, the country adopted national fuel-efficiency standards for vehicles. Although China is improving their environmental regulations, there is still more work to do such as increasing transparency of environmentally informed national accounts, and the need for greater enforcement.\n\nStatistics have shown that although there is a long run, positive but marginal, impact of foreign direct investment in India, the long run growth of foreign direct investment impact on CO is even larger. It has been hypothesized that the impact on environment may be larger as CO emission is an air pollutant that is typically generated through economic activities. By the turn of this century, India had been named as the 4th highest in global ranking of CO emission.\n\nMany developing countries desire increased inflows of foreign direct investment as it brings the potential of technological innovation. However, studies have shown a host country must reach a certain level of development in education and infrastructure sectors in able to truly capture any potential benefits foreign direct investment might bring. If a country already has sufficient funds in terms of per capita income, as well as an established financial market, foreign direct investment has the potential to influence positive economic growth. Pre-determined financial efficiency combined with an educated labor force are the two main measures of whether or not foreign direct investment will have a positive impact on economic growth within a country.\n\nSince 1991, India has sought to increase foreign direct investment interest within their country by instilling liberal trade and investment policies. Since making these policy changes India has seen an increase in GDP growth rates at 7% annually. However, since the surge in foreign direct investment inflow, pollution emission and resource depletion has been increasing at alarming rates due to greater economic activity (such as the cement, transportation and paper industries). There is hope that as income growth increase, there would be a positive long run effect on the environment as consumer demand shifts towards relatively cleaner goods - this shift would cause pollution-intensive goods to fall, potentially reducing pollution emissions. India, as well as many developing countries, have been experiencing rapid economic development once adopting more liberal economic policies.\n\nThere is potential for regulation of industrial pollution to increase with further economic development due to the creation of developed public institutions capable of regulating environment depletion. However, until then these public sectors and institutions can be implemented, India will continue to experience increased resource depletion and pollution emissions with increases of foreign direct investment.\n\nStudies have demonstrated that there is a causal link between Carbon dioxide per capita, and foreign direct investment inflow in Nigeria. Foreign direct investment can be critical in promoting growth in the adoption of new technologies, stimulating knowledge transfers, and introducing alternative management practices as well as better institutional organization arrangements. In many Developing countries foreign direct investment is expected to improve the balance of payments. Therefore, in many African countries, foreign direct investment impacts constitutes a key outcome of globalization which can propel them to support and promote liberalization policies. When a country adopts policies focused on liberalization, it aids in the increase of free movement capital. Therefore, long term capital, such as foreign direct investment, could then have the potential to embody adverse environmental consequences.\n\nIn many globalization discussions, it is argued that environmental quality can be viewed as a good, therefore increasing free trade and foreign direct investment would lead to a cleaner environment. In 1986, Nigeria saw foreign direct investment as a pathway to enhance growth that could span the entire economy and therefore adopted structural adjustment programs for foreign direct investment inflows. Due to the success of the structural adjustment programs, Nigeria has become the continent's second top foreign direct investment recipient, with their oil sector receiving 90% of foreign direct investment inflow.\n\nHowever, Nigeria has demonstrated an inverse relationship between Gross domestic product (GDP) and Carbon dioxide emissions, as GDP per capita increases, per capita emission falls. A decline in the manufacturing sector shares in the country explains the average carbon dioxide emission per capita drop of 0.84 tons from 1980-1989 to 0.41 tons from 2000-2009. It has been documented in numerous studies that developing countries tend to utilize lax environmental regulations as a method of instilling unethical industries from developed countries in hopes of increasing economic gains. Studies have concluded that within Nigeria, although there is a long-standing relationship between quality of the environment and foreign direct investment whereas the same can not be said for foreign direct investment and economic growth. However arguments have been made that although \"extractive\" foreign direct investment may not have a significant impact on a countries growth and development, manufacturing foreign direct investment may be more beneficial. There is constant growing evidence demonstrating that the increase of foreign direct investment within Nigeria, leads to further deterioration of their natural environment.\n"}
{"id": "33832430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33832430", "title": "Fuck-me shoes", "text": "Fuck-me shoes\n\nFuck-me shoes, alternatively fuck-me boots, is a slang term for women's high-heeled shoes that exaggerate a sexual image. The term can be applied to any women's shoes that are worn with the intention of arousing others. It is sometimes used to imply condemnation against the women who choose to wear them or in a misogynistic fashion toward the women who wear them.\n\nThe term is similar in meaning to \"kinky boots\", although typically \"kinky boots\" refer more specifically to boots suited to a particular fetish.\n\nThe phrase possibly originated in the United States, where two similar terms are used: fuck-you shoes' implying a disregard for convention or propriety, or 'fuck-off shoes' where 'fuck-off' means both outsize and aggressive\". Tight trousers were called \"come fuck-me's\" as listed in a 1972 British dictionary of slang, while a 1974 book is cited as making a reference to a person wearing \"a pair of fabulous 1940s-Joan Crawford-fuck-me's\". The song \"We are the Dead\" from David Bowie's 1974 \"Diamond Dogs\" album mentions \"fuck-me pumps.\"\n\nProminent feminist Germaine Greer brought what had been an \"obscure\" term to more mainstream notoriety when she used it in 1995. Greer used the term in referring to British journalist Suzanne Moore's alleged \"hair bird's-nested all over the place, fuck-me shoes and three fat inches of cleavage\". Greer made the remark in response to a column Moore had written about Greer in \"The Guardian\", where Moore had mistakenly repeated an incorrect rumor that Greer had a hysterectomy as a voluntary decision to have herself sterilized.\n\nGreer was also quoted during the 1990s as criticizing a number of women writers that she termed \"lifestyle feminists\" who were, in her view, espousing feminism at nothing more than a superficial level. Moore's response was that her fashion choices were dictated by her own tastes and not to please men: \"as someone who grew up with punk and Madonna, I take it for granted that women dress to please themselves and not men...\" \n\nMoore has said her footwear is \"not worn just for the benefit of men\", implying that the intention is twofold, to please both her and observers, although she also says \"Most of the pleasure [of buying shoes] involves a private fantasy that begins with me and ends at my feet. Men don't get a look in\".\n\nThe incident, and the term, received coverage in British media and beyond, and the term has become associated with Greer in popular culture. Greer had been denouncing stiletto shoes as symbols of women's subordination as early as 1971. She continues to use the phrase \"fuck me shoes\" in public speaking when discussing gender and clothing styles society deems appropriate.\n\nThe expression was further popularized when British jazz singer Amy Winehouse released the single \"Pumps\" (originally titled \"Fuck Me Pumps\" on her 2003 album \"Frank\"), a song about gold diggers.\n\nIn January 2011, in a forum with teenaged students in Cartagena, Colombia, Greer noticed the popularity of silicone breast implants in the audience. She asked students why they thought women tennis players wore skirts, and asked why a young woman would choose to wear stiletto shoes: \"So you think the shoes are her fetish? ... I call them fuck-me shoes\", she said, \"because you can't walk in them but you can wear them in bed.\"\n\nThe underlying conflict arises from the question of what is considered an appropriate way for women to present their bodies in public spaces. Some feminists have come to view criticisms of fashion choices to be what they term \"slut-shaming\", an action they view as misogynist, even when coming from other women. The development of the SlutWalk protest demonstrations against dress codes is influenced by this position. \n\nWhen punk fashion was on the rise during the late 1970s, young women consciously played with the symbolism inherent in their accessorizing, mixing choices that created a jarring visual clash; leather was combined with lace, steel spikes with velvet, stiletto heels with heavy ankle chains. The result was to exaggerate a look of sexual aggression, turning fuck me' shoes into signifiers of 'fuck you. The punk influenced youth counterculture continues with this trend, part of the wider trend of fetish fashion.\n\n "}
{"id": "44659639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44659639", "title": "Gendered racism", "text": "Gendered racism\n\nGendered racism is a form of oppression that occurs due to race and gender. It is perpetuated due to the prevalence of perceptions, stereotypes, and images of certain groups. Racism is defined as the belief that all members of each race possess characteristics or abilities specific to that race. Racism functions as a way to distinguish races as inferior or superior to one another. Sexism is defined as prejudice, stereotyping, or discrimination on the basis of sex. Gendered racism differs in that it pertains specifically to racial and ethnic understandings of masculinity and femininity, as well as along gendered forms of race and ethnic discrimination.\n\nFundamentally, age, class, and gender are intersecting categories of experience that affect all aspects of human life. Thus, they simultaneously structure the experiences of all people in society. At any moment, race, class, or gender may feel more salient or meaningful in a given person's life, but they are overlapping and cumulative in their effects on people's experiences. This emphasizes that it is difficult for an individual to differentiate which aspect of their identity is being attacked. It may be impossible for an individual to assess whether discrimination is due to gender or race. Both of these constructs make up the individual's identity, and they intersect with one another. Because people have intersecting social identities, it is important to focus on how these identities shape an individual's experiences.\n\nThe term gendered racism was originally coined by sociologist Philomena Essed, and refers to the simultaneous experience of both racism and sexism. According to Essed, racism and sexism \"intertwine and combine under certain conditions into one hybrid phenomenon\". Gendered racism also encompasses what is known as \"double jeopardy\". Double jeopardy in this case can be defined as a disadvantage an individual faces due to aspects of their identity. \nGendered racism is seen through society's stereotypical portrayals of men and women of color. For example, African American men may be seen as criminals and absent fathers, Latino women may be seen as feisty and exotic, Asian women may be viewed as submissive and docile, and African American women may be portrayed as Mammy figures, promiscuous, and emasculating. These stereotypes coincide with the images that are pervasive in the media, which influences public opinions on people of color. For African American women, gendered racism has manifested in multiple ways, and continues to do so. Their challenges include prejudice, mistreatment, and economic disadvantage.\n\nAs a means of coping, African American women relied heavily on the support of the black community. They also coped by overachieving or being overly successful, and thinking positively. Research demonstrated that the coping mechanisms employed by African American women were not always beneficial because they heightened distress rather than decrease it. Possible ways to cope with gendered racism include education, in which African American women are provided with a space to openly discuss their experiences and develop strategies to better handle situations when they are being discriminated against. Another research experiment was conducted in order to assess how black female college students cope with gendered racial microaggressions. Microaggressions are the everyday verbal, nonverbal, and environmental slights, snubs, or insults, whether intentional or unintentional, which communicate hostile, derogatory, or negative messages to target persons based solely upon their marginalized group membership.\n\nThe results from these focus groups showed that there were five coping strategies employed: two resistance coping strategies, one collective coping strategy, and two self-protective coping strategies. The two resistance coping strategies were using one's voice as power and resisting Eurocentric standards. When Black women use their voice as power they are actively speaking up and addressing the microaggressions in order to assert power in the situation. In order to resist Eurocentric standards black women are compelled to shy away from the traditional standards of beauty as well as dominant ideologies held by the larger society.\n\nThe collective coping strategy proved to be leaning on one's support networks in which individuals find solace through interactions with friends and family. The women who utilized this coping strategy spoke about the comfort they found in having support from other women who had similar experiences. The two self-protective coping strategies used were becoming a Superwoman of sorts and becoming desensitized and escaping. Self-protective coping involves strategies that are used to minimize the stressful effect of gendered microaggressions. Black women who cope by becoming a Black Superwoman take on multiple roles to demonstrate their strength and resilience. Other women cope by becoming desensitized and escaping, which involves downplaying the seriousness of the situation and attempting to find a way out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13305402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305402", "title": "Global brain", "text": "Global brain\n\nThe global brain is a neuroscience-inspired and futurological vision of the planetary information and communications technology network that interconnects all humans and their technological artifacts. As this network stores ever more information, takes over ever more functions of coordination and communication from traditional organizations, and becomes increasingly intelligent, it increasingly plays the role of a brain for the planet Earth.\n\nProponents of the global brain hypothesis claim that the Internet increasingly ties its users together into a single information processing system that functions as part of the collective nervous system of the planet. The intelligence of this network is collective or distributed: it is not centralized or localized in any particular individual, organization or computer system. Therefore, no one can command or control it. Rather, it self-organizes or emerges from the dynamic networks of interactions between its components. This is a property typical of complex adaptive systems.\n\nThe World-wide web in particular resembles the organization of a brain with its webpages (playing a role similar to neurons) connected by hyperlinks (playing a role similar to synapses), together forming an associative network along which information propagates. This analogy becomes stronger with the rise of social media, such as Facebook, where links between personal pages represent relationships in a social network along which information propagates from person to person.\nSuch propagation is similar to the spreading activation that neural networks in the brain use to process information in a parallel, distributed manner.\n\nAlthough some of the underlying ideas were already expressed by Nikola Tesla in the late 19th century and were written about by many others before him, the term “global brain” was coined in 1982 by Peter Russell in his book \"The Global Brain\". How the Internet might be developed to achieve this was set out in 1986. The first peer-reviewed article on the subject was published by Gottfried Mayer-Kress in 1995, while the first algorithms that could turn the world-wide web into a collectively intelligent network were proposed by Francis Heylighen and Johan Bollen in 1996.\n\nReviewing the strands of intellectual history that contributed to the global brain hypothesis, Francis Heylighen distinguishes four perspectives: \"“organicism”\", \"“encyclopedism”\", \"“emergentism”\" and \"“evolutionary cybernetics”\". He asserts that these developed in relative independence but now are converging in his own scientific re-formulation.\n\nIn the 19th century, the sociologist Herbert Spencer saw society as a social organism and reflected about its need for a nervous system. Entomologist William Wheeler developed the concept of the ant colony as a spatially extended organism, and in the 1930s he coined the term superorganism to describe such an entity. This concept was later adopted by thinkers such as Gregory Stock in his book Metaman and Joel de Rosnay to describe planetary society as a superorganism.\n\nThe mental aspects of such an organic system at the planetary level were perhaps first broadly elaborated by palaeontologist and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. In 1945, he described a coming “planetisation” of humanity, which he saw as the next phase of accelerating human “socialisation”. Teilhard described both socialization and planetization as irreversible, irresistible processes of \"macrobiological development\" culminating in the emergence of a noosphere, or global mind (see Emergentism below).\n\nThe more recent living systems theory describes both organisms and social systems in terms of the \"critical subsystems\" (\"organs\") they need to contain in order to survive, such as an internal transport system, a resource reserve, and a decision-making system. This theory has inspired several thinkers, including Peter Russell and Francis Heylighen to define the global brain as the network of information processing subsystems for the planetary social system.\n\nIn the perspective of encyclopedism, the emphasis is on developing a universal knowledge network. The first systematic attempt to create such an integrated system of the world's knowledge was the 18th century \"Encyclopédie\" of Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert. However, by the end of the 19th century, the amount of knowledge had become too large to be published in a single synthetic volume. To tackle this problem, Paul Otlet founded the science of documentation, now called information science. In the 1930s he envisaged a World Wide Web-like system of associations between documents and telecommunication links that would make all the world's knowledge available immediately to anybody. H. G. Wells proposed a similar vision of a collaboratively developed world encyclopedia that would be constantly updated by a global university-like institution. He called this a World Brain, as it would function as a continuously updated memory for the planet, although the image of humanity acting informally as a more organic global brain is a recurring motif in other of his works.\n\nTim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, too, was inspired by the free-associative possibilities of the brain for his invention. The brain can link different kinds of information without any apparent link otherwise; Berners-Lee thought that computers could become much more powerful if they could imitate this functioning, i.e. make links between any arbitrary piece of information. The most powerful implementation of encyclopedism to date is Wikipedia, which integrates the associative powers of the world-wide-web with the collective intelligence of its millions of contributors, approaching the ideal of a global memory. The Semantic web, also first proposed by Berners-Lee, is a system of protocols to make the pieces of knowledge and their links readable by machines, so that they could be used to make automatic inferences, thus providing this brain-like network with some capacity for autonomous \"thinking\" or reflection.\n\nThis approach focuses on the emergent aspects of the evolution and development of complexity, including the spiritual, psychological, and moral-ethical aspects of the global brain, and is at present the most speculative approach. The global brain is here seen as a natural and emergent process of planetary evolutionary development. Here again Pierre Teilhard de Chardin attempted a synthesis of science, social values, and religion in his The Phenomenon of Man, which argues that the \"telos\" (drive, purpose) of universal evolutionary process is the development of greater levels of both complexity and consciousness. Teilhard proposed that if life persists then planetization, as a biological process producing a global brain, would necessarily also produce a global mind, a new level of planetary consciousness and a technologically supported network of thoughts which he called the \"noosphere\". Teilhard's proposed technological layer for the noosphere can be interpreted as an early anticipation of the Internet and the Web.\n\nPhysicist and philosopher Peter Russell elaborates a similar view, and stresses the importance of personal spiritual growth, in order to build and to achieve synergy with the spiritual dimension of the emerging superorganism. This approach is most popular in New Age circles, which emphasize growth in consciousness rather than scientific modelling or the implementation of technological and social systems.\n\nSystems theorists and cyberneticists commonly describe the emergence of a higher order system in evolutionary development as a “metasystem transition” (a concept introduced by Valentin Turchin) or a “major evolutionary transition”. Such a metasystem consists of a group of subsystems that work together in a coordinated, goal-directed manner. It is as such much more powerful and intelligent than its constituent systems. Francis Heylighen has argued that the global brain is an emerging metasystem with respect to the level of individual human intelligence, and investigated the specific evolutionary mechanisms that promote this transition\n\nIn this scenario, the Internet fulfils the role of the network of “nerves” that interconnect the subsystems and thus coordinates their activity. The cybernetic approach makes it possible to develop mathematical models and simulations of the processes of self-organization through which such coordination and collective intelligence emerges.\n\nIn 1994 Kevin Kelly, in his popular book \"\", posited the emergence of a \"hive mind\" from a discussion of cybernetics and evolutionary biology.\n\nIn 1996, Francis Heylighen and Ben Goertzel founded the Global Brain group, a discussion forum grouping most of the researchers that had been working on the subject of the global brain to further investigate this phenomenon. The group organized the first international conference on the topic in 2001 at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.\n\nAfter a period of relative neglect, the Global Brain idea has recently seen a resurgence in interest, in part due to talks given on the topic by Tim O'Reilly, the Internet forecaster who popularized the term Web 2.0, and Yuri Milner, the social media investor. In January 2012, the Global Brain Institute (GBI) was founded at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel to develop a mathematical theory of the “brainlike” propagation of information across the Internet. In the same year, Thomas W. Malone and collaborators from the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence have started to explore how the global brain could be “programmed” to work more effectively, using mechanisms of collective intelligence. The complexity scientist Dirk Helbing and his NervousNet group have recently started developing a \"Planetary Nervous System\", which includes a \"Global Participatory Platform\", as part of the large-scale FuturICT project, thus preparing some of the groundwork for a Global Brain.\n\nIn July 2017 Elon Musk founded the company Neuralink, which aims to create a Neural Lace, which is a concept invented by the novelist Iain M. Banks and basically refers to a machine interface woven into the brain, to allow the user to access all available human information. A core driver behind this business idea is Mr Musk’s argument, that human beings soon have to embrace brain implants to stay relevant in a world which, he believes, will soon be dominated by artificial intelligence. The firm raised $27m from 12 Investors in 2017 .\n\nA common criticism of the idea that humanity would become directed by a global brain is that this would reduce individual diversity and freedom, and lead to mass surveillance. This criticism is inspired by totalitarian forms of government, as exemplified by George Orwell's character of \"Big Brother\". It is also inspired by the analogy between collective intelligence or swarm intelligence and insect societies, such as beehives and ant colonies, in which individuals are essentially interchangeable. In a more extreme view, the global brain has been compared with the Borg, the race of collectively thinking cyborgs conceived by the Star Trek science fiction franchise.\n\nGlobal brain theorists reply that the emergence of distributed intelligence would lead to the exact opposite of this vision. The reason is that effective collective intelligence requires diversity of opinion, decentralization and individual independence, as demonstrated by James Surowiecki in his book The Wisdom of Crowds. Moreover, a more distributed form of decision-making would decrease the power of governments, corporations or political leaders, thus increasing democratic participation and reducing the dangers of totalitarian control.\n\n\n\n\nFor more references, check the GBI bibliography:\n\n"}
{"id": "50406244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50406244", "title": "Global news flow", "text": "Global news flow\n\nGlobal news flow (also referred to as international news flow) is a field of study that deals with the news coverage of events in foreign countries. It describes and explains the flow of news from one country to another.\n\nStudies on global news flow typically attempt to understand why certain countries are more newsworthy than others.. Along the years it has been found that the economic power of countries plays a particularly crucial role in their news prominence as well as the presence of international news agencies. Thus, the US has been found to be very prominent in news mentions around the world (18%), followed by China, Western European and Middle Eastern countries (about 3-5% each).\n\nThe unequal representation of the world and the under-representation of developing countries have been already of a great concern at least since the 1950s, since they influence the way people perceive the world and the image of countries. This problem was later addressed in the MacBride report, and his set of recommendations for a New World Information and Communication Order. The unequal representation of the world has been also linked to the World System Theory, and the unequal economic structure of the world.\n\nRecent empirical studies show that among online news websites and news aggregators the unequal representation of the world has been perpetuated and even further intensified. Economically powerful countries, as well as their opponent countries (mainly in the Middle East and Asia) get the most news coverage around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "47076494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47076494", "title": "Helsinki Challenge", "text": "Helsinki Challenge\n\nHelsinki Challenge is a science-based competition and idea accelerator which brings together the academic community and society at large to solve the world’s grand challenges in cooperation. The competition goal is not only to create new scientific information, but to influence society.\n\nMultidisciplinary teams consisting of experts from the academic and artistic communities, the business world, the public and third sectors, media and other actors of the society are welcome to take part in the competition. Participating teams are evaluated by the jury using the following criteria: originality, creativity, impact, focus on solutions and use of science-based methods. The competition prize is 375,000 euros and it is meant for the implementation of the solution.\n\nHelsinki Challenge was held for the first time in 2015. In 2017, the competition is organised by the University of Helsinki in collaboration with Aalto University, Hanken School of Economics, University of Eastern Finland, University of Jyväskylä, University of Oulu, University of the Arts Helsinki, University of Turku, University of Vaasa and Åbo Akademi University.\n\nThe first ever Helsinki Challenge was organised by the University of Helsinki and celebrated the University’s 375th anniversary in 2015. The first Helsinki Challenge competition themes were: environmental change, health and wellbeing, future learning, global Helsinki and new world view.\n\nOut of 80 proposals, a list of 20 semifinalists were announced in December 2014. Teams’ competition ideas ranged from developing tools to analyze big data on the Finnish discussion forum Suomi24 to studying our expectations of robot morality.\n\nFuture Organization, team leader Veikko Eranti\n\nClimate Whirl, team leader Eija Juurola\n\nSustainability tracker, team leader Kaisa Korhonen-Kurki\n\nPlay Learn Heal, team leader Kristiina Kumpulainen\n\nMoralities of Intelligent Machines, team leader Michael Laakasuo\n\nThe Citizen Mindscapes, team leader Krista Lagus\n\nGround and Growth, team leader Kristina Lindström\n\nEngaging Future Workplace, team leader Kirsti Lonka\n\nLab Impact Africa, team leader Christina Lyra\n\nHigher Education Unbounded, team leader Katalin Miklossy\n\nUrban Academy, team leader Jari Niemelä\n\nTell Us, team leader Maria Niemi\n\nBiodiversity Now, team leader Markku Ollikainen\n\nHelsinki Sleep Factory, team leader Anu-Katriina\n\nViewfinder, team leader Paavo Pylkkänen\n\nSafePreg – Health into Next Generation, team leader Katri Räikkönen\n\nNEMO - Natural Emotionality in Digital Interaction, team leader Katri Saarikivi\n\nGeneration Green, team leader Tiina Sikanen\n\nThe Happiness Project, team leader Laura Visapää\n\nGenetic Correction of Inherited Hemoglobin Disease, team leader Kirmo Wartiovaara\n\nIn October 2015, the five finalist teams were chosen: Moralities of Intelligent Machines, Biodiversity Now, Helsinki Sleep Factory, SafePreg – Health into Next Generation and NEMO - Natural Emotionality in Digital Interaction. The jury for the final included Chancellor Thomas Wilhelmsson (chair), Pro-Vice Chancellor of Education Sally Mapstone from the University of Oxford, Professor of Practice Pasi Sahlberg from Harvard University’s Harvard Graduate School of Education, Director Ulrich Weinberg from the Hasso Plattner Institute School of Design Thinking and President Mikko Kosonen of the Finnish Innovation Fund SITRA.\n\nThe €375,000 prize for the science-based idea competition Helsinki Challenge was divided between two teams. The winner was NEMO – Natural Emotionality in Digital Interaction, which received €250,000, while the runner-up, Biodiversity Now, received €125,000.The prize money is intended for realising the team’s idea.\n\nNEMO is developing new ways to digitise and transmit emotion online.The team is planning small add-ons for digital interaction platforms that would consider emotions.This way participants in online discussions could see or even experience the emotions of others in a new way that would be equivalent to natural interaction.The team wants to create an open protocol for emotion transmission for any coder to use for building new empathy-enabling applications.\n\nBiodiversity Now team wants to establish a Finnish habitat bank so that, for example, companies reducing biodiversity through a construction project could offset this by increasing biodiversity elsewhere.\n\nThe second Helsinki Challenge was kicked off in August 2016. The winner will be announced in conjunction with the centennial of Finland's independence in 2017. The new Helsinki Challenge themes: Sustainable Plant, Urban Future and People in Change are linked to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals. The intention is to create solutions for future wellbeing through cooperation with a range of different institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "446755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446755", "title": "Henry Stephens Salt", "text": "Henry Stephens Salt\n\nHenry Stephens Salt (; 20 September 1851 – 19 April 1939) was an English writer and campaigner for social reform in the fields of prisons, schools, economic institutions, and the treatment of animals. He was a noted ethical vegetarian, anti-vivisectionist, socialist, and pacifist, and was well known as a literary critic, biographer, classical scholar and naturalist. It was Salt who first introduced Mohandas Gandhi to the influential works of Henry David Thoreau, and influenced Gandhi's study of vegetarianism.\n\nSalt is credited with being the first writer to argue explicitly in favour of animal rights, in his \"\" (1894), rather than focusing on improvements to animal welfare. He wrote: \"If we are ever going to do justice to the lower races, we must get rid of the antiquated notion of a 'great gulf' fixed between them and mankind, and must recognize the common bond of humanity that unites all living beings in one universal brotherhood.\"\n\nThe son of a British army colonel, Salt was born in Naini Tal in India in 1851, but returned with his family to England in 1852 while still an infant. He studied at Eton College, and graduated from the University of Cambridge in 1875.\n\nAfter Cambridge, Salt returned to Eton as an assistant schoolmaster to teach classics. Four years later, in 1879, he married the scholar Catherine (Kate)Leigh Joynes, the daughter of a fellow master at Eton. He remained at Eton until 1884, when, inspired by classic ideals and disgusted by his fellow masters' meat-eating habits and reliance on servants, he and Kate moved to a small cottage at Tilford, Surrey where they grew their own vegetables and lived very simply, sustained by a small pension Salt had built up. Salt engrossed himself in writing and began work on the pioneering Humanitarian League.\n\nDuring his lifetime Salt wrote almost 40 books. His first, \"A Plea for Vegetarianism\" (1886) was published by the Vegetarian Society, and in 1890, he produced an acclaimed biography of philosopher Henry David Thoreau, two interests that later led to a friendship with Mahatma Gandhi. He also wrote, in \"On Cambrian and Cumbrian Hills\" (1922), about the need for nature conservation to protect the natural beauty of the British countryside from commercial vandalism.\n\nHis circle of friends included many notable figures from late-19th and early-20th century literary and political life, including writers Algernon Charles Swinburne, John Galsworthy, Thomas Hardy, Rudyard Kipling, Havelock Ellis, Count Leo Tolstoy, William Morris, Peter Kropotkin, Ouida, George Bernard Shaw and Robert Cunninghame-Graham, as well as Labour leader James Keir Hardie and Fabian Society co-founders Hubert Bland and Annie Besant.\n\nSalt formed the Humanitarian League in 1891. Its objectives included the banning of hunting as a sport (in this respect it can be regarded as a fore-runner of the League Against Cruel Sports). In 1914 The League published a whole volume of essays on \"Killing for Sport\", the preface was written by George Bernard Shaw. The book formed in summary form the Humanitarian League's arraignment of blood-sports.\n\nKeith Tester writes that, in 1894, Salt created an \"epistemological break,\" by being the first writer to consider the issue of animal rights explicitly, as opposed to better animal welfare. In \"\", Salt wrote that he wanted to \"set the principle of animals' rights on a consistent and intelligible footing, [and] to show that this principle underlies the various efforts of humanitarian reformers ...\":\n\nEven the leading advocates of animal rights seem to have shrunk from basing their claim on the only argument which can ultimately be held to be a really sufficient one—the assertion that animals, as well as men, though, of course, to a far less extent than men, are possessed of a distinctive individuality, and, therefore, are in justice entitled to live their lives with a due measure of that 'restricted freedom' to which Herbert Spencer alludes.\n\nHe wrote that there is no point in claiming rights for animals if we subordinate their rights to human interests, and he argued against the presumption that a human life necessarily has more value than a nonhuman one:\n\n[The] notion of the life of an animal having 'no moral purpose,' belongs to a class of ideas which cannot possibly be accepted by the advanced humanitarian thought of the present day—it is a purely arbitrary assumption, at variance with our best instincts, at variance with our best science, and absolutely fatal (if the subject be clearly thought out) to any full realization of animals' rights. If we are ever going to do justice to the lower races, we must get rid of the antiquated notion of a 'great gulf' fixed between them and mankind, and must recognize the common bond of humanity that unites all living beings in one universal brotherhood.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21097678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21097678", "title": "Hybrid mail", "text": "Hybrid mail\n\nHybrid mail is mail that is delivered using a combination of electronic and physical delivery. Usually, it involves digital data being transformed into physical letter items at distributed print centres located as close as possible to the final delivery addresses. An e-mail letter (also L-mail and letter mail) is a letter which sent as an email using a computer then printed out and delivered as a traditional (physical) letter. It is a communication means between the virtual cyber- and the material real world. The printer or mail transfer agent prints the electronic mail on paper, the mail transport agent packs it into an envelope and the mail delivery agent or postman delivers it to the receiver's mailbox. Generally there is a fee for this service; however very small amounts and single email letters may be free of charge depending on the service provider and generally fees are much lower than directly sending mail or using a franking machine.\n\nThere are also reverse systems, where handwritten letters can be delivered as email. This mail scanning service, sometimes called letter email, is increasingly popular with businesses and individuals who wish to access their mail from another country. However, special care must be taken to inspect local laws and the service provider's scanning practices to ensure that they are not reading the mail or acting on behalf of the client from a legal standpoint.\n"}
{"id": "50674434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50674434", "title": "IASSIST", "text": "IASSIST\n\nThe International Association for Social Science Information Services and Technology (or IASSIST) is an international organisation that provides professional development, communication and conferences for data librarians, archivists, and social science aligned information specialists.\n\nEach year the IASSIST Fellow program sponsors members from developing nations to attend events and professional development to further the advancement of information management.\nThe first IASSIST conference was held in 1977 in Cocoa Beach, Florida\n"}
{"id": "18546373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18546373", "title": "Inoculation theory", "text": "Inoculation theory\n\nInoculation theory was developed by social psychologist William J. McGuire in 1961 to explain how attitudes and beliefs change, and more importantly, how to keep existing attitudes and beliefs consistent in the face of attempts to change them. Inoculation theory functions as a strategy to protect attitudes from change–to confer resistance to counter-attitudinal influences, whether such influences take the form of direct attacks or sustained pressures.\n\nThe theory posits that weak counterarguments–arguments that are easily refuted–generate resistance within the receiver, enabling them to maintain their beliefs in the face of a future, stronger, attack. Following exposure to weak counterarguments, the inoculation receiver will then seek out supporting information to further strengthen their threatened position. Finally, the held attitude or belief becomes resistant to a stronger attack, hence the medical analogy of a vaccine.\n\nInoculation is a theory developed to strengthen existing attitudes and beliefs while building resistance to future counterarguments. For inoculation to be successful it is crucial that a threat (motivation for resistance) is imposed upon these existing ideas and refutational preemption (ability to build defenses against potential counterarguments) takes place after the inoculation. The argument that is presented through inoculation must be strong enough to initiate motivation to maintain current attitudes and beliefs, but weak enough that the receiver will refute the counterargument (Compton, 2013; McGuire, 1964). Inoculation has been proven successful through trials and research. This article highlights vital aspects of inoculation theory, however, it is not exhaustive–there is a large volume of quality research on the theory not mentioned. Finally, while numerous studies have tested and verified the efficacy of the inoculation process, there continues to be a need for refinement and elaboration.\n\nInoculation theory is used today as part of the suite of tools used by those engaged in shaping or manipulating public opinion. These contexts include: politics (e.g., Pfau et al., 1990; see Compton & Ivanov, 2013, for a review), health campaigns (e.g., Pfau & VanBockern, 1994; see Compton, Jackson, & Dimmock, 2016, for a review), marketing (e.g., Compton & Pfau, 2004) and education (Compton, 2011), among others. (See Banas & Rains, 2010, for a meta-analysis, and Compton, 2013, for a narrative overview.)\n\nThe inoculation process is analogous to the medical inoculation process from which it draws its name; the analogy served as the inaugural exemplar for how inoculation confers resistance. As McGuire (1961) initially explained, medical inoculation works by exposing the body to a weakened form of a virus—strong enough to trigger a response (i.e., the production of antibodies), but not so strong as to overwhelm the body's resistance. Attitudinal inoculation works the same way: Expose the receiver to weakened counterarguments, triggering a process of counterargument which confers resistance to later, stronger persuasive messages. This process works like a metaphorical vaccination: the receiver becomes immune to attacking messages that attempt to change their attitudes or beliefs regarding the initial threat. Inoculation theory suggests that if one sends out messages with weak counterarguments, an individual can build immunity to those messages and strengthen their original attitudes. It uses a threat on initial beliefs to trigger a person's desire to fight against the threat, ultimately reinforcing their attitude.\n\nWilliam McGuire set out to conduct research “on ways of inducing resistance to persuasion, under the impression that while much experimental work was being done on factors that increased persuasive effectiveness, little was being done on ways of producing resistance to persuasion” (McGuire, 1964, p. 192). McGuire was motivated to study inoculation and persuasion as a result of the aftermath of the Korean War. Nine US prisoners of war, when given the opportunity, elected to remain with their captors. Many assumed they were brainwashed, so McGuire and other social scientists turned to ways of conferring resistance to persuasion (Dewey, 2017). This was a change in extant persuasion research, which was almost exclusively concerned with how to make messages more persuasive, and not the other way around (Gass & Seiter, 2003). \n\nThe theory of inoculation was derived from previous research studying one-sided and two-sided messages. One-sided messages are supportive messages to strengthen existing attitudes, but with no mention of counterpositions. One-sided messages are frequently seen in political campaigns when a candidate denigrates his or her opponent through \"mudslinging\". This method is effective in reinforcing extant attitudes of derision toward the opposition and support for the \"mudslinging\" candidate. If the audience supports the opposition, however, the attack message is ineffective. Two-sided messages present both counterarguments and refutations of those counterarguments. To gain compliance and source credibility, a two-sided message must demonstrate the sender's position, then the opposition's position, followed by a refutation of the opposition's argument, then finally the sender's position again (Lumsdaine & Janis, 1953).\n\nSince its creation, the uses of inoculation theory have been expanded in the areas of health, political, educational and commercial messaging. When McGuire (1966a) created this theory, it was applied to social clichés. This meant it was primarily used toward the attitudes that were rarely, if ever attacked by opposing forces. The early tests of inoculation theory were used on non-controversial issues, (e.g. brushing your teeth is good for you). Few refute that brushing one's teeth is a good habit, therefore external opposing arguments against tooth brushing would not change one's opinion, but it would strengthen support for brushing one's teeth (Banas & Rains, 2010). Inoculation theory studies currently target less popular or common attitudes, such as whether one should buy a Mac or a Windows-based PC computer or if one should support gay marriage. Implementing inoculation theory in studies of contemporary social issues (from mundane to controversial social issues), the variety and resurgence of studies using inoculation theory helps bolster the effectiveness and utility of the theory and provides support that it can be used to strengthen and/or predict attitudes.\n\nMcGuire led a series of experiments assessing inoculation's efficacy and adding nuance to our understanding for how it works (for a review, see Compton, 2013; Compton & Pfau, 2005). Early studies (e.g., McGuire & Papageorgis, 1961) limited testing of inoculation theory to cultural truisms, or beliefs accepted without consideration (e.g., people should brush their teeth daily). Later development of the theory extended inoculation to more controversial and contested topics in the contexts of politics (see Compton & Ivanov, 2013), health (see Compton, Jackson, & Dimmock, 2015), marketing, and contexts in which people have different pre-existing attitudes, such as climate change. The theory has also been applied in education to help prevent substance abuse.\n\nAdditionally, more recent research has examined inoculation's effects on targets besides attitudes, including task self-efficacy (Jackson, Compton, Whiddett, Anthony, & Dimmock, 2015). Other work has confirmed that inoculation's efficacy can be boosted with other persuasion processes, like reactance (Miller et al., 2013).\n\nInoculation theory states that to prevent persuasion it is necessary to strengthen preexisting attitudes, beliefs, or opinions. First, the receiver must be made aware of the potential vulnerability of an existing position (e.g., attitude, belief). This establishes threat and initiates defenses to future attacks. The idea is that when a weak argument is presented in the inoculation message, processes of refutation or other means of protection will prepare for stronger arguments later. It is critical that the attack is strong enough to keep the receiver defensive, but weak enough to not actually change those preexisting ideas. This will hopefully make the receiver actively defensive and allow them to create arguments in favor of their preexisting thoughts. The more active the receiver becomes in his or her defense the more it will strengthen their own attitudes, beliefs, or opinions (McGuire, 1964).\n\nThere are four basic key components to successful inoculation: threat, refutational preemption, delay, and involvement. The first is threat, which provides motivation to protect one's attitudes or beliefs (Pfau, 1997a). Threat is a product of the presence of counterarguments in an inoculation message and/or an explicit forewarning of an impending challenge to an existing belief (see Compton & Ivanov, 2012). The message receiver must interpret that a message is threatening and recognize that there is a reason to fight to maintain and strengthen their opinion. If the receiver of an opposing message does not recognize that a threat is present, they will not feel the need to start defending their position and therefore will not change their attitude or strengthen their opinion (Banas & Rains, 2010, p. 285). Compton and Ivanov (2012) found that participants who had been forewarned of an attack–i.e. threat–but not given the appropriate tools to combat the attack were more resistant than the control group. In this case, the simple act of forewarning of an attack was enough to resist the counterattitudinal persuasion.\n\nThe second component, refutational preemption, is the cognitive part of the process. It is the ability to activate one's own argument for future defense and strengthen their existing attitudes through counterarguing (Pfau, 1997). Scholars have also explored whether other resistance processes might be at work, including affect. Refutational preemption provides specific content that receivers can employ to strengthen attitudes against subsequent change. This aids in the inoculation process by giving the message receiver a chance to argue with the opposing message. It shows the message receiver that their attitude is not the only attitude or even the right attitude, creating a threat to their beliefs. This is beneficial because the receiver will get practice in defending their original attitude, therefore strengthening it. This is important in fighting off future threats of opposing messages and helps to ensure that the message will not affect their original stance on the issues (Banas & Rains, 2010, p. 285). Refutational preemption acts as the weak strain of the virus in the metaphor. By injecting the weakened virus–the opposing opinion–into a receiver, this prompts the receiver to strengthen their position, enabling them to fight off the opposing threat. By the time the body processes the virus–the counterattack–the receiver will have learned how to eliminate the threat. In the case of messaging, if the threatening message is weak or unconvincing, a person can reject the message and stick with their original stance on the matter. By being able to reject threatening messages a person builds strength of their belief and every successful threatening message that they can encounter their original opinions only get stronger (Banas & Rains, 2010, p. 285). Recent research has studied the presence and function of word-of-mouth communication, or post-inoculation talk (see Compton & Pfau, 2009), following exposure to inoculation messages (e.g., Ivanov et al., 2015).\n\nDelay is the next element that is necessary in the inoculation process. There has been much debate on whether there is a certain amount of time necessary between inoculation and further attacks on a persons' attitude that will be most effective in strengthening that person's attitude. McGuire (1961) suggested that delay was necessary strengthening a person's attitude and since then many scholars have found evidence to back that idea up. There are also scholars on the other side who suggest that too much of a delay lessens the strengthening effect of inoculation. With this being said, it has been revealed that the effect of inoculation can still be significant weeks or even months after initial introduction or the treatment showing that it does produce somewhat long-lasting effects (Banas & Rains, 2010).\n\nInvolvement is the final element of the inoculation process. Pfau, et al. (1997a) defined involvement as \"the importance or salience of an attitude object for a receiver\" and is “among the most important and widely employed concepts in the scholarly literature on persuasion” (p. 190). Involvement is critical; an individual's involvement with an issue determines how effective the inoculation process will be, if at all. If an individual does not have a vested interest in the subject, they will not perceive a threat and, consequently, will not feel the need to defend and strengthen their original opinion, rendering the inoculation process ineffective.\n\nResearch during the past two decades has revealed numerous real-world applications of inoculation theory. The field of Public Relations is the perfect place for the inoculation theory to be used because the field itself is meant to act to the public, their opinions, and their actions. It is especially useful with an audience who already has an opinion on a brand. Inoculation theory is the perfect way to convince already faithful customers that they are making the right choice in trusting your company and to keep the customer coming back in the future. For example, Apple and their \"Get A Mac\" campaign. This campaign did a great job of following the inoculation theory in targeting those who already preferred Mac computers. The series of ads pit out in the duration of the campaign had a similar theme; they directly compared Macs and PCs. Inoculation theory applies here as these commercials are more than likely aimed toward Apple users. These ads are effective because the Apple users already prefer Mac computers and they unlikely to change their minds. This comparison creates refutational preemption, showing Macs may not be the only viable options on the market. The TV ads throw in a few of the positive advantages that PCs have over Macs, but by the end of every commercial they reiterate the fact that the Mac is ultimately the superior product for consumers. This reassures viewers that their opinion is still right and that Macs are in fact better than PCs. The inoculation theory in these ads keep Mac users coming back for Apple products and may even have them coming back sooner for the bigger and better products that Apple is releasing. That last part is especially important in a field like technology because it is continually changing and something new is always being pushed out onto the shelves.\n\nAn example of inoculation theory usage in politics are present in studies indicating that it is possible to inoculate political supporters of a candidate in a campaign against the influence of an opponent's attack ads (Pfau & Burgoon, 1988); citizens against the corrosive influence of soft-money-sponsored political attack ads on democratic values (Pfau, M., Park, D., Holbert, R. L., & Cho, J., 2001); citizens of fledgling democracies against the spiral of silence which can thwart the expression of minority views (Lin, W. K., & Pfau, M., 2007); commercial brands against the influence of competitors' comparative ads (Pfau, 1992a); corporations against the damage to credibility and image that can occur in crisis settings (Dawar, N., & Pillutla, M. M., 2000); and young adolescents against influences of peer pressure, which can lead to smoking, underage drinking, and other harmful behaviors (Godbold, L. C., & Pfau, M., 2000).\n\nWhile there are many studies that have been conducted comparing different treatments of inoculation, there is one specific comparison that is mentioned throughout various studies. This is the comparison between what is known as refutational same and refutational different messages. A refutational same message is an inoculation treatment that refutes specific potential counterarguments that will appear in the subsequent persuasion message, while refutational different treatments are refutations that are not the same as those present in the impending persuasive message (Pfau et al., 1990). Pfau and his colleagues (1990) developed a study during the 1988 United States presidential election. The Republicans were claiming that the Democratic candidate was known to be lenient when it came to the issue of crime. The researchers developed a refutational same message that stated that while the Democratic candidate was in favor of tough sentences, merely tough sentences could not reduce crime. The refutational different message expanded on the candidate's platform and his immediate goals if he were to be elected. The study showed comparable results between the two different treatments. Importantly, as McGuire and others had found previously, inoculation was able to confer resistance to arguments that were not specifically mentioned in the inoculation message.\n\nCompton and Ivanov (2013) offer a comprehensive review of political inoculation scholarship and outline new directions for future work.\n\nSample studies include:\n\nPfau and some of his colleagues examined inoculation through the use of direct mail during the 1988 presidential campaign. The researchers were specifically interested in comparing inoculation and post hoc refutation. Post hoc refutation is another form of building resistance to arguments, however, instead of building resistance prior to future arguments, like inoculation, it attempts to restore original beliefs and attitudes after the counterarguments have been made. Results of the research reinforced prior conclusions that refutational same and different treatments both increase resistance to attacks. More important, results also indicated inoculation was superior to post hoc refutation when attempting to protect original beliefs and attitudes (Pfau et al., 1990).\n\nMuch of the research conducted in health is attempting to create campaigns that will encourage people to stop unhealthy behaviors (e.g. getting people to stop smoking or prevention of teen alcoholism). Compton, Jackson and Dimmock (2016) reviewed studies where inoculation theory was applied to health-related messaging. There are many inoculation studies with the intent to inoculate children and teenagers to prevent them from smoking, doing drugs or drinking alcohol. Much of the research shows that targeting at a young age can help them resist peer pressure in high school or college.\n\nGodbold and Pfau (2000) used sixth graders from two different schools and applied inoculation theory as a defense against peer pressure to drinking alcohol. They hypothesized that a normative message, a message tailored around what the social norms are, would be more effective than an informative message. An informative message is a message tailored around giving individuals information pieces. In this case, the information was why drinking alcohol is bad. The second hypothesis was that subjects who receive a threat two weeks later will be more resistant than those receiving an immediate attack. The results supported the first hypothesis partially. The normative message created higher resistance from the attack, but was not necessarily more effective. The second hypothesis was also not supported; therefore, the time lapse did not create further resistance for teenagers against drinking. One major outcome from this study was the resistance created by utilizing a normative message.\n\nIn another study conducted by Duryea (1983), the results were far more supportive of the theory. The study also attempted to find the message to use for educational training to help prevent teen drinking and driving. The teen subjects were given resources to combat attempts to persuade them to drink and drive or to get into a vehicle with a drunk driver. The subjects were: 1) shown a film; 2) participated in question and answer; 3) role playing exercises; and 4) a slide show. The results showed that a combination of the four methods of training was effective in combating persuasion to drink and drive or get into a vehicle with a drunk driver. The trained group was far more prepared to combat the persuasive arguments.\n\nAdditionally, Parker, Ivanov, and Compton (2012) found that inoculation messages can be an effective deterrent against pressures to engage in unprotected sex and binge drinking—even when only one of these issues is mentioned in the health message.\n\nAnother study by Pfau, et al. (1992) examined the role of inoculation when attempting to prevent adolescents from smoking. One of the main goals of the study was to examine longevity and persistence of inoculation. They took a group of elementary school students in South Dakota and had the students watch a video warning them of future pressures to smoke. In the first year, resistance was highest among those with low self-esteem (Pfau et al., 1992). At the end of the second year, students in the group showed more attitudinal resistance to smoking than they did previously (Pfau & Van Bockern 1994). Importantly, the study and its follow-up demonstrate the long-lasting effects of inoculation treatments.\n\nOther recent areas of study include vaccination safety. Wong and Harrison (2014) studied 212 female students and their attitudes about the HPV vaccine. They found that inoculation messages about HPV helped build resistance to messages that attacked the effectiveness of the HPV vaccine. Additionally, Compton, Jackson and Dimmock (2016) discussed possibilities of further research. One topic was on the preparation of possible health concerns that new parents may not be expecting. For example, benefits of breastfeeding, sleep deprivation and post-partum depression.\n\nOne area that has been heavily researched since the development of the theory is the prevention of smoking. These studies have mainly focused on preventing youth smokers–inoculation seems to be most effective in young children. Grover (2011) researched the effectiveness of the \"truth\" anti-smoking campaign on smokers and non-smokers. Grover divided the two groups to show that inoculation works differently when the behavior is already being exercised versus the behavior being non-existent. In the first hypothesis Grover predicted that exposure to the \"truth\" ads would result in negative attitudes towards smoking after being exposed to pro-smoking advertisements. That hypothesis was supported by the data. In the second hypothesis, exposure to \"truth\" ads results in increased aversion to tobacco industry retail products, the results showed the contrary. Exposure to \"truth\" ads reduces aversion to tobacco branded products. The other observation made here was that the greater the exposure to pro-smoking ads, the higher the aversion to tobacco retail products. This observation contradicts hypothesis H2c and hypothesis H3. In H3, the prediction was that the aversion towards tobacco industry retail products would dictate the exposure to \"truth\" ads and attitudes towards tobacco companies. This data was taken from a combined sample of both smokers and non-smokers. When Grover split the data between the two groups all the original hypotheses were supported, except H2c. Those results mirrored the results of the pooled data. What Grover demonstrated was that the initial attitude plays a major role in the ability to inoculate an individual.\nFuture studies in the area of health can be extremely beneficial to communities. Some areas that are currently being researched can possibly help with present-day issues (e.g., inoculation-based strategies for addiction intervention to assist sober individuals from relapsing). Other areas for future studies include, promoting healthy eating habits, exercising, breastfeeding and creating positive attitude towards mammograms (Ivanov, 2017). An area that has been underdeveloped is mental health awareness. With the number of young adults and teens committing suicide due to bullying this can be an area where inoculation messages could be effective. McGuire (1961) used a medical analogy to initially describe his theory. Unsurprisingly, inoculation strategies can be most effective when combined with health issues.\n\nInoculation theory research, as applied to advertising and marketing, are primarily focused on promoting healthy lifestyles with the help of a product or for a specific company's goal.\n\nShortly after McGuire published his development on inoculation theory, Szybillo and Heslin (1973) applied the concepts that McGuire used in the health industry to advertising and marketing campaigns. They sought to provide answers for advertisers marketing a controversial product or topic: if an advertiser knew the product or campaign would cause an attack, what would be the best advertising strategy? Would they want to refute the arguments or reaffirm their claims? (Szybill and Heslin, 1973)\n\nSzybillo and Heslin (1973) sought to test five hypotheses: 1) to reaffirm or refute the arguments is better than not addressing, 2) refuting the same counterarguments will be more effective than supportive defense, 3) refutational defense is better than supportive defense, 4) over a long period, refutational defense is more effective than supportive defenses, and 5) high credibility sources are more effective than low credibility. The controversial topic in the study was: \"Inflatable air bags should be installed as passive safety devices in all new cars.\"\n\nSzybillo and Heslin (1973) tested four advertisement strategies: defense, refutational-same, refutational-different and supportive. They also manipulated the time of the counterargument attack. Some subjects received the attack message 30 minutes after and the other group three days later. The results confirmed the first hypothesis that a reaffirmation or refutation approach is better than not addressing the attack. The second hypothesis was also confirmed with the data that refuting the counterargument is more effective than supportive defense. The third hypothesis was confirmed as well, though the mean for refutational-different posttreatment was not much greater than for supportive posttreatment. In this study the time lapse was not significantly impactful nor was the credibility of the source. Thus, hypothesis four and five were not supported.\n\nIn 2006, a jury awarded Martin Dunson and Lisa Jones, the parents of one-year-old Marquis Matthew Dunson, $5 million for the death of their son. Dunson and Jones sued Johnson & Johnson, the makers of Infant's Tylenol claiming that there were not enough warnings regarding the dosage of acetaminophen (Daly, 2006).\n\nWhat resulted was a Johnson & Johnson campaign that encouraged parents to practice proper dosage procedures (Veil and Kent, 2008). In a review of the campaign by Veil and Kent (2008), they breakdown the message of the campaign utilizing the basic concepts of inoculation theory. They theorize that Johnson & Johnson used inoculation to alter the negative perception of their product. The campaign began running prior to the actual verdict, thus the timing seemed suspicious.\n\nA primary contention made by Veil and Kent (2008) was that the intentions of Johnson & Johnson were not to convey safety guidelines for consumers, but to change how the consumer might respond to further lawsuits on overdose. The inoculation strategy used by Johnson & Johnson, per Veil and Kent, is evident in their campaign script: \"Some people think if you have a really bad headache, you should take extra medicine.\" The authors state the term \"some people\" is referring to the party suing the company. The commercial also used the Vice President of Sales for Tylenol to deliver a message, who may be considered a credible source.\n\nIn 1995, Burgoon et al. published empirical findings on issue/advocacy advertising campaigns like the one Johnson & Johnson executed. Most, if not all, of these types of advertising campaigns utilize inoculation to create the messages. Burgoon et al. (1995) posited that the use of inoculation strategies for these types of campaigns should be utilized to enhance the corporations' credibility and aide in maintaining the existing consumer attitude. This strategy should not be used to change consumer attitudes. Based on the analysis of previous research Burgoon et al. concluded issue/advocacy advertising is most effective for reinforcing support and avoid potential slippage in the attitudes of supporters. \nBased on previous publications they looked to test three hypotheses. The first was that issue/advocacy advertisements work to inoculate against counterattitudinal attacks. Next, issue/advocacy advertisements work to protect the source credibility. Lastly, conservatives are more likely to be inoculated by issue/advocacy messages. They use Mobil Oil's issue/advocacy campaign to test the hypotheses.\n\nThe first hypothesis was supported by the data. There was a significant effect provided by inoculation. Additionally, H1 showed that issue/advocacy inoculation messages and attack messages vary in effectiveness depending on the content. The result was also noted in the results of H2, which were also supported by the results. Finally, the results indicated that political views play a role in the effectiveness of the campaigns. Thus, confirming H3, that conservatives are easier to inoculate. They also posed a research question regarding the impact of gender on inoculation effectiveness in issue/advocacy campaigns. The conclusion was made that females are more likely to be inoculated with these types of campaigns. An additional observation made by Burgoon et. al (1995) was that the type of content used in these campaigns contributed to the campaigns success. The further the advertisement was from \"direct self-benefit\" the greater the inoculation effect was on the audience (Burgoon, et al., 1995).\n\nIt took quite some time for inoculation theory to be applied to marketing, because of the many limitations (Lessne and Didow, 1987). Lessne and Didow (1987) reviewed publications about inoculation application to marketing campaigns. They note that, at the time, the closest to true marketing context was Hunt's 1973 study on the Chevron campaign.\n\nThe Federal Trade Commission made a statement that Chevron had deceived consumers on the effectiveness of their gas additive F-310. The FTC was going to conduct a corrective advertising campaign to disclose the information. In response to that, Chevron ran a print campaign to try and combat the anticipated FTC campaign. The double page advertisement read, \"If every motorist used Chevron with F-310 for 2000 miles, air pollutants would be reduced by thousands of tons in a single day. The Federal Trade Commission doesn't think that's significant.\" Hunt used this real-life message as an inoculation treatment in his research (Lessne and Didow, 1987).\n\nHe used the corrective campaign by the FTC as the attack on the positive attitude toward Chevron. The results indicated that a supportive treatment offered less resistance than a refutational treatment. The other discovery was that when an inoculative treatment is received, but no attack is followed there is a drop in attitude. One of the major limitations in this study was that Hunt did not allow a time elapse between the treatment and the attack. Which is a major element from McGuire's original theory (McGuire, 1961). Since this publication, there has been more research conducted in marketing and advertising as well. The future applications in marketing are far more promising than they were in 1987.\n\nOther more recent studies include:\n\n\nTreglia and Delia (2017) apply inoculation theory to cyber security; people are susceptible to electronic or physical tricks, scams or misrepresentations that may lead to deviating from security procedures and practices, opening the operator, organization or system to exploits, malware, theft of data or disruption of systems and services. Inoculation in this area improves peoples resistance to such attacks, examples and directions for future work are provided.\n\nRecent studies have approached inoculation by incorporating psychological reactance theory (Brehm, 1966, 1972; Brehm & Brehm, 1981) as a means to enhance resistance outcomes through inoculation theory's two key components: threat and refutational preemption.\n\nMiller, et al. (2013) focused their study on emerging adults and their reactance to persuasive appeals. Research has demonstrated that this population is in a transitional stage in life (Voyer et al., 2005) and are more likely to defend their behavioral freedoms if they feel others are attempting to control their behavior (Grandpre et al., 2003; Miller et al., 2006). Populations in transitional stages rely on source credibility as a major proponent of cognitive processing and message acceptance. If the message is explicit and threatens their perceived freedoms, transitional-stage populations will most likely derogate the source and dismiss the message. Two important needs for reactance to a threatened freedom from an emerging adult population is immediacy and vested interest (Crano, 1995). Their study discusses how emerging adults need to believe their behavioral freedoms, for which they have vestedness, are being threatened and that the threat exists in real time with almost immediate consequences. Threats that their perceived freedoms will be eliminated or minimized increases motivation to restore that freedom or possibly engage in the threatened behavior to reinforce their autonomy and control of their attitudes and actions. The study also surmises that threat does not necessarily need anger to motivate counterargumentation and simply attempting to provoke anger through manipulation is limited as a technique of gauging negative cognitions. Miller, et al. (2013) also consider refutational preemption as motivation for producing initial counterarguments and provocation of dissension when contemplating the attack message (Miller et al., 2013). The main focus of this study is to determine how to improve the effectiveness of the inoculation process by evaluating and generating reactance to a threatened freedom by manipulating explicit and implicit language and its intensity. While most inoculation studies focus on avoiding reactance, or at the very least, minimizing the impact of reactance on behaviors, in contrast, Miller, et al. (2013) chose to manipulate reactance by designing messages to enhance resistance and counterarguing output.\n\nThey posit seven hypotheses in this study. H1 aims to discover if reactance-enhanced messages warning of a potential attitudinal threat negative affect and cognitions toward the attack message and its source. H2 considers if reactance-enhanced messages increase more counterarguments for the subject and a decrease in attitude change. H3 ponders if reactance-enhanced messages also result in more source derogation in terms of credibility and an increase in negative affect toward the source. These first three hypotheses consider the appraisal process of reactance. The final four hypotheses regard the impact of language and intensity as potentially more threatening (i.e. generating more resistance to the message because of increased counterattitudinal output and source derogation.\n\nTheir methods involve three phases. Phase 1 assesses the attitudes of their participants regarding four topics: \"legalization of marijuana, gun control legislation, legalization of gambling, and restriction of television violence\" (Miller et al., 2013, p. 135). Phase 2 presented an inoculation message relative to each participant's measured attitudes from Phase 1. The participants were divided into two groups, including the inoculation group and the control group. The questionnaire the participants received also gauged both their perceived threat and affect toward the attack messages. In Phase 3, each group was also given an attack message using either high-controlling or low-controlling language, and again, to evaluate the levels of perceived threat and affect.\n\nThe study concluded that support existed for all hypotheses. The results of their experimentation yielded the understanding that inoculation coupled with reactance-enhanced messages leads to \"stronger resistance effects\" (p. 148). Consistent with the medical analogy of inoculation theory, Miller, et al. (2013) liken reactance-enhanced messages to a \"booster shot,\" increasing the success of the inoculation. Another unique feature of the study is examining low-controlling language versus high-controlling language and its impact on affect and source credibility.\n\nSimilarly, Miller, et al. (2007) utilizes psychological reactance theory (Brehm, 1966, 1972; Brehm & Brehm, 1981) to avoid or eliminate source derogation and message rejection. In this study, their focus is instead Brehm's concept of restoration. Some of their ideas deal with low reactance and whether it can lead to more positive outcomes and if behavioral freedoms can be restored once threatened. As discussed in Miller, et al. (2013), this study ponders whether individuals know they have the behavioral freedom that is being threatened and whether they feel they are worthy of that freedom. This idea also ties into the emerging adult population of the above study and its affirmation that individuals in transitional stages will assert their threatened behavior freedoms (Voyer et al., 2005; Grandpre et al., 2003; Miller et al., 2006; Miller et al. 2007; Miller et al., 2013).\n\nMiller, et al. (2007) sought to determine how effective explicit and implicit language is at mitigating reactance. Particularly, restoration of freedom is a focus of this study, and gauging how concrete and abstract language informs an individual's belief that he or she has a choice. Some participants were given a persuasive appeal related to health promotion with a following postscripted message designed to remind them they have a choice as a method of restoring the participants' freedom. Using concrete language proved more effective at increasing the possibilities of message acceptance and source credibility. This study is relevant to inoculation research in that it lends credence to Miller, et al. (2013), which transparently incorporates psychological reactance theory in conjunction with inoculation theory to improve the quality of persuasive appeals in the future.\n\nFollowing Compton and Pfau's (2009) research on postinoculation talk, Ivanov, et al. (2012) explore how cognitive processing could lead to talk with others after receiving an inoculation message in which threat exists. The authors found that message processing leads to postinoculation talk which could potentially lead to stronger resistance to attack messages. Further, postinoculation talk acts virally, spreading inoculation through talk with others on issues that involve negative cognitions and affect. In previous research, the assumption that talk was subvocal (existing only intrapersonally) was prevalent, without concern for the impact of vocal talk with other individuals. Ivanov, et al. (2012) deems vocal talk important to the incubation process.\n\nTheir study concluded that individuals who receive an inoculation message that contains threat will talk to others about the message and talk more frequently than individuals who do not receive an inoculation message. Additionally, the act of postinoculation talk bolsters their attitudes and increases resistance to the message as well as increasing the likelihood that talk will generate a potentially viral effect–spreading inoculation to others through the act of vocal talk (Ivanov et al., 2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28702283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28702283", "title": "Islam and violence", "text": "Islam and violence\n\nMainstream Islamic law stipulates detailed regulations for the use of violence, including the use of violence within the family or household, the use of corporal and capital punishment, as well as how, when and against whom to wage war.\n\nSharia or sharia law is the basic Islamic religious law derived from the religious precepts of Islam, particularly the Quran and the opinions and life example of Muhammad (Hadith and Sunnah) which are the primary sources of sharia. For topics and issues not directly addressed in these primary sources, sharia is derived. The derivation differs between the various sects of Islam (Sunni and Shia are the majority), and various jurisprudence schools such as Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, Hanbali and Jafari. The sharia in these schools is derived hierarchically using one or more of the following guidelines: Ijma (usually the consensus of Muhammad's companions), Qiyas (analogy derived from the primary sources), Istihsan (ruling that serves the interest of Islam in the discretion of Islamic jurists) and Urf (customs). Sharia is a significant source of legislation in various Muslim countries. Some apply all or a majority of the sharia, and these include Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Brunei, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Yemen and Mauritania. In these countries, sharia-prescribed punishments such as beheading, flogging and stoning continue to be practiced judicially or extrajudicially. The introduction of sharia is a longstanding goal for Islamist movements globally, but attempts to impose sharia have been accompanied by controversy, violence, and even warfare.\nThe differences between sharia and secular law have led to an ongoing controversy as to whether sharia is compatible with secular forms of government, human rights, freedom of thought, and women's rights.\n\nThe first military rulings were formulated during the first hundred years after Muhammad established an Islamic state in Medina. These rulings evolved in accordance with the interpretations of the Quran (the Muslim Holy scriptures) and Hadith (the recorded traditions of Muhammad). The key themes in these rulings were the justness of war (see Justice in the Quran), and the injunction to jihad. The rulings do not cover feuds and armed conflicts in general. The millennium of Muslim conquests could be classified, technically, as a religious war.\n\nSome have pointed out that the current Western view of the need for a clear separation between Church and State was only first legislated into effect after 18 centuries of Christianity in the Western world. While some majority Muslim governments such as Turkey and many of the majority Muslim former Soviet republics have officially attempted to incorporate this principle of such a separation of powers into their governments, the concept within the Muslim world yet remains somewhat in a state of ongoing evolution and flux.\n\nIslam has never had any officially recognized tradition of pacifism, and throughout its history warfare has been an integral part of the Islamic theological system. Since the time of Muhammad, Islam has considered warfare to be a legitimate expression of religious faith, and has accepted its use for the defense of Islam. During approximately the first 1,000 years of its existence, the use of warfare by Muslim majority governments often resulted in the de facto propagation of Islam.\n\nWhile the early spread of Islam was often borne on the back of military conquest, within Christianity its early spread was often a matter of political expediency. The minority Sufi movement within Islam, which includes certain pacifist elements, has often been officially \"tolerated\" by many Muslim majority governments. Additionally, some notable Muslim clerics, such as Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan have developed alternative non-violent Muslim theologies. Some hold that the formal juristic definition of war in Islam constitutes an irrevokable and permanent link within Islam between the political and religious justifications for war. The Quranic concept of \"Jihad\" includes aspects of both a physical and an internal struggle.\n\nJihad () is an Islamic term referring to the religious duty of Muslims to maintain the religion. In Arabic, the word \"jihād\" is a noun meaning \"to strive, to apply oneself, to struggle, to persevere\". A person engaged in jihad is called a \"mujahid\", the plural of which is \"mujahideen\" (). The word \"jihad\" appears frequently in the Quran, often in the idiomatic expression \"striving in the way of God \"(al-jihad fi sabil Allah)\"\", to refer to the act of striving to serve the purposes of God on this earth. According to the classical Sharia law manual of Shafi'i, Reliance of the Traveller, Jihad means to war against non-Muslims, and is etymologically derived from the word mujahada signifying warfare to establish the religion. Jihad is sometimes referred to as the sixth pillar of Islam, though it occupies no such official status. In Twelver Shi'a Islam, however, jihad is one of the ten Practices of the Religion.\n\nMuslims and scholars do not all agree on its definition. Many observers—both Muslim and non-Muslim—as well as the \"Dictionary of Islam\", talk of jihad having two meanings: an inner spiritual struggle (the \"greater jihad\"), and an outer physical struggle against the enemies of Islam (the \"lesser jihad\") which may take a violent or non-violent form. Jihad is often translated as \"Holy War\", although this term is controversial. According to orientalist Bernard Lewis, \"the overwhelming majority of classical theologians, jurists\", and specialists in the hadith \"understood the obligation of jihad in a military sense.\" Javed Ahmad Ghamidi states that there is consensus among Islamic scholars that the concept of jihad will always include armed struggle against wrongdoers.\n\nAccording to Jonathan Berkey, jihad in the Quran was maybe originally intended against Muhammad's local enemies, the pagans of Mecca or the Jews of Medina, but the Quranic statements supporting jihad could be redirected once new enemies appeared. The first documentation of the law of Jihad was written by 'Abd al-Rahman al-Awza'i and Muhammad ibn al-Hasan al-Shaybani.\n\nThe first forms of military Jihad occurred after the migration (hijra) of Muhammad and his small group of followers to Medina from Mecca and the conversion of several inhabitants of the city to Islam. The first revelation concerning the struggle against the Meccans was surah 22, verses 39–40:\nThe main focus of Muhammad's later years was increasing the number of allies as well as the amount of territory under Muslim control.\n\nAccording to Richard Edwards and Sherifa Zuhur, offensive jihad was the type of jihad practiced by the early Muslim community, because their weakness meant \"no defensive action would have sufficed to protect them against the allied tribal forces determined to exterminate them.\" Jihad as a collective duty (\"Fard Kifaya\") and offensive jihad are synonymous in classical Islamic law and tradition, which also asserted that offensive jihad could only be declared by the caliph, but an \"individually incumbent jihad\" (\"Fard Ayn\") required only \"awareness of an oppression targeting Islam or Islamic peoples.\"\n\nTina Magaard, associate professor at the Aarhus University Department of Business Development and Technology, has analyzed the texts of the 10 largest religions in the world. In an interview, she stated that the basic texts of Islam call for violence and aggression against followers of other faiths to a greater extent than texts of other religions. She has also argued that they contain direct incitements to terrorism.\n\nAccording to a number of sources, Shia doctrine taught that jihad (or at least full scale jihad) can only be carried out under the leadership of the Imam (who will return from occultation to bring absolute justice to the world). However, \"struggles to defend Islam\" are permissible before his return.\n\nGhazi () is an Arabic term originally referring to an individual who participates in Ghazw (غزو), meaning military expeditions or raiding; after the emergence of Islam, it took on new connotations of religious warfare. The related word Ghazwa (غزوة) is a singulative form meaning a battle or military expedition, often one led by Muhammad.\n\nThe Caravan raids were a series of raids in which Muhammed and his companions participated. The raids were generally offensive and carried out to gather intelligence or seize the trade goods of caravans financed by the Quraysh. The raids were intended to weaken the economy of Mecca by Muhammad. His followers were also impoverished. Muhammad broke an Arab tradition of not attacking one's own kinsmen by raiding caravans.\n\nIslamic Doctrines teachings on matters of war and peace have become topics of heated discussion in recent years. Charles Matthews writes that there is a \"large debate about what the Quran commands as regards the 'sword verses' and the 'peace verses'\". According to Matthews, \"the question of the proper prioritization of these verses, and how they should be understood in relation to one another, has been a central issue for Islamic thinking about war.\" According to Dipak Gupta, \"much of the religious justification of violence against nonbelievers (Dar ul Kufr) by the promoters of jihad is based on the Quranic “sword verses.”\nThe Quran contains passages that could be used to glorify or endorse violence.\n\nOn the other hand, other scholars argue that such verses of the Qur'an are interpreted out of context, Micheline R. Ishay has argued that \"the Quran justifies wars for self-defense to protect Islamic communities against internal or external aggression by non-Islamic populations, and wars waged against those who 'violate their oaths' by breaking a treaty\". and British orientalist Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner stated that jihad, even in self-defence, is \"strictly limited\".\n\nHowever, according to Oliver Leaman, a number of Islamic jurists asserted the primacy of the “sword verses” over the conciliatory verses in specific historical circumstances. For example, according to Diane Morgan, Ibn Kathir (1301–1372) asserted that the Sword Verse abrogated all peace treaties that had been promulgated between Muhammad and idolaters.\n\nIslamic modernists reject the abrogating status of the sword verses, which would result in the abrogation (naskh) of numerous Quranic verses that counsel peace and reconciliation.\n\nPrior to the Hijra travel Muhammad struggled non-violently against his oppressors in Mecca. It wasn't until after the exile that the Quranic revelations began to adopt a more defensive perspective. From that point onward, those dubious about the need to go to war were typically portrayed as lazy cowards allowing their love of peace to become a fitna to them.\n\nThe context of the Quran is elucidated by Hadith (the teachings, deeds and sayings of Muhammad). Of the 199 references to jihad in perhaps the most standard collection of hadith—Bukhari—all refer to warfare.\n\nQuranists reject the hadith and follow the Quran only. The extent to which Quranists reject the authenticity of the Sunnah varies, but the more established groups have thoroughly criticised the authenticity of the hadith and refused it for many reasons, the most prevalent being the Quranist claim that hadith is not mentioned in the Quran as a source of Islamic theology and practice, was not recorded in written form until more than two centuries after the death of Muhammed, and contain perceived internal errors and contradictions.\n\nAccording to Ahmadi Muslim belief, Jihad can be divided into three categories: \"Jihad al-Akbar\" (Greater Jihad) is that against the self and refers to striving against one's low desires such as anger, lust and hatred; \"Jihad al-Kabīr\" (Great Jihad) refers to the peaceful propagation of Islam, with special emphasis on spreading the true message of Islam by the \"pen\"; \"Jihad al-Asghar\" (Smaller Jihad) is only for self-defence under situations of extreme religious persecution whilst not being able to follow one's fundamental religious beliefs, and even then only under the direct instruction of the Caliph. Ahmadi Muslims point out that as per Islamic prophecy, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad rendered Jihad in its military form as inapplicable in the present age as Islam, as a religion, is not being attacked militarily but through literature and other media, and therefore the response should be likewise. They believe that the answer of hate should be given by love. Concerning terrorism, the fourth Caliph of the Community writes:\nVarious Ahmadis scholars, such as Muhammad Ali, Maulana Sadr-ud-Din and Basharat Ahmad, argue that when the Quran's verses are read in context, it clearly appears that the Quran prohibits initial aggression, and allows fighting only in self-defense.\n\nAhmadi Muslims believe that no verse of the Quran abrogates or cancels another verse. All Quranic verses have equal validity, in keeping with their emphasis on the \"unsurpassable beauty and unquestionable validity of the Qur'ān\". The harmonization of apparently incompatible rulings is resolved through their juridical deflation in Ahmadī \"fiqh\", so that a ruling (considered to have applicability only to the specific situation for which it was revealed), is effective not because it was revealed last, but because it is most suited to the situation at hand.\n\nAhmadis are considered non-Muslims by the mainstream Muslims since they consider Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, founder of Ahmadiyya, as the promised Mahdi and Messiah. In a number of Islamic countries, especially Sunni-dominated nations, Ahmadis have been considered heretics and non-Muslim, and have been subject to various forms of religious persecution, discrimination and systematic oppression since the movement's inception in 1889.\n\nThe Islamic criminal law is criminal law in accordance with Sharia. Strictly speaking, Islamic law does not have a distinct corpus of \"criminal law.\" It divides crimes into three different categories depending on the offense – \"Hudud\" (crimes \"against God\", whose punishment is fixed in the Quran and the Hadiths); \"Qisas\" (crimes against an individual or family whose punishment is equal retaliation in the Quran and the Hadiths); and \"Tazir\" (crimes whose punishment is not specified in the Quran and the Hadiths, and is left to the discretion of the ruler or Qadi, i.e. judge). Some add the fourth category of \"Siyasah\" (crimes against government), while others consider it as part of either Hadd or Tazir crimes.\n\n\nThese punishments range from public lashing to publicly stoning to death, amputation of hands and crucifixion. However, in most Muslim nations in modern times public stoning and execution are relatively uncommon, although they are found in Muslim nations that follow a strict interpretation of \"sharia\", such as Saudi Arabia and Iran.\n\n\nBeheading was the normal method of executing the death penalty under classical Islamic law. It was also, together with hanging, one of the ordinary methods of execution in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nCurrently, Saudi Arabia is the only country in the world which uses decapitation within its Islamic legal system. The majority of executions carried out by the Wahhabi government of Saudi Arabia are public beheadings, which usually cause mass gatherings but are not allowed to be photographed or filmed.\n\nBeheading is reported to have been carried out by state authorities in Iran as recently as 2001, but as of 2014 is no longer in use.\nIt is also a legal form of execution in Qatar and Yemen, but the punishment has been suspended in those countries.\n\nIn recent times, non-state Jihadist organization such as ISIS and Tawhid and Jihad use or have used beheadings. Since 2002, they have circulated beheading videos as a form of terror and propaganda. Their actions have been condemned by other militant and terrorist groups, and well as by mainstream Islamic scholars and organizations.\n\nRajm () is an Arabic word that means \"stoning\". It is commonly used to refer to the \"Hudud\" punishment wherein an organized group throws stones at a convicted individual until that person dies. Under Islamic law, it is the prescribed punishment in cases of adultery committed by a married man or married woman. The conviction requires a confession from either the adulterer/adulteress, or the testimony of four witnesses (as prescribed by the Quran in Surah an-Nur verse 4), or pregnancy outside of marriage.\n\n\"See below Sexual crimes\"\n\nBlasphemy in Islam is impious utterance or action concerning God, Muhammad or anything considered sacred in Islam. The Quran admonishes blasphemy, but does not specify any worldly punishment for it. The hadiths, which are another source of Sharia, suggest various punishments for blasphemy, which may include death. There are a number of surah in Qur'an relating to blasphemy, from which Quranic verses 5:33 and 33:57-61 have been most commonly used in Islamic history to justify and punish blasphemers. Various fiqhs (schools of jurisprudence) of Islam have different punishment for blasphemy, depending on whether blasphemer is Muslim or non-Muslim, man or woman. The punishment can be fines, imprisonment, flogging, amputation, hanging, or beheading.\n\nMuslim clerics may call for the punishment of an alleged blasphemer by issuing a fatwā.\n\nAccording to Islamic sources Nadr ibn al-Harith, who was an Arab Pagan doctor from Taif, used to tell stories of Rustam and Esfandiyār to the Arabs and scoffed Muhammad. After the battle of Badr, al-Harith was captured and, in retaliation, Muhammad ordered his execution in hands of Ali.\n\nApostasy in Islam is commonly defined as the conscious abandonment of Islam by a Muslim in word or through deed. A majority considers apostasy in Islam to be some form of religious crime, although a minority does not.\n\nThe definition of apostasy from Islam and its appropriate punishment(s) are controversial, and they vary among Islamic scholars. Apostasy in Islam may include in its scope not only the renunciation of Islam by a Muslim and the joining of another religion or becoming non-religious, or questioning or denying any \"fundamental tenet or creed\" of Islam such as the divinity of God, prophethood of Muhammad, or mocking God, or worshipping one or more idols. The apostate (or murtadd مرتد) term has also been used for people of religions that trace their origins to Islam, such as the Bahá'ís in Iran, but who were never actually Muslims themselves. Apostasy in Islam does not include acts against Islam or conversion to another religion that is involuntary, due mental disorders, forced or done as concealment out of fear of persecution or during war (Taqiyya or Kitman).\n\nHistorically, the majority of Islamic scholars considered apostasy a hudud crime as well as a sin, an act of treason punishable with the death penalty, and the Islamic law on apostasy and the punishment one of the immutable laws under Islam. The punishment for apostasy includes state enforced annulment of his or her marriage, seizure of the person's children and property with automatic assignment to guardians and heirs, and a death penalty for apostates, typically after a waiting period to allow the apostate time to repent and return to Islam. Female apostates could be either executed, according to Shafi'i, Maliki, and Hanbali schools of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh), or imprisoned until she reverts to Islam as advocated by the Sunni Hanafi school and by Shi'a scholars. The kind of apostasy generally deemed to be punishable by the jurists was of the political kind, although there were considerable legal differences of opinion on this matter. There where early Islamic scholars that did not agree with the death penalty and prescribed indefinite imprisonment until repentance. The Hanafi jurist Sarakhsi also called for different punishments between the non-seditious religious apostasy and that of seditious and political nature, or high treason. Some modern scholars also argue that the death penalty is an inappropriate punishment, inconsistent with the Quranic injunctions such as Quran 88:21-22 or \"no compulsion in religion\"; and/or that it is not a general rule but enacted at a time when the early Muslim community faced enemies who threatened its unity, safety, and security, and needed to prevent and punish the equivalent of desertion or treason, and should be enforced only if apostasy becomes a mechanism of public disobedience and disorder (\"fitna\"). According to Khalid Abu El Fadl, moderate Muslims reject such penalty.\n\nTo the Ahmadi Muslim sect, there is no punishment for apostasy, neither in the Qur'an nor as taught by the founder of Islam, Muhammad. This position of the Ahmadi sect is not widely accepted in other sects of Islam, and the Ahmadi sect acknowledges that major sects have a different interpretation and definition of apostasy in Islam. Ulama of major sects of Islam consider the Ahmadi Muslim sect as kafirs (infidels) and apostates.\n\nUnder current laws in Islamic countries, the actual punishment for the apostate ranges from execution to prison term to no punishment. Islamic nations with sharia courts use civil code to void the Muslim apostate's marriage and deny child custody rights, as well as his or her inheritance rights for apostasy. Twenty-three Muslim-majority countries, as of 2013, additionally covered apostasy in Islam through their criminal laws. Today, apostasy is a crime in 23 out 49 Muslim majority countries; in many other Muslim nations such as Indonesia and Morocco, apostasy is indirectly covered by other laws. It is subject in some countries, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia, to the death penalty, although executions for apostasy are rare. Apostasy is legal in secular Muslim countries such as Turkey. In numerous Islamic majority countries, many individuals have been arrested and punished for the crime of apostasy without any associated capital crimes. In a 2013 report based on an international survey of religious attitudes, more than 50% of the Muslim population in 6 Islamic countries supported the death penalty for any Muslim who leaves Islam (apostasy). A similar survey of the Muslim population in the United Kingdom, in 2007, found nearly a third of 16 to 24-year-old faithfuls believed that Muslims who convert to another religion should be executed, while less than a fifth of those over 55 believed the same.\n\nZina is an Islamic law, both in the four schools of Sunni fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) and the two schools of Shi'a fiqh, concerning unlawful sexual relations between Muslims who are not married to one another through a Nikah. It includes extramarital sex and premarital sex, such as adultery (consensual sexual relations outside marriage), fornication (consensual sexual intercourse between two unmarried persons), illegal sex by a slave girl, and homosexuality (consensual sexual relations between same-sex partners). Traditionally, a married or unmarried Muslim male could have sex outside marriage with a non-Muslim slave girl, with or without her consent, and such sex was not considered zina.\n\nAccording to Quran 24:4, the proof that adultery has occurred requires four eyewitnesses to the act, which must have been committed by a man and a woman not validly married to one another, and the act must have been wilfully committed by consenting adults. Proof can also be determined by a confession. But this confession must be voluntary, and based on legal counsel; it must be repeated on four separate occasions, and made by a person who is sane. Otherwise, the accuser is then accorded a sentence for defamation (which means flogging or a prison sentence), and his or her testimony is excluded in all future court cases. There is disagreement between Islamic scholars on whether female eyewitnesses are acceptable witnesses in cases of zina (for other crimes, sharia considers two female witnesses equal the witness of one male).\n\nZina is a Hudud crime, stated in multiple sahih hadiths to deserve the stoning (Rajm) punishment. In others stoning is prescribed as punishment for illegal sex between man and woman, In some sunnah, the method of stoning, by first digging a pit and partly burying the person's lower half in it, is described. Based on these hadiths, in some Muslim countries, married adulterers are sentenced to death, while consensual sex between unmarried people is sentenced with flogging a 100 times. Adultery can be punished by up to one hundred lashes, though this is not binding in nature and the final decision will always be in the hands of a judge appointed by the state or community. However, no mention of stoning or capital punishment for adultery is found in the Quran and only mentioning lashing as punishment for adultery. Nevertheless, most scholars maintain that there is sufficient evidence from hadiths to derive a ruling.\n\nSharia law makes a distinction between adultery and rape and applies different rules. In the case of rape, the adult male perpetrator (i.e. rapist) of such an act is to receive the ḥadd zinā, but the non-consenting or invalidly consenting female (i.e. rape victim), proved by four eyewitnesses, is to be regarded as innocent of zinā and relieved of the ḥadd punishment. Confession and four witness-based prosecutions of zina are rare. Most cases of prosecutions are when the woman becomes pregnant, or when she has been raped, seeks justice and the sharia authorities charge her for zina, instead of duly investigating the rapist. Some fiqhs (schools of Islamic jurisprudence) created the principle of \"shubha\" (doubt), wherein there would be no zina charges if a Muslim man claims he believed he was having sex with a woman he was married to or with a woman he owned as a slave.\n\nZina only applies for unlawful sex between free Muslims; the rape of a non-Muslim slave woman is not zina as the act is considered an offense not against the raped slave woman, but against the owner of the slave.\n\nThe zina and rape laws of countries under Sharia law are the subjects of a global human rights debate and one of many items of reform and secularization debate with respect to Islam. Contemporary human right activists refer this as a new phase in the politics of gender in Islam, the battle between forces of traditionalism and modernism in the Muslim world, and the use of religious texts of Islam through state laws to sanction and practice gender-based violence.\n\nIn contrast to human rights activists, Islamic scholars and Islamist political parties consider 'universal human rights' arguments as imposition of a non-Muslim culture on Muslim people, a disrespect of customary cultural practices and sexual codes that are central to Islam. Zina laws come under hudud—seen as crime against Allah; the Islamists refer to this pressure and proposals to reform zina and other laws as ‘contrary to Islam’. Attempts by international human rights to reform religious laws and codes of Islam has become the Islamist rallying platforms during political campaigns.\n\nThe Quran contains seven references to fate of \"the people of Lut\", and their destruction is associated explicitly with their sexual practices:\nGiven that the Quran is allegedly vague regarding the punishment of homosexual sodomy, Islamic jurists, turned to the collections of the hadith and seerah (accounts of Muhammad's life) to support their argument for Hudud punishment. There were varying opinions on how the death penalty was to be carried out. Abu Bakr apparently recommended toppling a wall on the evil-doer, or else burning alive, while Ali bin Abi Talib ordered death by stoning for one \"luti\" and had another thrown head-first from the top of a minaret—according to Ibn Abbas, this last punishment must be followed by stoning. With few exceptions all scholars of Sharia, or Islamic law, interpret homosexual activity as a punishable offence as well as a sin. There is no specific punishment prescribed, however, and this is usually left to the discretion of the local authorities on Islam. There are several methods by which sharia jurists have advocated the punishment of gays or lesbians who are sexually active. One form of execution involves an individual convicted of homosexual acts being stoned to death by a crowd of Muslims. Other Muslim jurists have established ijma ruling that those committing homosexual acts be thrown from rooftops or high places, and this is the perspective of most Salafists.\n\nToday in most of the Islamic world homosexuality is not socially or legally accepted. In Afghanistan, Brunei, Gaza Strip, Iran, Mauritania, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, homosexual activity carries the death penalty. In others, such as Algeria, Maldives, Malaysia, Pakistan, Qatar, Somalia and Syria, it is illegal.\n\nSame-sex sexual intercourse is legal in 20 Muslim-majority nations (Albania, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Chad, Djibouti, Guinea-Bissau, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Mali, Niger, Tajikistan, Turkey, West Bank (State of Palestine), and most of Indonesia (except in Aceh and South Sumatra provinces, where bylaws against LGBT rights have been passed), as well as Northern Cyprus). In Albania, Lebanon, and Turkey, there have been discussions about legalizing same-sex marriage. Homosexual relations between females are legal in Kuwait, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, but homosexual acts between males are illegal.\n\nMost Muslim-majority countries and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) have opposed moves to advance LGBT rights at the United Nations, in the General Assembly and/or the UNHRC. In May 2016, a group of 51 Muslim states blocked 11 gay and transgender organizations from attending a high-level meeting at the United Nations on ending AIDS. However, Albania, Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone have signed a UN Declaration supporting LGBT rights. Kosovo as well as the (internationally not recognized) Muslim-majority Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus also have anti-discrimination laws in place.\n\nIn June 12, 2016, at least 49 people were killed and 50 injured in a mass shooting at Pulse gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, in the second deadliest mass shooting by an individual and the deadliest incident of violence against LGBT people in U.S. history. The shooter, Omar Mateen, pledged allegiance to ISIL. The act has been described by investigators as an Islamic terrorist attack and a hate crime, despite the revelation that he was suffering from mental health issues and acted alone. Upon further review, investigators indicated Omar Mateen showed few signs of radicalization, suggesting that the shooter's pledge to ISIL may have been a calculated move to garner more news coverage. Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Turkmenistan and United Arab Emirates condemned the attack. Many American Muslims, including community leaders, swiftly condemned the attack. Prayer vigils for the victims were held at mosques across the country. The Florida mosque where Mateen sometimes prayed issued a statement condemning the attack and offering condolences to the victims. The Council on American–Islamic Relations called the attack \"monstrous\" and offered its condolences to the victims. CAIR Florida urged Muslims to donate blood and contribute funds in support of the victims' families.\n\nWhile some authors, such as Phyllis Chesler, argue that Islam is connected to violence against women, especially in the form of honor killings, others, such as Tahira Shahid Khan, a professor specializing in women's issues at the Aga Khan University in Pakistan, argue that it is the domination of men and inferior status of women in society that lead to these acts, not the religion itself. Public (such as through the media) and political discourse debating the relation between Islam, immigration, and violence against women is highly controversial in many Western countries.\n\nMany scholars claim Shari'a law encourages domestic violence against women, when a husband suspects \"nushuz\" (disobedience, disloyalty, rebellion, ill conduct) in his wife. Other scholars claim wife beating, for \"nashizah\", is not consistent with modern perspectives of Qur'an. Some conservative translations find that Muslim husbands are permitted to act what is known in Arabic as Idribuhunna with the use of \"light force,\" and sometimes as much as to strike, hit, chastise, or beat.\n\nOther interpretations of the verse claim it does not support hitting a woman, but separating from her. Variations in interpretation are due to different schools of Islamic jurisprudence, histories and politics of religious institutions, conversions, reforms, and education.\n\nAlthough Islam permits women to divorce for domestic violence, they are subject to the laws of their nation which might make it quite difficult for a woman to obtain a divorce. In deference to Surah 4:34, many nations with Shari'a law have refused to consider or prosecute cases of domestic abuse.\n\nIslamic terrorism is, by definition, terrorist acts committed by Muslim groups or individuals who profess Islamic or Islamist motivations or goals. Islamic terrorists have relied on particular interpretations of the tenets of the Quran and the Hadith, citing these scriptures to justify violent tactics including mass murder, genocide, child-molestation and slavery. In recent decades, incidents of Islamic terrorism have occurred on a global scale, occurring not only in Muslim-majority states in Africa and Asia, but also abroad in Europe, Russia, and the United States, and such attacks have targeted Muslims and non-Muslims. In a number of the worst-affected Muslim-majority regions, these terrorists have been met by armed, independent resistance groups, state actors and their proxies, and politically liberal Muslim protesters.\n\nIslam does not have any normative tradition of pacifism, and warfare has been integral part of Islamic history both for the defense and the spread of the faith since the time of Muhammad. Prior to the Hijra travel Muhammad struggled non-violently against his opposition in Mecca. It was not until after the exile that the Quranic revelations began to adopt a more violent perspective. Fighting in self-defense is not only legitimate but considered obligatory upon Muslims, according to the Qur'an. The Qur'an, however, says that should the enemy's hostile behavior cease, then the reason for engaging the enemy also lapses.\nHowever, different Muslim movements through history had linked pacifism with Muslim theology.\n\nPhilip W. Sutton and Stephen Vertigans describe Western views on Islam as based on a stereotype of it as an inherently violent religion, characterizing it as a 'religion of the sword'. They characterize the image of Islam in the Western world as \"dominated by conflict, aggression, 'fundamentalism', and global-scale violent terrorism.\"\n\nJuan Eduardo Campo writes that, \"Europeans (have) viewed Islam in various ways: sometimes as a backward, violent religion; sometimes as an Arabian Nights fantasy; and sometimes as a complex and changing product of history and social life.\" Robert Gleave writes that, \"at the centre of popular conceptions of Islam as a violent religion are the punishments carried out by regimes hoping to bolster both their domestic and international Islamic credentials.\"\n\nThe 9/11 attack on the US has led many non-Muslims to indict Islam as a violent religion. According to Corrigan and Hudson, \"some conservative Christian leaders (have) complained that Islam (is) incompatible with what they believed to be a Christian America.\" Examples of evangelical Christians who have expressed such sentiments include Franklin Graham, an American Christian evangelist and missionary, and Pat Robertson, an American media mogul, executive chairman, and a former Southern Baptist minister. According to a survey conducted by LifeWay Research, a research group affiliated with the Southern Baptist Convention, said that two out of three Protestant pastors believe that Islam is a \"dangerous\" religion. Ed Stetzer, President of LifeWay, said \"It's important to note our survey asked whether pastors viewed Islam as 'dangerous,' but that does not necessarily mean 'violent.\" \nDr. Johannes J.G. Jansen was an Arabist who wrote an essay called “Religious Roots of Muslim Violence”, in which he discusses at length all aspects of the issue and unequivocally concludes that Muslim violence is mostly based on Islamic religious commands.\n\nMedia coverage on terrorist attacks play a critical role in creating negative perceptions on Islam and Muslims. Powell described how Islam initially appeared in U.S. news cycles because of its relationships to oil, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, and terrorism (92). Thus the audience was provided the base to associate Muslims to control of the resource of oil, war, and terrorism. A total of 11 terrorist attacks in the U.S. soil since the 9/11 and their content coverage (in 1,638 news stories) in the national media had been analyzed \"through frames composed of labels, common themes, and rhetorical associations\" (Powell 94). The key findings are summarized below: \n\nIslamophobia denotes the prejudice against, hatred towards, or fear of the religion of Islam or Muslims. While the term is now widely used, both the term itself and the underlying concept of Islamophobia have been heavily criticized. In order to differentiate between prejudiced views of Islam and secularly motivated criticism of Islam other terms have been proposed. The causes and characteristics of Islamophobia are still debated. Some commentators have posited an increase in Islamophobia resulting from the September 11 attacks, while others have associated it with the increased presence of Muslims in the United States, the European Union and other secular nations. Steven Salaita contends that indeed since 9/11, Arab Americans have evolved from what Nadine Naber described as an invisible group in the United States into a highly visible community that directly or indirectly has an effect on the United States' culture wars, foreign policy, presidential elections and legislative tradition.\n\nIn response to these perceptions, Ram Puniyani, a secular activist and writer, says that \"Islam does not condone violence but, like other religions, does believe in self-defence\".\n\nMark Juergensmeyer describes the teachings of Islam as ambiguous about violence. He states that, like all religions, Islam occasionally allows for force while stressing that the main spiritual goal is one of nonviolence and peace. Ralph W. Hood, Peter C. Hill and Bernard Spilka write in \"The Psychology of Religion: An Empirical Approach\", \"Although it would be a mistake to think that Islam is inherently a violent religion, it would be equally inappropriate to fail to understand the conditions under which believers might feel justified in acting violently against those whom their tradition feels should be opposed.\"\n\nSimilarly, Chandra Muzaffar, a political scientist, Islamic reformist and activist, says, \"The Quranic exposition on resisting aggression, oppression and injustice lays down the parameters within which fighting or the use of violence is legitimate. What this means is that one can use the Quran as the criterion for when violence is legitimate and when it is not.\"\n\nPew research in 2010 found that in Jordan, Lebanon, and Nigeria, roughly 50% of Muslims had favourable views of Hezbollah, and that Hamas also saw similar support. Counter-terrorism researchers suggests that support for suicide bombings is rooted in opposition to real or perceived foreign military occupation, rather than Islam, according to a Department of Defense-funded study by University of Chicago researcher Robert Pape.\n\nWriting for the National Post, Barbara Kay stated that honor killing is not strictly a Muslim phenomenon and that it is enabled by factors including sexism, dowries and a lack of a dependable legal system. Nevertheless, Kay says that the murders are a Muslim phenomenon in the West, where 95% of honor killings are perpetrated by \"Muslim fathers and brothers or their proxies\". Kay warns that females do not dissent as one might expect either: The women may describe victims of honor killing as having needed punishment.\n\nThe Pew Research Center also found that support for the death penalty as punishment for \"people who leave the Muslim religion\" was 86% in Jordan, 84% in Egypt, 76% in Pakistan, 80% in Nigeria (all very large Muslim populations) and yet lower in some other countries. The different factors at play (e.g. sectarianism, poverty, etc.) and their relative impacts are not clarified.\n\nAccording to 2006 data, Pew says that 46% of Nigerian Muslims, 29% of Jordan Muslims, 28% of Egyptian Muslims, 15% of British Muslims, and 8% of American Muslims thought suicide bombings are often or sometimes justified. The figure was unchanged – still 8% – for American Muslims by 2011.\n\nPolls have found Muslim-Americans to report less violent views than any other religious group in America. 89% of Muslim-Americans claimed that the killing of civilians is never justified, compared to 71% of Catholics and Protestants, 75% of Jews, and 76% of atheists and non-religious groups.\n\nThe Pew Research Center's 2013 poll showed that the majority of 14,244 Muslim, Christian and other respondents in 14 countries with substantial Muslim populations are concerned about Islamic extremism and hold negative views on known terrorist groups.\n\nGallup poll collected extensive data in a project called \"Who Speaks for Islam?\". John Esposito and Dalia Mogahed present data relevant to Islamic views on peace, and more, in their book \"Who Speaks for Islam?\" The book reports Gallup poll data from random samples in over 35 countries using Gallup's various research techniques (e.g. pairing male and female interviewers, testing the questions beforehand, communicating with local leaders when approval is necessary, travelling by foot if that is the only way to reach a region, etc.) \n\nThere was a great deal of data. It suggests, firstly, that individuals who dislike America and consider the September 11 attacks to be \"perfectly justified\" form a statistically distinct group, with much more extreme views. The authors call this 7% of Muslims \"Politically Radicalized\". They chose that title \"because of their radical political orientation\" and clarify \"we are not saying that all in this group commit acts of violence. However, those with extremist views are a potential source for recruitment or support for terrorist groups.\" The data also indicates that poverty is not simply to blame for the comparatively radical views of this 7% of Muslims, who tend to be better educated than moderates.\n\nThe authors say that, contrary to what the media may indicate, most Muslims believe that the September 11 attacks cannot actually be justified at all. The authors called this 55% of Muslims \"Moderates\". Included in that category were an additional 12% who said the attacks \"almost\" cannot be justified at all (thus 67% of Muslims were classified as Moderates). 26% of Muslims were neither moderates nor radicals, leaving the remaining 7% called \"Politically Radicalized\". Esposito and Mogahed explain that the labels should not be taken as being perfectly definitive. Because there may be individuals who would generally not be considered radical, although they believe the attacks were justified, or vice versa.\n\n"}
{"id": "5041754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5041754", "title": "Landline (TV series)", "text": "Landline (TV series)\n\nLandline is an Australian national rural issues television program broadcast on ABC. Presented by Pip Courtney since 2012, the program discusses rural issues regarding farming, mining and fisheries from around Australia. Each week the show wraps up with an update on commodity prices for livestock and mining, and detailed national weather rainfall reports.\n\nThe program premiered in March 1991. The program is also repeated the following Monday at . \"Landline\" was the first program that broadcast on ABC2 when the channel was launched at on 7 March 2005. On the newly launched channel, the program is broadcast on Mondays at , , and . Previous presenters include Deborah Knight, Ticky Fullerton, Anne Kruger, and Sally Sara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30716793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30716793", "title": "List of virtual communities with more than 100 million active users", "text": "List of virtual communities with more than 100 million active users\n\nThis is a list of current virtual communities with more than 100 million active users. , 46% of the world's human population (or 3.4 billion) and 4.15 billion have, at the end of December 2017, used the services of the Internet within the past year—over 100 times more people than in 1995 (see Global Internet usage).\nNote: An \"active user\" is defined as a user who has interacted with the community in the last 30 days while logged in. This metric is different from monthly unique visitors, which includes unregistered readers who are only consumers and not creators of content. See also monthly active users.\n\n"}
{"id": "25597820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25597820", "title": "Lucretia Mott", "text": "Lucretia Mott\n\nLucretia Mott (née Coffin; January 3, 1793 – November 11, 1880) was a U.S. Quaker, abolitionist, women's rights activist, and social reformer. She had formed the idea of reforming the position of women in society when she was amongst the women excluded from the World Anti-Slavery Convention in 1840. In 1848 she was invited by Jane Hunt to a meeting that led to the first meeting about women's rights. Mott helped write the Declaration of Sentiments during the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention.\n\nHer speaking abilities made her an important abolitionist, feminist, and reformer. When slavery was outlawed in 1865, she advocated giving former slaves who had been bound to slavery laws within the boundaries of the United States, whether male or female, the right to vote. She remained a central figure in the abolition and suffrage movement until her death in 1880.\n\nMott was a Quaker preacher early in her adulthood.\n\nLucretia Coffin was born in Nantucket, Massachusetts, the second child of Anna Folger and Thomas Coffin. Through her mother, she was a descendent of Peter Folger and Mary Morrell Folger. Her cousin was Framer Benjamin Franklin, while other Folger relatives were Tories.\n\nShe was sent at the age of 13 to the Nine Partners School, located in Dutchess County, New York, which was run by the Society of Friends. There she became a teacher after graduation. Her interest in women's rights began when she discovered that male teachers at the school were paid significantly more than female staff. After her family moved to Philadelphia, she and James Mott, another teacher at Nine Partners, followed.\n\nLike many Quakers, Mott considered slavery to be evil. Inspired in part by minister Elias Hicks, she and other Quakers refused to use cotton cloth, cane sugar, and other slavery-produced goods. In 1821, Mott became a Quaker minister. With her husband's support, she traveled extensively as a minister, and her sermons emphasized the Quaker inward light, or the presence of the Divine within every individual. Her sermons also included her free produce and anti-slavery sentiments. In 1833, her husband helped found the American Anti-Slavery Society. By then an experienced minister and abolitionist, Lucretia Mott was the only woman to speak at the organizational meeting in Philadelphia. She tested the language of the society's Constitution and bolstered support when many delegates were precarious. Days after the conclusion of the convention, at the urging of other delegates, Mott and other white and black women founded the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society. Integrated from its founding, the organization opposed both slavery and racism, and developed close ties to Philadelphia's Black community. Mott herself often preached at Black parishes. Around this time, Mott's sister-in-law, Abigail Lydia Mott, and brother-in-law, Lindley Murray Moore, were helping to found the Rochester Anti-Slavery Society (see Julia Griffiths).\n\nAmidst social persecution by abolition opponents and pain from dyspepsia, Mott continued her work for the abolitionist cause. She managed their household budget to extend hospitality to guests, including fugitive slaves, and donated to charities. Mott was praised for her ability to maintain her household while contributing to the cause. In the words of one editor, \"She is proof that it is possible for a woman to widen her sphere without deserting it.\" Mott and other female activists also organized anti-slavery fairs to raise awareness and revenue, providing much of the funding for the movement.\n\nWomen's participation in the anti-slavery movement threatened societal norms. Many members of the abolitionist movement opposed public activities by women, especially public speaking. At the Congregational Church General Assembly, delegates agreed on a pastoral letter warning women that lecturing directly defied St. Paul's instruction for women to keep quiet in church.() Other people opposed women's speaking to mixed crowds of men and women, which they called \"promiscuous.\" Others were uncertain about what was proper, as the rising popularity of the Grimké sisters and other women speakers attracted support for abolition.\n\nMott attended all three national Anti-Slavery Conventions of American Women (1837, 1838, 1839). During the 1838 convention in Philadelphia, a mob destroyed Pennsylvania Hall, a newly opened meeting place built by abolitionists. Mott and the white and black women delegates linked arms to exit the building safely through the crowd. Afterward, the mob targeted her home and Black institutions and neighborhoods in Philadelphia. As a friend redirected the mob, Mott waited in her parlor, willing to face her violent opponents.\n\nMott was involved in a number of anti-slavery organizations, including the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society, the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society (founded in 1838), the American Free Produce Association, and the American Anti-Slavery Society.\n\nIn June 1840, Mott attended the General Anti-Slavery Convention, better known as the World's Anti-Slavery Convention, in London, England. In spite of Mott's status as one of six women delegates, before the conference began, the men voted to exclude the American women from participating, and the female delegates were required to sit in a segregated area. Anti-slavery leaders didn't want the women's rights issue to become associated with the cause of ending slavery worldwide and dilute the focus on abolition. In addition, the social mores of the time generally prohibited women's participation in public political life. Several of the American men attending the convention, including William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips, protested the women's exclusion. Garrison, Nathaniel Peabody Rogers, William Adam, and African American activist Charles Lenox Remond sat with the women in the segregated area.\n\nActivists Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her husband Henry Brewster Stanton attended the convention while on their honeymoon. Stanton admired Mott, and the two women became united as friends and allies.\n\nOne Irish reporter deemed her the \"Lioness of the Convention\". Mott was among the women included in the commemorative painting of the convention, which also featured female British activists: Elizabeth Pease, Mary Anne Rawson, Anne Knight, Elizabeth Tredgold and Mary Clarkson, daughter of Thomas Clarkson.\n\nEncouraged by active debates in England and Scotland, Mott also returned with new energy for the anti-slavery cause in the United States. She continued an active public lecture schedule, with destinations including the major Northern cities of New York City and Boston, as well as travel over several weeks to slave-owning states, with speeches in Baltimore, Maryland and other cities in Virginia. She arranged to meet with slave owners to discuss the morality of slavery. In the District of Columbia, Mott timed her lecture to coincide with the return of Congress from Christmas recess; more than 40 Congressmen attended. She had a personal audience with President John Tyler who, impressed with her speech, said, \"I would like to hand Mr. Calhoun over to you\", referring to the senator and abolition opponent.\n\nMott and Cady Stanton became well acquainted at the World's Anti-Slavery Convention. Cady Stanton later recalled that they first discussed the possibility of a women's rights convention in London.\n\nWomen's rights activists advocated a range of issues, including equality in marriage, such as women's property rights and rights to their earnings. At that time it was very difficult to obtain divorce, and fathers were almost always granted custody of children. Cady Stanton sought to make divorce easier to obtain and to safeguard women's access to and control of their children. Though some early feminists disagreed, and viewed Cady Stanton's proposal as scandalous, Mott stated \"her great faith in Elizabeth Stanton's quick instinct & clear insight in all appertaining to women's rights.\"\n\nMott's theology was influenced by Unitarians including Theodore Parker and William Ellery Channing as well as early Quakers including William Penn. She thought that \"the kingdom of God is within man\" (1749) and was part of the group of religious liberals who formed the Free Religious Association in 1867, with Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise, Ralph Waldo Emerson and Thomas Wentworth Higginson. Her theological position was particularly influential among Quakers, as in the future many harked back to her positions, sometimes without even knowing it..\n\nIn 1866, Mott joined with Stanton, Anthony, and Stone to establish the American Equal Rights Association. The following year, the organization became active in Kansas where black suffrage and woman suffrage were to be decided by popular vote, and it was then that Stanton and Anthony formed a political alliance with Train, leading to Mott's resignation. Kansas failed to pass both referenda.\n\nMott was a founder and president of the Northern Association for the Relief and Employment of Poor Women in Philadelphia (founded in 1846).\n\nIn 1848, Mott and Cady Stanton organized the Seneca Falls Convention, the first women's rights convention, at Seneca Falls, New York. Stanton's resolution that it was \"the duty of the women of this country to secure to themselves the sacred right to the elective franchise\" was passed despite Mott's opposition. Mott viewed politics as corrupted by slavery and moral compromises, but she soon concluded that women's \"right to the elective franchise however, is the same, and should be yielded to her, whether she exercises that right or not.\" Mott signed the Seneca Falls Declaration of Sentiments.\n\nDespite Mott's opposition to electoral politics, her fame had reached into the political arena even before the July 1848 women's rights convention. During the June 1848 National Convention of the Liberty Party, 5 of the 84 voting delegates cast their ballots for Lucretia Mott to be their party's candidate for the Office of U.S. Vice President. In delegate voting, she placed 4th in a field of nine.\n\nOver the next few decades, women's suffrage became the focus of the women's rights movement. While Cady Stanton is usually credited as the leader of that effort, it was Mott's mentoring of Cady Stanton and their work together that inspired the event. Mott's sister, Martha Coffin Wright, also helped organize the convention and signed the declaration.\n\nNoted abolitionist and human rights activist Frederick Douglass was in attendance and played a key role in persuading the other attendees to agree to a resolution calling for women's suffrage.\n\nAfter the Civil War, Mott was elected the first president of the American Equal Rights Association, an organization that advocated universal suffrage. She resigned from the association in 1868 when Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony allied with a controversial businessman named George Francis Train. Mott tried to reconcile the two factions that split the following year over the priorities of woman suffrage and Black male suffrage. Ever the peacemaker, Mott tried to heal the breach between Stanton, Anthony and Lucy Stone over the immediate goal of the women's movement: suffrage for freedmen and all women, or suffrage for freedmen first?\n\nIn 1849, Mott's \"Sermon to the Medical Students\" was published. In 1850, Mott published her speech \"Discourse on Woman\", a pamphlet about restrictions on women in the United States.\n\nIn 1864, Mott and several other Hicksite Quakers incorporated Swarthmore College near Philadelphia, which remains one of the premier liberal arts colleges in the country.\n\nMott was a pacifist, and in the 1830s, she attended meetings of the New England Non-Resistance Society. She opposed the War with Mexico. After the Civil War, Mott increased her efforts to end war and violence, and she was a leading voice in the Universal Peace Union, founded in 1866.\n\nOn April 10, 1811, Lucretia Coffin married James Mott at Pine Street Meeting in Philadelphia. They had six children. Their second child, Thomas Mott, died at age two. Their surviving children all became active in the anti-slavery and other reform movements, following in their parents' paths. Her great-granddaughter May Hallowell Loud became an artist.\n\nMott died on November 11, 1880 of pneumonia at her home, Roadside, in Cheltenham, Pennsylvania. She was buried near to the highest point of Fair Hill Burial Ground, a Quaker cemetery in North Philadelphia.\n\nMott's great-granddaughter served briefly as the Italian interpreter for American feminist Betty Friedan during a controversial speaking engagement in Rome.\n\nSusan Jacoby writes, \"When Mott died in 1880, she was widely judged by her contemporaries... as the greatest American woman of the nineteenth century.\" She was a mentor to Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who continued her work.\n\nA version of the Equal Rights Amendment from 1923, which is different from the current version and is written, \"Men and women shall have equal rights throughout the United States and every place subject to its jurisdiction. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.,\" was named the Lucretia Mott Amendment.\n\nA stamp was issued in 1948 in remembrance of the Seneca Falls Convention, featuring Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Carrie Chapman Catt, and Lucretia Mott.\n\nIn 1983, Mott was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nMott is commemorated along with Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony in a sculpture by Adelaide Johnson at the United States Capitol, unveiled in 1921. Originally kept on display in the crypt of the US Capitol, the sculpture was moved to its current location and more prominently displayed in the rotunda in 1997.\n\nThe Lucretia Mott School in Washington D.C. was named for her, as was P.S. 215 Lucretia Mott; the latter closed in 2015.\n\nThe U.S. Treasury Department announced in 2016 that an image of Mott will appear on the back of a newly designed $10 bill along with Sojourner Truth, Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Alice Paul and the 1913 Woman Suffrage Procession. Designs for new $5, $10 and $20 bills will be unveiled in 2020 in conjunction with the 100th anniversary of American women winning the right to vote via the Nineteenth Amendment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23025574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025574", "title": "Making Sense of Abstinence", "text": "Making Sense of Abstinence\n\nMaking Sense of Abstinence is a collection of 16 lessons for teaching about sexual abstinence in the context of comprehensive sexuality education. According to the Minnesota Organization on Adolescent Pregnancy, Prevention, and Parenting, it is \"a curriculum that takes abstinence beyond a one-dimensional scope of 'just say no,'...[utilizing] positive and engaging activities to help young people think about abstinence in a way that values their ability to make decisions.\"\n\nSample lessons include such titles as \"So What's An Abstinence Anyway?\" \"Hey, Mom? Hey, Dad? Hey...Gram? Can We Talk about Abstinence?\" \"Just Say Know,\" \"Masturbation: A Touchy Subject,\" \"Handling Horny,\" and \"Some Day: Making the Transition from Sexual Abstinence\".\n\nThe manual has received praise from sexuality educators for expanding the way sexuality education teaches about abstinence, and for teaching the subject in a positive way, unlike other fear-based approaches. For example, the online journal \"Sexual Intelligence\" praised \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" for \"not treating kids like robotic idiots.\"\n\nAbstinence-only advocates have criticized the manual for including such topics as outercourse and masturbation, behaviors they believe should not be acknowledged. Critics also claim that teenagers should not learn information to protect themselves when their abstinence decisions change.\n\nThe authors of \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" state that neither the \"Just say no\" approach, nor the \"Always say yes,\" is appropriate for abstinence education. Rather, they emphasize that teens need complete information to help them make the best decisions for themselves.\n"}
{"id": "49105893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49105893", "title": "Maniammai", "text": "Maniammai\n\nManiammai (10 March 1917 – 16 March 1978) was an activist and rationalist leader from Tamil Nadu. She was also the adopted daughter and life partner of Periyar E. V. Ramasamy, and succeeded him as the leader of the Dravidar Kazhagam upon his death in 1973. She is considered the first woman political leader from the state.\n\nManiammai was born as Gandhimathi to Kanagasabai Mudaliar who was a party member of the Justice Party. Soon after her father's death, she was adopted by Periyar E. V. Ramasamy and joined the Dravidar Kazhagam founded by in 1942–43. Periyar's marriage with a much younger Maniammai and his appointment of her as his successor shocked many of his party leaders. Periyar's disciple C. N. Annadurai stated that Periyar had set a bad example by marrying a much younger woman. He formed a new party called Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam.\n"}
{"id": "21511851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21511851", "title": "March of Progress", "text": "March of Progress\n\nThe March of Progress, properly called The Road to Homo Sapiens, is an illustration that presents 25 million years of human evolution. It was created for the \"Early Man\" volume of the \"Life Nature Library\", published in 1965.\n\nIt has been viewed as a picture of the discredited view (orthogenesis) that evolution is progressive. As such, it has been widely parodied and imitated to create images of progress of other kinds.\n\nThe picture of progress in evolution was anticipated by Thomas Henry Huxley's 1863 \"Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature\".\n\nThe illustration is part of a section of text and images commissioned by Time-Life Books for the \"Early Man\" volume (1965) of the \"Life Nature Library\", by F. Clark Howell.\n\nThe illustration is a foldout entitled \"The Road to Homo Sapiens\". It shows a sequence of figures, drawn by natural history painter and muralist Rudolph Zallinger (1919–1995). The 15 human evolutionary forebears are lined up as if they were marching in a parade from left to right. The first two sentences of the caption read \"What were the stages of man's long march from apelike ancestors to \"sapiens\"? Beginning at right and progressing across four more pages are milestones of primate and human evolution as scientists know them today, pieced together from the fragmentary fossil evidence.\"\n\nThe 15 primate figures in Zallinger's image, from left to right, are listed below. The datings follow the original graphic and may no longer reflect current scientific opinion.\n\n\nContrary to appearances and some complaints, the original 1965 text of \"The Road to Homo Sapiens\" reveals an understanding of the fact that a linear presentation of a sequence of primate species, all in the direct line of human ancestors, would not be a correct interpretation. For example, the fourth of Zallinger's figures (\"Oreopithecus\") is said to be \"a likely side branch on man's family tree\". Only the next figure (\"Ramapithecus\") is described as \"now thought by some experts to be the oldest of man's ancestors in a direct line\" (something no longer considered likely). That implies that the first four primates are not to be considered actual human ancestors. Likewise, the seventh figure (\"Paranthropus\") is said to be \"an evolutionary dead end\". In addition, the colored stripes, across the top of the figure, which indicate the age and duration of the various lineages clearly imply that there is no evidence of direct continuity between extinct and extant lineages and also, multiple lineages of the figured hominids occurred contemporaneously at several points in the history of the group.\n\nThe image has frequently been copied, modified, and parodied. It has been criticized as \"unintentionally and wrongly\" implying that \"evolution is progressive\".\n\nWith regard to the way the illustration has been interpreted, the anthropologist and author of the section, F. Clark Howell, remarked:\nStephen Jay Gould (1941–2002) condemned the iconology of the image in several pages of his 1989 book, \"Wonderful Life\", reproducing several advertisements and political cartoons that make use of the illustration to make their various points. In a chapter, \"The Iconography of an Expectation\", he asserted that\n\nThe intelligent design advocate Jonathan Wells wrote in \"\" (2002), \"Although it is widely used to show that we are just animals, and that our very existence is a mere accident, the ultimate icon goes far beyond the evidence.\" The book likens a selection of evolution theory textbook topics to the cover illustration thus qualified.\n\nBrian Switek, writing for \"Scientific American\", argues that the idea of a \"march of progress\", as depicted in the 1965 Time-Life illustration, dates back to the medieval great chain of being and the 19th century idea of the \"missing link\" in the fossil record. In his view, to understand life and evolution, \"step one involves casting out types of imagery which constrain rather than enlighten.\" Writing in \"Wired\", Switek added that \"There is perhaps no other illustration that is as immediately recognizable as representing evolution, but the tragedy of this is that it conveys a view of life that does not resemble our present understanding of life's history.\"\n\n\nThomas Henry Huxley's frontispiece to his 1863 book \"Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature\" was intended simply to compare the skeletons of apes and humans, but its unintentional left-to-right progressionist sequence has according to the historian Jennifer Tucker \"become an iconic and instantly recognizable visual shorthand for evolution\".\n\nAn illustration, with the caption \"Evolution\", showing two sequences of four images, each illustrating a gradual transformation of an animal into a human, appeared in the 1889 edition of Mark Twain's \"A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44339024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44339024", "title": "Netcare System", "text": "Netcare System\n\nThe Netcare System is part of the \"Digital India\" campaign introduced by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The program is designed to allow access to modern software technology by those in rural areas, villages, and other remote parts of India. A major focus is enabling poor and rural students to use the Internet and related computer tech and information technology.\n"}
{"id": "34407451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34407451", "title": "Parallel society", "text": "Parallel society\n\nParallel society refers to the self-organization of an ethnic or religious minority, often immigrant groups, with the intent of a reduced or minimal spatial, social and cultural contact with the majority society into which they immigrate.\n\nThe term was introduced into the debate about migration and integration in the early 1990s by the German sociologist Wilhelm Heitmeyer . It rose to prominence in the European public discourse following the murder of Dutch director and critic of Islam Theo van Gogh. In 2004, it was elected by the Association for the German Language second as Word of the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "8545988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8545988", "title": "Participatory development communication", "text": "Participatory development communication\n\nParticipatory development communication is the use of mass media and traditional, inter-personal means of communication that empowers communities to visualise aspirations and discover solutions to their development problems and issues.\n\nParticipatory communication is \"the theory and practices of communication used to involve people in the decision-making of the development process. It intends to return to the roots of its meaning, which, similarly to the term community, originate from the Latin word 'communis', i.e. common (Mody, 1991). Therefore, the purpose of communication should be to make something common, or to share...meanings, perceptions, worldviews or knowledge. In this context, sharing implies an equitable division of what is being shared, which is why communication should almost be naturally associated with a balanced, two-way flow of information.\"\n\nBased on a \"Results\" section which synthesises and recaps the main issues by reviewing how the conception and levels of participation identified in his research have shifted in each phase of the project, Mefalopulos concludes by arguing that participatory communication is an approach capable of facilitating people's involvement in decision-making about issues impacting their lives – a process capable of addressing specific needs and priorities relevant to people and at the same time assisting in their empowerment. In fact, he says, participatory communication is \"a necessary component, consistent with a democratic vision of international development, needed to increase projects sustainability and ensure genuine ownership by the so-called 'beneficiaries'.\"\n\nCommunication planning for development is a logical process guided by a systematic and rational framework. This framework could be developed through situation-specific data gathered using participatory research techniques.\n\nSituation assessment could be done most effectively in a participatory manner through PRCA or participatory rural communication appraisal. Three kinds of analysis are done in PRCA: audience analysis, programme analysis, and situation analysis.\nAudience analysis Audience analysis is essentially \"listening\" to what potential users of information need. They are the ones whom the communication program intends to reach. Users of information are also referred to as stakeholders of a communication program. Collecting baseline information about these stakeholders is an essential preliminary step towards developing a communication strategy.\nSegmentation, or dividing large groups of stakeholders into smaller groups, helps achieve focus in communication strategy development. Segmentation is usually done in two ways:\n\nWhat are the factors which cause a gap between the existing and desired behavior of stakeholders? Is the problem due to the stakeholders' lack of awareness or knowledge of the nature of the problem? Or is it attitudinal in nature? Could the gap be due to their lack of skills to carry out certain practices?\nSituation analysis likewise includes assessing the communication resources in the area which could be tapped for the communication program. Knowledge of the area's mass and small media, as well as interpersonal means of communication, should contribute substantially to strategy development.\nProgramme analysis\nWhen doing program analysis, program planners need to take both an inward and an outward look at the situation that is, looking at the organization's own vision, policies, resources, strengths, and weaknesses relevant to the problem.\nAre there adequate resources to realize this vision? How well are program managers using available resources? At the same time, it is important to scan the environment for existing programs that could affect, positively or negatively, the communication strategy to be developed.\n\nData that have been collected need to be analyzed and interpreted carefully as these will serve as bases of the communication strategy. Communication strategy is the combination of methods, messages, and approaches by which the planner seeks to achieve the communication objectives.\nThe second phase of the process charts the direction of the communication program. It is at this stage where objectives and the corresponding standards and indicators for monitoring and evaluation are formulated.\nThe very word strategy suggests a unique combination of techniques or approaches by which to achieve program goals and objectives.\nDuring strategy design formulation, planners also begin thinking of the following:\n\nThe main activities under the message design phase are selection of message appeals and approaches and selection of communication channels and media. The big challenge at this stage is the development of the big idea or the creative concept around which the whole communication program would revolve.\nProfessional communication outfits are often tapped to develop messages and communication materials for the above-mentioned processes. The disadvantage of this approach, aside from the huge expense involved, is the lack of participation from the stakeholders themselves.\nInvolving the stakeholders in message and materials development increases the likelihood that the communication program would help achieve the bigger development goals.\n\nActual development of communication methods and materials are undertaken once the communication strategy is in place.\nA useful reminder to planners concerns the importance of pretesting not only the materials themselves, but also the creative idea and the messages. Pretesting allows for adjustments in the communication activities before substantial time, efforts, and resources are spent on their actual production.\nPretesting measures potential effectiveness of communication messages, methods, and materials in terms of their being able to attract attention, to be understood, to be accepted, and to generate the feeling of self-involvement among the stakeholders.\n\nManagement of the organization carrying out the communication program and networking are two of the most important activities in this phase.\nA manager's internal task entails preparing or training people for their respective tasks in the organization within a positive organizational climate. The external task calls for forging linkages with key organizations engaged in the same area of development work.\nAfter all the preparatory stages, launching and carrying out the communication campaign or program now takes priority. Together with this come monitoring the process of dissemination, transmission, and reception of programme inputs.\nThe management aspect also covers the management improvement process and the concept of leadership as they affect implementation of communication programmes.\n\nMonitoring enables the planners and implementors to answer the question: Are things going all right? Evaluation, on the other hand, provides answers to the question: So, did it work?\nTogether, monitoring and evaluation help planners and implementors:\nTo help gauge programme impact on stakeholders, it is important to set up clear standards and indicators based on the objectives set. How much have the activities contributed to achieving objectives of key organizations? This can be gauged by comparing evaluation with baseline data, specifically those gathered during the PRCA.\nMore importantly, monitoring and evaluation data contribute to planning for program sustainability and self-sufficiency.\n\nParticipation can be used as a goal or as a tool for specific projects. The four categories below refer to different levels of participation and communication:\n\nThe stakeholders of a project essentially act as \"empty vessels\" and receive information. Feedback is minimal if at all and participation is assessed through methods such as head counts.\n\nResearchers or \"experts\" pose questions to the stakeholders. Input can be provided at different points in time but the final analysis and decision-making power lies in the hands of the external professionals whom may or may not take the stakeholders' decisions into consideration.\n\nGroups of primary stakeholders are formed in order to participate in discussion and analysis. Objectives are predetermined. This method incorporates components of horizontal communication and capacity building among all stakeholders.\n\nPrimary stakeholders are capable and willing to become involved in the process and take part in decision-making. Outsiders are equal partners, but the stakeholders make the final decisions as ownership and control of the process rests in their hands. Knowledge exchange leads to solutions.\n\nMinga Peru is a non-profit organization formed to address issues of \"social justice, gender equality, reproductive health, and human rights\". Minga has targeted the northern Loreto region for its development of \"communicative spaces\" which hope to spark debate and participation from the community. In order to achieve these goals they have produced a radio program, started a community empowerment and leadership program and supported income generating activities.\n\nThese activities are community-based approaches as evidenced by editorial letters being sent to the radio program, use of youth correspondents which provides the community with access to and voice within the broadcast, and emphasis on social networking which has resulted in stronger social cohesion. The most prominent outcomes in the empowerment of women through self-confidence. Women are better able to develop professional and social networks and have improved capacity to handle health challenges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57169337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57169337", "title": "Phandeeyar", "text": "Phandeeyar\n\nPhandeeyar (standing for \"creation place\") is a technology seed accelerator based in Yangon, Myanmar. Formally beginning in 2015, Phandeeyar provides funding and training for emerging startups. Phandeeyar also conducts trainings, hosts workshops, and holds competitions for startups within the digital sector.\n\nIn 2014, Phandeeyar emerged from a hackathon named \"Code for Change Myanmar\" where its founder and current CEO, David Madden, wanted to promote the growth of Myanmar's digital sector. Through this hackathon, politics and elections were addressed. \n\nMadden states the need for better financial support for emerging start-ups in Myanmar which also led to the creation of the accelerator.\n\nPhandeeyar's sponsors and investors include the Omidyar Network which has donated 2 million US dollars to the company, the United States Institute of Peace, the Open Society Foundation, and the Schmidt Family Foundation.\n\nDavid Madden states that Phandeeyar's objective is to connect those in the tech field with others actively working in the social sector through different events. \n\nIn 2015, Phandeeyar hosted a two week event event called \"MaePaySoe\" (translating to \"let's vote\") where more than one hundred web developers gathered to create technology which informs the general public about potential political candidates in Myanmar and the country's voting process.\nIn 2016, around fifteen to twenty startups were projected to be accepted into the accelerator in a three year span. Phandeeyar also plans to invest around $2 million into startups in the near future. From the startups accepted, Phandeeyar would claim a 12 percent ownership of the companies. \nThose selected for Phandeeyar's 6 month training program would receive a funding of $25,000 to launch their ventures in addition to business partnerships to help with the early stages of their startups. These partnerships include leaders from regional companies such as the Myanmar Information Technology, CarsDB, Muru-D. and Golden Gate Ventures. Towards the end of the program, companies have the opportunity to pitch their startup ideas to venture capitalists and angel investors. \n\nChate Sat is a digital platform to connect freelance workers with employers to find jobs. After its launch from Phandeeyar, Chate Sat recruited around 800 businesses looking to contract work and 5,000 freelancers. Chate Sat also received funding from some investors such as Vulpes Investment Management Ltd. \n\nGoP is an online, tourism-based website that compiles different traveling information into one platform. Nyunt Win Aung, one of the company's co-founders, states that its increased website traffic will increase their bookings, directly as a result of more funding. \n\nWhite Merak is a phone application used to read comics made by local artists and the company's team. Additionally, this platform shows animated comics, as well as a bilingual setting where users can switch comic text from Burmese to English and vice versa. \n\nEZ Stay is an online hotel booking platform co-founded by Aung Phyo Lwi focused on informing those traveling to Myanmar about different hotel and motel availabilities. According to Aung Phyo Lwi, this website can better market local Myanmar businesses.\n\nIn April 2018, Myanmar civil rights groups and Myanmar-based technology companies accused Facebook of failing to effectively detect hate speech online in Myanmar, which many have claimed to have contributed to an anti-Rohingya sentiment in the country. Phandeeyar, along with other companies, released an open letter to the social media platform, posing questions about Facebook's transparency in accordance with these issues and the possible implications of social media with current events in Myanmar.\n"}
{"id": "1034453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034453", "title": "Podcast", "text": "Podcast\n\nA podcast or generically netcast, is an episodic series of digital audio or video files which a user can download in order to listen to. It is often available for subscription, so that new episodes are automatically downloaded via web syndication to the user's own local computer, mobile application, or portable media player.\n\nThe word was originally suggested by Ben Hammersley as a portmanteau of \"iPod\" (a brand of media player) and \"broadcast\".\n\nThe files distributed are in audio format, but may sometimes include other file formats such as PDF or EPUB. Videos which are shared following a podcast model are sometimes called video podcasts or vodcasts.\n\nThe generator of a podcast maintains a central list of the files on a server as a web feed that can be accessed through the Internet. The listener or viewer uses special client application software on a computer or media player, known as a podcatcher, which accesses this web feed, checks it for updates, and downloads any new files in the series. This process can be automated to download new files automatically, which may seem to users as though new episodes are broadcast or \"pushed\" to them. Files are stored locally on the user's device, ready for offline use. There are many different mobile applications available for people to use to subscribe and to listen to podcasts. Many of these applications allow users to download podcasts or to stream them on demand as an alternative to downloading. Many podcast players (apps as well as dedicated devices) allow listeners to skip around the podcast and control the playback speed.\n\nSome have labeled podcasting as a converged medium bringing together audio, the web, and portable media players, as well as a disruptive technology that has caused some individuals in the radio business to reconsider established practices and preconceptions about audiences, consumption, production, and distribution.\nPodcasts are usually free of charge to listeners and can often be created for little to no cost, which sets them apart from the traditional model of \"gate-kept\" media and production tools. Podcast creators can monetize their podcasts by allowing companies to purchase ad time, as well as via sites such as Patreon, which provides special extras and content to listeners for a fee. Podcasting is very much a horizontal media form – producers are consumers, consumers may become producers, and both can engage in conversations with each other.\n\n\"Podcast\" is a portmanteau word, formed by combining \"iPod\" and \"broadcast\". The term \"podcasting\" as a name for the nascent technology was first suggested by The Guardian columnist and BBC journalist Ben Hammersley, who invented it in early February 2004 while \"padding out\" an article for The Guardian newspaper. Despite the etymology, the content can be accessed using any computer or similar device that can play media files. Use of the term \"podcast\" predated Apple's addition of formal support for podcasting to the iPod, or its iTunes software.\n\nOther names for podcasting include \"net cast\", intended as a vendor-neutral term without the loose reference to the Apple iPod. This name is used by shows from the TWiT.tv network. Some sources have also suggested the backronym \"portable on demand\" or \"POD\", for similar reasons.\n\nFormer MTV video jockey Adam Curry, in collaboration with Dave Winer – co-author of the RSS specification – is credited with coming up with the idea to automate the delivery and syncing of textual content to portable audio players.\n\nPodcasting, once an obscure method of spreading information, has become a recognized medium for distributing audio content, whether for corporate or personal use. Podcasts are similar to radio programs, but they are audio files. Listeners can play them at their convenience, using devices that have become more common than portable broadcast receivers.\n\nThe first application to make this process feasible was iPodderX, developed by August Trometer and Ray Slakinski. By 2007, audio podcasts were doing what was historically accomplished via radio broadcasts, which had been the source of radio talk shows and news programs since the 1930s. This shift occurred as a result of the evolution of internet capabilities along with increased consumer access to cheaper hardware and software for audio recording and editing.\n\nIn October 2003, Matt Schichter launched his weekly chat show \"The BackStage Pass\". B.B. King, Third Eye Blind, Gavin DeGraw, The Beach Boys, and Jason Mraz were notable guests the first season. The hour long radio show was recorded live, transcoded to 16kbit/s audio for dial-up online streaming. Despite a lack of a commonly accepted identifying name for the medium at the time of its creation, \"The Backstage Pass\" which became known as \"Matt Schichter Interviews\" is commonly believed to be the first podcast to be published online.\n\nIn August 2004, Adam Curry launched his show \"Daily Source Code\". It was a show focused on chronicling his everyday life, delivering news, and discussions about the development of podcasting, as well as promoting new and emerging podcasts. Curry published it in an attempt to gain traction in the development of what would come to be known as podcasting and as a means of testing the software outside of a lab setting. The name \"Daily Source Code\" was chosen in the hope that it would attract an audience with an interest in technology.\n\n\"Daily Source Code\" started at a grassroots level of production and was initially directed at podcast developers. As its audience became interested in the format, these developers were inspired to create and produce their own projects and, as a result, they improved the code used to create podcasts. As more people learned how easy it was to produce podcasts, a community of pioneer podcasters quickly appeared.\n\nIn June 2005, Apple released iTunes 4.9 which added formal support for podcasts, thus negating the need to use a separate program in order to download and transfer them to a mobile device. While this made access to podcasts more convenient and widespread, it also effectively ended advancement of podcatchers by independent developers. Additionally, Apple issued cease and desist orders to many podcast application developers and service providers for using the term \"iPod\" or \"Pod\" in their products' names.\n\nWithin a year, many podcasts from public radio networks like the BBC, CBC Radio One, NPR, and Public Radio International placed many of their radio shows on the iTunes platform. In addition, major local radio stations like WNYC in New York City and WHYY-FM radio in Philadelphia, KCRW in Los Angeles placed their programs on their websites and later on the iTunes platform.\n\nConcurrently, CNET, \"This Week in Tech\", and later Bloomberg Radio, the \"Financial Times\", and other for-profit companies provided podcast content, some using podcasting as their only distribution system.\n\nBetween February 10 and 25 March 2005, Shae Spencer Management, LLC of Fairport, New York filed a trademark application to register the term \"podcast\" for an \"online prerecorded radio program over the internet\". On September 9, 2005, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) rejected the application, citing Wikipedia's podcast entry as describing the history of the term. The company amended their application in March 2006, but the USPTO rejected the amended application as not sufficiently differentiated from the original. In November 2006, the application was marked as abandoned.\n\nAs of September 20, 2005, known trademarks that attempted to capitalize on podcast included: ePodcast, GodCast, GuidePod, MyPod, Pod-Casting, Podango, PodCabin, Podcast, Podcast Realty, Podcaster, PodcastPeople, Podgram PodKitchen, PodShop, and Podvertiser.\n\nBy February 2007, there had been 24 attempts to register trademarks containing the word \"PODCAST\" in the United States, but only \"PODCAST READY\" from \"Podcast Ready, Inc.\" was approved.\n\nOn September 26, 2004, it was reported that Apple Inc. had started to crack down on businesses using the string \"POD\", in product and company names. Apple sent a cease and desist letter that week to Podcast Ready, Inc., which markets an application known as \"myPodder\". Lawyers for Apple contended that the term \"pod\" has been used by the public to refer to Apple's music player so extensively that it falls under Apple's trademark cover. Such activity was speculated to be part of a bigger campaign for Apple to expand the scope of its existing iPod trademark, which included trademarking \"IPOD\", \"IPODCAST\", and \"POD\". On November 16, 2006, the Apple Trademark Department stated that \"Apple does not object to third-party usage of the generic term 'podcast' to accurately refer to podcasting services\" and that \"Apple does not license the term\". However, no statement was made as to whether or not Apple believed they held rights to it.\n\nPersonal Audio, a company referred to as a \"patent troll\" by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, filed a patent on podcasting in 2009 for a claimed invention in 1996. In February 2013, Personal Audio started suing high-profile podcasters for royalties, including \"The Adam Carolla Show\" and the \"HowStuffWorks\" podcast. US Congressman Peter DeFazio's previously proposed \"SHIELD Act\" intended to curb patent trolls.\n\nIn October 2013, the EFF filed a petition with the US Trademark Office to invalidate the Personal Audio patent.\n\nOn August 18, 2014, the Electronic Frontier Foundation announced that Adam Carolla had settled with Personal Audio.\n\nOn April 10, 2015, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office invalidated five provisions of Personal Audio's podcasting patent.\n\nAn enhanced podcast can display images synchronized with audio. These can contain chapter markers, hyperlinks, and artwork, all of which is synced to a specific program or device. When an enhanced podcast is played within its specific program or device, all the appropriate information should be displayed at the same time and in the same window, making it easier to display materials.\n\nA podcast novel (also known as a serialized audiobook or podcast audiobook) is a literary format that combines the concepts of a podcast and an audiobook. Like a traditional novel, a podcast novel is a work of long literary fiction; however, this form of the novel is recorded into episodes that are delivered online over a period of time and in the end available as a complete work for download. The episodes may be delivered automatically via RSS, through a website, blog, or another syndication method. These files are either listened to directly on a user's computer or loaded onto a portable media device to be listened to later.\n\nThe types of novels that are podcasted vary from new works from new authors that have never been printed, to well-established authors that have been around for years, to classic works of literature that have been in print for over a century. In the same style as an audiobook, podcast novels may be elaborately narrated with separate voice actors for each character and sound effects, similar to a radio play. Other podcast novels have a single narrator reading the text of the story with little or no sound effects.\n\nPodcast novels are distributed over the Internet, commonly on a weblog. Podcast novels are released in episodes on a regular schedule (e.g., once a week) or irregularly as each episode is released when completed. They can either be downloaded manually from a website or blog or be delivered automatically via RSS or another method of syndication. Ultimately, a serialized podcast novel becomes a completed audiobook.\n\nSome podcast novelists give away a free podcast version of their book as a form of promotion. Some such novelists have even secured publishing contracts to have their novels printed. Podcast novelists have commented that podcasting their novels lets them build audiences even if they cannot get a publisher to buy their books. These audiences then make it easier to secure a printing deal with a publisher at a later date. These podcast novelists also claim the exposure that releasing a free podcast gains them makes up for the fact that they are giving away their work for free.\n\nA video podcast (sometimes shortened to \"vodcast\") includes video clips. Web television series are often distributed as video podcasts.\n\n\"Dead End Days\" (2003–2004) is commonly believed to be the first video podcast. That serialized dark comedy about zombies was broadcast from 31 October 2003 through 2004.\n\nSince the spread of the Internet and the use of Internet broadband connection TCP, which helps to identify various applications, a faster connection to the Internet has been created and a wide amount of communication has been created. Video podcasts have become extremely popular online and are often presented as short video clips, usually excerpts of a longer recording. Video clips are being used on pre-established websites, and increasing numbers of websites are being created solely for the purpose of hosting video clips and podcasts. Video podcasts are being streamed on intranets and extranets, and private and public networks, and are taking communication through the Internet to new levels.\n\nMost video clips are now submitted and produced by individuals. Video podcasts are also being used for web television, commonly referred to as Web TV, a rapidly growing genre of digital entertainment that uses various forms of new media to deliver to an audience both reruns of shows or series and content created or delivered originally online via broadband and mobile networks, web television shows, or web series. Examples include Amazon Video, Hulu, and Netflix. Other types of video podcasts used for web television may be short-form, anywhere from 2–9 minutes per episode, typically used for advertising, video blogs, amateur filming, journalism, and convergence with traditional media.\n\nVideo podcasting is also helping build businesses, especially in the sales and marketing sectors. Through video podcasts, businesses both large and small can advertise their wares and services in a modern, cost-effective way. In the past, big businesses had better access to expensive studios where sophisticated advertisements were produced, but now even the smallest businesses can create high-quality media with just a camera, editing software, and the Internet.\n\nIn a two-year study, 2012-2013, conducted by a South African university a question was raised; over the years of podcast development, is podcasting socially inclusive. The results of this study concluded with minor quarks, podcasting is socially inclusive.\n\nAn oggcast is a podcast recorded and distributed exclusively in the Vorbis audio codec with the Ogg container format, and/or other similarly free codecs/formats. For example, a podcast distributed both in the non-free MP3 format and the free Ogg format would not technically meet the definition of an oggcast. In contrast, a podcast distributed in both the Vorbis and Speex codecs would meet the strict definition of an oggcast. The term oggcast is a combination of the word \"ogg\" from the term Ogg Vorbis, and the syllable \"cast\", from \"broadcast\".\n\nThe term was coined for the fifth season of the \"Gnu World Order\" by Klaatu in 2010, when the show declared itself \"the world's first oggcast\". At the time, the show was one of the few that released only in free formats, with no MP3 feed as an option. This gave way to other shows using the term, with hosts gathering in the IRC channel on the Freenode network to compare notes.\n\n\"The Linux Link Tech Show\", one of the longer running Linux podcasts still in production, has a program in the Ogg Vorbis format in its archives from January 7, 2004.\n\nOggcasters tend to be broadcasters who prefer not to use audio and video codecs that have patent and/or licensing restrictions, such as the MP3 codec.\n\nRecording and distributing podcasts in the Ogg Vorbis audio format has advantages. Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome web browsers both support playing Vorbis files directly in the browser without requiring plugins. Vorbis may produce better audio quality with a smaller file size than alternative codecs such as AAC or MP3. However, this has not been proven conclusively. Ogg Vorbis is not bound by patents and is considered \"free software\" in the sense that no corporate entity owns the rights to the format. Some people feel that this is a safer container for their multimedia content for this reason. However, oggcasters can generally not reach as wide of an audience as more traditional podcasters. This is mainly due to the lack of native Ogg Vorbis support in Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Apple's Safari web browser, and the lack of Ogg Vorbis support in many mobile audio devices.\n\nOggcast Planet maintains a central list of oggcasts.\n\nA political podcast focuses on current events, lasts usually a half hour to an hour, often with a relaxed and conversational tone, and features journalists and politicians and pollsters and writers and others with credentials in the public sphere. Most political podcasts have a host-guest interview format and are broadcast each week based on the news cycle. Political podcasts have blossomed in the past few years in the United States because of the long election cycle. Larger news sites such as the \"Radio Atlantic\" and the \"Spectator\" have started weekly political podcasts in recent years, as well as smaller podcasts such as the Bruderhof's \"Life Together\" podcast and Danny Anderson's \"Sectarian Review\" and Pod Save America.\n\nA podguide is an enhanced audio tour podcast. It is a single audio file where each chapter displays a picture and a number of what to look at a certain stopover. The numbers correspond to the numbers on a map that can be downloaded via the link incorporated into the artwork of the chapters in the podguide. Podguides are in the m4a format and can only be listened to through iTunes or an iPod. It is like a soundseeing tour but with pictures and a map, so users can take the tour themselves.\n\nCommunities use collaborative podcasts to support multiple contributors podcasting through generally simplified processes, and without having to host their own individual feeds. A community podcast can also allow members of the community (related to the podcast topic) to contribute to the podcast in many different ways. This method was first used for a series of podcasts hosted by the Regional Educational Technology Center at Fordham University in 2005. Anders Gronstedt explores how businesses like IBM and EMC use podcasts as an employee training and communication channel.\n\nThe podcast industry is very profitable. Over 50 million people listen to podcasts each month. A small, yet efficient number of listeners are also podcast creators. Creating a podcast is reasonably inexpensive. It requires just a microphone, laptop or other personal computer, and a room with some sound blocking. Podcast creators tend to have a good listener base because of their relationships with the listeners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3248459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3248459", "title": "Prohibitionism", "text": "Prohibitionism\n\nProhibitionism is a legal philosophy and political theory often used in lobbying which holds that citizens will abstain from actions if the actions are typed as unlawful (i.e. prohibited) and the prohibitions are enforced by law enforcement. This philosophy has been the basis for many acts of statutory law throughout history, most notably when a large group of a given population disapproves of and/or feels threatened by an activity in which a smaller group of that population engages, and seeks to render that activity legally prohibited.\n\nActs of prohibition have included prohibitions on types of clothing (and prohibitions on lack of clothing), prohibitions on gambling and exotic dancing, the prohibition of drugs (for example, alcohol prohibition and cannabis prohibition), prohibitions on tobacco smoking, and gun prohibition. Indeed, the period of Prohibition in the United States between 1920 and 1933 due to the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act often is referred to simply as \"Prohibition\", as is the \"War on Drugs\" that succeeded it. \nAn additional example, called \"nettle war\": Since 2002 in France the sale of nettle liquid manure was prohibited, and since 2006, unauthorized plant protection products (such as nettle liquid manure) to sell, own and operate. Even advertising and recommendations for these products were not allowed. Only since 2011, it was legalized again. The film by Arte about it was completed in 2010 (\"Nettle-war, mysterious plants - Nettle\", 42:04 minutes)\n\nThe success of a measure of prohibitionism has been criticized as often depending too much upon effective enforcement of the relevant legislation. Some people have argued this is because the majority of the targets of prohibitionism are in the category of victimless crime, where they claim the harm that comes from the crime is non-existent, questionable, or only to the person who performs the act and even then the magnitude of the harm being relatively small. Under this interpretation enforcement becomes a conflict between violation of statue and violation of free will. Since the acts prohibited often are enjoyable, enforcement is often the most harmful choice to the individual. This sometimes results in laws which rarely are enforced by anybody who does not have a financial or personal motivation to do so.\n\nThe difficulty of enforcing prohibitionist laws also criticized as resulting in selective enforcement, wherein the enforcers select the people they wish to prosecute based on other criteria, resulting in discrimination based on races, culture, nationality, or financial status. For example, American philosopher Noam Chomsky has criticized drug prohibition as being a technique of social control of the \"so-called dangerous classes\".\n\nProhibitionism based laws have the added problem of calling attention to the behavior that they are attempting to prohibit. This can make the behavior interesting and exciting, and cause its popularity to increase. This is essentially in relation with the Streisand effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2195977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2195977", "title": "Public intoxication", "text": "Public intoxication\n\nPublic intoxication, also known as \"drunk and disorderly\" and drunk in public, is a summary offense in some countries rated to public cases or displays of drunkenness. Public intoxication laws vary widely from jurisdiction, but usually require some obvious display of intoxicated incompetence or behavior disruptive/obnoxious to public order before the charge is levied.\n\nWhile it is technically illegal in most states and territories of Australia to be drunk and disorderly, most Australian police are relatively lenient about public intoxication. They generally transport the IP (\"Intoxicated Person\") to his or her residence or temporary detention at a police station or other welfare establishment until the person is sober.\n\nIn Victoria being \"drunk in a public place\" and \"drunk and disorderly in a public place\" are separate offences contained in the \"Summary Offences Act 1966\" which have their own power of arrest. Recent changes to legislation allow police to issue an infringement notice for these offences in addition to the traditional method of charging and bailing the offender to the Magistrates' Court. The current fine attached to the infringement notice is $590 for a first offence and $1,100 for a subsequent offence. A person arrested for being drunk or drunk and disorderly is held at the Melbourne Custody Centre or the cells at a police station or placed in the care of a friend or relative. \n\nIn New South Wales police have the discretion to issue \"on the spot\" fines or infringement notices for \"drunk in public\", a fine that costs the individual over $480 (4 penalty units). Community Legal Centres across the state complain about these fines and the impact it has had on various vulnerable members of the community, including young people, the homeless and minority groups.\n\nProsecution (charging) is generally only considered if the person is violent or other offenses have been committed.\n\nAs an example, a \"Drunk and Disorderly\" Fine in the State of New South Wales starts at $550.\n\nAs of February 2009, local councils in the state of New South Wales are not allowed to charge people who drink in alcohol-free zones; they are only permitted to confiscate the alcohol of the intoxicated person.\n\nIn Canada, liquor laws are made by the provinces and not the federal government.\n\nIn British Columbia, drinking in public and public intoxication are offenses. If an event is to take place in public with alcohol it must have a permit.\n\nIn Ontario, drinking in public and public intoxication are offenses. Having an open container in public garners a $125 fine. Public drunkenness garners a $65 fine and detainment until sober. If an event is to take place in public with alcohol it must have a permit.\n\nWhile liquor laws are similar from province to province, the laws in the territories tend to be substantially different. For instance, in the Northwest Territories public intoxication can result in imprisonment or detention in a medical facility for up to 24 hours (NWT Liquor Act).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there are a number of offences dealing with intoxication, which vary between the constituent countries.\n\nIn a public place, it is an offence to be:\n\nIt is also an offence to be drunk:\n\nThe police will only get involved if the person is so drunk they are unable to act in a reasonable manner, such as passing out on the street. In that case typically the police will, depending on the circumstances, help the intoxicated person on their way or place the person in a police station cell until sober. Once fit to be dealt with the detained person will normally either be cautioned, be issued with a Penalty Notice for Disorder (PND – £90 fine in ticket form) or bailed to appear at the local court. The court in turn may issue a fine (up to level 1 or level 3 on the standard scale depending on the offence charged).\n\nThere are also many more specific offences, including driving a motor vehicle while drunk (or being found 'drunk in charge') and riding a cycle while unfit through drink. Furthermore, the police have the power (although not the obligation) to confiscate any alcohol which is being consumed in public by those under 18, and local authorities have the power to prohibit alcohol consumption in certain areas.\n\nIn New Zealand, drinking in public is not a crime and instead, local governments must specify that alcohol is banned in an area before it is considered a crime to drink in that location. Being drunk in public is not specifically an offense unless the person who is intoxicated is a public nuisance, in which case they may be dealt with for 'disturbing the peace'. This will usually result in being taken home, or otherwise taken to a police cell until sober.\n\nLaws in the United States regarding drunkenness vary widely from state to state.\n\nIn 1968, in the case of \"Powell v. Texas\", the Texas law against public intoxication was challenged in the Supreme Court of the United States for alleged violation of Eighth Amendment, which forbids cruel and unusual punishment. The court upheld the law, ruling that making a crime of public intoxication was neither cruel nor unusual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10532529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10532529", "title": "Race in Singapore", "text": "Race in Singapore\n\nThe concept of race or ethnicity in contemporary Singapore emerged from British colonial attitudes towards race. Today, the Chinese-Malay-Indian-Others (CMIO) model is the dominant organising framework of race in Singapore. Race informs government policies on a variety of issues such as political participation, public housing and education. However, the state’s management of race, as well as the relevance of the CMIO model, has been a point of contention amongst some in recent years.\n\nThe practice of classifying the local population based on their races or ethnicities was born out the British colonial practices. Race categories were enshrined through local censuses and the issuance of identity cards. In the early British censuses of British Malaya, racial lines were often drawn by birthplace and linguistic or linguistic group. In these censuses, labels such as ‘Hokkien’, ‘Boyanese’ and ‘Bengali’ being used. In the 1891 census, races began to be grouped into broader categories such as Chinese, Malay, and Indian.\n\nUp till the 20th century, the largely first and second-generation immigrant population retained strong ties to their respective homelands. These communities continued to be influenced by the ideological movements in their homelands. Such movements included the Chinese civil war, the struggle for independence in then-British India, and the decolonisation efforts in peninsula Malaya and Indonesia. As such, each immigrant community maintained their own sense of indigeneity.\n\nWhen Singapore was part of the Federation of Malaysia from 1963 to 1965, inter-racial tensions were rife, culminating in incidents such as the 1964 Race Riots. At the same time, Singaporean political leaders such as Lee Kuan Yew began to advocate for a “Malaysian Malaysia”, opposing the Malaysian Federal Government’s vision of an ethnic-based Malay Malaysia.\n\nAfter Singapore’s split from Malaysia, the Singapore government pushed for the development of a “Singaporean Singapore” identity based on racial equality, with race acting as a secondary identifier alongside the Singaporean national identity. Special rights for Malays were legislated into the Singapore Constitution, symbolically recognising the community as the indigenous people of the land. Singapore also formally adopted four official languages - English, Chinese, Malay and Tamil - and implemented a bilingual education policy.\n\nAccording to the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA), the child’s race registered on their Birth Certificate “can follow that of the child's father, mother or an acceptable mixed race if the parents are of different races.” The race field cannot be left blank during registration. If parents cannot decide on their child’s race at the time of registration, the child's race is provisionally recorded as the father's.\n\nThe option to record a child’s race as double-barrelled (e.g. Chinese-Indian) was introduced in 2010 by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Previously, mixed-race Singaporeans were allowed to choose between either of their parents' races and no allowance was made for mixed-race children, with the exception of Eurasians. For relevant Government policies (e.g. the Ethnic Integration Policy), the first component of a double-barrelled race is used.\n\nSingaporeans are allowed to change their race twice: once before the age of 21, and once at or after the age of 21. They would have to execute a Statutory Declaration stating their reason(s) for the change, and undertaking not to change their race again.\n\nRacial equality and non-discrimination are set out in Article 12 of the Singapore Constitution, which states: \n<poem>\"12.—(1) All persons are equal before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law.\n(2) Except as expressly authorised by this Constitution, there shall be no discrimination against citizens of Singapore on the ground only of religion, race, descent or place of birth in any law or in the appointment to any office or employment under a public authority or in the administration of any law relating to the acquisition, holding or disposition of property or the establishing or carrying on of any trade, business, profession, vocation or employment.\n(3) This Article does not invalidate or prohibit —\n(a) any provision regulating personal law; or\n(b) any provision or practice restricting office or employment connected with the affairs of any religion, or of an institution managed by a group professing any religion, to persons professing that religion.\"</poem>\n\nThe Constitution also recognises the special position of Malays as the indigenous people of the land in Article 152:\n\n<poem>\"152.—(1) It shall be the responsibility of the Government constantly to care for the interests of the racial and religious minorities in Singapore.\n(2) The Government shall exercise its functions in such manner as to recognise the special position of the Malays, who are the indigenous people of Singapore, and accordingly it shall be the responsibility of the Government to protect, safeguard, support, foster and promote their political, educational, religious, economic, social and cultural interests and the Malay language.\"</poem>\n\nThe four official languages (English, Chinese, Malay, Tamil) are recognised in Article 153 the Singapore Constitution. English is the language of administration, and is also seen as a common language for the different races to communicate with one another. Chinese, Malay and Tamil were designated as the ‘Mother Tongues’ of the three respective ethnic group. The then-Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, in particular, believed that learning one’s Mother Tongue helped maintain one’s understanding of cultural values.\n\nA bilingual education policy was also introduced, mandating that students learn English as their first language and their respective Mother Tongues (determined by their officially registered race). Today, all students are expected to learn an official Mother Tongue Language. However, Singaporeans who have lived abroad for extended periods, as well as international students, may be granted exemptions from the Mother Tongue language requirement on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe Presidential Council for Minority Rights (PCMR) is a non-elected government body which examines legislation to ensure that they do not discriminate against any racial or religious communities.\n\nAccording to the Parliamentary Elections Act, each Group Representation Constituency (GRC) must include one member of the minority race such as a Malay or Indian. However, a by-election need not be held to fill a vacancy in any GRC triggered by the death or resignation of an MP, even if there are no other minority candidates in that GRC, or for any other reason.\n\nFrom 2017 onwards, the presidential elections will be reserved for a racial group if that racial group has not represented for five terms. If there are no eligible candidates from that group, the election would be opened to candidates of all races, and the “reserved election” would be deferred to the next Presidential election. The first reserved Presidential Election was held in 2017.\n\nThe Ethnic Integration Policy implemented by the Housing and Development Board (HDB) sets a quota on who can reside in a public housing flat in a particular block or neighbourhood. The policy was first introduced 1989 to prevent the formation of ethnic enclaves and encourage a balanced racial mix in HDB estates. According to the HDB, the proportion set for a block or neighbourhood “is based on the ethnic make-up of Singapore”.\n\nBy default, all employees are required to contribute to self-help groups’ funds, namely: Chinese Development Assistance Council (CDAC) Fund, Mosque Building and Mendaki Fund (MBMF), Singapore Indian Development Association (SINDA) Fund and Eurasian Community Fund (ECF). Contribution to the self-help group depends on the race and/or religion of the employee which is indicated on the National Registration Identity Card (NRIC). Contributions are deducted from an employee’s wages as well as their share of their Central Provident Fund (CPF) contribution. However, employees have the option of opting-out from contributing to their respective self-help groups.\n\nMalays were virtually excluded from conscription from the beginning of the draft in 1967 until 1977 and, after the policy was eased, were assigned mainly to serve in the police and civil defence (fire brigade), not active combat roles. In \"The Roar of the Lion City\" (2007), military analyst Sean Walsh claimed that \"official discrimination against the Malay population remains an open secret\". The Ministry of Defence contests the charge, noting that there are \"Malay pilots, commandos and air defence personnel\", and stating that \"the proportion of eligible Malays selected for specialist and officer training is similar to the proportion for eligible non-Malays.\"\n\nRacial Harmony Day is celebrated on 21 July, on the anniversary of the 1964 Race Riots. First launched in 1997 by the Ministry of Education in schools, the event has since expanded in reach. Today, grassroots organisations such as the People’s Association and the Community Development Councils also celebrate Racial Harmony Day.\n\nThe Singapore state’s treatment of race has also faced criticism from some academics. Scholar S. Velayutham argues that the state’s constant focus on the “spectre of racial violence has literally erased the notion of racism from public and official discourses”. Velayutham also argues and that “the need to maintain racial harmony, social cohesion and tolerance is repeatedly voiced to render racists practices as non-occurrences”. Other scholars such as N. Purushotam take issue with the orientalist underpinnings of the CMIO classification, and argue that continued adherence to the model merely avoids reconceptualisation of the term “race”. The “Others” category has also been criticised, with scholar Elaine Ho contending that the grouping of ethnic groups into the category “glosses over their social heterogeneity and different needs”.\n\nNevertheless, CMIO framework retains majority mainstream support among Singaporeans. A 2016 joint survey by Channel NewsAsia and the Institute of Policy Studies showed that a majority of respondents believed that the CMIO classification helps build trust between the races (69%), fosters greater interaction between races (69%) and safeguards minority rights (71%). In a 2017 interview with local newspaper TODAY, the survey’s lead researcher Mathew Mathews said that “[t]he answer is not dismantling the framework, the answer is to ensure that all the communities continue to be embracing (of others).”\n\n"}
{"id": "585935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585935", "title": "Racial transformation", "text": "Racial transformation\n\nRacial transformation is the process by which a demographic region (e.g., a country, neighborhood, or a school) changes in racial composition.\n"}
{"id": "4185087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4185087", "title": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927", "text": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927\n\nSickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1927:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to sickness insurance for agricultural workers...\n\nThe principles contained in this convention were subsequently revised and included in ILO Convention C130.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 21 states. One state that has ratified, Uruguay, has subsequently denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1392452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392452", "title": "Social issues in Chinatowns", "text": "Social issues in Chinatowns\n\nLike many other communities, the older Chinatowns face certain social problems. Although Chinatowns are now generally viewed and valued as tourist attractions, their earlier reputation was that of dangerous or dilapidated ghettos and slums, sites of brothels, opium dens, and gambling halls.\n\nIn modern times, competing Asian street gangs and organized crime, such as the tongs and the Hong Kong-based triads, continue to plague the metropolitan Chinatowns worldwide where Triads have their operations, including London, United Kingdom; Chicago, San Francisco, California; Los Angeles, New York City, Philadelphia, Las Vegas, Boston, Seattle, New Jersey, Sydney, Australia, and Vancouver, British Columbia, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Tongs are Chinese secret societies, which were prominent in the 19th and 20th centuries. There have been 'Tong wars' or Chinatown in-fighting, between the Tong groups in the older Chinatowns. A tong war occurred in a Chinatown could be spread to other Chinatown communities. Initially, many Chinatown gangs were formed to defend the community from the \"lo fahn\" (Cantonese word and transliteration for \"Caucasians\") but later turned on members of their own ethnic community. This had a huge impact on the gang.\n\nThe Chinatowns of the 1960s and 1970s experiences a rapid influx of working-class immigrants from Hong Kong. Since their inception in the late 1960s, the Hong Kong-born immigrants and mostly unemployed though some work as waiters and busboys Wah Ching (華青) gang members began a campaign of harassment and assault of white tourists in San Francisco's Chinatown, which ultimately proved to be a predicament for the tourism-minded conservative Chinatown elite of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association (the biggest problem is that the CCBA simply advocated tougher policing against the gangs rather than resolve Chinatown social inequalities at the core). In North America, Chinese American street gangs often have connections with the tongs and triads. Examples of such street gangs include the Joe Boys and Jackson Street Boys, which are named after the major street of San Francisco's Chinatown.\n\nTurf wars have been common in the older Chinatowns. Gang rivalry among Chinatown gangs has sometimes have a high profile. As Chinatowns tend to be tourist attractions, tourists in Chinatowns have sometimes been victims of these gang warfare crimes. In 1977, a shoot-out occurred in a San Francisco Chinatown restaurant (where the rival gang were normally based), in which two tourists and three waiters were murdered by stray gunfire in a botched assassination attempt on a Wah Ching gang member. Eleven other people were injured. This incident is notoriously known as the Golden Dragon massacre and it mobilized the San Francisco Police Department to create an Asian crime unit. The five suspects involved in the attack were sentenced and convicted. On June 30, 1995 involved two factions of the Jackson Street Boys. One faction opened fire on the other on a busy Chinatown street, Stockton Street, during the daytime. Seven innocent bystanders were struck, including a pregnant woman. Three males, ages 18, 16, and 14, were arrested in connection with the shooting. Jackson Boys were also the primary trafficker of illegal fireworks back when fireworks were blatantly sold on the streets of Chinatown. In June 1998, shots were fired at Chinese Playground, wounding six teenagers, three of them critically. A 16-year-old boy was arrested for the shooting, which was believed to be gang-related.\n\nSeattle's generally pacific International District-Chinatown was rocked by one particularly spectacular incident of gang violence in February 1983, when the Wah Mee massacre killed 13 people at an illegal gambling club, among them several prominent restaurant owners.\n\nIn the late 1970s, some amount of the ethnic Chinese refugees from Vietnam would also start gangs.\n\nIn the Los Angeles Chinatown of 1984, Chinese Vietnamese gang members shot and murdered a white Los Angeles Police Department officer in the line of duty and wounded his Japanese American partner. The officers were responding to a silent robbery alarm at a Chinatown jewelry store and a shoot-out ensued. The wounded Japanese American officer returned fire, killing three of the five suspects. A three-year trial concluded in 1988, and the remaining killers received the verdict of life imprisonment.\n\nIn Chinatown, Manhattan in May 1985, a gang-related shooting injured seven people, including a 4-year-old boy, at 30 East Broadway. Two males, who were 15 and 16 years old and were members of a Chinese street gang, were arrested and convicted.\n\nSuburban Chinatowns are also not entirely immune from extortion. In the so-called \"new Chinatown\" of Richmond, British Columbia, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police arrested six male suspects in connection with extortion that involved assaulting a Chinese Canadian waiter and then vandalizing the restaurant in 1999. In the summer of 2003, in the Los Angeles County community of San Gabriel, California, Asian gunmen shot out a window of a Chinese restaurant, allegedly to send a message to the owner to pay protection; instead, they killed a waitress, a Mainland Chinese immigrant. Triad extortion activity is also rife in several Chinatowns of Sydney, Australia. Chinese restaurants have especially been targeted in Sydney.\n\nMany Chinese victims in Chinatown and other areas where Chinese are prostitutes and reluctant to report any incidents of gang harassment to authorities because they fear possible retaliation. First-generation immigrants, who often speak limited English, may be in the country illegally or have a general distrust of the police or of government in general. Many immigrants emigrated from countries where the police routinely intimidate the population – such as with Communist China and Taiwan under President Chiang Kai-shek's martial law – or where the government persecuted the population, as with Thailand and Vietnam. In Hong Kong, until recently, the police were often corrupt and ineffective.\n\nAlso compounding to the problem is that Chinese immigrant restaurateurs and storekeepers sometimes dismiss the exploitative extortion as another cost of doing business in the form of a \"business tax\" and thus simply shrug it off. In Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, and many areas of Mainland China, extortion is figured into the cost of running a business, and many immigrant business owners presume that it is the same in their newly adopted country as well.\n\nThe triads are also primarily responsible for smuggling illegal immigrants into the Chinatowns of Australia, Europe, and North America, often from China and Vietnam. These Asian smugglers are called \"snakeheads\". In order to pay for their passage, many of these immigrants end up indentured in \"under the table\" low-wage (often lower than the minimum wage) service jobs, e.g., as restaurant waiters or dishwashers, masseuses in massage parlors, prostitutes, and garment sweatshops.\n\nSuch social problems have been the subject for several Hollywood police films such as \"The Corruptor\" (starring Mark Wahlberg and Chow Yun-fat), \"Year of the Dragon\" (starring Mickey Rourke) and \"Revenge of the Green Dragons\" (executive produced by Martin Scorsese).\n\nWhereas a few Chinatowns, notably the ones in Manhattan and Chicago, have been experiencing population growth and urban renewal, many others (such as San Francisco, Houston and Vancouver) have been facing urban decay over the years. Social ills such as homelessness and drug-related problems occur with some Chinatowns in urban areas. Many vagrants – often non-Chinese – are seen aggressively panhandling and sometimes causing a nuisance on the streets of older Chinatowns, making them unattractive for investment.\n\nHomelessness has been a problem in the Chinatowns of Honolulu, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and especially Vancouver's Chinatown, which neighbors Downtown Eastside. In Vancouver, Los Angeles, and other cities where the Chinatown is widely perceived as part of an unsafe inner city, few people will venture there at night, so many Chinatown businesses close around 5 or 6 pm; only a handful of restaurants remain open. These Chinatowns become virtual ghost towns in the evening. By contrast, the vibrant suburban Chinatowns in North America have a bustling nightlife with a number of restaurants with longer business hours, and the Chinatowns in New York City, Seattle, and London remain popular late-night destinations.\n\nThere have been programs such as graffiti removal, in which Chinatown community members and the local police work together to improve the safety and aesthetics of Chinatowns, and, as police forces diversify, many have made more successful outreach to Chinatowns than in the past. As a case study, Chinatown in Los Angeles has improved notably in these respects although there has been political wrangling with the Chinatown leaders and city of Los Angeles. However, several revitalization plans have failed to take off due in the past to low funding. Vancouver's Chinatown has attempted to counter parking problems by erecting a large parking structure, but drug problems and perceived police ineffectiveness to clamp down on property crime in Chinatown have hampered efforts.\n\nThe exodus of ethnic Chinese from Chinatowns and their gradual acculturation into the larger society has caused some loss of revenue. Elderly Chinese-speaking customers remain in Chinatowns and patronize Chinatown businesses, but without a large immigrant and descendant population to sustain their communities, Chinatowns increasingly rely on tourism. The Chinatown of Havana, Cuba (otherwise known as the \"barrio chino\") with its small and declining population of Chinese origin, promotes its exotic image to the tourist trade.\n\nSocial problems aside, several longtime popular and historic Chinese restaurants have also closed in the Chinatowns of San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Toronto, thus leading to the decline.\n\nThe old Chinatowns now face heavy competition from the ethnic Chinese and pan-Asian large supermarkets, shopping centers, and mini-malls found in the suburbs. Many old Chinatowns have experienced declining revenue. For example, in California the Chinatowns of San Francisco and Oakland compete with the large shopping centers in Cupertino and Silicon Valley, and the Los Angeles Chinatown faces distinct challenges from the San Gabriel Valley's multiple Chinatowns. With a multitude of acclaimed Chinese cuisine restaurants, the gleaming suburban Chinese Canadian business district of Richmond, British Columbia, has nearly rendered the aging Vancouver Chinatown obsolete for business and revenue, superseding it as the focal point of Chinese culture in greater Vancouver; its influence is felt even across the border in the Puget Sound area. Manhattan's Chinatown continues to grow (having almost completely engulfed Little Italy) but its ever-higher property values have driven many Chinese New Yorkers – both businesses and customers – to the Flushing Chinatown in Queens, not to mention Chinese New Yorkers moving to Parsippany, New Jersey and Edison, New Jersey. In Houston the older Chinatown in Downtown Houston has been largely replaced with a new Chinatown in southwest Houston outside of Beltway 8 in the Alief area. In South Africa, Johannesburg Chinatown has fallen victim to crime in that city and is being largely replaced by a new Chinatown in suburban Cyrildene. In Sydney, Australia, there are also multiple quasi \"Chinatowns\" in the suburbs, notably in the communities of Cabramatta, Chatswood, Paramatta, among others, which are rapidly outpacing the old Chinatown in Sydney proper. New shopping centers in the suburbs of Boston are also replacing Chinatown. With new developments and investments of new shopping centers in the suburbs, many ethnic Chinese immigrants in those areas now do not need to head to overcrowded and congested old Chinatowns to gain access to the goods and services.\n\nGentrification has reversed decline in Chicago's Chinatown and it may reverse that of Vancouver as well, as the downtown condo tower boom of that city is now moving toward its Chinatown. New upscale 40-story condo towers are being constructed, as are urban retail centres.\n\nGentrification and urban renewal both have positive and negative aspects. There are fears that non-Chinese-inspired gentrification will change Chinatowns into something entirely different. Hence, there have been various organized vocal opposition and protests in the Chinatowns. Proposals for London's Chinatown include development of posh shops and relocation of its historic pagoda structure. In San Francisco's Chinatown, a proposed development of luxury apartments amidst a large working-class community was thwarted. In Los Angeles, development of an artist colony with non-Chinese-owned art galleries - many have replaced old Chinese American storefronts - in Chinatown has altered the landscape. Toronto's Chinatown is also facing the prospect of inevitable gentrification, with a declining Chinese population. The politics of gentrification has also been felt in the Chinatowns of Philadelphia (where a Philadelphia Phillies baseball stadium was once proposed), Boston, and Washington, D.C. (where the Capital One Arena has significantly shrunk the Chinatown). The local population of Montreal's Quartier Chinois has thwarted a scheme that would have placed a casino within the district. For the most part, Los Angeles's Chinatown has embraced bohemian gentrification without much vocal opposition; Seattle's Chinatown/International District, which has long been more a commercial than a residential neighborhood, has seen a great deal of new construction and some gentrification; nearly all of this recent development is by Asians or Asian Americans, if not always by Chinese.\n\nBecause Toronto has become the home for a large number of Chinese immigrants, many Chinese Canadians travel to and from Asia on a regular basis. In 2003, several deaths attributed to the outbreak of the SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) virus in Toronto prompted a major scare as it was spread by a Chinese Canadian woman who had visited Hong Kong, contracted the virus during her visit, and died upon her return to Canada. A panic spread across cities with Chinatowns in Canada and in the United States as many Chinese businesses urged people who had recently been traveling in China (where SARS was first reported) or Hong Kong to stay away. In addition, many Chinese restaurants and shopping centers, especially in the Chinatowns of Toronto and Markham, Ontario, saw a reduction in business because of the perceived SARS threat.\n\nAs a result, many Chinese Canadians and even Chinese Americans faced an economic impact on their businesses. (During the peak of the hype, several businesses in Chinatowns old and new even capitalized on the fear by selling face masks and SARS \"survival kits\".) To allay some of the public fears in Canada and worldwide, Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chrétien and Toronto Mayor Mel Lastman had lunch in a Toronto Chinatown restaurant to show that the restaurants and Chinatown in general were safe for tourism.\n\nThere were rumors circulating around Chinese communities and the Internet (especially with e-mail chain letters) to avoid certain Chinese restaurants and supermarkets in many urban and suburban Chinatowns because they could allegedly contract the virus. Some authorities have theorized these warnings were initiated by rival competing Chinese businesses. There was no factual basis found for these claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "17017917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17017917", "title": "Software studies", "text": "Software studies\n\nSoftware studies is an emerging interdisciplinary research field, which studies software systems and their social and cultural effects.\n\nThe implementation and use of software has been studied in recent fields such as cyberculture, Internet studies, new media studies, and digital culture, yet prior to software studies, software was rarely ever addressed as a distinct object of study.\n\nSoftware studies is an interdisciplinary field. To study software as an artifact, it draws upon methods and theory from the digital humanities and from computational perspectives on software. Methodologically, software studies usually differs from the approaches of computer science and software engineering, which concern themselves primarily with software in information theory and in practical application; however, these fields all share an emphasis on computer literacy, particularly in the areas of programming and source code. This emphasis on analyzing software sources and processes (rather than interfaces) often distinguishes software studies from new media studies, which is usually restricted to discussions of interfaces and observable effects.\n\nThe conceptual origins of software studies include Marshall McLuhan's focus on the role of media in themselves, rather than the content of media platforms, in shaping culture. Early references to the study of software as a cultural practice appear in Friedrich Kittler's essay, \"Es gibt keine Software,\" Lev Manovich's \"Language of New Media\", and Matthew Fuller's \"Behind the Blip: Essays on the culture of software\". Much of the impetus for the development of software studies has come from videogame studies, particularly platform studies, the study of videogames and other software artifacts in their hardware and software contexts. New media art, software art, motion graphics, and computer-aided design are also significant software-based cultural practices, as is the creation of new protocols and platforms.\n\nThe first conference events in the emerging field were Software Studies Workshop 2006 and SoftWhere 2008.\n\nIn 2008, MIT Press launched a \"Software Studies\" book series with an edited volume of essays (Matthew Fuller's \"Software Studies: a Lexicon\"), and the first academic program was launched, (Lev Manovich, Benjamin H. Bratton and Noah Wardrip-Fruin's \"Software Studies Initiative\" at U. California San Diego). \nIn 2011, a number of mainly British researchers established \"Computational Culture\", an open-access peer-reviewed journal. The journal provides a platform for \"inter-disciplinary enquiry into the nature of the culture of computational objects, practices, processes and structures.\"\n\nSoftware studies is closely related to a number of other emerging fields in the digital humanities that explore functional components of technology from a social and cultural perspective. Software studies' focus is at the level of the entire program, specifically the relationship between interface and code. Notably related are critical code studies, which is more closely attuned to the code rather than the program, and platform studies, which investigates the relationships between hardware and software.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31712073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31712073", "title": "Strategic talk", "text": "Strategic talk\n\nStrategic talk is how language can be used to maximize shared understanding by consciously and deliberalty to formulating talk, asking questions and giving answers, putting other's talk into our own words, using concrete example and telling stories to illustrate a meaning. This method of organizational or business communication was created by Richard E. Heymen Ed.D.\n"}
{"id": "20004766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004766", "title": "Tangible symbol systems", "text": "Tangible symbol systems\n\nTangible symbols are a type of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) that uses objects or pictures that share a perceptual relationship with the items they represent as symbols. A tangible symbol's relation to the item it represents is perceptually obvious and concrete - the visual or tactile properties of the symbol resemble the intended item. Tangible Symbols can easily be manipulated and are most strongly associated with the sense of touch.These symbols can be used by individuals who are not able to communicate using speech or other abstract symbol systems, such as sign language. However, for those who have the ability to communicate using speech, learning to use tangible symbols does not hinder further developing acquisition of natural speech and/or language development, and may even facilitate it.\n\nThe term tangible symbols was first developed by Charity Rowland and Philip Schweigert, and refers to two-dimensional pictures or three-dimensional objects used as symbols to convey meaning. The items are termed \"tangible\" because they are concrete items that can be manipulated by the user and communication partner. Symbols can be used individually or combined with other symbols in order to create new messages. Tangible symbols are used as a means of communication for individuals who are unable to understand or communicate using abstract systems, such as speech or sign language.\n\nProperties of tangible symbols include permanency, capacity to be manipulated by both the user and the communication partner, and an obvious relationship between the symbol and the referent. They can represent items, people, activities and/or events, and look or feel similar to what they refer to. For example, a cup can be used as three-dimensional tangible symbol to represent the action: \"drink\". A photograph of a cup can be used as a two-dimensional tangible symbol to also represent the action : \"drink\". Two- and three-dimensional symbols are used to fit the cognitive and sensory abilities of the individual, as well as the individual's unique experiences. \nRowland and Schweigert use the term tangible symbols to refer to conceptually tangible items like two-dimensional pictures or three-dimensional objects. However, other authors, such as Beukelman and Mirenda, use the term to exclusively describe three-dimensional physical objects that display concrete properties such as shape or texture.\n\nAccording to Rowland and Schweigert, \"for some individuals, the use of tangible symbols may be used to bridge the gap between gestural communication and the use of formal language systems. For others, tangible symbols may represent an ultimate level of communicative competence.\"\n\nHistorically, objects and pictures have frequently been used as communication devices. Many authors have also used picture symbols, such as line drawings and photographs to develop language in individuals with little or no speech and/or cognitive disabilities. Tangible symbols emerged from Van Dijk’s work in the 1960s using objects as symbols to develop language in deaf-blind children. In turn, Van Dijk’s work was based on the concept \"symbol formation\" developed by Werner and Kaplan (1963), who theorized that \"symbol formation\" referred to the process of developing language by creating symbols in our minds.\n\nRowland and Schweigert propose that tangible symbols can be divided into hierarchical categories, ranging from most concrete to most abstract symbols: \n\nThe type of tangible symbol used is chosen based on the cognitive and sensory abilities of the learner/user. The meaning behind each symbol is not universal, but by using a symbol the individual is familiar with, a meaningful symbol is created. Tangible symbols should be constructed by meaningful and motivating symbols that will provide the individual with the most opportunities to practice using the new system.\n\nIndividuals who can benefit from using tangible symbols include those who may lack the skills to communicate using verbal speech or other various communication systems such as sign language. Users of tangible symbols may include individuals with cognitive disabilities (including developmental delay and intellectual disability), sensory and/or visual impairments (blindness and/or deafblindness), developmental disabilities (such as autism spectrum disorder), and orthopedic impairments. Rowland and Schweigert claim that tangible symbols do not require the use of high demands on the learner’s cognitive abilities, memory, visual perception, and motor abilities because they are:\nFurthermore, simple behavioral responses can be used with tangible items. For example, learners that are unable to speak can simply point, touch, pick up, or look (in cases of severe motoric impairment) at the object to answer a question or make a request. Finally, three-dimensional objects can be distinguished from one another using touch, and therefore they are suitable for people with visual impairments or blindness.\nA study by Rowland and Schweigert found individuals who were already able to communicate using gestures or vocalizations more readily learned to use tangible symbols than those who did not have intentional pre-symbolic communication skills.\n\nPresentation format depends on the users visual scanning and motoric ability. The tangible symbols can placed in front of the user within reach, placed on a board for visual scanning, or placed in a book for access.\n\nTypically, tangible symbols are custom made and tailored to the individual child. If pre-made sets are used, it is assumed that the symbols are familiar and motivating for the user. It is important to utilize frequently occurring and highly motivating symbols in order to optimize opportunities for use.\n\nTangible symbol system offers a manual and DVD as well as an online course. For more information on tangible symbol system instructional strategies, please reference: http://designtolearn.com/products/tangible_symbol_systems\n\nIn 2009, Ellen Trief, Susan M. Bruce, Paul W. Cascella, and Sarah Ivy created a Universal Tangible Symbol System. They began by developing a survey to determine which tangible symbols were already in use, new activities and concepts for which tangible systems are needed, and participant preferences for tangible symbols from a pilot study. Participants included teachers and speech-language pathologists from four New York City schools. Following the survey, an advisory board consisting of directors of the New York City schools, speech-language pathologists, the designer and manufacturer of the symbols, a representative from the Perkins School for the Blind, college professors, and a graduate research assistant reviewed and discussed the results. This resulted in the establishment of the 55 universal tangible symbols seen in the chart below. However, this universal tangible symbol system should not replace a system already established for an individual.\n"}
{"id": "1174964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174964", "title": "Technological evolution", "text": "Technological evolution\n\nTechnological evolution is a theory of radical transformation of society through technological development. This theory originated with Czech philosopher Radovan Richta.\n\n\"Mankind In Transition; A View of the Distant Past, the Present and the Far Future\", Masefield Books, 1993. Technology (which Richta defines as \"a material entity created by the application of mental and physical effort to nature in order to achieve some value\") evolves in three stages: tools, machine, automation. This evolution, he says, follows two trends:\n\nThe pretechnological period, in which all other animal species remain today aside from some avian and primate species was a non-rational period of the early prehistoric man.\n\nThe emergence of technology, made possible by the development of the rational faculty, paved the way for the first stage: the tool. A tool provides a mechanical advantage in accomplishing a physical task, such as an arrow, plow, or hammer that augments physical labor to more efficiently achieve his objective. Later animal-powered tools such as the plow and the horse, increased the productivity of food production about tenfold over the technology of the hunter-gatherers. Tools allow one to do things impossible to accomplish with one's body alone, such as seeing minute visual detail with a microscope, manipulating heavy objects with a pulley and cart, or carrying volumes of water in a bucket.\n\nThe second technological stage was the creation of the machine. A machine (a powered machine to be more precise) is a tool that substitutes the element of human physical effort, and requires only to control its function. Machines became widespread with the industrial revolution, though windmills, a type of machine, are much older.\n\nExamples of this include cars, trains, computers, and lights. Machines allow humans to\nTremendously exceed the limitations of their bodies. Putting a machine on the farm, a tractor, increased food productivity at least tenfold over the technology of the plow and the horse.\n\nThe third, and final stage of technological evolution is the automation. The automation is a machine that removes the element of human control with an automatic algorithm. Examples of machines that exhibit this characteristic are digital watches, automatic telephone switches, pacemakers, and computer programs.\n\nIt's crucial to understand that the three stages outline the introduction of the fundamental types of technology, and so all three continue to be widely used today. A spear, a plow, a pen, a knife, a glove, a chicken and an optical microscope are all examples of tools.\n\nThe process of technological evolution culminates with the ability to achieve all the material values technologically possible and desirable by mental effort.\n\nAn economic implication of the above idea is that intellectual labour will become increasingly more important relative to physical labour. Contracts and agreements around information will become increasingly more common at the marketplace. Expansion and creation of new kinds of institutes that works with information such as universities, book stores, patent-trading companies, etc. is considered an indication that a civilization is in technological evolution.\n\nThis highlights the importance underlining the debate over intellectual property in conjunction with decentralized distribution systems such as today's internet. Where the price of information distribution is going towards zero with ever more efficient tools to distribute information is being invented. Growing amounts of information being distributed to an increasingly larger customer base as times goes by. With growing disintermediation in said markets and growing concerns over the protection of intellectual property rights it is not clear what form markets for information will take with the evolution of the information age.\n\n"}
{"id": "17912437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17912437", "title": "The Abortion Pill (film)", "text": "The Abortion Pill (film)\n\nThe Abortion Pill is a 1997 documentary that examines the pros and cons of a Mifepristone (RU486), a drug that can end pregnancy without surgery. The film was produced and directed by Marion Lipschutz and Rose Rosenblatt of Incite Pictures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48917358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48917358", "title": "Theory of narrative thought", "text": "Theory of narrative thought\n\nThe Theory of Narrative Thought is a theory of thought designed to bridge the gap between the neurological functioning of the brain and the flow of everyday conscious experience. Proposed by Lee Roy Beach, the theory is expanded by Beach, Byron Bissell, and James Wise (2016).\n\n The theory of narrative thought (TNT) is a refinement of image theory which was developed as an alternative to rational choice theory. The essence of image theory is that decisions are shaped by long-term attempts to manage the future rather than short-term results. The image theory model of the decision process, called the compatibility test, held up in both laboratory and field tests (Beach, L. R., & Connolly, T. (2005). The Psychology of Decision Making: People in Organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage) and has been retained, but renamed, as the discrepancy test in TNT.\n\nThe theory of narrative thought (TNT) describes the brain as being composed of subsystems that act together to give rise to consciousness. Some of these subsystems, such as perception and memory, contribute content to consciousness. One subsystem in the left hemisphere codes the content in language while a corresponding subsystem in the right hemisphere links it with emotions. Working together as a single system, called the “interpreter,” they organize the content of consciousness. This order is the origin of narrative but at this point it is rudimentary, a proto-narrative. The proto-narrative is simple but up-to-date; it reflects what is happening at the moment. For infants, proto-narratives are pretty much the whole story, but as memories are formed, past proto-narratives become linked with present proto-narratives and, as caregivers lend a hand, more elaborate narratives take shape. As a store of elaborated narratives develops, proto-narratives continue to update them with current information from the perceptual system. This keeps the narratives aware of what is going on in the internal and external environments. Over time, two kinds of narratives develop.\n\nChronicle narratives are about what happened in the past, what is happening now, and what is expected to happen in the future. They are the ongoing story of one’s conscious experience. Procedural narratives are about how to do things. They are about the actions one can take to better inform one’s chronicle narratives. They also are about the actions one can take to shape the future by acting directly upon the internal or external environment to produce desired results. Procedural narratives are subordinate to chronicle narratives. When used alone, the word “narrative” refers to chronicle narratives. [Note that chronicle and procedural narratives are parallel to, but not identical to, Daniel Kahneman’s (2011) System 1 and System 2.]\n\nNarratives are more than just updated memories about what has happened recently. They are the stuff of ongoing conscious experience, of moment-to-moment thinking, of the richness of mental life, and they are the foundations for informed guesses about the future. They are a mixture of memories and of visual, auditory, and other imagery as well as the accompanying emotions. Their elements are symbols that stand for real or imagined events and actors (including oneself), where the actors are animate beings or inanimate forces. The events and actors are linked by causality. Causality implies temporality and, for animate actors, purpose. That is, a narrative consists of a temporal arrangement of events that are purposefully caused by animate beings (including oneself) or are the result of inanimate forces. The narrative’s storyline is its meaning, which is created by a coherent arrangement of the events and actors.\n\nCausality is the structural backbone of all narratives, both chronicle and procedural. This is because it is the source of narrative temporality. This temporal aspect of causality works retrospectively, from effect to cause, which allows one to account for what is happening now as a result of what has happened in the past. And it works prospectively, from cause to effect, which allows one to set expectations for what will happen in the future as a result of what is happening now and what came before. A good narrative is plausible if its actors’ actions contribute to the story line and are not uncharacteristic, i.e., are reasonably consistent across narratives. A good narrative is coherent if the actions of the actors and the effects of those actions conform to one’s causal rules. In short, a good narrative makes sense in that there are no loose ends.\n\nNoncontingent rules are about what to expect to happen as a result of actions by other people or outside forces over which one has no control. Contingent rules are about what one expects to happen as a result of one’s own actions. These rules form the causal linkages among narratives’ elements and are the bases of expected and action projections respectively.\n\nCausal rules tell one what caused something to happen or how to make something happen. Another kind of rule, normative rules, tell one why something should happen. Normative rules are about what qualifies as desirable and what does not. That is, normative rules are standards for what is ethical, right, proper, principled, reasonable, appropriate, preferred, and so on, all of which are one’s values and preferences.\n\nThe current narrative is the narrative one is focused upon at the moment. It is the narrative that makes sense of what has happened leading up to the present, what is happening right now, and what will happen next. The latter, results from extrapolating the past and present segments of current narrative to make educated guesses about the future. A guess about how the future might unfold if one does not make an effort to change it is called an expected projection and a guess about how the future might unfold as a result of one’s efforts to change it is called an action projection. Both projections are narratives. Both are extrapolations of the current narrative. Both are constructed using one’s store of causal rules. Both are subject to the scrutiny of normative rules. Both are imaginary.\n\nWhen the future is projected, based upon the current narrative, the emotions associated with the relevant normative rules provide the criteria for evaluating the desirability of that future. Each feature of the projected future elicits an emotion that reflects how well it meets the relevant standard(s) set by one’s normative rule(s). A positive emotion is elicited if it meets the standard(s) and a negative emotion is elicited if it doesn’t. The strength of the elicited emotion is a function of the degree to which the feature exceeds or falls short of the standard(s). When evaluating the desirability of the projected future, the focus is on the features that fall short of one’s standards—called violations. If the violations are too abundant, too large, or too important, the associated negative emotions mount to a point at which one must conclude that the projected future will be undesirable. When this happens, survival, or simply unacceptable discomfort, dictates that something must be done to change the future so that when it arrives it will be more desirable than if things are simply allowed to happen as they will. The action agenda for changing the future is called a plan and execution of that plan is called implementation. The anticipated result of implementing the plan is the action projection. An acceptable plan is one that offers a sufficiently desirable future, a future that is compatible with one’s values and preferences.\n\nA plan is a narrative about how one intends to go from the present to a more desirable future—how one intends to influence the course of ongoing events in a desirable direction. Like other narratives, plans must be plausible and coherent. Plausibility means that all the relevant elements, including oneself, are included and that their proposed actions are reasonable. Coherence means that the sequence of tactics creates a feasible causal chain from the present to the desired future. Plausibility is revealed by the ease with which one can imagine oneself and other actors engaging in a successful implementation of the plan, even if it will require hard work. Plausibility also requires that this activity seems natural and lifelike, and that success doesn’t rely on unlikely events or unrealistic amounts effort and resources. Coherence is revealed by the completeness of the causal chain of tactics, even though one knows one probably won’t end up doing things exactly as planned. A plan that lacks plausibility and/or coherence inspires little confidence (which is an emotion associated with a normative standard), which prompts its revision or replacement by another plan.\n\nBriefly stated: (1) There are two kinds of narratives: chronicle narratives, which are stories about ongoing events, including the expected future, and procedural narratives, which are stories about how to do things; (2) both kinds of narrative are structured by time and causality and both are “good narratives” if they are plausible and coherent; (3) the undesirability of the expected future is assessed by its failure to meet standards set by one’s values and preferences; (4) action is prompted when the projected future is determined to be so undesirable as to be unacceptable.\n\nBoth Beach (2010) and Beach, Bissell, and Wise (2016) open with a historical description of the ebbing fortunes of “executive mind,” as a scientific concept but how, over the past 50 years, it has come back, albeit on firmer ground, as “the brain.” But while “the brain” may be the new name for “mind,” the fact that the old name continues to be used in both scientific and everyday discourse suggests that the new name doesn’t quite do the job. That is, rather than merely reflecting sloppy usage, the word “mind” reflects something more than merely neural activity in the brain.\n\nOther than the computer analogy and the information processing metaphor, cognitive science has produce no encompassing theory. But it seems to be widely assumed that when such a theory appears, it will necessarily be in terms of brain function to which conscious experience is subsidiary and derivative. TNT challenges this assumption by recognizing that brain functioning and conscious experience are two qualitatively different things. Although subjective experience derives from brain activity, it is not reducible to it. Therefore, the theory recognizes the importance of the brain and how it works, but it also recognizes the importance of conscious experience and how it works. Putting the two together as equally legitimate and complementary provides the “something more” than neural activity in the brain that is implied by the word “mind.”\nMuch has been written about the characteristics of mind, mostly by philosophers. The commonalities across those discussions reveals three primary characteristics that a theory of mind should address and that are, in fact, addressed by TNT: Thinking that is both reflective and reflexive—that is able to consider both itself and things other than itself. Knowing that allows distinctions between truth and falsity, error and ignorance, and belief and opinion. Purpose that results in actions aimed at foreseen objectives. In addition, TNT addresses the most common questions raised in these philosophical discussions: How does the mind operate? What are its “intrinsic excellences or defects?” How is it related to matter, to bodily organs, to material conditions, and to other minds? Is it possessed in common with animals? Does it exist separate from corporeality? Insofar as the theory adequately deals with these characteristics and answers these questions, it qualifies as a modern theory of mind.\n\n"}
{"id": "6900765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900765", "title": "Timeline of the American Old West", "text": "Timeline of the American Old West\n\nThis timeline of the American Old West is a chronology ordered list of events significant to the development of the American West as a region of the United States prior to 1912. The term \"American Old West\" refers to a vast geographical area and lengthy time period of imprecise boundaries, and historians' definitions vary. The events in this timeline occurred primarily in the contiguous portion of the modern United States west of the Mississippi River, and mostly in the period between the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the admission of the last mainland states into the Union in 1912. A small section summarizing early exploration and settlement prior to 1803 is included to provide a foundation for later developments. Rarely, events significant to the history of the West but which occurred within the modern boundaries of Canada and Mexico are included as well.\n\nWestern North America was inhabited for millennia by various groups of Native Americans, and later served as a frontier to European powers, beginning with Spanish colonization in the 16th century. British, French, and Russian claims followed in the 18th and 19th centuries. After the American Revolution, the newly independent United States began securing its own frontier from the Appalachian Mountains westward for settlement and economic investment by American citizens. The long history of American expansion into these lands has played a central role in shaping American culture, iconography, and the modern national identity, and remains a popular topic for study by scholars and historians.\n\nEvents listed below are notable developments for the region as a whole, not just for a particular state or smaller subdivision of the region; as historians Hine and Faragher put it, they \"tell the story of the creation and defense of communities, the use of the lands, the development of markets, and the formation of states... It is a tale of conquest, but also one of survival, persistence, and the merging of peoples and cultures.\"\n\nFor almost three centuries after Columbus' voyages to the New World, much of western North America remained unsettled by European colonists, despite various territorial claims made by imperialist nations. Europeans interest in the vast territory was motivated by the search for precious metals, especially gold, and the fur trade, with miners, trappers, and hunters among the first people of European descent to permanently settle in the West. The early years were also a period of scientific exploration and survey, such that by 1830 the rough outline of the western half of the continent had been mapped to the Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "6886026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6886026", "title": "World Congress on Communication for Development", "text": "World Congress on Communication for Development\n\nThe first World Congress on Communication for Development (WCCD) was held in Rome, Italy from October 25 to 27, 2006.\n\nThe First World Congress on Communication for Development was hosted by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and organized by The World Bank, Food and Agriculture Organization, and The Communication Initiative. It intended to clearly demonstrate to policy and decision-makers the effectiveness of \"Communication for Development\" in helping meet today's most pressing development challenges and to advocate among them for the systematic inclusion of communication in development policy and practice.\n\nCommunication for Development — as a process of dialogue, information sharing and building mutual understanding — is a powerful tool to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of development interventions, to assess and mitigate the political and social risks of those interventions and to build social ownership and sustainability.\n\nThe WCCD, the first event of its kind, brought together more than 500 policymakers, development practitioners, NGO and CSO representatives, and academics/researchers active in the field. Thousands more from around the world were able to participate via webcasting and broadcasting.\n\nFAO and the World Bank spearheaded this event, and involved more than 75 key institutions, including multilateral and bilateral partners, media institutions, academic and research institutions, and NGOs to help organize the Congress. The three party governance structure consisted of a steering committee (to provide overall advice and guidance to the planning), a Scientific Committee (to conduct the paper review and the Mainstreaming study) and an Advisory Body.\n\nNobel Prize Keynote Speakers, Highest Level of Representation from the UN and The World Bank, Italian Authorities, High Profile Public Figures, Ministries and Authorities from Developing Countries, Prime International University Representatives and Academicians.\n\nThe Congress was structured around four broad thematic areas: Health, Governance, Sustainable Development, and Communication Labs. During the Policymakers Forum leading policy and decision-makers discussed and debated the opportunities and constraints they envisaged vis-à-vis the proposed recommendations for mainstreaming communication in development policies and programs.\n\nA Mainstreaming and Policy Recommendations Study commissioned by the Scientific Committee served as the basis of discussions at the Policymakers' Forum, integrated the outcomes of the Forum and was then published, together with the proceedings of sessions and papers.\n\nMedia Partners included Inter Press Service-IPS, RAI (Italy), BBC (UK) and CNBC (Germany). Additional media outlets were Al-Jazeera (Qatar), Reuters, CNN Español, and major Latin-American media; Rome-based correspondents of the international press, together with major Italian newspapers covered the event. The BBC broadcast from the Congress site its flagship program, World Debate, while CNBC broadcast the show, Global Players.\n\nThis event generated an enormous amount of interest around the world with more than 600 papers submitted through the call for papers, more than 1,700 registered through the Congress website, more than 600,000 hits on the site, and more than 2,000 people participated in pre-Congress e-discussions on Congress-related topics and themes.\n\nOne of the most extensive efforts previous to the Congress was the latinamerican seminar \"Sin comunicación no hay desarrollo\" (Without Communication No Development), held on August, 2006 in the city of Lima (Perú) with participants from Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Perú, Uruguay, Venezuela, Germany and Italy. It reunited the following Peruvian (PE) and international institutions (I - International / LA - Latinamerican): Asociación de Comunicadores Sociales Calandria (PE), CESIP (PE), CNR (Perú), Colectivo Radial Feminista (PE), DEMUS (PE), Equipo Uno (PE), Voces Nuestras, PUCP (PE), Red Científica Peruana (PE), ILLA (PE), IEC (PE), MINSA (PE), CONAM (PE), CONCORTV (PE), IDL (PE), IUCM, Mesa de Comunicadores de Agencias de Cooperación, FELAFACS (LA), OCLAC (LA), OPS (LA), ANDI (LA), ALER (LA), AMARC (LA), Observatorio de Imprensa (LA), World Bank (I), AVINA (I), Broederlijk Delen (I), CAMECO (I), Communication for Social Change Consortium (I), FAO (I), Iniciativa de la Comunicación (I), ONU (I), OXFAM (I), UNICEF (I), USAID (I), WACC (I).\n\n"}
