{"id": "12103692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12103692", "title": "All India Pre Medical Test", "text": "All India Pre Medical Test\n\nThe All India Pre-Medical test/ Pre-Dental Entrance Test (AIPMT now replaced by [[National Testing Agency|NTA ]]) was an annual medical entrance examination in India. The exam was conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Delhi for admission to MBBS and BDS courses in several medical colleges across the country. 15% of the total seats in all medical and dental colleges run by the Union of India, state governments, municipal or other local authorities in India, except in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir, were reserved for candidates who qualified this examination.\n\nThe primary aim of this test, which was standardized all over India, was to make medical education available on an equitable basis to all regions of the nation and to foster inter-regional exchange. Until 2006, the AIPMT was unusual as it was one of the few all-India competitive examinations (along with the examinations for the defense services) based completely on merit and without any reservations. However, from 2006, under pressure from the Human Resources ministry headed by Arjun Singh, reservation for OBC has also been introduced in AIPMT.\n\nEvery Year AIPMT was conducted on first Sunday in the month of May.\nIn 2016, AIPMT/NEET Phase-1 was conducted on 1 May 2016 and NEET Phase-2 was conducted on 24 July 2016.\n\nTime Line How AIPMT is Scrapped -\n\nOn 2012 - \nThe Medical Council of India (MCI) and Dental Council of India (DCI) conducted NEET for the admissions in UG and PG programmes in government and Private colleges in India. This exam is delayed by a year due to several reasons.\n\nOn 18 July 2013 -\nNEET Exam is scrapped by the Supreme court in favor of 115 petitions. They also announced that private medical colleges should not conduct their own UG and PG exams on the basis of NEET.\n\nAcademic Session 2016-17\nOn 11 April -\nThe Supreme court decided to hear the Medical Council of India. On 28 April 2016 the court announced that their will only one common entrance test just before the 2 days of AIPMT which is called as NEET Phase 1 exam.\n\nOn 18 April - \nIn the session on 2016-17 the SC agreed to hold the NEET in 2 phase. Those candidates who did not appear in the phase 1 exam, AIPMT will be considered as phase 2.\n\nOn 1 May -\nCBSE conducted NEET phase 1 and almost 6 lakhs of the candidates appeared in the exam.\n\nOn 25 May -\nThe SC cleared all the confusions that private colleges would no longer be conducted their separate exam for medical admissions.\n\nOn 9 May - \nThe SC rejected the plea filed by the state governments and minority institutions to take the separate entrance exam for MBBS and BDS courses for the current year as well.\n\nOn 20 May -\nThe National Defence Agency came out in order to keep state govt. exam out of the field of the common test.\n\nOn 23 May -\nThe Delhi govt finally made the decision to make NEET the only exam for the admission to medical colleges.\n\nOn 24 May -\nPresident of India finally signed an order the common medical entrance exam on hold for a year.\n\nIn 2010, the pattern of AIPMT was changed. The examination was replaced by a two-tier or two-stage test – The AIPMT Prelims and the AIPMT Mains, in which the AIPMT Prelims was used to be objective exam and AIPMT Mains was used to be subjective exam. The candidates who could qualify the AIPMT Prelims were eligible to give the AIPMT Mains test. Finally, those who scored good in the AIPMT Mains were selected for admission based purely on the merit of the candidate in the AIPMT Mains. Admission was done rank-wise\n\nIn 2013, the pattern changed again - The two-tier examination was replaced by the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG). It was a nationwide test through which admissions were to be done for all seats of MBBS and BDS in all the colleges which were covered by previous exam.\n\nFrom 2014 onwards, the exam was named AIPMT again, and done for 15% seats only, as was done earlier to National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG). See current exam pattern below for more details.\n\nThe exam was conducted in a single stage that usually occurred on the first Sunday of May. The examination consisted of one paper containing 180 objective type questions from Physics, Chemistry and Biology (Botany & Zoology), having 45 questions from each subject. The exam duration was 3 hours. Each question carried 4 marks. For each incorrect response, one mark used to be deducted from the total score. However, no deduction from the total score was made if no response was indicated for an item. Indication of more than one answer for a question was deemed an incorrect response and negatively marked.\n\nThe approximate number of registrations in the past two years are shown by the following graph:\n\nThe approximate number of candidates appearing in the past two years are shown by the following graph:\n\nIn 2015, 9 states and 4 medical institutions participated in AIPMT for filling their MBBS and BDS seats. The list of AIPMT 2015 participating states and institutions are:\n\n\nIn 2016, 8 states were initially participating in AIPMT but later AIPMT was converted into NEET-UG by the Supreme Court. Subsequently, many other states opted for the test. Bihar, Uttarakhand later opted for the test to fill their state seats in medical colleges.\n\n\n\n\nAIPMT is criticized for being conducted only in English and Hindi, making it harder for students where vernacular languages such as Tamil, Telugu, Marathi or Gujarati are more prominent. As an example, in September 2011, the Gujarat High Court acted on Public Interest Litigation by the Gujarati Sahitya Parishad for conducting the exams in Gujarati. A second petition was made in October 2011.\n\nThe AIPMT in 2015 had listed scarfs in banned items' list, creating controversy and outrage especially in the state of Kerala, where in a nun was refused to appear for the test as she refused to remove her headgear. This comes after the Supreme Court upheld the CBSE's banning. The Kerala HC had permitted two Muslim girls to wear a headscarf and a full-sleeve dress on the condition that they be frisked had the invigilator deemed necessary. However, in the case of Sister Seba, the official had disallowed even while she ready for any frisking.\n\nThe AIPMT kept the same norm in its 2016 instructions, sparking protests by the Campus Front of India in front of the CBSE office in Kerala on 13 April. The subsequent protest led to the detention of several girl protesters. Thus CBSE challenged a Kerala High Court single bench order and granted permission to Muslim girls to wear the Hijab for All India Pre-Medical Test 2016 Justice Muhammed Mushtaq had permitted all candidates who want to wear headscarf and full sleeved length dress to appear for the examination but on a condition that they would be present at the hall half an hour before the exam for frisking, if necessary by women invigilators The order was issued while hearing a petition for changing the dress code\n\nIn AIPMT 2015 (3 May 2015), Haryana (Rohtak) police caught four people, including two dentists and an MBBS student, from Rohtak for allegedly passing on answer keys of AIPMT 2015 Exam to candidates during the exam, using vests with SIM card units and Bluetooth enabled earpieces. According to the CBSE, the Examination results were earlier scheduled to be declared on 5 June 2015, but due to Supreme Court's stay order on declaration, the results were not announced. The Supreme Court had asked Haryana Police to investigate the matter and identify the beneficiaries as soon as possible. Approximately 6.3 lakh students had appeared for the examination which was conducted on 3 May 2015. Later, the results were rescheduled to be declared on June 12, 2015. On 15 June 2015 the Supreme Court asked CBSE to re-conduct the AIPMT 2015 Exam within 4 weeks (by 12 July 2015). After a hearing on the pleas of CBSE, Supreme Court had decided to re-conduct exam on 25 July 2015. The exam was conducted safely and successfully across the country on the scheduled date (25 July 2015). The result of Re-AIPMT was declared on 17 August 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23954715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23954715", "title": "Australian Curriculum", "text": "Australian Curriculum\n\nThe Australian Curriculum is a national curriculum for all primary and secondary schools in Australia under progressive development, review, and implementation. The curriculum is developed and reviewed by the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority, an independent statutory body. Since 2014 all states and territories in Australia have begun implementing aspects of the Foundation to Year 10 part of the curriculum.\n\nCredentialing, and related assessment requirements and processes, remain the responsibility of states and territories.\n\nThe full Australian Curriculum can be accessed at its own website.\n\nThe learning areas in the Australian Curriculum are as follows:\n\nA nationwide curriculum has been on the political agenda in Australia for several decades. In the late 1980s a significant push for a national curriculum in Australia was mounted by the Hawke Federal Labor government. Draft documentation was produced but failure to achieve agreement from the mainly Liberal State governments led to the abandonment of this initiative in 1991.\n\nIn 2006, then Liberal Prime Minister John Howard called for a \"root and branch renewal\" of Australian history teaching at school level, ostensibly in response to building criticism of Australian students' (and Australians more widely) perceived lack of awareness of historical events. The Howard government convened the Australian History Summit in August 2006 to commence the process of drafting a national History curriculum. The Summit recommended that Australian History be a compulsory part of the curriculum in all Australian schools in years 9 and 10. The Australian History External Reference Group was then commissioned by the government to develop a \"Guide to Teaching Australian History in Years 9 and 10\". The Reference Group comprised Geoffrey Blainey, Gerard Henderson, Nicholas Brown and Elizabeth Ward, and was presented with a draft proposal prepared earlier by the historian Tony Taylor. The \"Guide\" was released to the public on 11 October 2007, but little was achieved toward its implementation following the Howard government's defeat at the federal election in November 2007. The current Labor initiated National History Curriculum remains politically contentious.\n\nIn April 2008, the Rudd Government established the independent National Curriculum Board. Tony Taylor, who had written the original draft for the Howard government-appointed Australian History External Reference Group, told \"The Age\" that he expected that the Reference Group's \"Guide to Teaching Australian History\" would be discarded by the new Board. Taylor had expressed public disapproval of the changes made to his original draft, both by the Reference Group and, Taylor suspected, by Howard himself. Taylor was of the opinion that the \"Guide\" had sought to establish a curriculum that was \"too close to a nationalist view of Australia's past\", and hoped that the new Board would produce a curriculum that was more in line with what Taylor saw as Rudd's \"regional and global world view\". In September 2008, the Board appointed four academics to draft \"framing documents\" which would establish a broad direction for the National Curriculum in each of four subject areas: History (Stuart Macintyre), English (Peter Freebody), Science (Denis Goodrum) and Mathematics (Peter Sullivan). In May 2009 the statutory Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA) was established to oversee the implementation of the planned nationwide curriculum initiative.\n\nThe Australian Curriculum has experienced implementation issues due to reluctance or slowness by some States in changing state curricula. New South Wales in particular has delayed its roll out of the new curriculum.\n\nIn May 2010, Anna Patty, an education editor for the \"Sydney Morning Herald\", criticised the Australian Curriculum on the basis that it \"threatens to water down the content\" for senior students, compared with the existing Higher School Certificate. Under the new curriculum, students would have to learn statistics in mathematics, while the Extension 1 and 2 topics would be replaced with an easier specialist maths course. Patty said that the English courses would focus more on language and literacy, and less on literature, and that the curriculum would disadvantage gifted students.\n\nIn September 2010, the NSW Board of Studies criticised the then draft Australian Curriculum, saying that it was inferior to the NSW curriculum. Among other criticisms, the Board said that the draft K-10 curriculum lacked an overarching framework, was overcrowded with content, diminished the teaching of literature, and that the maths curriculum failed to cater to the full range of students.\n\nIn October 2010, Peter Brown, a mathematics lecturer of the University of New South Wales, criticised the Australian Curriculum for lack of flexibility within the Year 9-10 and the Year 11-12 syllabuses by the removal of extension maths courses. Brown also said that the National Curriculum would \"dumb down\" the year 12 curriculum then offered in NSW.\n\nIn October 2013, conservative economist Judith Sloan criticised the business and economics components of the Australian Curriculum in particular, and offered the general criticism that \"[t]he real rationale for a national school curriculum relates to the pursuit of centralised control by the federal government and the scope to impose fashionable values dressed up as the pursuit of educational excellence\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13848912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13848912", "title": "Bachelor of Integrated Studies", "text": "Bachelor of Integrated Studies\n\nBachelor of Integrated Studies (BIS) is an interdisciplinary bachelor's degree offered by several universities in the United States and Canada. It allows students to design a customized and specific course of study to best suit their educational and professional objectives. Generally, this degree is sponsored by two or more departments within the university. Schools which confer the degree include the University of North Texas, Northern Kentucky University, Utah Valley University, Miami University in Ohio, Pittsburg State University, George Mason University, Weber State University, Washburn University, Ferris State University, Jacksonville State University, Kennesaw State University, Oakland University, Nevada State College, Dixie State University, and the University of New Brunswick, Florida Gulf Coast University, among others. \n\nAccording to materials issued by Weber State University:The program best suits students who have developed a sense of their educational and life goals, and who are looking for ways to express those goals through a self-designed and self-directed university program. The BIS Program serves the needs of students who want to individualize or create a unique academic program; students who want to obtain a broad liberal education; and/or students who want to prepare for specific career goals and/or graduate school.\n"}
{"id": "26477248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26477248", "title": "Behavioral cusp", "text": "Behavioral cusp\n\nA behavioral cusp is any behavior change that brings an organism's behavior into contact with new contingencies that have far-reaching consequences. A behavioral cusp is a special type of behavior change because it provides the learner with opportunities to access new reinforcers, new contingencies, new environments, new related behaviors (generativeness) and competition with archaic or problem behaviors. It affects the people around the learner, and these people agree to the behavior change and support its development after the intervention is removed.\n\nThe concept has far reaching implications for every individual, and for the field of developmental psychology, because it provides a behavioral alternative to the concept of maturation and change due to the simple passage of time, such as developmental milestones. The cusp is a behavior change that presents special features when compared to other behavior changes.\nThe concept was first proposed by Sidney W. Bijou, an American developmental psychologist. The idea of the cusp was to link behavioral principles to rapid spurts in development (see Behavior analysis of child development).\n\nA behavioral cusp as conceptualized by Jesus Rosales-Ruiz & Donald Baer in 1997 is an important behavior change that affects future behavior changes. The behavioral cusp, like the reinforcer, is apprehended by its effects. Whereas a reinforcer acts on a single response or a group of related responses, the effects of a behavioral cusp regulate a large number of responses in a more distant future.\n\nThe concept has been compared to a developmental milestone, however, not all cusps are milestones. For example, learning to play soccer is not a milestone, but it was life-changing for Pelé. As a result of learning to kick grapefruits (the initial important change or cusp), Pelé accessed (1) new environments, (2) new reinforcers, (3) new soccer moves, (4) dropped competing behaviors (smoking), and (5) gained international acclaims for his skill. Soccer is not a developmental milestone because it is not a necessary skill in most environments.\n\nThe following properties are special features of a behavioral change that lead to more change, and an increased likelihood of social adaptation, independence, and cultural fitness.\n\nNew reinforcers are accessible and enrich the perspective of the learner. Additionally these reinforcers may lead to an increase in the variety of behaviors. If the reinforcers are promoting health and social behaviors, they will lead to an improved quality of life.\n\nA child who learns to open a door may access the swing for the first time and learns to use the swing. Here, the new skill (swinging motion is the reinforcer) may lead to more complex and social activities such as (1) turn taking, (2) asking someone to share the swing, (3) taking turns pushing someone, which in turn (4) may provide more social opportunities to speak and (5) interact with the play partners, etc.\n\nA child learns to open a door and walks outside. He finds some ants behind a shrubbery and watches the ants. His parents are looking for him, they get worried and are calling him. The child is unusually mesmerized by columns of ants on the ground and does not hear the calls. His parents find him shortly after, but they are frantic from their 5-minute search and accidentally scare him from going outside. In this non-example, learning to open doors that lead outside resulted in consequences that did not directly benefit the child and maybe decrease important skills related to exploration and search. In this case, no new reinforcers were contacted and learning to open the backyard door (that has a special latch) was effectively a waste of time because the child's parents don't usually approve being alone in the backyard.\n\nNew contingencies are responsible for the selection of novel and more adaptive behaviors while decreasing problematic or archaic behaviors. Contingencies of reinforcement (before > R > Reinforcer) produce and maintain each and every learned behavior. New contingencies establish the control of new stimuli over our behaviors, and therefore make us more sensitive and aware of our surrounding.\n\nNew environments are geographical and/or virtual areas of potential change (receiving environments). New environments regulate, maintain, and set the micro-cultural boundaries for reinforcers (and punishers), and their antecedents. They include tools and stakeholders controlling the pace and content of instruction and, as a result, they regulate boundary of what the learner learns (e.g., school curriculum). New environments must contain some of the stakeholders' preferences and reinforcers to create lasting positive reinforcement practices for the learner.\n\nGenerativeness describes the ability of the receiving environment to regulate novel responses, functions, values or response products derived from the original cusp response. For a behavior, it is the ability to recombine or merge into more complex units, or the ability to contact environments.\n\nA child learns phonetic reading and can recombine the 50 or so English phonemes into 50,000 words by recombining the individual sounds he has learned to read. The generative index for this act of learning the basic English phonemes is approximately 10,000 (where one new behavior results in a potential 10,000 applications).\n\nA child learns sight reading for 50 words. When a new word is presented, the child learns by listening to a teacher and memorizes the words rather than using what he has previously learned, thus becoming able to read only 50 words using this method. Additionally, he is now dependent on someone for learning each new vocabulary word.\n\nBehavior competition is the ability of cusp behaviors to displace previously established behaviors on a continuum of intensity and rate, across repertoires, and environments. Competing archaic behaviors occur on a corresponding continuum of severity.\n\nEffect on others comes from the learner's behavior affecting the stakeholders who control reinforcers and punishers in a specific environment. It is important to identify these stakeholders' motivations and reinforcers in selecting potential cusps. Effect refers to the changes in values and behaviors of the stakeholder resulting from a cusp in the learner. The initial and gradually more complex behaviors that constituted the entry point for an important behavior change that, once initiated, so profoundly alters, displaces, or transforms one's behavioral repertoire that it renders preexisting behavioral repertoires obsolete. A behavioral cusp is an important behavior change that alters the probability of the learner's future repertoires and interactions with stakeholders' repertoires.\n\nSocial validity is an indicator of social acceptability of a behavior and its consequences for the stakeholders representing the communities which the learner is accessing or will access. Some seemingly insignificant changes in a stakeholder may dramatically affect the learner. All stakeholders (e.g., government officials, teachers, parents, and other interventionists) should agree to the goals, methods, and tools for the intervention and the norms from the local community suggest the boundaries of what should be learned.\n\nThe behavioral cusp has implications for the selection and sequencing of skills during the life span. While milestones are mainly concerned with the chronology of behaviors, the concept of behavioral cusp is concerned with the fitness of the behavior within a context or a receiving environment. As Rosales-Ruiz and Baer (1997) stated, \"One child's cusp may be another child's waste of time.\" Thus, there is a great need for empirically-based guidelines in making decisions related to the initial selection of skills.\n\nThe applications of the concepts are related to the prediction, selection, and retention of successful and adaptive behaviors to the treatment of childhood autism, Down syndrome, and other developmental disabilities is humane and based on evidence from the field of behavior analysis. The first applications of the concept derive from a set of guidelines proposed by Bosch and Fuqua in \"The Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis\".\n\nA new technology and methodology, necessary to measure the effects of a small change over time, will reveal a strong dependence on the initial conditions selected by a cusp specialist (butterfly effect).\n\nFuture research will elucidate the nature and parameters of the criteria and the tools used in the selection and sequencing of skills. \n\nAs importantly, the existing parameters (proposed by Rosales-Ruiz, Baer, Bosch, & Fuqua) provides justifications for behavioral interventions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1664306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1664306", "title": "Bejan", "text": "Bejan\n\nBejan (Fr. \"bejaune\", from \"bec jaune\", \"yellow beak,\" in allusion to unfledged birds, and the equivalent to Ger. \"Gelbschnabel\") was a term for freshmen, or undergraduates of the first year, in the Scottish universities. The term is rarely used today except at the University of Aberdeen Aberdeen; at the University of St Andrews the word has mutated to \"Bejant\" (female: Bejantine).\n\nThe phrase was introduced from the French universities, where the levying of \"bejaunium\" (\"footing-money\") had been prohibited by the statutes of the university of Orleans in 1365 and by those of Toulouse in 1401. In 1493 the election of an \"Abbas Bejanorum\" (Abbot of the Freshmen) was forbidden in the university of Paris.\n"}
{"id": "57975433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57975433", "title": "Best Chinese Universities Ranking", "text": "Best Chinese Universities Ranking\n\nThe Best Chinese Universities Ranking (BCUR) is a ranking table of Chinese institutions of higher education. It is compiled by Shanghai Ruanke, the same agency that is behind the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU).\n\n"}
{"id": "10969154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10969154", "title": "Bildung", "text": "Bildung\n\nBildung (, \"\"education, formation, etc.\"\") refers to the German tradition of self-cultivation (as related to the German for: creation, image, shape), wherein philosophy and education are linked in a manner that refers to a process of both personal and cultural maturation. This maturation is described as a harmonization of the individual's mind and heart and in a unification of selfhood and identity within the broader society, as evidenced with the literary tradition of \"Bildungsroman\".\n\nIn this sense, the process of harmonization of mind, heart, selfhood and identity is achieved through personal transformation, which presents a challenge to the individual's accepted beliefs. In Hegel's writings, the challenge of personal growth often involves an agonizing alienation from one's \"natural consciousness\" that leads to a reunification and development of the self. Similarly, although social unity requires well-formed institutions, it also requires a diversity of individuals with the freedom (in the positive sense of the term) to develop a wide-variety of talents and abilities and this requires personal agency. However, rather than an end state, both individual and social unification is a process that is driven by unrelenting negations.\n\nIn this sense, education involves the shaping of the human being with regard to his/her own humanity as well as his/her innate intellectual skills. So, the term refers a process of becoming that can be related to a process of becoming within Existentialism.\n\nThe term \"Bildung\" also corresponds to the Humboldtian model of higher education from the work of Prussian philosopher and educational administrator Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767–1835). Thus, in this context, the concept of education becomes a lifelong process of human development, rather than mere training in gaining certain external knowledge or skills. Such training in skills is known by the German words \"Erziehung\", and \"Ausbildung\". \"Bildung\" in contrast is seen as a process wherein an individual's spiritual and cultural sensibilities as well as life, personal and social skills are in process of continual expansion and growth. Bildung is seen as a way to become more free due to higher self-reflection. Von Humboldt wrote with respect to \"Bildung\" in 1793/1794: \"Education [\"Bildung\"], truth and virtue\" must be disseminated to such an extent that the \"concept of mankind\" takes on a great and dignified form in each individual (GS, I, p. 284). However, this shall be achieved personally by each individual, who must \"absorb the great mass of material offered to him by the world around him and by his inner existence, using all the possibilities of his receptiveness; he must then reshape that material with all the energies of his own activity and appropriate it to himself so as to create an interaction between his own personality and nature in a most general, active and harmonious form\".Most explicitly in Hegel's writings, the \"Bildung\" tradition rejects the pre-Kantian metaphysics of being for a post-Kantian metaphysics of experience that rejects universal narratives. Much of Hegel's writings were about the nature of education (both \"Bildung\" and \"Erziehung\"), reflecting his own role as a teacher and administrator in German secondary schools, and in his more general writings.\nA more contemporary view was developed by Tony Waters: \"Bildung\", I discovered in my 2 years in Germany, is an organizing cultural principle for German higher education that trumps both careerism and disciplinary silos. It is generally translated as \"education\", but in fact it means more—dictionary definitions often refer to \"self-cultivation\", \"philosophy\", \"personal and cultural maturation\" and even \"existentialism\". Bildung is the cry of the land of poets and thinkers against the demands of credentialism, professionalism, careerism and the financial temptations dangled to graduating students.In this way, fulfillment is achieved through practical activity that promotes the development of one's own individual talents and abilities which in turn lead to the development of one's society. In this way, Bildung does not simply accept the socio-political status quo, but rather it includes the ability to engage in a critique of one's society, and to ultimately challenge the society to actualize its own highest ideals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30045865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30045865", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Rawalpindi", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Rawalpindi\n\nBoard of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Rawalpindi established in October, 1977. Its offices have been located earlier on 6th road, Satellite Town, Rawalpindi but shifted into newly constructed campus at Morgah near Attock Refinery Rawalpindi in March 2013. The main object of the Board is to conduct examinations of SSC & HSSC and declare their results. The Board is autonomous in nature. The central forum is called as Punjab Boards Committee of Chairmen (PBCC) and all the BISE's in Punjab take over the Chairmanship for one year on alphabetical order. Mr. Saif Anjum (Commissioner Rawalpindi Division) is the current Chairman of the Board.\n\nJurisdiction of Rawalpindi Board includes Rawalpindi Division which includes following districts:-\n\nThe Board conducts following examinations:\n\n\nBoard of Intermediate and Secondary Education Rawalpindi (BISE Rawalpindi) mostly holds annual exams in March and April and BISE Rawalpindi announces the annual examinations results in the month of August, after the 2–3 months of examinations. All the students who belongs to Rawalpindi Board, have to equal opportunity to check their result via Gazette which publishes by Board, or they also can check their result online via Rawalpindi Board Official Website at BISE Rawalpindi\n\nThe Board of Governors is comprised on following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30930512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30930512", "title": "Boyer's model of scholarship", "text": "Boyer's model of scholarship\n\nBoyer's model of scholarship is an academic model advocating expansion of the traditional definition of scholarship and research into four types of scholarship. It was introduced in 1990 by Ernest Boyer. According to Boyer, traditional research, or the scholarship of discovery, had been the center of academic life and crucial to an institution's advancement but it needed to be broadened and made more flexible to include not only the new social and environmental challenges beyond the campus but also the reality of contemporary life. His vision was to change the research mission of universities by introducing the idea that scholarship needed to be redefined.\n\nHe proposed that scholarship include these four different categories:\n\n\nBoyer's model has been embraced across academia with occasional refinement, such as specific applications for different disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "20509727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20509727", "title": "Capitation fee", "text": "Capitation fee\n\nCapitation fee refers to an illegal transaction whereby an organisation that provides educational services collects a fee that is more than what is approved by regulatory norms.\n\nIn the context of Indian law, a capitation fee refers to the collection of payment by educational bodies not included in the prospectus of the institution, usually in exchange for admission to the institution.\n\nThe Prohibition of Unfair Practices in Technical Educational Institutions, Medical Institutions and Universities Bill 2010 defines it as any amount that\n\n\nA submission by counsel, F.S. Nariman, in the P.A. Inamdar case (August 2005) defines capitation fee as \"something taken over and above what the institution needs by way of revenue and capital expenditure plus a reasonable surplus.\") Other definitions for capitation fee also include \"any amount, by whatever name called, paid or collected directly or indirectly in excess of the fee prescribed...\", \"any amount by whatever name called whether in cash or in kind paid or collected or received directly or indirectly in addition to the fees determined\" and \"any amount, by whatever name called, whether in cash or kind, in excess of the prescribed or, as the case may be, approved, rates of fees...\"\n\nThis practice is widely prevalent in private colleges and universities in India, especially those that grant baccalaureate degrees in engineering, IT and the sciences for which the demand for admissions exceeds the supply, though a number of technical educations has been closing down in recent years and many seats go vacant. Ample evidence to the collection of capitation fee exist.\n\nCapitation fee has been one of the major contributors to corruption in education and society. Those who complete their course by paying capitation fee are looking for a \"return on investment\". This attempt to recover the investment fuel unethical practices. Capitation fee has been considered to be one of the reason for the exorbitant hike in healthcare costs and deteriorating medical standards.\n\nCapitation fee comes as a surprise to the student when the student may have forsaken admission deadlines at other institutions. Choosing not to pay additional fee may even lead to a form of extortion, by withholding the degree from students. Parents often pay so that there is no ill bearing that affects their wards scores or standing.\n\nThe fee might not be uniformly applied. The donation money is often not accounted, and its usage and allocation are mismanaged and not reported to income tax. In such cases of malpractice, students overpay for substandard education.\n\nStudents are also misguided. Some institutions add the capitation fee along with the fee approved by regulatory norms. This combined fee is projected as the actual fee to the students.\n\nCapitation fees are generally seen as a main revenue generator that private institutions may charge, which contend that admissions that cater to affordable sections of society somehow affects the overall number of students educated. The government also controls the seat allocation, number and ratio of management, payment and free seats. That limits the institutions' ability to raise money through tuition, leaving institutions in need for money. Collecting donations becomes a side effect of the government laws that disallow institutions from setting their fees, but some parents genuinely donate to improve the infrastructure of their wards' college.\n\nThe practice of charging capitation fees by various institutions and universities has been subjected to criticism on various grounds. It has been often referred as 'killing of merit'. In its emphatic judgement in the Mohini Jain V/s State of Karnataka case, Supreme Court declared that charging of capitation fee was arbitrary, unfair, and in violation of the fundamental right to equality in Article 14 of the Constitution. The Prohibition of Unfair Practices in Technical Educational Institutions, Medical Institutions and Universities Bill 2010 recognized capitation fee as a cognizable offence.\n\nOn the other hand, various private colleges have defended capitation fee on the ground that it avails institutions with funds to reinvest in the institution to impart quality education. V Raghunathan, former professor, IIM-Ahmedabad said \"For engineering colleges in most states, the permitted fee for unaided private colleges is in the vicinity of Rs 30,000 per student per annum. Given that even most kindergarten schools charge a higher fee in the cities, one wonders exactly how the private institutions are expected to provide high quality technical education for this fee\". Faking News has written an article 'School Principal elected for the coveted 'Business Person of the Year' award' acknowledging the practices of some of the private schools in India, while also noting that \"a school principal winning a business award created unrest among the top business leaders in India\". However, institutions (business schools, engineering colleges, medical colleges) that take capitation fee also receive significant amount of funding from governmental funding agencies like AICTE, DST, UGC and various ministries under central government and state government. The funds support infrastructure ranging from faculty laptops, printers, lab facilities and trading rooms in business schools.\n\nEducational regulatory agencies, at the national level and also at the regional level, has mandated that an institution should include the fee in the prospectus. Institutions has been charging fee from students under various categories, that the fee regulatory committee of Karnataka Government has listed 99 different categories through which the institutions may be collecting fee from the students. While fee regulatory agencies fix a fee that cover expenses incurred by an institution along with a basic surplus, many institutions has been charging a fee that makes the venture profiteering. The National Policy on Education \"encourages non-governmental and voluntary efforts in Education, while preventing the establishment of institutions which intend to commercialize Education\". While education is not meant to be a commercial practice, corruption in educational institutions has made a noble endeavor such as education into a \"notorious business\" that has been repeatedly raided by governmental authorities, resulting in identification and seizure of unaccounted wealth.\n\nVarious renowned and prestigious private schools and colleges across India have been found demanding capitation fee. It was found that sum of Rs 500,000 was allegedly paid by a student through a demand draft to Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering (SVCE), a private college in Pennalur, Sriperumbudur, near Chennai. The incident came into light through a surprise check drive initiated by the government in Tamil Nadu at 142 self-financing engineering colleges in the state.\n\nAnother scam exposed by a popular news channel, Times Now, suggested that Information and Broadcasting Minister for State Jagathrakshakan was allegedly associated with the Shree Balaji Medical College in malpractices in admissions. The minister later denied having associated with the college. Jagathrakshakan said, \"I have never been the Chairman. Once I was a trustee. Before election I quit. I have absolutely no connection with the college or the trust\". In February 2002, students filed a case against Mercedes Benz International School, a prestigious school in Pune for allegedly collecting 'capitation fees' under the guise of a building donation fund.\n\nIncome Tax Department has been conducting raids on some of the organisations that take capitation fee. Arrests have been made related to cheating associated with admissions.\n\nThe Prohibition of Unfair Practices in Technical Educational Institutions, Medical Institutions and Universities Bill 2010 was introduced as a strict measure to bring about the transparency in the educational system regarding the fee structures and other crucial issues. Charging or accepting capitation fee is considered as violation of Provision 6, which prohibits any institution from demanding or accepting capitation fee, directly or indirectly. If found guilty, the institution will be liable to a penalty of up to Rs.5,000,000 and maximum imprisonment for three years. The bill has been criticized by various private institutions essentially for restricting the autonomy of the institution in such matters. J Philip, President, Xavier Institute of Management Education, Bangalore and former director, IIM – Bangalore, said, \"The Bill promises to be beneficial. But it also runs the risk of curbing the autonomy and the freedom of institutions and challenge dynamic functioning. Again, it could be misused by students or anyone trying to settle scores\". However, this bill lapsed, before it became a law.\n\nMedia reports indicate that black money in education in India is generating more than 40,000 crores, while black money generation in medical education would be more than 10,000 crores. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing into black money practices in India has started its probe into the area, which was outside the ambit of SIT.\n\nConcerns have been raised on how capitation fee has been charged in the name of donations. In August 2014, the Supreme Court appointed Mr Salman Khurshid, former Union Law Minister, as an amicus curiae and asked him to come out with suggestions and methodologies to end this practice.\n\nIn addition to stringent legal actions, other practices that government can adopt to curb the practice include the following:\n\n(1) Audited financial statements of educational institutions, and the 'charitable trusts' that owns these institutions, to be made available in the website of these institutions and trusts, on an annual basis. \n\n(2) Funding organisations like DST, UGC, AICTE, Ministry of Education and other ministries under the central and state governments should stop funding research projects and programmes in institutions taking capitation fee.\n\n(3) Revoking exemptions/ canceling registrations of these organisations that take capitation fee\n\n(4) Legal measures against \"minority institutions\" - linguistic, religious etc. - that operates in an illegal manner.\n\n(5) Articles in a leading international medical journal discussing about the capitation fee practices in medical colleges in India suggested that those who complete their courses from capitation fee taking colleges should not be allowed for postings abroad.\n\n(6) Instituting a maximum fee limit has been on discussions. For example, Sri Krishna committee has recommended a fee band for professional colleges, with an upper limit for the fee that can be taken.\n\n(7) A centralised fee collection process, with a time-bound mechanism to channelise the collected fee to the institutes.\n\n(8) A single common entrance exam for each of the courses (medicine, engineering, pharmacy, hotel management, business management, law and other courses).\n\nAll India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the regulatory body for technical education in India, has called \"upon the students, parents and the general public not to pay any capitation fee or any other fee other than that mentioned in the Prospectus of the Institutions for consideration of admission.\". AICTE also mentions that the fee charged from students, including for programs such as PGDM, has to be approved by the fee regulatory committee of the state, and the institute should mention the fee in its website. As per AICTE norms, the business schools are not meant to charge a fee higher than what is mentioned in the prospectus. Educational regulatory agencies, at the national level and also at the regional level, has mandated that an institution should include the fee in the prospectus.\n\nCentral Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) states that a school should be run as a service and not as a business and that commercialization does not take place in the school. The Board has mentioned that \"No capitation fee or voluntary donations for gaining admission in the school or for any other purpose should be charged/collected in the name of the school. In case of such malpractices, the Board may take drastic action leading to disaffiliation of the school\". The school is also punishable with fine which may extend to ten times the capitation fee charged. CBSE has issued notification/s asking schools affiliated to CBSE to mention fee details in the school website, and also in the CBSE website. Similar notifications have been released by regional educational departments.\n\n"}
{"id": "3105607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105607", "title": "Classroom management", "text": "Classroom management\n\nClassroom management is a term teachers use to describe the process of ensuring that classroom lessons run smoothly without disruptive behavior from students compromising the delivery of instruction. The term also implies the prevention of disruptive behavior preemptively, as well as effectively responding to it after it happens.\n\nIt is a difficult aspect of teaching for many teachers. Problems in this area causes some to leave teaching. In 1981 the US National Educational Association reported that 36% of teachers said they would probably not go into teaching if they had to decide again. A major reason was negative student attitudes and discipline.\n\nClassroom management is crucial in classrooms because it supports the proper execution of curriculum development, developing best teaching practices, and putting them into action. Classroom management can be explained as the actions and directions that teachers use to create a successful learning environment; indeed, having a positive impact on students achieving given learning requirements and goals (Soheili, Alizadeh, Murphy, Bajestani, Ferguson and Dreikurs). In an effort to ensure all students receive the best education it would seem beneficial for educator programs to spend more time and effort in ensuring educators and instructors are well versed in classroom management. \n\nTeachers do not focus on learning classroom management, because higher education programs do not put an emphasis on the teacher attaining classroom management; indeed, the focus is on creating a conducive learning atmosphere for the student (Eisenman, Edwards, and Cushman). These tools enable teachers to have the resources available to properly and successfully educate upcoming generations, and ensure future successes as a nation.\nAccording to Moskowitz & Hayman (1976), once a teacher loses control of their classroom, it becomes increasingly more difficult for them to regain that control. \n\nAlso, research from Berliner (1988) and Brophy & Good (1986) shows that the time a teacher must take to correct misbehavior caused by poor classroom management skills results in a lower rate of academic engagement in the classroom. From the student's perspective, effective classroom management involves clear communication of behavioral and academic expectations as well as a cooperative learning environment.\n\nUntil recently, corporal punishment was widely used as a means of controlling disruptive behavior but it is now illegal in most schools. It is still advocated in some contexts by religious leaders such as James Dobson, but his views \"diverge sharply from those recommended by contemporary mainstream experts\" and are not based on empirical testing, but rather are a reflection of his faith-based beliefs.\n\nAccording to studies taboo physical punishments like spanking or procedures used in Asia in the classroom such as standing do not make students or children more aggressive. Consistency seems to play a greater role on whether outcomes could be negative.\n\nCorporal punishment is now banned in most schools in the United States, and most developed countries. Although its effectiveness was never proven, the punishment was very disproportionately met. African American males were the most punished group. In a study conducted in 2006, 17.1 percent of students who experienced corporal punishment were African Americans, and 78.3 percent of total students were males.\n\nSome characteristics of having good teacher-student relationships in the classroom involves the appropriate levels of dominance, cooperation, and awareness of high-needs students. Dominance is defined as the teacher's ability to give clear purpose and guidance concerning student behavior and their academics. By creating and giving clear expectations and consequences for student behavior, this builds effective relationships. Such expectations may cover classroom etiquette and behavior, group work, seating arrangements, the use of equipment and materials, and also classroom disruptions. Assertive teacher behavior also reassures that thoughts and messages are being passed on to the student in an effective way. Assertive behavior can be achieved by using erect posture, appropriate tone of voice depending on the current situation, and taking care not to ignore inappropriate behavior by taking action.\n\nPreventive approaches to classroom management involve creating a positive classroom community with mutual respect between teacher and student. Teachers using the preventive approach offer warmth, acceptance, and support unconditionally – not based on a student's behavior. Fair rules and consequences are established and students are given frequent and consistent feedback regarding their behavior. One way to establish this kind of classroom environment is through the development and use of a classroom contract. The contract should be created by both students and the teacher. In the contract, students and teachers decide and agree on how to treat one another in the classroom. The group also decides on and agrees to what the group will do if someone violates the contract. Rather than a consequence, the group should decide how to fix the problem through either class discussion, peer mediation, counseling, or by one on one conversations leading to a solution to the situation.\n\nPreventive techniques also involve the strategic use of praise and rewards to inform students about their behavior rather than as a means of controlling student behavior. To use rewards to inform students about their behavior, teachers must emphasize the value of the behavior that is rewarded and also explain to students the specific skills they demonstrated to earn the reward. Teachers should also encourage student collaboration in selecting rewards and defining appropriate behaviors that earn rewards.\n\nAlso known as \"lines\", rote discipline is a sanction used for behavior management. It involves assigning a disorderly student sentences or the classroom rules to write repeatedly. Among the many types of classroom management approaches, it is very commonly used.\n\nAssertive discipline is an approach designed to assist educators in running a teacher-in-charge classroom environment. Assertive teachers react to situations that require the management of student behavior confidently. Assertive teachers do not use an abrasive, sarcastic, or hostile tone when disciplining students. \n\nAssertive discipline is one of the most widely used classroom management tactics in the world. It demands student compliance and requires teachers to be firm. This method draws a clear line between aggressive discipline and assertive discipline. The standards and rules set in place by assertive discipline are supported by positive reinforcement as well as negative consequences. Teachers using this approach carry themselves confidently and have no tolerance for class disruption. They are not timid, and remain consistent and just.\n\nA constructivist, student-centered approach to classroom management is based on the assignment of tasks in response to student disruption that are \"(1) easy for the student to perform, (2) developmentally enriching, (3) progressive, so a teacher can up the ante if needed, (4) based on students' interests, (5) designed to allow the teacher to stay in charge, and (6) foster creativity and play in the classroom.\" Compliance rests on assigning disciplinary tasks that the student will want to do, in concert with the teacher rapidly assigning more of the task if the student does not initially comply. Once the student complies, the role of the teacher as the person in charge (i.e. in loco parentis) has been re-established peacefully, creatively, and with respect for students' needs. Claimed benefits include increased student trust and long-term emotional benefits from the modeling of creative solutions to difficulties without resorting to a threat of violence or force.\n\nCulturally responsive classroom management (CRCM) is an approach to running classrooms with all children [not simply for racial/ethnic minority children] in a culturally responsive way. More than a set of strategies or practices, CRCM is a pedagogical approach that guides the management decisions that teachers make. It is a natural extension of culturally responsive teaching, which uses students' backgrounds, rendering of social experiences, prior knowledge, and learning styles in daily lessons. Teachers, as culturally responsive classroom managers, recognize their biases\nand values and reflect on how these influence their expectations for behavior and their interactions with students as well as what learning looks like. There is extensive research on traditional classroom management and a myriad of resources available on how to deal with behavior issues. Conversely, there is little research on CRCM, despite the fact that teachers who lack cultural competence often experience problems in this area.\n\nDiscipline without Stress (or DWS) is a K-12 discipline and learning approach developed by Marvin Marshall described in his 2001 book, \"Discipline without Stress, Punishments or Rewards\". The approach is designed to educate young people about the value of internal motivation. The intention is to prompt and develop within youth a desire to become responsible and self-disciplined and to put forth effort to learn. The most significant characteristics of DWS are that it is totally noncoercive (but not permissive) and takes the opposite approach to Skinnerian behaviorism that relies on external sources for reinforcement.\n\nInstructors can demonstrate a suitable level of strength by giving clear learning objectives, they can also pass on fitting levels of participation by giving learning objectives that can be changed based on the classes needs. Allowing students to participate in their own learning goals and outcomes at the start of a unit brings a sense of cooperation and mutual understanding between the instructor and student. One way of involving the students and in turn making them feel heard in the decision making of the class is by asking what topics they would find most intriguing in learning based on a guided rubric. This approach will engage and send a message to the students that the teacher is interested in the student's interests. The student in turn will bring greater learning outcomes as well as a mutual respect.\n\nThe Good Behavior Game (GBG) is a \"classroom-level approach to behavior management\" that was originally used in 1969 by Barrish, Saunders, and Wolf. The Game entails the class earning access to a reward or losing a reward, given that all members of the class engage in some type of behavior (or did not exceed a certain amount of undesired behavior). The GBG can be used to increase desired behaviors (e.g., question asking) or to decrease undesired behaviors (e.g., out of seat behavior). The GBG has been used with preschoolers as well as adolescents, however most applications have been used with typically developing students (i.e., those without developmental disabilities). In addition, the Game \"is usually popular with and acceptable to students and teachers.\"\n\nRobert DiGiulio has developed what he calls \"positive classrooms\". DiGiulio sees positive classroom management as the result of four factors: how teachers regard their students (spiritual dimension), how they set up the classroom environment (physical dimension), bow skillfully they teach content (instructional dimension), and how well they address student behavior (managerial dimension). In positive classrooms student participation and collaboration are encouraged in a safe environment that has been created. A positive classroom environment can be encouraged by being consistent with expectations, using students' names, providing choices when possible, and having an overall trust in students. So As educators, we have daily opportunities to help students grow confidence and feel good about themselves. Despite all the negativity that may be around them within their households. Through such actions as boosting their self-esteem through praise, helping them work through any feelings of alienation, depression, and anger, and helping them realize and honor their intrinsic worth as human beings. May result in better behavior in the long line jeopardy of the students.\n\nIn the \"Handbook of Classroom Management: Research Practice and Contemporary Issues\" (2006), Evertson and Weinstein characterize classroom management as the actions taken to create an environment that supports and facilitates academic and social–emotional learning. Toward this goal, teachers must (1) develop caring, supportive relationships with and among students; (2) organize and implement instruction in ways that optimize students’ access to learning; (3) use group management methods that encourage students’ engagement in academic tasks; (4) promote the development of students’ social skills and self–regulation; and (5) use appropriate interventions to assist students with behavior problems.\n\nIn their introductory text on teaching, Kauchak and Eggen (2008) explain classroom management in terms of time management. The goal of classroom management, to Kauchak and Eggen, is to not only maintain order but to optimize student learning. They divide class time into four overlapping categories, namely allocated time, instructional time, engaged time, and academic learning time.\n\nAcademic learning time occurs when students 1) participate actively and 2) are successful in learning activities. Effective classroom management maximizes academic learning time.\n\nAllocated time is the total time allotted for teaching, learning, routine classroom procedures, checking attendance, and posting or delivering announcements.\n\nAllocated time is also what appears on each student's schedule, for example \"Introductory Algebra: 9:50-10:30 a.m.\" or \"Fine Arts 1:15-2:00 p.m.\"\n\nEngaged time is also called time on task. During engaged time, students are participating actively in learning activities—asking and responding to questions, completing worksheets and exercises, preparing skits and presentations, etc.\n\nInstructional time is what remains after routine classroom procedures are completed. That is to say, instructional time is the time wherein teaching and learning actually takes place. Teachers may spend two or three minutes taking attendance, for example, before their instruction begins. The time it takes for the teacher to do routine tasks can severely limit classroom instruction. Teachers must get a handle on classroom management to be effective.\n\nIn an effort to maintain order in the classroom, sometimes teachers can actually make the problems worse. Therefore, it is important to consider some of the basic mistakes commonly made when implementing classroom behavior management strategies. For example, a common mistake made by teachers is to define the problem behavior by how it looks without considering its function.\n\nInterventions are more likely to be effective when they are individualized to address the specific function of the problem behavior. Two students with similar looking misbehavior may require entirely different intervention strategies if the behaviors are serving different functions. Teachers need to understand that they need to be able to change the ways they do things from year to year, as the children change. Not every approach works for every child. Teachers need to learn to be flexible. Another common mistake is for the teacher to become increasingly frustrated and negative when an approach is not working.\n\nThe teacher may raise his or her voice or increase adverse consequences in an effort to make the approach work. This type of interaction may impair the teacher-student relationship. Instead of allowing this to happen, it is often better to simply try a new approach.\n\nInconsistency in expectations and consequences is an additional mistake that can lead to dysfunction in the classroom. Teachers must be consistent in their expectations and consequences to help ensure that students understand that rules will be enforced. To avoid this, teachers should communicate expectations to students clearly and be sufficiently committed to the classroom management procedures to enforce them consistently.\n\n\"Ignoring and approving\" is an effective classroom management strategy. This involves ignoring students when they behave undesirably and approving their behavior when it is desirable. When students are praised for their good behavior but ignored for their bad behavior, this may increase the frequency of good behavior and decrease bad behavior. Student behavior may be maintained by attention; if students have a history of getting attention after misbehavior, they may continue this behavior as long as it continues to get attention. If student misbehavior is ignored, but good behavior results in attention, students may instead behave appropriately to acquire attention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19027000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19027000", "title": "Clinical clerkship", "text": "Clinical clerkship\n\nClinical clerkships encompass a period of medical education in which students – medical, nursing, dental, or otherwise – practice medicine under the supervision of a health practitioner.\n\nIn medical education, a clerkship, or rotation, refers to the practice of medicine by medical students (M.D., D.O., D.P.M) during their final year(s) of study. Traditionally, the first half of medical school trains students in the classroom setting, and the second half takes place in a teaching hospital. Clerkships give students experiences in all parts of the hospital setting, including the operating room, emergency department, and various other departments that allow learning by viewing and doing.\n\nDuring this training, students are required to rotate through different medical specialties and treat patients under the supervision of physicians. Students elicit patient histories, complete physical examinations, write progress notes, and assist in surgeries and medical procedures. The work hours are that of a full-time job, generally similar to that of residents. Students may also be required to work on weekends and to be on call.\nFor medical students, clerkships occur after the basic science curriculum, and are supervised by medical specialists at a teaching hospital or medical school. Typically, certain clerkships are required to obtain the Doctor of Medicine degree or the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree in the United States (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics), while others are elective (e.g., dermatology, pathology, and neurology).\n\nThe intent of the clinical clerkship is to teach the medical student the fundamentals of clinical examination, evaluation, and care provision, and to enable the student to select the course of further study. During the clinical clerkship, the medical student will interact with real patients much as a physician does, but their evaluation and recommendations will be reviewed and approved by more senior physicians.\n\nIn the United States, medical school typically lasts four years. Medical students spend the third and fourth years rotating through a combination of required clerkship and electives. Most medical schools require rotations in internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics, psychiatry, obstetrics and gynecology, family medicine, radiology, and neurology. Some schools additionally require emergency medicine and intensive-care medicine. Furthermore, a common graduation requirement is to complete a sub-internship in a specialty, where the medical student acts as an intern.\n"}
{"id": "143215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143215", "title": "Coaching", "text": "Coaching\n\nCoaching is a form of development in which a person called a \"coach\" supports a learner or client in achieving a specific personal or professional goal by providing training and guidance. The learner is sometimes called a \"coachee\". Occasionally, \"coaching\" may mean an informal relationship between two people, of whom one has more experience and expertise than the other and offers advice and guidance as the latter learns; but coaching differs from mentoring in focusing on specific tasks or objectives, as opposed to more general goals or overall development.\n\nThe first use of the term \"coach\" in connection with an instructor or trainer arose around 1830 in Oxford University slang for a tutor who \"carried\" a student through an exam. The word \"coaching\" thus identified a process used to transport people from where they are to where they want to be. The first use of the term in relation to sports came in 1861. Historically the development of coaching has been influenced by many fields of activity, including adult education, the Human Potential Movement, large-group awareness training (LGAT) groups such as \"est\", leadership studies, personal development, and psychology.\n\nProfessional coaching uses a range of communication skills (such as targeted restatements, listening, questioning, clarifying etc.) to help clients shift their perspectives and thereby discover different approaches to achieve their goals. These skills can be used in almost all types of coaching. In this sense, coaching is a form of \"meta-profession\" that can apply to supporting clients in any human endeavor, ranging from their concerns in health, personal, professional, sport, social, family, political, spiritual dimensions, etc. There may be some overlap between certain types of coaching activities. Coaching approaches are also influenced by cultural differences.\n\nThe concept of ADHD coaching was first introduced in 1994 by psychiatrists Edward M. Hallowell and John J. Ratey in their book \"Driven to Distraction\". ADHD coaching is a specialized type of life coaching that uses specific techniques designed to assist individuals with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. The goal of ADHD coaching is to mitigate the effects of executive function deficit, which is a typical impairment for people with ADHD. Coaches work with clients to help them better manage time, organize, set goals and complete projects. In addition to helping clients understand the impact ADHD has had on their lives, coaches can help clients develop \"work-around\" strategies to deal with specific challenges, and determine and use individual strengths. Coaches also help clients get a better grasp of what reasonable expectations are for them as individuals, since people with ADHD \"brain wiring\" often seem to need external mirrors for accurate self-awareness about their potential despite their impairment.\n\nUnlike psychologists or psychotherapists, ADHD coaches do not provide any therapy or treatment: their focus is only on daily functioning and behaviour aspects of the disorder. The ultimate goal of ADHD coaching is to help clients develop an \"inner coach\", a set of self-regulation and reflective planning skills to deal with daily life challenges. A 2010 study from Wayne State University evaluated the effectiveness of ADHD coaching on 110 students with ADHD. The research team concluded that the coaching \"was highly effective in helping students improve executive functioning and related skills as measured by the Learning and Study Strategies Inventory (LASSI).\" Yet, not every ADHD person needs a coach and not everyone can benefit from using a coach.\n\nBusiness coaching is a type of human resource development for business leaders. It provides positive support, feedback and advice on an individual or group basis to improve personal effectiveness in the business setting, many a time focusing on behavioural changes through psychometrics or 360-degree feedback. Business coaching is also called executive coaching, corporate coaching or leadership coaching. Coaches help their clients advance towards specific professional goals. These include career transition, interpersonal and professional communication, performance management, organizational effectiveness, managing career and personal changes, developing executive presence, enhancing strategic thinking, dealing effectively with conflict, and building an effective team within an organization. An industrial organizational psychologist is one example of executive coach. Business coaching is not restricted to external experts or providers. Many organizations expect their senior leaders and middle managers to coach their team members to reach higher levels of performance, increased job satisfaction, personal growth, and career development. Research studies suggest that executive coaching has a positive impact on workplace performance with some differences in the impact of internal and external coaches.\n\nIn some countries, there is no certification or licensing required to be a business or executive coach, and membership of a coaching organization is optional. Further, standards and methods of training coaches can vary widely between coaching organizations. Many business coaches refer to themselves as consultants, a broader business relationship than one which exclusively involves coaching.\n\nCareer coaching focuses on work and career and is similar to career counseling. Career coaching is not to be confused with life coaching, which concentrates on personal development. Another common term for a career coach is career guide.\n\nA Christian coach is not a pastor or counselor (although the coach may also be qualified in those disciplines), but rather someone who has been professionally trained to address specific coaching goals from a distinctively Christian or biblical perspective.\n\nCo-coaching is a structured practice of coaching between peers with the goal of learning improved coaching techniques.\n\nDating coaches offer coaching and related products and services to improve their clients' success in dating and relationships.\n\nFinancial coaching is a relatively new form of coaching that focuses on helping clients overcome their struggle to attain specific financial goals and aspirations they have set for themselves. Financial coaching is a one-on-one relationship in which the coach works to provide encouragement and support aimed at facilitating attainment of the client's financial plans. A \"financial coach\", also called \"money coach\", typically focuses on helping clients to restructure and reduce debt, reduce spending, develop saving habits, and develop financial discipline. In contrast, the term \"financial adviser\" refers to a wider range of professionals who typically provide clients with financial products and services. Although early research links financial coaching to improvements in client outcomes, much more rigorous analysis is necessary before any causal linkages can be established.\n\nHealth coaching is becoming recognized as a new way to help individuals \"manage\" their illnesses and conditions, especially those of a chronic nature. The coach will use special techniques, personal experience, expertise and encouragement to assist the coachee in bringing his/her behavioral changes about, while aiming for lowered health risks and decreased healthcare costs. The National Society of Health Coaches (NSHC) has differentiated the term \"health coach\" from \"wellness coach\". According to the NSHC, health coaches are qualified \"to guide those with acute or chronic conditions and/or moderate to high health risk\", and wellness coaches provide guidance and inspiration \"to otherwise 'healthy' individuals who desire to maintain or improve their overall general health status\".\n\nHomework coaching focuses on equipping a student with the study skills required to succeed academically. This approach is different from regular tutoring which typically seeks to improve a student's performance in a specific subject.\n\nCoaching in education is seen as a useful intervention to support students, faculty and administrators in educational organizations. For students, opportunities for coaching include collaborating with fellow students to improve grades and skills, both academic and social; for teachers and administrators, coaching can help with transitions into new roles.\n\nLife coaching is the process of helping people identify and achieve personal goals through developing skills and attitudes that lead to self-empowerment. Although life coaches may have studied counseling psychology or related subjects, a life coach does not act as a therapist, counselor, or health care provider, and psychological intervention lies outside the scope of life coaching. \n\nRelationship coaching is the application of coaching to personal and business relationships.\n\nIn sports, a coach is an individual that provides supervision and training to the sports team or individual players. Sports coaches are involved in administration, athletic training, competition coaching, and representation of the team and the players.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, coaching professional associations such as the Association for Coaching (AC), the European Mentoring and Coaching Council (EMCC), the International Association of Coaching (IAC), and the International Coach Federation (ICF) have worked towards developing training standards. Psychologist Jonathan Passmore noted in 2016:\n\nWhile coaching has become a recognized intervention, sadly there are still no standards or licensing arrangements which are widely recognized. Professional bodies have continued to develop their own standards, but the lack of regulation means anyone can call themselves a coach. [...] Whether coaching is a profession which requires regulation, or is professional and requires standards, remains a matter of debate.\n\nOne of the challenges in the field of coaching is upholding levels of professionalism, standards and ethics. To this end, coaching bodies and organizations have codes of ethics and member standards. However, because these bodies are not regulated, and because coaches do not need to belong to such a body, ethics and standards are variable in the field. In February 2016, the AC and the EMCC launched a \"Global Code of Ethics\" for the entire industry; individuals, associations, and organizations are invited to become signatories to it.\n\nWith the growing popularity of coaching, many colleges and universities now offer coach training programs that are accredited by a professional association. Some courses offer a life coach certificate after just a few days of training, but such courses, if they are accredited at all, are considered \"à la carte\" training programs, \"which may or may not offer start to finish coach training,\" according to the ICF. Some \"all-inclusive\" training programs accredited by the ICF require a minimum of 125 student contact hours, 10 hours of mentor coaching and a performance evaluation process. This is very little training in comparison to the training requirements of some other helping professions: for example, licensure as a counseling psychologist in the State of California requires 3,000 hours of supervised professional experience. However, the ICF, for example, offers a \"Master Certified Coach\" credential that requires demonstration of \"2,500 hours (2,250 paid) of coaching experience with at least 35 clients\" and a \"Professional Certified Coach\" credential with fewer requirements. Other professional bodies similarly offer entry-level, intermediate, and advanced coach accreditation options. Some coaches are both certified coaches and licensed counseling psychologists, integrating coaching and counseling.\n\nCritics see life coaching as akin to psychotherapy but without the legal restrictions and state regulation of psychologists. There are no state regulation/licensing requirements for coaches. Due to lack of regulation, people who have no formal training or certification can legally call themselves life or wellness coaches.\n"}
{"id": "2044587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044587", "title": "Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan", "text": "Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan\n\nThe Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan (CSFP) is an international programme under which Commonwealth governments offer scholarships and fellowships to citizens of other Commonwealth countries.\n\nThe plan was originally proposed by Canadian statesman Sidney Earle Smith in a speech in Montreal on 1 September 1958 and was established in 1959, at the first Conference of Commonwealth Education Ministers (CCEM) held in Oxford, Great Britain. Since then, over 25,000 individuals have held awards, hosted by over twenty countries. The CSFP is one of the primary mechanisms of pan-Commonwealth exchange.\n\nThere is no central body which manages the CSFP. Instead, participation is based on a series of bi-lateral arrangements between home and host countries. The participation of each country is organised by a national nominating agency, which is responsible for advertising awards applicable to their own country and making nominations to host countries.\n\nIn the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which is the biggest contributor to the Plan, this process is managed by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in Britain, a non-departmental public body, and funded by the Department for International Development. Since 2008, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office no longer contributes financially to the plan and the number and type of scholarships available for students from more developed Commonwealth countries (Australia, The Bahamas, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, Cyprus, Malta, New Zealand, and Singapore) to study in Britain has been reduced.. Other countries, such as Australia, no longer offer scholarships as part of the CSFP.\n\nNew reforms were developed to strategically align scholarships with mutual interests for business and innovation between Commonwealth nations. During the state visit of President Tony Tan to the UK in October 2014, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II announced that the Royal Commonwealth Society of Singapore would be re-established to promote the Commonwealth and to provide new Commonwealth Scholarships and Fellowships in Innovation for Singaporeans. The first Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship for Innovation were presented in August 2017 to Joshua Cheong and Dr Khoo Hsien Hui by the Rt. Hon. Sajid Javid.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307679", "title": "Comprehensive examination", "text": "Comprehensive examination\n\nIn higher education, a comprehensive examination (or comprehensive exam or exams), often abbreviated as \"comps\", is a specific type of examination that must be completed by graduate students in some disciplines and courses of study, and also by undergraduate students in some institutions and departments. Unlike final examinations, comprehensive examinations are not linked to any particular course, but rather test knowledge across one or more general fields of study.\n\nGraduate-level comprehensive examinations are sometimes also known as preliminary examinations (\"prelims\"), general examinations (\"generals\"), qualifying examinations (\"quals\"), or as major field examinations. If these examinations are held orally, they may be known colloquially as \"orals\". The comps most commonly come after the student has completed required coursework and before starting on the dissertation; successful passage of the comps is sometimes required for a student to be considered a \"Ph.D. candidate\".\n\nThe form and general requirements for the comprehensive exam vary according to the faculty or department, degree sought, university, and country, but typically tests knowledge of the student's subject area and two or more related areas, and may be used to determine a candidate's eligibility to continue his or her course of study. At the graduate level, the purpose of the comprehensive exam is to ensure the student is familiar enough with her area of research to make original contributions.\n\nThere is no standard definition for what such exams entail, with some universities having almost no exam, whilst at other universities the process is quite rigorous. The exams thus take a number of forms, including an informal meeting of just a few hours, a critical review of one's academic portfolio, the submission of an academic paper which may take several hours or months to write, or a series of proctored exams taking anywhere from a few hours to two days.\n\nThe comprehensive examination system is used primarily in US and Canadian higher education, but it has also been adopted by some programs in other countries such as Pakistan and India. Other countries use alternative forms of evaluating Ph.D. candidates: in the United Kingdom, for example, students typically must first enroll in an M.Phil. program and are then admitted to doctoral study only upon successfully defending their research proposal.\n\nSome colleges or universities in the United States require undergraduate students to pass comprehensive examinations in order to receive their degree. These include Wabash College, Kenyon College, Bethany College, The Catholic University of America, The University of Iowa, Maryville College, Occidental College, Reed College, The University of the South, Eckerd College, Millsaps College, Earlham College, Hanover College, Rosemont College, St. Anselm College, Shimer College, Whitman College, North South University and University of Dallas.\n\nMany degree programs require students to pass comprehensive examinations within colleges or universities that don't otherwise require them. The same is true for many schools and colleges within larger universities. These include Texas A&M-Commerce Honors College, The University of Virginia's Politics Honors Program, and the University of Alabama at Birmingham's Mass Communications program.\n\nIn some terminal non-thesis Master's programs, successful completion of a comprehensive examination, conducted online or through the university's testing center, is a requirement for graduation during a student's last semester of coursework. A prominent example of such is the Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration (MFT-MBA) which has been used in the MBA programs of over 300 U.S. universities.\n\nA comprehensive exam may also be required for a master's degree earned on the way to the completion of a doctoral program. In such cases, students might take an oral exam and/or field exam in order to both earn a Master's in their field and advance to the status of doctoral or PhD candidate. Typically, one exam will question the student on theory while the other will show competency or expertise in their chosen subfield (or major field) within their program. This also allows students enrolled in the program who do not wish to continue to the completion of a doctoral degree to leave early and in good standing with a Master's.\n\nIn most doctoral programs, students must take a series of written cumulative examinations on the subject of their study in the first year or two of the PhD program. These cumulative exams are often given on a pass/fail basis and a graduate student who seeks to continue in the PhD program must pass a minimum number of these cumulative exams. After this minimum number of cumulative exams is passed, this degree requirement is considered to be met, and the PhD student no longer takes these exams but continues work on other PhD requirements. In some fields, such as history, the student must pass the comprehensive examinations before submitting a dissertation proposal.\n\nTypically, comprehensive exams consist of either a written or an oral exam, but some programs require both. In others, a written exam is taken, and depending on the grade, the student may or may not have to continue with an oral exam. In some fields, the level of detailed knowledge required is relatively limited, while in others such as economics the level of detail is similar to a final exam.\n\nComprehensive examinations are often based on a reading list agreed upon by the student and his or her committee, which is staffed by the primary supervisor and several advisors, normally professors at the university, but not necessarily in the same faculty. They also frequently have a standardized component for all students in the discipline, or may be entirely standardized. This reading list may comprise dozens or hundreds of books and other works.\n\nFor some social science and many humanities disciplines, graduate students might not have studied the discipline at the undergraduate level. These examinations will be the first set of comprehensive exams, and be based either on graduate coursework or on specific preparatory reading (sometimes up to a year's work in reading).\n\nPreparing for comprehensive exams is normally both stressful and time consuming. Passing them allows the student to stay, begin doctoral research, and rise to the status of a doctoral candidate. Failing usually results in the student leaving the program or re-taking the test after some time has passed. A second failure normally guarantees dismissal from the graduate program, though progress on previous attempts may convince the student's program to grant a third, final attempt. Some schools have an intermediate category, passing at the master's level, which does not permit the student to continue doctoral study, but does allow the student to leave with a master's degree despite not having completed a thesis.\n\nIn some U.S. graduate programs, particularly in the natural sciences, the majority of students do not have master's degrees when they begin doctoral work, and the successful students will earn doctorates without getting master's degrees on the way. In these programs, a student who does not pass \"comps\" or \"prelims\" on the second attempt will generally be allowed to earn a terminal master's degree but is not permitted to become a candidate for a doctoral degree. At some institutions, students who pass the exam and are formally accepted as PhD candidates are technically entitled to a Master of Arts or Master of Sciences degree, but submitting an application is required, so no master's degree will be awarded unless the student specifically requests it. Other institutions issue an All But Dissertation certificate after a student has passed the comprehensive exams.\n\nPhD students at some Canadian universities must complete their comprehensive exams by the end of their second year; those who fail to pass with a sufficiently high mark may retake the examination usually only once. Failure to pass a second time will normally result in expulsion from the program. Students who pass are distinguished with the title \"PhD candidate.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8938142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8938142", "title": "Demand-side learning", "text": "Demand-side learning\n\nDemand-side learning is a phrase coined by Ramon Casadesus-Masanell and Pankaj Ghemawat of Harvard Business School in the article \"Microsoft vs. Open Source: Who Will Win?\" by Sean Silverthorne from June 6, 2005. \n\nDemand-side learning refers to open source software's ability to be modified by the user community at large as needs and wants those who use the software at no charge, they have the incentive to modify the software and learn about how it works. Ramon Casadesus-Masanell and Pankaj Ghemawat also suggest that regardless of the strength of Linux's demand-side learning this alone is not sufficient for Linux to win the competitive battle against Windows. \n\n"}
{"id": "7134597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7134597", "title": "Education Otherwise", "text": "Education Otherwise\n\nEducation Otherwise (EO) is a registered charity based in England for families whose children are being educated otherwise than at school, and for those who wish to uphold the freedom of families to take responsibility for the education of their children. It provides support and information online, by telephone and through a bi-monthly newsletter to members throughout the UK and overseas.\n\nEstablished in the mid-1970s, it took its name from the (then current) 1944 Education Act (Section 36) which stated that parents are responsible for the education of their children, \"either by regular attendance at school or otherwise\". This clause has been retained in subsequent (currently section 7 of the 1996 Education Act) and remains an indication of the validity afforded to an education other than by schooling.\n\nIn 1972, Royston Lambert, head of Dartington Hall School asked Dick Kitto, who had been working there since 1955, to set up a project in conjunction with Northcliffe School to provide education for a group of non-academic students who would have to take another year in school due to the pending raising of the school leaving age. Kitto established a free school or democratic school model for the running of the project and was impressed by the qualities of the students even though they had effectively unschooled themselves within the school system, where they were perceived as trouble makers.\n\nKitto's \"school\" caught the attention of Stan Windass, who had been working for a children's rights centre in London, through which he had become aware of several families who were educating their own children. Windass had just taken the lease of Lower Shaw Farm and wanted to establish it as a centre to explore ideas for an alternative society. Windass asked Kitto to become the warden at Lower Shaw Farm after the Northcliffe School project ended.\n\nKitto was familiar with ideas about unschooled education through reading John Holt and Joy Baker's \"Children in Chancery\" along with his experiences at the Northcliffe School project. He and Windass were able to contact several families who were educating otherwise and arranged an informal network, and occasional meetings, between them throughout 1975 and 1976.\n\nDuring 1976, Granada Television made a programme about the group which resulted in around 200 enquiries and expanded the membership to over 50. The informal nature of the group could not handle such a level of interest and so, at a meeting in September 1976 which included five deschooling families, a more formal structure for the group was established with stated aims and a regular newsletter. In 1977, Kitto presented a BBC TV \"Open Door\" programme about the ideas behind the organisation. This resulted in over 2,000 enquiries and increased the membership to around 250.\nThe original logo (based on a UK traffic sign) was intended to represent a child breaking-out of the confines of school, and pointing towards a different way. It was submitted to a printer with the request that, before printing, the 'foot' be made to look more as though it was kicking the triangle open; the originator of the drawing had always remained unhappy with that foot and at a later opportunity the logo was amended slightly to make it less like what the originator saw as a \"goose-step\".\n\nWith the steady growth in numbers of members, around 1,500 in 1986 (tenth anniversary) rising to 2,278 in 1992, it was recognised that a trend away from the original ethos of EO was developing. There was much debate about its structure. The April/May 1993 newsletter (Issue 91) featured an EO Restructuring Supplement presenting various options for \"the way forward\". By the mid-1990s, it was being recognised that people were joining EO due to a \"crisis\" and wanted to get their child out of the school system, rather than coming to it with an interest in exploring alternative education provision. There was disaffection with the way the organisation was run via national gatherings which were seen as alienating the majority of members. The debate broadly split into those that wanted to follow a structured style of education with a \"managed\" organisation and those who valued an informal approach and rejecting the status of charitable trust and company limited by guarantee.\n\nA short lived faction, Education Otherwise Unlimited, laid out the conflicting areas with the organisation's structure in a table:\nThe original \"ethos\" grew out of the attitudes and aspirations of the original members. It was not laid down from the start. Kitto saw EO in broad human rights terms:\nAs far as I'm concerned, E.O. does not have a particular kind of education to which it is committed. It is committed to the right of families to do what they want to do. It is a humans (sic) rights organisation. I don't feel we must do this, or we must do that. It is up to the members. To me it is not a specific thing where children have to run wild in the country, or have to pay visits to Winchester Cathedral, or anything else. There is this huge variation. Some people join EO in order to give their children a good classical education which they cannot get at school. I have a fundamental belief in the freedom of choice. We must all be allowed to make our own mistakes. We don't want to be dictated to by a curriculum from central government.\nIn 1991, the government introduced a Parent's Charter (subtitled: \"You and Your Child's Education\") which promised parents reports about their children and their schools. In 1994, a revised version of the Parent's Charter (subtitled: Our Children's Education) was issued. Page 9 included the sentence - \"You have a duty to make sure that your child goes to school until he or she is 16.\" EO members were concerned that this misinformation should be corrected as it was being delivered to every household.\n\nThey appointed solicitor Peter Liell who sent \"Letters Before Action\" notices to the Department for Education and to the Welsh Office. A reply by Eric Forth (9 July 1994) for the DfE claimed that the Parent's Charter could not be taken as a definitive guide to the law - the Charter \"cannot take in every exception or reflect all points of detail\". The department stated that there were no plans to issue a corrigendum. The Welsh Office response was a confirmation that the Charter for Parents in Wales had been revised and would reflect the fact that not all children were educated in schools.\n\nThe matter was raised by Don Foster in a Parliamentary Question which was responded to by Robin Squire stating that John Patten, the Secretary of State for Education, saw no need to issue a correction or to make a statement about the mistake.\n\nAs English and Welsh education law are identical there were no grounds for the variation in the responses of the two bodies. The solicitor notified the DfE that he had been instructed to prepare an application for leave to apply for judicial review of the decision as stated in Forth's letter. This threat caused an immediate response from the department that they \"would want to find a different - in your eyes more satisfactory - wording for any further editions\". The solicitor responded seeking confirmation, by 31 August 1994, that a future edition would include reference to the fact that children do not have to go to school. Forth once again responded accepting the need for a revised text: \"I am, however, happy to confirm, in the light of your client's concerns, our intention that any future edition of the Parent's Charter in England will include a reference, be it explicit or implicit, to a parent's lawful right to ensure that his child is suitably educated otherwise than at school.\"\n\nIt was felt that this was as far as EO could go with the matter and the application for judicial review was withdrawn. The whole process had cost EO almost £4,000 but had generated a lot of publicity and raised awareness of the issue as many members had raised their concerns with their own MP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11719855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11719855", "title": "Educational sciences", "text": "Educational sciences\n\nEducation sciences (traditionally often called pedagogy) and education theory seek to describe, understand, and prescribe educational policy and practice. Education sciences include many topics, such as pedagogy, andragogy, curriculum, learning, and education policy, organization and leadership. Educational thought is informed by many disciplines, such as history, philosophy, sociology, and psychology. \n\nFaculties, departments, degree programs, and degrees on educational sciences are often called simply \"Faculty of Education\" etc. It is likewise common, especially in North America, to say \"she is studying education\", which is generally called \"studying educational science(s)\" nowadays and was traditionally called \"studying pedagogy\" (in English) in most European countries.\n\nFor example, a cultural theory of education considers how education occurs through the totality of culture, including prisons, households, and religious institutions as well as schools. Other examples are the behaviorist theory of education that comes from educational psychology and the functionalist theory of education that comes from sociology of education.\n\nThe earliest known attempts to understand education in Europe were by classical Greek philosophers and sophists, but there is also evidence of contemporary (or even preceding) discussions among Arabic, Indian, and Chinese scholars.\n\nEducational thought is not necessarily concerned with the construction of theories as much as the \"reflective examination of educational issues and problems from the perspective of diverse disciplines.\"\n\nNormative theories of education provide the norms, goals, and standards of education.\n\n\"Normative philosophies or theories of education may make use of the results of [philosophical thought] and of factual inquiries about human beings and the psychology of learning, but in any case they propound views about what education should be, what dispositions it should cultivate, why it ought to cultivate them, how and in whom it should do so, and what forms it should take. In a full-fledged philosophical normative theory of education, besides analysis of the sorts described, there will normally be propositions of the following kinds:\n1. Basic normative premises about what is good or right;\n2. Basic factual premises about humanity and the world;\n3. Conclusions, based on these two kinds of premises, about the dispositions education should foster;\n4. Further factual premises about such things as the psychology of learning and methods of teaching; and\n5. Further conclusions about such things as the methods that education should use.\"\n\nExamples of the purpose of schools include: to develop reasoning about perennial questions, to master the methods of scientific inquiry, to cultivate the intellect, to create change agents, to develop spirituality, and to model a democratic society.\n\nCommon educational philosophies include: educational perennialism, educational progressivism, educational essentialism, critical pedagogy, Montessori education, Waldorf education, and democratic education.\n\nNormative theories of curriculum aim to \"describe, or set norms, for conditions surrounding many of the concepts and constructs\" that define curriculum. These normative propositions differ from those above in that normative curriculum theory is not necessarily untestable. A central question asked by normative curriculum theory is: given a particular educational philosophy, what is worth knowing and why? Some examples are: a deep understanding of the Great Books, direct experiences driven by student interest, a superficial understanding of a wide range knowledge (e.g. Core knowledge), social and community problems and issues, knowledge and understanding specific to cultures and their achievements (e.g. African-Centered Education).\n\nScholars such as Robyn Wiegman argue that, “academic feminism is perhaps the most successful institutionalizing project of its generation, with more full-time faculty positions and new doctoral degree programs emerging each year in the field it inaugurated, Women's Studies”. Feminist educational theory stems from four key tenets, supported by empirical data based on surveys of feminist educators. The first tenet of feminist educational theory is, “Creation of participatory classroom communities”. Participatory classroom communities often are smaller classes built around discussion and student involvement. The second tenet is, “Validation of personal experience”. Classrooms in which validation of personal experience occur often are focused around students providing their own insights and experiences in group discussion, rather than relying exclusively on the insight of the educator. The third tenet is, “Encouragement of social understanding and activism”. This tenet is generally actualized by classrooms discussing and reading about social and societal aspects that students may not be aware of, along with breeding student self-efficacy. The fourth and final tenet of feminist education is, “Development of critical thinking skills/open-mindedness”. Classrooms actively engaging in this tenet encourage students to think for themselves and prompt them to move beyond their comfort zones, working outside the bounds of the traditional lecture-based classroom. Though these tenets at times overlap, they combine to provide the basis for modern feminist educational theory, and are supported by a majority of feminist educators.\n\nFeminist educational theory derives from the feminist movement, particularly that of the early 1970s, which prominent feminist bell hooks describes as, “a movement to end sexism, sexist exploitation, and oppression”. Academic feminist Robyn Weigman recalls that, “In the early seventies, feminism in the U.S. academy was less an organized entity than a set of practices: an ensemble of courses listed on bulletin boards often taught for free by faculty and community leaders”. While feminism traditionally existed outside of the institutionalization of schools (particularly universities), feminist education has gradually taken hold in the last few decades and has gained a foothold in institutionalized educational bodies. “Once fledgling programs have become departments, and faculty have been hired and tenured with full-time commitments”.\n\nOpposition to feminist educational theory comes from both those who oppose feminism in general and feminists who oppose feminist educational theory in particular. Critics of feminist educational theory argue against the four basic tenets of the theory, “… [contesting] both their legitimacy and their implementation”. Lewis Lehrman particularly describes feminist educational ideology as, “… 'therapeutic pedagogy' that substitutes an 'overriding' (and detrimental) value on participatory interaction for the expertise of the faculty” (Hoffman). Lehrman argues that the feminist educational tenets of participatory experience and validation of person experience hinder education by limiting and inhibiting the educator’s ability to share his or her knowledge, learned through years of education and experience.\n\nOthers challenge the legitimacy of feminist educational theory, arguing that it is not unique and is instead a sect of liberatory education. Even feminist educational scholars such as Frances Hoffmann and Jayne Stake are forced to concede that, “feminist pedagogy shared intellectual and political roots with the movements comprising the liberatory education agenda of the past 30 years”. These liberatory attempts at the democratization of classrooms demonstrate a growth in liberatory education philosophy that some argue feminist educational theory simply piggybacks off of.\n\nThe harshest critiques of feminist educational theory often come from feminists themselves. Feminist scholar Robyn Wiegman argues against feminist education in her article “Academic Feminism against Itself,” arguing that feminist educational ideology has abandoned the intersectionality of feminism in many cases, and has also focused exclusively on present content with a singular perspective. Wiegman refers to feminist scholar James Newman's arguments, centered around the idea that, “When we fail… to challenge both students and ourselves to theorize alterity as an issue of change over time as well as of geographic distance, ethnic difference, and sexual choice, we repress… not only the ‘thickness’ of historical difference itself, but also… our (self) implication in a narrative of progress whose hero(in)es inhabit only the present”. Newman (and Wiegman) believe that this presentist ideology imbued within modern academic feminism creates an environment breeding antifeminist ideologies, most importantly an abandonment of the study of difference, integral to feminist ideology. Wiegman believes that feminist educational theory does a great disservice to the feminist movement, while failing to instill the critical thinking and social awareness that feminist educational theory is intended to.\n\nThere are supporters of feminist education as well, many of whom are educators or students. Student-turned-professor Becky Ropers-Huilman recounts one of her positive experiences with feminist education from the student perspective, explaining that she “… felt very ‘in charge’ of [her] own learning experiences,” and “… was not being graded-or degraded... [while completing] the majority of the assigned work for the class (and additional work that [she] thought would add to class discussion),” all while “… [regarding] the teacher’s feedback on [her] participation as one perspective, rather than the perspective”. Ropers experienced a working feminist classroom that successfully motivated students to go above and beyond, succeeding in generating self-efficacy and caring in the classroom. When Ropers became a teacher herself, she embraced feminist educational theory, noting that, “[Teachers] have an obligation as the ones who are vested with an assumed power, even if that power is easily and regularly disrupted, to assess and address the effects that it is having in our classrooms”. Ropers firmly believes that educators have a duty to address feminist concepts such as the use and flow of power within the classroom, and strongly believes in the potential of feminist educational theory to create positive learning experiences for students and teachers as she has personally experienced.\n\nBecky Ropers-Huilman also celebrates the feminist classroom’s inclusivity, noting that in a feminist classroom, “in which power is used to care about, for, and with others… educational participants can shape practices aimed at creating an inclusive society that discovers and utilizes the potential of its actors”. Ropers believes that a feminist classroom carries the ability to greatly influence the society as a whole, promoting understanding, caring, and inclusivity. Ropers actively engages in feminist education in her classes, focusing on concepts such as active learning and critical thinking while attempting to demonstrate and engage in caring behavior and atypical classroom settings, similar to many other feminist educators.\n\nLeading feminist scholar bell hooks argues for the incorporation of feminism into all aspects of society, including education, in her book \"Feminism is for Everybody.\" hooks notes that, “Everything [people] know about feminism has come into their lives thirdhand”. hooks believes that education offers a counter to the, “… wongminded notion of feminist movement which implied it was anti-male”. hooks cites feminism’s negative connotations as major inhibitors to the spread and adoption of feminist ideologies. However, feminist education has seen tremendous growth in adoption in the past few decades, despite the negative connotations of its parent movement.\n\nDescriptive theories of education provide descriptions or explanations of the processes of education.\n\nDescriptive theories of curriculum explain how curricula \"benefit or harm all publics it touches\".\n\nThe term hidden curriculum describes that which is learned simply by being in a learning environment. For example, a student in a teacher-led classroom is learning submission. The hidden curriculum is not necessarily intentional.\n\nInstructional theories focus on the methods of instruction for teaching curricula. Theories include the methods of: autonomous learning, coyote teaching, inquiry-based instruction, lecture, maturationism, socratic method, outcome-based education, taking children seriously, transformative learning\n\nPhilosophical Anthropology\n\nPhilosophical anthropology is the philosophical study of human nature. In terms of learning, examples of descriptive theories of the learner are: a mind, soul, and spirit capable of emulating the Absolute Mind (Idealism); an orderly, sensing, and rational being capable of understanding the world of things (Realism), a rational being with a soul modeled after God and who comes to know God through reason and revelation (Neo-Thomism), an evolving and active being capable of interacting with the environment (Pragmatism), a fundamentally free and individual being who is capable of being authentic through the making of and taking responsibility for choices (Existentialism). Philosophical concepts for the process of education include \"Bildung\" and \"paideia\".\n\nEducational Psychology\n\nEducational psychology is an empirical science that provides descriptive theories of how people learn. Examples of theories of education in psychology are: constructivism, behaviorism, cognitivism, and motivational theory\n\nEducational Neuroscience\n\nEducational neuroscience is an emerging field that brings together researchers in diverse disciplines to explore the interactions between biological processes and education.\n\nThe sociology of education is the study of how public institutions and individual experiences affect education and its outcomes. It is most concerned with the public schooling systems of modern industrial societies, including the expansion of higher, further, adult, and continuing education. Examples of theories of education from sociology include: functionalism, conflict theory, social efficiency, and social mobility.\n\nEducational anthropology is a sub-field of anthropology and is widely associated with the pioneering work of George Spindler. As the name would suggest, the focus of educational anthropology is obviously on education, although an anthropological approach to education tends to focus on the cultural aspects of education, including informal as well as formal education. As education involves understandings of who we are, it is not surprising that the single most recognized dictum of educational anthropology is that the field is centrally concerned with cultural transmission. Cultural transmission involves the transfer of a sense of identity between generations, sometimes known as enculturation and also transfer of identity between cultures, sometimes known as acculturation. Accordingly, thus it is also not surprising that educational anthropology has become increasingly focussed on ethnic identity and ethnic change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6256328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6256328", "title": "Generation effect", "text": "Generation effect\n\nThe generation effect is a phenomenon where information is better remembered if it is generated from one's own mind rather than simply read. Researchers have struggled to account for why generated information is better recalled than read information, but no single explanation has been sufficient.\n\nThe generation effect is typically achieved in cognitive psychology experiments by asking participants to generate words from word fragments. This effect has also been demonstrated using a variety of other materials, such as when generating a word after being presented with its antonym or synonym, generating keywords in paragraphs, pictures, and arithmetic problems. In addition, the generation effect has been found in studies using free recall, cued recall, and recognition tests. In one study, the subject was provided with a stimulus word, the first letter of the response, and a word relating the two. For example, with the rule of opposite, the stimulus word \"hot\", and the letter \"c\", the word cold would be generated. This methodology has since been used in the majority of experiments investigating the generation effect.\n\nAccording to the lexical activation hypothesis, the participant must search his or her semantic memory during the process of generation. The search activates semantic features in memory that are related to the target item. During the retrieval of the target item at testing, the semantic features serve as retrieval cues and aid in the recall of the target item. One study done by Payne, Neely, and Burns further tested this hypothesis. Their research question was: will the generation effect occur for words only or also non-words? To test this they studied 168 Purdue undergraduate students. The researchers divided the participants up into two groups. The first group had word or non word pairs that rhymed and were told to read both out loud. The second group had a word or non word and the first letter of the next followed by blanks, and were told to read the first word out loud and generate a word that rhymed with the first word and started with the letter presented. The results were as expected. Participants were only generating words rather than non words according to the lexical activation hypothesis.\n\nThe procedural account, which builds upon the lexical activation hypothesis, argues that people are more likely to engage in particular cognitive procedures during the encoding of items when generating than when reading. The process of generation induces people to connect the item to information in memory (unlike the lexical activation hypothesis, the information in memory does not necessarily reside in the lexicon). The generation effect occurs if the procedures used during encoding are reinstated during the memory test. Procedural account is also linked to transfer-appropriate processing in that they both cause or do not cause the generation effect depending on encoding and retrieval processes.\n\nAccording to the multifactor transfer-appropriate processing account, the generation task forces participants to focus their processing on the type of information needed to solve the generation task. When a later test is sensitive to the same type of information, a generation effect occurs. However, when there is not a match between the type of information processed to solve the generation task and the type of information needed to do well on a later test, the generation effect does not occur. For example, a participant that is required to generate same-category targets from distinctive semantic cues (e.g., PURR-C_T, SADDLE-H_RS_) is likely to notice similarities between the targets (e.g., they are all animals). This type of manipulation would promote whole-list relational processing, which may enhance generation performance on a free recall test. Other manipulations can emphasise cue-target processing, thus helping generation performance on cued recall tests.\n\nIt has been found that the generation effect was invariable across the different types of memory encoding.\nBy manipulating materials or instructions, experimenters have reduced or eliminated the generation effect. This suggests that there are instances in which reading can have the same memorial gains as generating. For example, when participants are given instructions to process information in a manner that was similar to the processing performed by the participants in the generate condition, the generation advantage between the groups was eliminated. In another study, participants who used a processing strategy (imagery) that was more effective than reading performed just as well as those who generated.\n\nAlthough the generation effect is a robust finding, there are some studies that have found no memorial benefits of generating compared to reading. For example, one study did not find the generation effect when they used legal non-words and found a reduced generation effect when they used material unfamiliar to the participants. They concluded that generating may have limited effectiveness when applied to new or unfamiliar material. This warrants some concern because if the generation effect is to be incorporated into educational practices such as classroom teaching, we would want it to help students learn new material.\n\nIt is possible that the generation effect may cause a trade-off in encoding item information and associative information. The processing of item-specific features of the target item may be enhanced when generating, and generating may also enhance the processing of cue-target relation. But, encoding requires limited-capacity resources, so the better encoding of one type of information may occur at a cost to the encoding of other information. This also has implications for applying generation to educational practices because even if generation improves the recall of specific words, the memory for the contextual information surrounding those words may suffer.\n\nThe generation effect appears promising as a strategy for learning, and particularly for remembering educational material. Currently, researchers at UCLA and UC Berkeley are investigating ways to incorporate learning strategies such as the generation effect, as well as other \"desirable difficulties\", into the classroom.\n\nThere are some ways that you could use generation to aid in memory retention. Here are some examples:\n\nThere are several reports in the literature that suggest that individuals diagnosed with DAT (which stands for dementia of the Alzheimer type) do not show the generation effect. One study included 42 healthy adults, 23 with very mild DAT, and 26 with mild DAT. Researchers Kristi S. Multhaup and David A. Balota had participants read some sentences (e.g., \"The horse jumped the fence\") and generate the endings to other sentences (e.g., \"The gentleman opened the \"). Later, participants were given the subjects of the sentences (e.g., \"horse\"; \"gentleman\") and asked to recall the object that had been paired with the words in the previous sentences (e.g., \"fence\"; \"door\"). Healthy older adults showed higher recall for words that they had generated compared with 383 words that they had read (i.e., a significant generation effect). In contrast, individuals diagnosed with DAT did not show a difference in recall for words that they had generated and words that they had read. Similarly, another study reported four experiments with the same group of 18 DAT individuals and found little evidence for a generation effect in word recall, word recognition, or recall of action instructions.\n\nThere is some evidence that animals also display the generation effect during learning. However, more recent work challenges the idea animals display the generation effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17974170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17974170", "title": "Higher education policy", "text": "Higher education policy\n\nHigher education policy refers to how higher education institutions like universities are organised, funded and operated in a society. According to Ansell (2006) there are \"three different institutional forms of higher education provision: the Anglo-Saxon, Continental and the Scandinavian education system.\"\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Anglo-Saxon education system leads to a mass, partially private and publicly inexpensive system\". The Anglo-Saxon system is sometimes described as an Anglo-American education system.\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Continental educational system leads to an elite, fully public and inexpensive system\".\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Scandinavian education system leads to a mass, fully public, but highly expensive system\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46319976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46319976", "title": "Homework coach", "text": "Homework coach\n\nA homework coach is a category of tutor whose mission is to help a student's overall academic success as opposed to providing remedial instruction in a specific subject. A parent might hire a homework coach when their child is struggling in school not because they have difficulties with the academic material but because of problems with study skills, organization, executive function skills and motivation. The goal of the coach is to teach the child to become a successful student by learning to plan assignments, organize materials, manage time effectively and, in the case of an ADHD student, learn ways to manage the symptoms of their attention deficit disorder. As such, the role of a homework coach is similar to ADHD coaching but is focused specifically on success in school. Some providers use the term \"homework helper\" as well as \"homework coach.\"\n\nA homework coach is indicated for any student whose poor performance in school or college appears to be more related to organization and study skills rather than difficulty understanding the instructional material. Such students may show signs of ADHD or Executive Function disorder. Current statistics published by the Centers for Disease Control show that as many as 11% of school children 4–17 years in age had received an ADHD diagnosis. Among ADHD students, about 33% will not graduate high school with their peers, which is about twice the rate of the non-ADHD student population. By hiring a homework coach, parents hope that the added support in building study skills, helping plan assign assignments, test-taking strategies and general homework monitoring will keep their children on track in school and increase their chances of graduating on time.\n\nThe efficacy of homework coaching is in general measured by parents in terms of higher grades and less discord in the household over their student's homework habits. One study of 110 ADHD college students found that coaching was \"highly effective in helping students improve executive functioning and related skills as measured by the Learning and Study Strategies Inventory.\" There are also many anecdotal news stories and case studies relating how a homework coach has helped students improve their grades and self-confidence. The intensity and tempo of homeworkes affect stress resistance and quite emmotsionalny state of the pupil. The correct approach to the implementation of tasks will allow to perform all tasks with maximum efficiency.\n\n"}
{"id": "18582114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18582114", "title": "Interactive course", "text": "Interactive course\n\nAn interactive course typically describes material of an educational nature delivered in a format which allows the user to directly impact the materials' content, pace, and outcome. Interactive, as defined by the Merriam-Webster online dictionary, is \"involving the actions or input of a user\". An example of such material would be a computer-based presentation requiring a user to select the correct answer to a given question before proceeding to the next topic.\n\nThese types of courses are almost always computer-based, and most likely to be delivered to the user through the Internet. Due to their convenient delivery, availability, and almost endless subject matter, interactive courses have become a major tool for those seeking to provide, as well as to obtain, education, training, or certification in a given area of study.\n\nWith growing accessibility and availability of computers and the Internet, many schools, universities, businesses, and government agencies are turning to interactive courses to train and educate their students and staff through MOOC's and customized internal learning platforms by third-party providers.\n"}
{"id": "3407585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3407585", "title": "K-5 (education)", "text": "K-5 (education)\n\nK-5 (pronounced \"kay through five\") is an American term for the education period from kindergarten to fifth grade. It receives equal amounts of criticism and support in the educational industry. While many early childhood experts deem it too closely aligned with more developmentally inappropriate \"watered-down\" early elementary teaching methods, administrators and policy-makers see it as a way to integrate kindergarten under the guise of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "29989548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29989548", "title": "List of International Literacy Prizes", "text": "List of International Literacy Prizes\n\nUNESCO has awarded the following annual prizes for literacy promotion: \n"}
{"id": "13462045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13462045", "title": "Man: A Course of Study", "text": "Man: A Course of Study\n\nMan: A Course of Study, usually known by the acronym MACOS or M.A.C.O.S., was an American humanities teaching program, popular in America and Britain in the 1970s. It was based on the theories of Jerome Bruner, particularly his concept of the \"spiral curriculum\". This suggested that a concept might be taught repeatedly within a curriculum, but at a number of levels, each level being more complex than the first. The process of repetition would thus enable the child to absorb more complex ideas easily.\n\nIn MACOS, the concept was \"the chain of life\" or a \"lifeline\": the entire history of a living thing. The course started with a simple lifespan in the form of the Pacific Coast salmon. It then moved on to the more complex life form of the herring gull, introducing concepts such as nurturing. The lifespan of the baboon was next examined, particularly within the societal context afforded by the baboon troop. The differences between innate behaviour and learned behaviour were introduced. Finally, the study opened up into a study of a man's lifespan with a case study of Netsilik Inuit. This also included the interaction between the Netsilik and other life forms, such as reindeer and seals.\n\nThe course comprised a self-contained kit of course materials, film cassettes, visual aids, and games. Some of the activities were very imaginative; a game based upon reindeer migration had a loaded die to introduce discussion about instincts, and a paper seal would be cut up and shared among class members representing various people in the Netsilik community, according to a ritual governing who was entitled to which part of the animal.\n\nThe emphasis of the course was upon learning particular skills within the teaching process, not upon the significance of the content. This included the necessity to ask questions, discuss, and reach conclusions based on evidence and argument.\n\nThe course was much criticized in the United States because of its emphasis upon questioning aspects of life, including belief and morality. It was particularly targeted by fundamentalist groups, evidenced by quotations included in the course booklet. In 2004, the National Film Board of Canada produced \"Through These Eyes\", a documentary about the controversy surrounding MACOS, and more generally about the interplay between politics and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56721411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56721411", "title": "MicroMasters", "text": "MicroMasters\n\nMicroMasters programs are a series of online graduate level courses launched by edX that one can take to develop standalone skills for career advancement or earn graduate level credentials from its respective universities, equivalent to a semester of a full master's degree. It was designed to be the bridge between a bachelor's degree and a master's degree, allowing employees to continue advancing their education without affecting their employment and personal commitments. \n\nFirst launched in September 2016 with 19 MicroMasters programs as an extension of its MOOC, edX eventually expanded to include 17 additional programs in February 2017. As of November 2018, 51 different MicroMasters programs are being offered, with 47 in English, 3 in Spanish, and 1 in French. Each MicroMasters program is sponsored by at least one industry partner, including GE, Microsoft, IBM, Hootsuite, Fidelity, Bloomberg, Walmart, PWC, Booz-Allen Hamilton, and Ford. These programs are designed to bridge the gap between job candidates with a bachelor's degree and companies that want employees with an advanced degree by offering credentials that are equivalent to 25 to 50 percent of a master's degree or 20 to 30 ECTS in Europe.\n\nUnlike other existing microcredentials, the MicroMasters programs offer both the benefit of gaining relevant skills in a particular field that can support career development and a pathway to advanced credits in the respective universities offering the course. This includes many of the top universities in the world such as MIT, Columbia University, Delft University of Technology, and Indian Institute of Management. The idea of the MicroMasters program started out as an iteration of the existing MOOC model when Coursera first started offering specializations for its various disciplines and a response to the changing nature of work as well as the major skills shortage currently impacting businesses around the world.\n\nAll MicroMasters programs are currently running on the edX MOOC platform, where learners are free to audit any of the courses. Depending on the program, there are prerequisites ranging from graduate level understanding of various specific disciplines or work experienced. However, these prerequisites serve as recommended guidelines for the learners rather than a strictly enforced rule so there are no specific degree requirements for any of the courses. However, learners will have to pay if they wish to pursue a verified certificate.\n\nTo qualify for a certificate for successfully completing a MicroMasters Program, all learners are required to complete a series of interactive courses as specified in the respective MicroMasters program and achieve a minimum grade according to the institution awarding the certification. \n\nFor learners interested in developing skills for professional advancement, the certificate for completing a MicroMasters Program may be sufficient.\n\nFor learners interested in academic credit, the learner must be admitted into the university's respective master's program. Some programs, such as the MicroMasters Program in Supply Chain Management by MIT also operate on a blended learning model which include a timed examination as well as a final proctored examination. Admission requirements for its on-campus blended learning program differ from its traditional residential admission requirements as applicants are not required to submit scores in a GRE or GMAT as performance in the Micromasters program will be taken as a substitute for it. Some other programs still follow usual admission guidelines and the MicroMasters program has little to no impact on their application apart from receiving advanced credits upon admission into its respective programs. Generally, most courses include practice exercises which are ungraded as well as graded assignments with limited attempts.\n\nThe following is a list of the current MicroMasters programs offered as well as the respective graduate degree options available for each program upon graduation of the MicroMasters program.\n!MicroMasters Program Name\n!Institution\n!Institutions Offering Credit for Advanced Standing\n!Subsequent Degree Options with Advanced Standing\n\nGeorgia Institute launched its online master's in computer science to emulate its residential program as much as possible. Later, in 2017, with edX it also started a MicroMasters program for analytics, which would allow advanced credits for its online master's in analytics (for admitted learners) and also support learners interested in the subject matter and for whom the MicroMasters program certificate met career needs.\n\nedX applied for a trademark for \"MicroMasters\" in response to Udacity registering \"nanodegree\" as its trademark in 2014. The Rocheter Institute of Technology launched its MicroMasters in project management, allowing learners to use it to fulfil the prerequisite of project management education for the PMP certification.\n\nGeneral Electric has promised to interview any Massachusetts resident who completed a MicroMasters program in supply chain management, cybersecurity, cloud computing, or artificial intelligence.\n\nMIT admitted its first batch of 40 students into its blended supply chain management program from graduates of its MicroMasters program, reducing its usual 10-month program to 5 months. This pilot also saw 200,000 people signing up, 19,000 earning certificates and 800 sitting for the final proctored examination. It was reported in July 2018 that the students who were admitted into the blended program had better than average scores across the board than those who were in the residential program. The MIT Statistics and Data Science Center has also announced the launch of its MicroMasters program in Statistics and Data Science slated for the fall of 2018. \n\nIn July 2018, the University of Maryland announced a MicroMasters program for a MBA core curriculum, offering graduates transferable credits to a full MBA degree. In September 2018, the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority provided its employees with the opportunity to join the MicroMasters program in data, economics, and development policy led by Esther Duflo as part of a strategy to develop the capabilities of young Emiratis. \n\n"}
{"id": "875125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875125", "title": "Midday Meal Scheme", "text": "Midday Meal Scheme\n\nThe Midday Meal Scheme is a school meal programme of the Government of India designed to better the nutritional standing of school-age children nationwide. The programme supplies free lunches on working days for children in primary and upper primary classes in government, government aided, local body, Education Guarantee Scheme, and alternate innovative education centres, \"Madarsa\" and \"Maqtabs\" supported under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, and National Child Labour Project schools run by the ministry of labour. Serving 120,000,000 children in over 1,265,000 schools and Education Guarantee Scheme centres, it is the largest of its kind in the world.\n\nUnder article 24, paragraph 2c of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which India is a party, India has committed to yielding \"adequate nutritious foods\" for children. The programme has undergone many changes since its launch in 1995. The Midday Meal Scheme is covered by the National Food Security Act, 2013. The legal backing to the Indian school meal programme is akin to the legal backing provided in the US through the National School Lunch Act.\n\nThe roots of the programme can be traced back to the pre-independence era, when a mid day meal programme was introduced in 1925 in Madras Corporation by the British administration. A mid day meal programme was introduced in the Union Territory of Puducherry by the French administration in 1930.\n\nInitiatives by state governments to children began with their launch of a mid day meal programme in primary schools in the 1962–63 school year. Tamil Nadu is a pioneer in introducing mid day meal programmes in India to increase the number of kids coming to school; Thiru K. Kamaraj, then Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, introduced it first in Chennai and later extended it to all districts of Tamil Nadu.\n\nDuring 1982, July 1st onwards, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Thiru. M. G. Ramachandran upgraded the existing Mid-day meal scheme in the state to 'Nutritious food scheme' keeping in the mind that 68 lakh children suffer malnutrition.\n\nGujarat was the second state to introduce an MDM scheme in 1984, but it was later discontinued.\n\nA midday meal scheme was introduced in Kerala in 1984, and was gradually expanded to include more schools and grades. By 1990–91, twelve states were funding the scheme to all or most of the students in their area: Goa, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. Karnataka, Orissa, and West Bengal received international aid to help with implementation of the programme, and in Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan the programme was funded entirely using foreign aid.\n\nIn Karnataka, Children's LoveCastles Trust started to provide mid-day meals in 1997. A total of eight schools were adopted and a food bank programme and an Angganwasi milk Programme were started. The food-bank programme was replaced by the State Government midday meal scheme.\n\nThe government of India initiated the National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education (NP-NSPE) on 15 August 1995. The objective of the scheme is to help improve the effectiveness of primary education by improving the nutritional status of primary school children. Initially, the scheme was implemented in 2,408 blocks of the country to provide food to students in classes one through five of government, government-aided and local body run schools. By 1997–98, the scheme had been implemented across the country. Under this programme, a cooked mid day meal with 300 calories and 12 grams of protein is provided to all children enrolled in classes one to five. In October 2007, the scheme included students in upper primary classes of six to eight in 3,479 educationally backward blocks, and the name was changed from National Programme for Nutrition Support to Primary Education to National Programme of Mid Day Meals in Schools.\n\nThough cooked food was to be provided, most states (apart from those already providing cooked food) chose to provide \"dry rations\" to students. \"Dry rations\" refers to the provision of uncooked 3 kg of wheat or rice to children with 80% attendance.\n\nIn April 2001, the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) initiated the public interest litigation (Civil) No. 196/2001, People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India & Others – popularly known as the \"right to food\" case. The PUCL argued that – \"right to life\" of the Indian constitution when read together with articles (a) and , makes the right to food a derived fundamental right which is enforceable by virtue of the constitutional remedy provided under of the constitution. The PUCL argued that excess food stocks with the Food Corporation of India should be fed to hungry citizens. This included providing mid day meals in primary schools. The scheme came into force with the supreme court order dated 28 November 2001, which requires all government and government-assisted primary schools to provide cooked midday meals.\n\nThe supreme court occasionally issues interim orders regarding midday meals. Some examples are:\nThe nutritional guidelines for the minimum amount of food and calorie content per child per day are:\n\nIn the case of micronutrients (vitamin A, iron, and folate) tablets and de-worming medicines, the student is entitled to receive the amount provided for in the school health programme of the National Rural Health Mission.\n\nThe central and state governments share the cost of the Midday Meal Scheme, with the centre providing 60 percent and the states 40 percent. The central government provides grains and financing for other food. Costs for facilities, transportation, and labour is shared by the federal and state governments. The participating states contribute different amounts of money. While the eleventh five-year plan allocated for the scheme, the twelfth five-year plan has allocated , a 134 percent rise. The public expenditure for the Mid Day Meal Programme has gone up from in 2007–08 to in 2013–14. The per day cooking cost per child at the primary level has been fixed to while at the upper primary level is .\n\nThis is the most widespread practice. In the decentralised model, meals are cooked on-site by local cooks and helpers or self-help groups. This system has the advantage of being able to serve local cuisine, providing jobs in the area, and minimising waste. It also allows for better monitoring (e.g., by parents and teachers).\n\nIn the absence of adequate infrastructure (such as kitchen sheds, utensils etc.), it can lead to accidents and maintaining hygiene can be difficult. In 2004, 87 children died when the thatched roof of a classroom was ignited by sparks from a cooking fire. In 2011, a child died after succumbing to burn injuries she sustained after accidentally falling into a cooking vessel.\n\nIn the centralised model, an external organisation cooks and delivers the meal to schools, mostly through public-private partnerships. Centralised kitchens are seen more in urban areas, where density of schools is high so that transporting food is a financially viable option. Advantages of centralised kitchens include ensuring better hygienic as large scale cooking is done through largely automated processes. Various NGOs such as the Akshaya Patra Foundation, Ekta Shakti Foundation, Naandi Foundation, and Jay Gee Humanitarian Society & People's Forum provides mid-day meals.\n\nA study of centralised kitchens in Delhi in 2007 found that even with centralised kitchens, the quality of food needed to be improved. The study also found that when the food arrives and is of inadequate quality, even teachers feel helpless and do not know whom to complain to.\n\nThe Ministry of Human Resource Development reported that 95% of tested meal samples prepared by NGOs in Delhi did not meet nutritional standards in 2010–12. In response, the ministry withheld 50% of the payment for the deficient meals.\n\nInternational voluntary and charity organisations have assisted. Church World Service has provided milk powder to Delhi and Madras Municipal Corporation; CARE has provided corn soya meal, Bulgar wheat, and vegetable oils; and UNICEF has provided high proteins foods and educational support. In 1982, 'Food for Learning' was launched with assistance from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Initially the programme was aimed at scheduled caste and scheduled tribe girls. In 1983, the federal Department of Education prepared a scheme under the auspices of the World Food Programme to supply meals to 13.6 million scheduled caste girls and 10.09 million scheduled tribe girls in classes one to five in 15 states and three union territories. The value of the food itself was $163.27 million per year. Labour, facilities, and transportation costs were to be paid by the state governments. The reaction among the states and union territories was mixed. Many states were interested, but some were concerned about their ability to afford it if the FAO support were to be withdrawn.\n\nThe government of India Review Missions on Mid Day Meal Scheme, comprising members from the central government, state governments, UNICEF, and the office of the supreme court commissioner was created in 2010 to review the programme and offer suggestions for improvement. The scheme is independently monitored twice a year.\n\nThe MDM scheme has many potential benefits: attracting children from disadvantaged sections (especially girls, Dalits and Adivasis) to school, improving regularity, nutritional benefits, socialisation benefits and benefits to women are some that have been highlighted.\n\nStudies by economists show that some of these benefits have indeed been realised. The positive effect on enrollment of disadvantaged children (Dreze and Kingdon), on attendance (by Chakraborty, Jayaraman, Pande), on learning effort (by Booruah, Afridi and Somanathan), on improving nutritional inputs (Afridi), on improving nutritional outcomes (by Singh, Dercon and Parker), and so on.\n\nCaste based discrimination continues to occur in the serving of food, though the government seems unwilling to acknowledge this. Sukhdeo Thorat and Joel Lee found in their 2005 study that caste discrimination was occurring in conjunction with the Mid Day Meals programme.\n\nMedia reports also document the positive effect of the programme for women, especially working women and its popularity among parents, children and teachers alike. Media reports have also highlighted several implementation issues, including irregularity, corruption, hygiene, caste discrimination, etc. A few such incidents are listed below:\n\n- In December 2005, Delhi police seized eight trucks laden with 2,760 sacks of rice meant for primary school children. The rice was being transported from Food Corporation of India godowns Bulandshahr district to North Delhi. The police stopped the trucks and investigators later discovered that the rice was being stolen by an NGO.\n\n- In November 2006, the residents of Pembong village (30 km from Darjeeling) accused a group of teachers of embezzling midday meals. In a written complaint, the residents claimed that students at the primary school had not received their midday meal for the past year and a half.\n\n- In December 2006, \"The Times of India\" reported that school staff were inflating attendance in order to obtain food grains.\n\n- Twenty-three children died in Dharma Sati village in Saran District on 16 July 2013 after eating pesticide-contaminated mid day meals. On 31 July 2013, 55 students at a government middle school fell ill at Kalyuga village in Jamui district after their midday meal provided by an NGO. On the same day, 95 students at Chamandi primary school in Arwal district were ill after their meal.\n\nDespite the success of the program, child hunger as a problem persists in India. According to current statistics, 42.5% of the children under 5 are underweight. Some simple health measures such as using iodised salt and getting vaccinations are uncommon in India. \"India is home to the world's largest food insecure population, with more than 500 million people who are hungry\", India State Hunger Index (ISHI) said. Many children don't get enough to eat, which has far-reaching implications for the performance of the country as a whole. \"Its rates of child malnutrition is higher than most countries in Sub-Saharan Africa,\" it noted. The 2009 Global Hunger Index ranked India at 65 out of 84 countries. More than 200 million went hungry in India that year, more than any other country in the world. The report states that \"improving child nutrition is of utmost urgency in most Indian states\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17604837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17604837", "title": "Milwaukee Project", "text": "Milwaukee Project\n\nThe Milwaukee Project was a program begun in the 1960s designed to improve the IQs and scholastic achievement of children at risk and to study the effects of intellectual stimulation on children from deprived environments.\n\nRick Heber of the University of Wisconsin–Madison examined the statistics of districts in the city of Milwaukee. His attention was drawn towards one district, where the residents had the lowest median income and lowest level of education in the city. The unemployment rate was also very high. Although this district contained only 3% of the city’s population, 33% of all children who had been labeled \"mentally retarded\" lived there.\n\nHeber selected 40 newborns from this district. All had a mother with an IQ lower than 80. In many cases the father was absent. The newborns were randomly assigned to an experimental and a control group. Mothers of children in the experimental group received education, vocational rehabilitation, and training in homemaking and child care. The children were brought to infant stimulation centers, where they received a high quality educational program designed to develop language and cognitive skills. They also received three balanced meals a day. They stayed there five days a week, seven hours a day. When the children were six the program ended. The children then attended local schools. Both the experimental group and the control group were tested an equal number of times throughout the project.\n\nAccording to Heber and colleagues, by age six all of the children from the experimental group had higher IQs than all of the children from the control group. Mean IQ was 120 in the experimental group and 87 in the control group. After the children left the program their IQs started declining. By the time both groups were ten years old the IQs of the children of the experimental group had decreased to 105. Mean IQ in the control group was 85.\n\nAt age 14, the children in the experimental group had a mean IQ ten points above that of the control group, but the scholastic achievement scores of the experimental group were not better than those of the control group. Both groups performed in school as would be expected from children with a mean IQ of 80. For this reason, Arthur Jensen has suggested that the Milwaukee Project did not produce permanent intelligence gains, but that the IQ gains it showed were due to an indirect form of \"teaching to the test\".\n\nThe Milwaukee Project's claimed success was celebrated in the popular media and by famous psychologists. However, later in the project Rick Heber, the principal investigator, was discharged from the University of Wisconsin–Madison and convicted and imprisoned for large-scale abuse of federal funding for private gain. Two of Heber's colleagues in the project were also convicted for similar abuses. The project's results were not published in any refereed scientific journals, and Heber did not respond to requests from colleagues for raw data and technical details of the study. Consequently, even the existence of the project as described by Heber has been called into question. Nevertheless, many college textbooks in psychology and education have uncritically reported the project's results.\n\n"}
{"id": "35289504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35289504", "title": "Multi-age classroom", "text": "Multi-age classroom\n\nMulti-age classrooms or composite classes are classrooms with students from more than one grade level. They are created because of a pedagogical choice of a school or school district. They are different from split classes which are formed when there are too many students for one class - but not enough to form two classes of the same grade level. Composite classes are more common in smaller schools; an extreme form is the one-room school.\n\nStudies of the performance of students in composite classes shows their academic performance is not substantially different from those in single-grade classrooms; instead, outcomes tend to be a function of the teacher's performance.\n\nFor a given number of students, composite classes allow greater administrative flexibility in allocating students to classes. This allows gender balancing, matching of student needs to teaching expertise, and balancing class sizes. By allocating children to classes according to specific learning needs, it is possible to arrange classes with narrower ranges of abilities.\n\nSchools composed exclusively of composite classes are increasingly common in Australian primary school education; they are not uncommon in New Zealand.\n\nComposite classes often meet resistance, with parents often believing that their child is disadvantaged by being in one. This perception is often regardless of whether their child would be in the younger or older cohort.\n\nAdvocates of multi-age classrooms point to the lack of age stratification in workplaces, families or other social environments as a reason to create a similar environment in the classroom.\n\nSocial benefits often cited are:\n\nEducational benefits often cited are:\n\n\nAt any one time, both composite and single-level classes have groups of students at a variety of levels. This is part of the normal delivery of the curriculum. Education expectations are set at curriculum levels which span across two years; for example, see the Victorian Essential Learning Standards. Contemporary teaching and learning materials are developed for multi-age classes. By using them, teachers can introduce core concepts to the whole classroom, and then differentiate instruction for the range of learners in the classroom.\n\nOTHER CONSIDERATIONS\n\nThe students will be of a greater range of size, age and maturity which can have both positive and negative implications particularly in class sporting activities and playground interaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "6980512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6980512", "title": "Multipotentiality", "text": "Multipotentiality\n\nMultipotentiality is an educational and psychological term referring to the ability and preference of a person, particularly one of strong intellectual or artistic curiosity, to excel in two or more different fields.\nIt can also refer to an individual whose interests span multiple fields or areas, rather than being strong in just one. Such traits are called multipotentialities, while \"multipotentialites\" has been suggested as a name for those with this trait.\n\nBy contrast, those whose interests lie mostly within a single field are called \"specialists.\"\n\nAn early instance of the term in the record comes from relevant research in giftedness.\n\nIn 1972, R.H. Frederickson et al. defined a multipotentialed person as someone who, “when provided with appropriate environments, can select and develop a number of competencies to a high level.” \n\nIn 1990, Barbara Kerr defined multipotentiality as such:\nIn 1999, \"multipotentiality\" appears in Laurie Diane Shute's doctoral dissertation which was titled \"An investigation of multipotentiality among university honors students.\" \n\nIn 2010, multipotentiality appears again in Tamara Fisher's article in Education week. She defines it thus:\nAround 2010 or later, Emilie Wapnick coined the term \"multipotentialite\", perhaps to establish a shared identity for the community. She defines it this way:\n\nWhile the term \"multipotentialite\" is often used interchangeably with \"polymath\" or \"Renaissance Person\", the terms are not identical. One need not be an expert in any particular field to be a multipotentialite.\n\nIndeed, Isis Jade makes a clear distinction between multipotentiality and polymaths. Multipotentiality refers simply to one's potential in multiple fields owing to his/her diverse interests and attempts. Polymaths, on the other hand, are distinguished by their mastery and expertise in several fields. In this sense, multipotentialites can be viewed as potential polymaths. \n\nOther terms used to refer to multipotentialites are \"scanners\", \"slashers\", \"generalist\", \"multipassionate\", \"RP2\", and \"multipods\", among others.\n\nWith the advent of the industrial age, cultural norms have shifted in favor of specialization. Indeed, in the modern day, the more narrow the specialization, the higher the pay and respect accorded, for example: PhD graduates, and specialized lawyers, doctors, and engineers. The aphorism Jack of all trades, master of none emphasizes this. (Ironically, the article and it's Wiktionary entry mention a longer couplet: \"Jack of all trades, master of none,\nthough oftentimes better than master of one.\") Older emphasis towards generalism and multiple potentials such as Renaissance humanism and the Renaissance man were replaced.\n\nHowever, the convergence economy, Internet age, connectivity, the rise of the Creative Class, and other modern developments are bringing about a return of a more positive opinion for generalists and multipotentialites.\n\nIn Specialization, Polymaths And The Pareto Principle In A Convergence Economy, Jake Chapman writes:\nOrganizations such as startups that require adaptability and holding multiple roles can employ several multipotentialites and have one specialist as a resource.\n\nIn Specialization, Polymaths And The Pareto Principle In A Convergence Economy, Chapman said:\nStretch Magazine discusses the role of multipotentialites in organizations and how they will believe they will be more in demand in the future.\n\nHistorical context, current conventional wisdom, comparative advantage, USP, among others contribute to the wide acceptance of specialization.\n\nProponents of specialization above cite excellence and its perceived higher rewards compared to mediocrity in everything. Proponents of multiple capabilities below emphasize the importance of adaptability.\n\nIn \"Master of Many Trades\", Robert Twigger goes so far as to coin the word \"monopath\": \"It means a person with a narrow mind, a one-track brain, a bore, a super-specialist, an expert with no other interests — in other words, the role-model of choice in the Western world.\" \n\nThis sentiment is not new. In Time Enough for Love (1973), Robert A. Heinlein wrote:\n\nIn an article on the decline of polymathy, Felipe Fernández-Armesto wrote, \"Universities bear some responsibility for its extinction. Classical Greece, Renaissance Italy and Victorian England all revered and rewarded generalists, for whom today universities have little or no space or patience. Enclosed departments in discrete spaces, with their own journals and jargons, are a legacy of lamentable, out-of-date ways of organising knowledge and work.\"\n\nAdvantages available to these people who have developed skills in multiple fields:\n\n\nAccording to Tim Ferriss, a renowned generalist:\nCaveat: The multipotentialite may encounter several problems if they are mediocre or average at everything. It's recommended to be above intermediate or master of at least one.\n\nJames Liu, founder/developer of BoxCat Games says this:\n\n\nBoredom is also a frequent occurrence in multipotentialites who have already \"mastered\" or learned everything they desire to know about a particular topic before moving on. \n\nThey will also encounter opposition from career counselors, parents and friends who wish for them to choose conventional specialized career paths.\n\nFor the challenges above, several resources have published coping strategies:\n\n\nIn a world that overvalues specialization, the term and its increasing popularity (especially among the blogging community) have contributed to the revival of awareness on the importance of generalists. The concept was even mentioned in a Jamaican newspaper as the subject of a competition's training session.\n\nIn the current economy, Creativity and the rise of the Creative Class are linked to divergent thinking and innovative solutions to current problems. Because new ideas can be found in the intersection of multiple fields, they would benefit from the advantages of multipotentialites.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci may be the most well-known historical example of an acknowledged genius who struggled from the difficulties associated with multipotentiality.\n\nOther notable multipotentialites throughout history excelled in many fields (hence they're also polymaths) such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20670561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20670561", "title": "No nit policy", "text": "No nit policy\n\nNo nit policy is a treatment system recommended by health authorities in Canada and Australia to assist in the elimination of head lice infestation. The \"no nit\" policy requires the sending home and barring of all children who have head lice, eggs and/or nits on their hair from controlled settings such as school, summer camp or day care facilities. The CDC, American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and the National Association of School Nurses (NASN) advocate that \"no-nit\" policies should be discontinued, due in part because nits, the eggs or empty egg shells, are not transmissible and the burden of unnecessary absenteeism to the students, families and communities far outweighs the risks associated with head lice.\n\nThe no nit policy involves a number of issues, such as the circumstances under which children will be inspected, the criteria to infer infestation, the procedures for dealing with infested children upon discovery, and the criteria to permit previously infested children to return to school. These issues are controversial. In particular, a number of health researchers and organizations object to the required removal of nits. Opponents to the no-nit policy point out that nits, being empty eggshells, have no clinical importance. Time-consuming nit removal, therefore, has no direct effect on transmission. This has led to the perception that the no-nit policy serves only to ease the workload of school nurses. Proponents of the no-nit policy counter that only a consistently nit-free child can be reliably shown to be infestation-free. That is, the presence of nits serves as a proxy for infestation status. Proponents argue that such a proxy is necessary because lice screening is prone to false negative conclusions (i.e., failure to find lice present on actively infested children).\n\nContributing to the controversial nature of school head lice policies is a lack of available data on their importance and efficacy. For example, , the transmissibility of head lice in school settings is largely unknown. Further, control-matched studies of the effect of specific school policies on head lice incidence are also lacking.\n\nSchools in developed countries such as the United States, Canada, and Australia commonly exclude infested students, and prevent return of those students until all lice, eggs, and nits are removed. Policies in the United Kingdom extend to legal action against parents of infested students. Attitudes in developing countries are often quite different. Many societies consider head louse infestation to be normal, if even remarked upon at all.\n\nA 1991 survey of American nurses reported that 27% have regular inspection programs in place at their schools. 85% reported inspection on an \"as-needed\" basis. Routine inspection of children is advocated by a variety of nurses, researchers, organizations, and governments.\n\nHead lice cannot live more than a day or two away from a host. Any remaining eggs will hatch in one to two weeks, and absent a host, the emerging nymphs will die within hours. Thus, simply leaving the school vacant for a week or two is sufficient to disinfect all fomite sources of head louse infection. The return of children to this now-clean environment is an ideal time to check for infestations and attempt to keep the environment lice-free. The California Department of Public Health encourages inspections to be performed on Fridays.\n\nSome health researchers oppose regular inspections. This opposition to school inspections coincides with opposition to no-nit policies, and is based on similar reasoning (i.e., that they are ineffective).\n\nLice infestation is not a reportable disease, so data on head lice incidence are sparse. , no control-matched study exists on the effect of school screening programs on head lice prevalence. Further, although some authors note a stubborn prevalence of head lice during the latter half of the 20th century, this has occurred in an environment of rather lax screening efforts. For example, a 1991 survey of American nurses reported that only 27% had regular screening programs in place at their schools. Anecdotal evidence suggests that school screening programs \"can\" reduce head lice prevalence. Certainly, the effectiveness of these programs must be determined before their \"cost effectiveness\" can be evaluated.\n\nBarbara Frankowski, a critic of school screenings, argues that time spent screening children by school nurses is better spent on other tasks. This attitude reflects those held by some American school nurses themselves, 27% of whom believe that eliminating lice infestations in \"not\" an important role of school nursing. Even more telling, only 11% of American school nurses find treating head lice to be professionally gratifying. Similar attitudes exist among Canadian school nurses.\n\nSchool inspections are often short—about one minute per child. Frankowski argues that such inspections are not thorough enough to be accurate, and so may lead to a false sense of security. Indeed, a 1998 study of Israeli children found that live lice took an average of 57 – 116 seconds to detect depending on the technique used. L. Keoki Williams and others acknowledge this shortcoming of school screening, and suggest that children found to have nits undergo an additional 5- to 10-minute examination to exclude the presence of live lice. In contrast, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) argues not for increased inspection time, but elimination of the school screenings altogether, with parents being educated and encouraged to inspect their own children at home. This attitude, coupled with the AAP's opposition to the no-nit policy, would essentially absolve school administrators of responsibility to directly manage pediculosis in their student body.\n\nA nit is the egg of a louse. They are white, resembling dandruff, 0.8 mm long, cement to the hair base where they are difficult to remove, and may survive for three weeks away from the host.\n\nOnly the presence of live crawling lice (nymph or imago) constitutes an infestation. Much of the controversy surrounding school head lice policy centers on the question of what to do with children discovered to have nits, but no visible lice. Indeed, one-third to three-fourths of children with nits fall into this category. The nits-only population therefore represents a significant fraction of children potentially subject to school exclusion and/or treatment with insecticides. Such children have evidence of infestation (i.e., the nits), but the infestation may be extinct.\n\nUnfortunately, false negative conclusions (i.e., failing to find lice that are, in fact, present) regarding infestation have long been recognized as a problem in head lice diagnosis. Depending on the methods used, live lice can be easily missed during inspection. For example, a 1998 Israeli study found that 76% of live lice infestations were missed by visual inspection (as verified by subsequent combing methods). Although lice cannot fly or jump, they are fast and agile in their native environment (i.e., clinging to hairs near the warmth of the scalp), and will try to avoid the light used during inspection. Lice populations are also sparse, which can contribute to difficulty in finding live specimens. Two-thirds of infestations are composed of 10 or fewer individual lice. Further, lice populations consist predominantly (80%-90%) of immature nymphs, which are even smaller and harder to detect than adult lice.\n\nThese difficulties have, at times, lead to the recommendation that the presence of nits alone be used to infer infestation:\n\nA 1998 American study attempted to clarify the infestation risk associated with a \"nits-only\" diagnosis. They found that 18% of children with nits (but no apparent lice) became infested (i.e., lice appeared) 14 days later. Whether these new lice came from viable eggs or via transmission from other hosts was not clear. Transmission from other hosts would tend to overestimate the infestation risk associated with nits. In addition, some children were treated with pediculicides during this 14-day period. Successful treatments (i.e., killing eggs or recently hatched nymphs) would tend to underestimate the infestation risk associated with nits. These limitations of the study notwithstanding, the authors concluded:\n\nAlthough \"nits-only\" children are unlikely to become infested, this is not to say that a nit-free population is without value. Much of the difficulty in accurately diagnosing head lice stems from the possibility that observed nits are due to an extinct infestation. However, if a policy of required nit removal is enforced, this is no longer an issue. Against a background of nit-free children, spotting new infestations through routine screening becomes as easy as spotting the nits. This ease in screening comes at a price, though, namely the effort expended (typically by parents) in removing nits. And to the extent that no-nit policies result in absenteeism, the child's education suffers, and the school's funding (e.g., from government sources) may be reduced.\n\nDiscovery of infested students typically occurs during a school day. Assuming the presence of live lice is the criteria used to infer infestation, an ethical dilemma is presented to school nurses and administrators. Should this student, now known to be infectious, be returned to class where transmission to other students could occur? Or alternatively, should the student be immediately removed from the group setting? Schools have very limited capacity to individually supervise students outside of the classroom, so removal from the classroom means requesting that the child's parents pick up their child.\n\nParents often become upset when the school nurse telephones their place of employment to inform them of their child's infestation and to request they come and collect their child. Nonetheless, immediate exclusion policies are explicitly advocated by some nurses. A 1998 survey revealed that almost all (96%) American school nurses send home infested students upon discovery.\n\nOpponents to immediate exclusion policies point out that the discovery of infestation is merely recognition of what has been an infectious condition for a number of months. Given that context, they argue, one more day of group contact is unlikely to result in more transmission than has already occurred. This contrasts with more short-term and highly communicable viral diseases such as chickenpox, influenza, or measles where immediate exclusion might reasonably reduce disease spread within the school.\n\nThe value of immediate exclusion for lice depends to some extent on the frequency of asymptomatic screening at the school. More frequent screening would tend to decrease the average time between infestation and discovery of that infestation. This would make the one day associated with immediate exclusion a more significant fraction of the total time the student was infectious. But even ardent supporters of asymptomatic screening do not advocate screenings more than once every three months. This suggests that the effect of immediate exclusion might be an exposure time reduction of as little as 1.6%, even under strict screening guidelines.\n\nThese changing attitudes on immediate exclusion appear to be affecting public policy. For example, in Australia, the National Health and Medical Research Council states that infested children need not be sent home upon discovery. Similarly, the California Department of Public Health advocates a head lice policy that does not immediately exclude infested children.\n\nEvaluating immediate exclusion policies is difficult, because the communicability of head lice in school settings has not been carefully studied. This has not, however, prevented authors from confidently asserting their opinion:\n\nTwo studies have noted clustering of head louse infestation by classroom. However, the authors differ in their interpretation of this clustering. In 1997, Richard Speare and Petra Buettner noted prevalence ranges of 0% to 72.2% across classrooms in the same grade (3rd) and in the same Australian school. This led them to favor the idea that \"opportunities for transmission are prominent within the classroom\". Indeed, their data suggest that classrooms synchronize in terms of infestation status.\n\nIn contrast, Janis Hootman suggests that school communicability is low. In 1998 she found that infestations within American classrooms were restricted to a minority of chronically infested students. Hootman concluded that the infested students have access to an infectious source that their classmates do not. Similarly, she found that clusters of pediculosis within classrooms were associated with social interactions outside school (e.g., sleepovers). This indicates that transmission can occur between classmates, but again, these transmission events may be occurring away from school grounds.\n\nAfter identifying and isolating an infested student, school policy typically requires some sort of verification that the student is no longer infectious before being readmitted to the school. Typically, this involves inspecting the child for evidence of continued infestation (see Criteria to infer infestation above). Schools commonly enforce either a \"no-nit\" policy or a \"no-lice\" policy.\n\nThe consensus has been changed more recently and the \"\"no-nit\" policy is considered worse than the nits themselves to a child's education and family burden the missed days cause. The EPA, CDC, and NASN all agree \"no-nit\" policies should be done away with and that kids should remain in school the entire day even if lice is found and notify the parents so they can treat it at home.\nNo-nit policies bar readmission of students found to have lice, eggs, or nits. This policy is popular with health authorities in the United States, Canada, and Australia. A 1998 survey revealed that a majority (61%) of American school nurses prevent return of treated students to school if they are not (also) nit-free. A similar percentage (60%) felt that \"forced absenteeism of any child who has any nits in their hair is a good idea.\" Data from a primarily American study during 1998–1999 revealed even higher prevalence—no-nit policies were present at 82% of the schools attended by children suspected of louse infestation.\n\nJames H. Price and colleagues estimate that infested students lose two to four days of school for treatment and nit removal. Based on their 1998 survey of American school nurses, they estimate that approximately 6 million U.S. children lose 12 to 24 million child-schooldays annually due to lice infestation under no-nit policies.\n\nAlthough the no-nit policy has the appearance of a simple and popular tool against pediculosis transmission, its implementation has been opposed by a number of health researchers and organizations. Opponents argue that enforcement of no-nit policies has not significantly reduced head lice incidence in school settings, and that the risks and disadvantages of the no-nit policies outweigh their associated benefits.\n\nAs is the case in assessing school screening efforts (see Screening above), assessing the effectiveness of no-nit policies is complicated by the sparseness of head lice prevalence data. To the extent that no-nit policies increase the efficiency of school screening programs (see Benefits of nit-free population above), no-nit policies may lead to more rapid containment of head lice outbreaks. However, , the correlation between no-nit policies and head lice incidence has not been examined.\n\nKosta Y. Mumcuoglu and colleagues indict required nit removal policies as an attempt to minimize the effort expended by school nurses on differentiating active and extinct infestations. They further argue that this minimization comes at the expense of excessive efforts on the part of parents to remove signs of previous infestations (i.e., the nits), which have no clinical importance.\n\nThe difficulty parents face in advocating more lax attitudes towards children with nits, is that the parents have no concomitant guarantee from school administrators that those admitted children will truly be lice-free. Indeed, admitting children with nits \"increases\" the difficulty in identifying actively infested students (see Criteria to infer infestation above). In contrast to diseases such as measles or influenza, pediculosis does not inherently prevent school attendance. The financial incentive for schools, therefore, is to minimize expenditures on lice control and screening programs because (absent a no-nit policy) they have little effect on attendance. This is a formula for maximizing lice infestation within the student body, not minimizing it. Thus, while the no-nit policy may be seen as off-loading school nurse responsibilities to parents, it is perhaps more correctly viewed as imposing parental priorities on school administrators.\n\nIn the absence of such policies, school and parental priorities with respect to lice are inherently at odds. The parents wish to minimize lice transmission. In contrast, schools wish to maximize attendance, which is largely unaffected by lice transmission. Barring return of children until nits are removed has the effect of transforming the pediculosis \"problem\" for which schools have no inherent incentive to solve, into an attendance \"problem\" for which schools have a direct financial interest. Unfortunately, the solution advocated by many to this attendance \"problem\" is to simply remove the no-nit policy, leaving the inherent conflict between parents and school administrators unaddressed.\n\nThe no-lice policy bars readmission of students with crawling lice, but are indifferent to the presence of eggs and nits. These policies are advocated by a number of government agencies, but , no data on the overall prevalence of no-lice policies exists. In Australia, the National Health and Medical Research Council states that treated children can return with nits so long as they are lice-free. Similarly, the California Department of Public Health advocates a policy that permits students to return to school with nits.\n"}
{"id": "47392247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47392247", "title": "Non-Verbal Reasoning", "text": "Non-Verbal Reasoning\n\nIn non-verbal reasoning (NVR) diagrams are used for expressing the ideas instead of using numbers and words. Non-verbal reasoning shows a series of figures arranged in a sequence or pattern and then the missing figure is required to identified or the next in the sequence. Because the non-verbal reasoning questions are believed to be the best indicator of general intelligence and don't rely on a knowledge of either English or maths.\n\nNon-verbal reasoning includes\n\nIt involves identifying relationship, similarities and differences between shapes and patterns, recognizing visual sequences and relationship between objects and remembering this. It enables the ability to analyze and solve complex problems without relying upon or being limited by language skills As these tests don't require reading they can give insight into the abilities of those who have problems with reading and thinking verbally.\n\n"}
{"id": "42382929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42382929", "title": "Now You See It (Cathy Davidson book)", "text": "Now You See It (Cathy Davidson book)\n\nNow You See It: How the Brain Science of Attention Will Transform the Way We Live, Work, and Learn is a book by CUNY Graduate Center professor Cathy Davidson published by Viking Press on August 19, 2011.\n\nIn \"Now You See It: How the Brain Science of Attention Will Transform the Way We Live, Work, and Learn,\" Cathy Davidson suggests that breakthroughs in cognitive science should recalibrate our sense of what it means to learn. According to Davidson, those of us in higher education are paradoxically obsessed with the implications of living in the \"digital age,\" even though we have “yet to rethink how we need to be organizing our institutions—our schools, our offices—to maximize the opportunities of our digital era” (12). We tend to uphold models of teaching and assessments that no longer serve a generation of students who face a myriad of new challenges, as they attempt to learn to think critically in an era of information overload. Technology in all its forms is playing an increasingly important role in the lives of students. Colleges and universities, therefore, need to pay attention to the impact that the appropriate uses of digital tools can have on extending, enhancing, and enriching the student learning experience, both on and off campus. Moreover, and more importantly, Davidson argues that sustained exposure to such a range of digital media demands a different kind of attention than we previously required.\n\nIn \"Now You See It: How the Brain Science of Attention Will Transform the Way We Live, Work, and Learn\" Cathy Davidson examines the phenomenon of attention blindness: humans perceive only a fraction of everything going on around us, particularly when we're focusing intently on one specific task, and that this attention blindness does not properly prepare us for the multi-task oriented digital age. According to Davidson, attention blindness is a basic neurological feature of the human brain. In the introduction of \"Now You See It,\" Davidson describes attending a lecture on attention blindness which addressed the tendency of the human brain to concentrate intensely on one task at the expense of missing almost everything else. To demonstrate this tendency, the lecturer showed a video of six people passing basketballs back and forth, and instructed viewers to count the number of tosses only between those wearing white shirts. Many people correctly counted fifteen tosses, yet nearly everyone failed to see someone in a full gorilla suit stride in among those tossing basketballs, then walk away. Davidson, who is dyslexic, didn’t even try to keep count, but instead decided to relax as she watched the tape, and thus, she noticed the gorilla.\n\nDavidson argues that as a culture, our attention blindness represents a significant challenge that we must examine and meet head on; particularly since the Internet has revolutionized virtually every aspect of how our lives function now. The Internet, Davidson suggests, has catapulted us into an immediate, collaborative, and interconnected existence that is characterized by the sudden breakdown of barriers between private and public, work and play, domestic and foreign, office and home, etc. Davidson notes that although our lives have been irrevocably altered in these fundamental ways, our most important educational, corporate, and social institutions have not substantially changed in correlation with these upheavals. She claims that those in educational and corporate spheres continue to operate in 20th century modes (founded to meet the challenges of industrialization) as though we were currently not living through momentous, epochal changes.\n\n“With the Internet, we have seen dramatic rearrangements, in a little over a decade, in the most basic aspects of how we communicate, interact, gather knowledge of the world, develop and recognize our social networks and our communities, do business and exchange goods, understand what is true, and know what counts and is worthy of attention” (11).\n\n“This book starts from certain core questions: \n\nTechnology, Davidson argues, re-shapes the way we learn and process new information in some fundamental ways. We surf hundreds of news feeds, immediately discriminating between the ones we need to read and the ones we don't. In our work environments, we are forced to focus, divide, and re-focus our attention as we are dealing with multiple tasks at the same time. Within this multitasking that the new workplace requires, Davidson urges her readers to re-imagine the concept of distraction. We are cultured to imagine that shopping online while finishing a report or answering personal emails and simultaneously working on a project are distractions which are detrimental to our productivity and efficiency. Every time we switch tasks, we are hurting our work. Davidson argues, however, that these small distractions afforded by technology should be thought of as innovations. \"When we feel distracted, something’s up. Distraction is really another word for saying that something is new, strange or different. We should pay attention to that feeling… Distraction is one of the best tools for innovation we have at our disposal—for changing patterns of attention and beginning the process of learning new patterns\"\n\nIn addition to transforming our workplace and everyday life, Davidson argues that technology allows us a great opportunity to rethink the way we teach and organize our education system. In addition to the famous iPod experiment described earlier, Davidson suggests that gaming, blogging, self-grading, and collaborative learning are among the effective and innovative teaching tools and strategies, whose benefits outweigh those offered by the \"one-size-fits-all model of standards that evolved over the course of the twentieth century.\" In the chapter, \"Project Classroom Makeover,\" Davidson argues that the current education system is blind to the ways in which children learn and solve complex problems today, such as: creating and memorizing names and avatars of online game players, creating and writing simple codes to advance in games, searching internet for new information, and engaging with it in new creative ways. If the education system harnesses these natural curiosities through restructured curricula, it can promote creative and critical thinking and allow students to develop in their own, unique ways, rather than forcing them to fit into the standardized system of skills.\n\nAs an example of a Made-Over Classroom, Davidson discusses an experimental school Quest 2 Learn. Q2L is a school whose curriculum is based on the principles of gaming. There students don't just go from class to class, completing regular assignments, they participate in quests, aimed at solving complex problems, advancing from one level to another, culminating in a final project. This model, according to Davidson, has the potential to address the needs of children who are diagnosed with learning disabilities, such as ADHD or autism, allowing them to learn in ways that focus on their individual strengths without forcing them into a standardized learning structure, which could be detrimental to their engagement and future achievements.\n\nDavidson's \"Now You See It\" has received largely positive reviews. Publishers Weekly called \"Now You See It\" \"critically important\" and \"likely to shape discussions for years to come,\" while Howard Gardner of Harvard University celebrates Davidson for having \"a mind that ranges comfortably over literary arts, literacy, psychology, and brain science\" and predicts that her \"timely book is certain to attract a lot of attention and to catalyze many discussions.\"\n\nAs of February 2015, Amazon.com rated the book 4 out of 5 stars, based on 45 separate reviews.\n\nAlthough mainly positive, a few critical reactions question Davidson's \"youth worship\" and her \"enthusiasm for anything new and digital and by an almost allergic aversion to any practices or artifacts from the pre-Internet era.\"\n\nIn a generally positive review of \"Now You See It,\" in the journal \"portal: Libraries and the Academy,\" Andrew Battista wrote \"As inspiring as \"Now You See\" It can be, I would say that Davidson uncritically seeks to apply the doctrines of capitalist efficiency into contemporary learning. In fact, at times her vision of education seems to verge on a kind of fluency that will prepare people to compete in a new globalized economy rather than an altruistic experience that sees learning as the preparation of any fit participant in a democracy.\"\n\nCathy Davidson herself revealed in a comment to an online article titled \"Open Access, Public Intellectualism, and Academic Reform\" that despite not being a neuroscientist herself, she has received only one and a half bad reviews from neuroscientists, while frequently receiving fan notes from other neuroscientists agreeing with her stance on the brain.\n\nDavidson was appointed by President Barack Obama to a six-year term on the National Endowment for the Humanities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10003704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10003704", "title": "Postgraduate research", "text": "Postgraduate research\n\nPostgraduate research represents a formal area of study that is recognized by a university or institute of higher learning. By definition, the notion of “postgraduate” (United States) carries the implication that the candidate undertaking such research has already completed a formal Master's degree and at some instances the PhD, at an accredited university or tertiary institution. The resulting qualifications arising from postgraduate research leads to Post (Doctorates).\nThe structure of postgraduate research programs can vary significantly from one country to another. To enter into a PhD program in the United States, students generally must have some form of prerequisite study beyond their basic graduate qualification. This may be a Master’s coursework program, which acts as a qualifier for entry. In other countries, entry to Doctoral or Master’s research programs is based on the academic track record of the candidates in their undergraduate degrees.\n\nMany students confuse the notion of postgraduate research with “invention” and “discovery”. Postgraduate research ultimately represents an apprenticeship in the field of research. In his textbook, \"Key Factors in Postgraduate Research – A Guide for Students\". Dario Toncich explains that the objective of postgraduate research is not necessarily to make a breakthrough invention or, indeed, a major scientific discovery. \n\nIt is, rather, a mechanism by which graduate students learn how to undertake a systematic investigation, founded upon the work built by peers in the field, and then to extend the current state of knowledge. In the context of assessing a postgraduate research program, it is generally the systematic process of research and investigation that is given more attention than the level to which knowledge is extended. The title \"doctor\" emanates from the Latin word \"docera\"—to teach. Hence there is an expectation that the recipient of a doctorate would go on to become some form of \"teacher\" in the broad sense of the word.\n\nIn the 19th century, postgraduate research was a rarity, with countries such as the United States only having a small number of candidates across their university spectrum. However, by the start of the 21st century, postgraduate research, and postgraduate qualifications, had become commonplace. In any one year, at a global level, there are hundreds of thousands of candidates undertaking postgraduate research programs. For this reason the nature of postgraduate research has also changed. \n\nAt Doctoral level, there is some recognition that it is no longer reasonable to expect major research breakthroughs as part of a postgraduate research program. To this end, Doctoral research more commonly now represents an extension of knowledge, rather than some form of breakthrough. There is also some recognition that modern postgraduate research programs now have to be conducted in the light of massive amounts of previously published work, and hence the literature review process has become significantly more complex.\n\nThe nomenclature associated with titles arising from postgraduate research vary from one institution to another and one country to another. Postgraduate research programs generally result in a thesis/dissertation, which is assessed by independent experts in the field. The specific nature of the thesis varies from one discipline to another and from one country to another. In addition, some universities insist that students also undertake a \"viva-voce\" oral examination in which they can defend their research and processes before an expert panel.\n\nIn India, generally, the higher the level of the research degree the less association it has with a specific discipline. For example, at Bachelor's level, it would be common to receive a BSc(Chemistry). At Master's level, the corresponding degree would be an MSc (without the specific subdiscipline). At Doctoral level, the degree would be simply PhD with no discipline stated. This is intended to show that the recipient of the award has mastered techniques that are more generic than those encapsulated in a specific discipline or subdiscipline. There are some exceptions to this. In a professional Doctorate, where the objective is to demonstrate an in-depth research knowledge of a particular area, the discipline is usually included (e.g., Doctor of Business).\n\nIn some universities, it is also possible for candidates to achieve what is referred to as a \"higher doctorate\". This is generally an award bestowed upon people who have made a substantial contribution to their discipline through their research. Higher doctorates would normally be awarded after a significant research career and therefore those who receive such awards generally already have a basic PhD to begin with. Like professional doctorates, higher doctorates generally carry the title of the discipline to which the research contributions have been made—for example, Doctor of Engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "11029259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11029259", "title": "School-leaving age", "text": "School-leaving age\n\nThe school leaving age is the minimum age a person is legally allowed to cease attendance at an institute of compulsory secondary education. Most countries have their school leaving age set the same as their minimum full-time employment age, thus allowing smooth transition from education into employment, whilst a few have it set just below the age at which a person is allowed to be employed.\n\nIn contrast, there are numerous countries that have several years between their school leaving age and their legal minimum employment age, thus in some cases preventing any such transition for several years. Countries which have their employment age set below the school leaving age of 5 years old but (mostly developing countries), risk giving children the opportunity to leave their education early to earn money for their families.\n\nSome countries have different leaving or employment ages, but in certain countries like China and Japan, the average age at which people graduate is 15, depending upon part-time or full-time learning or employment. The table below states the school leaving ages in countries across the world and their respective minimum employment age, showing a comparison of how many countries have synchronised these ages. All information is taken from the Right to Education Project's table unless otherwise indicated.\n\nLegend\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7302331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7302331", "title": "Science Education at the Crossroads", "text": "Science Education at the Crossroads\n\nScience Education at the Crossroads is an annual national academic conference, initially funded by the National Science Foundation, designed to enable various stakeholders in science education to confer in a legitimate and productive manner. The conference also claims to offer an alternative to the standard model of conferring and professional development. Conference creators and coordinators are John Settlage of the University of Connecticut and Adam Johnston of Weber State University.\n\nMany organizations and conferences exist for science educators. These include the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA), the National Association for Research in Science Teaching (NARST), the Association for Science Teacher Education (ASTE), and many others dedicated to specific fields (e.g., physics and chemistry) within science education. While these organizations are adept at presenting research results or at sharing innovations in teaching, organizers and many participants in Crossroads feel that none of them provide a means for new research questions, policy directives, or general science education goals to be discussed and deliberated.\n\nCrossroads uses the Vexation and Venture format for conference sessions in which an \"Incubator Forum\" allows for an interactive, discussion based and dynamic intersection of views. This mode of interaction has been shown to engage presenters and participants in a way that new ideas and problems can be proposed, and the group takes on responsibility for a generative session. In this format, problems (vexations) are dissected and their possible specific solutions (ventures) are proposed. In this manner, the process of research and innovation is presented in a public forum in its early development stages, rather than after its completion, as would be the case in other academic conference formats.\n\nParticipants represent backgrounds from science and education, and represent perspectives from classroom teaching, policy, and research. This variety of perspectives allows each participant to tap into expertise that they might not otherwise encounter within the typical course of their professional lives. In this regard the metaphor of a crossroads describes a culture and place where people can meet.\n\nCrossroads originated from a disenchantment with more traditional education conferences. As a consequence, Crossroads was designed, utilizing the Vexation and Venture format, to make generative discussions a deliberate feature of the conference.\n\nCrossroads has a history of finding a specific place and space each year for conferring. Oscillating from venue to venue has allowed each year to have its own character, as well as allow people from specific regions to have more access to the conference. Crossroads has been held at the following venues:\n\nCrossroads has a history of inviting poets as keynotes to its conferences. These have included:\n\nAdditionally, illustrator/artist/educator Fred Lynch contributed the keynote address in 2012.\n\nCrossroads has also established a line of work that has called for scholarly work in science education to reach out to create significant impact in education. This has been referred to as \"scholar activism\" by David Moss, Crossroads' first keynote speaker in 2005. Other speakers have included John Settlage in 2006, Adam Johnston in 2007, Heidi Carlone in 2008, and Magnia George in 2009. Conference organizers have contributed joint addresses in 2011 and 2012.\n\n\"Science Education at the Crossroads\" has moved its conference each fall, from east to west and back again, through the year 2009. Most notably, National Science Foundation funding was established to fund the conference from 2007 - 2009. In 2010, the conference organizers are considering next steps for future sequences of the event.\n\nVexation and Venture conference format\n\nScience Education at the Crossroads main site\n"}
{"id": "46781540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46781540", "title": "Seductive details", "text": "Seductive details\n\nSeductive details are often used in textbooks, lectures, slideshows, and other forms of educational content to make a course more interesting or interactive. Seductive details can take the form of text, photos, illustrations, sounds or music and are by definition: (1) interesting and (2) not directed toward the learning objectives of a lesson. John Dewey, in 1913, first referred to this as “fictitious inducements to attention.” While illustrated text can enhance comprehension, illustrations that are not relevant can lead to poor learning outcomes. Since the late 1980s, many studies in the field of educational psychology have shown that the addition of seductive details results in poorer retention of information and transfer of learning. Thalheimer conducted a meta-analysis that found, overall, a negative impact for the inclusion of seductive details such as text, photos or illustrations, and sounds or music in learning content. This reduction to learning is called the seductive details effect. Recently, there have been many criticisms of this theory. Critics cite unconvincing and contradictory evidence to argue that seductive details do not always impede understanding and that seductive details can sometimes be motivating for learners.\n\n Most studies are conducted through experiments that compare the learning results between two scenarios: an explanation with seductive details and an explanation with no seductive details. The explanation format can vary in form from text-based, video, web-based or presentation style. The seductive details in these experiments varies from extraneous details to irrelevant images or irrelevant video. Learning outcomes of participants are determined through a variety of tests that include both recall abilities and problem-solving abilities. This is known as transfer performance.\n\nEarly research showed that adding seductive details did not have the intended effect of improving learning; instead the seductive details tended to be detrimental to the learner's recall. Adding interesting but unimportant sentences to expository texts hindered the learning of the main points of the text and learners would remember the seductive details better than the main text.\n\nAn example of a seductive detail in a training context might be a training class that includes cartoons on slides containing tips for effective supervision. Although not necessarily relevant to the topic, the cartoons are designed to make the training material more interesting, but the results of multiple studies suggest that their inclusion will harm recall from the primary training content.\n\nHarp and Mayer conducted an experiment using a lesson about lightning strikes. The effect of lightning strikes on airplanes was added as a seductive detail. In six out of six experiments, learners who studied the base lesson without the seductive details about the strikes on airplanes demonstrated they were three times more likely to recall the structurally important details. They also performed much better on a problem-solving task than learners whose lessons included the seductive details. Harper and Mayer suggested seductive details do their damage when learners are consolidating and organizing new information by forming knowledge structures ill-suited for later recall.\n\nResearchers focus on various aspects of cognitive theory to explain the seductive details effect. Seductive details impose an extraneous cognitive load during learning by enticing students to spend their limited resources in processing materials that distract from, or disrupt, the construction of a coherent mental model in the learning process. Most studies use seductive details in science text to demonstrate the extraneous cognitive load. However, there are contrasting studies done with non-scientific texts that did not produce the same results. These results may suggest that seductive details can only interfere with learning within a high load learning process that requires managing the available cognitive resources. In learning situations that are associated with low working memory activity, seductive details did not have a detrimental effect. They can even lead to higher performance because there are the required cognitive resources available for the motivating function.\n\nJaeger and Wiley, in 2015, looked at readers' ability to monitor their own comprehension. Their study used a science text as the base of a lesson and decorative images as the seductive details. They found that readers were less able to monitor their own comprehension of the text when the text was sprinkled with decorative images.\n\nA 1998 study by Harp and Mayer determined that it was likely that the seductive details effect created an inappropriate diversion for the learner \"by activating an inappropriate base of prior knowledge in the learner\". Further, they found that when seductive details were placed at the beginning of a lesson, a learner's performance would be particularly hindered. However, when seductive details were put at the end of a lesson, a student's performance was similar to a student who had not experienced seductive details in their lesson.\n\nA study by Sanchez and Wiley showed that seductive details caused poor learning outcomes because they take up some of the limited space in working memory. The experiment compared people's ability to control their attention to scientific text that contained either seductive images, relevant images, or no images. The study showed that people with low working memory capacity were especially vulnerable to the seductive details effect. Sanchez and Wiley also did an experiment where eye-tracking was monitored to evaluate how people were reading the same seductively illustrated scientific text. The results showed that people with low working memory looked at the seductive illustrations more often and for longer than those with high working memory capacity. It could be argued that differences in performance between high- and low- working memory capacity individuals is really due to general reading ability, an attribute that has been correlated with working memory capacity in other studies.\n\nThis vulnerability as it relates to low working memory capacity individuals and seductive details within textual information can also be seen as a difference between children and adult learners. Because adults, on average, having a higher working memory capacity than children, adults are less affected by seductive details than children.\n\nThe seductive details effect has primarily been demonstrated at the point of knowledge acquisition (initial learning); its impact on transfer performance has not been clearly shown. Theory in text comprehension suggests that seductive details might be detrimental for recall but advantageous for transfer performance because of the schematic representation of information that trainees form during instruction. Researchers have described the seductive details effect as having a damaging effect on recall because it distracts trainees from learning and they tend to form inappropriate schemas to organize information. However, when learners are applying knowledge, empirical studies suggest that the distortion of the macro structure or schema of the instructional material is beneficial.\n\nIn another study, students who read less-organized material performed better that students given organized material on tasks that required an application of the knowledge to problem-solving. This suggests that the inclusion of seductive details might be beneficial for transfer performance but detrimental when trainees are recalling information. Interference from seductive details creates confusion of what the core material is and, therefore, the recall will not be as good and more errors will occur. This distortion can lead to a richer understanding of the material and facilitate transfer performance because trainees are required to form a macro structure of the instructional material. Research using the dual-coding paradigm also suggests that interesting and engaging information promotes image-based thoughts and leads to deeper processing of information because it allows storage of material in both verbal and nonverbal systems. When information is made easier to comprehend, material is processed less deeply, thus leading to poorer acquisition of information.\n\nClassic learning theories and the modern dual-coding theory support the introduction of interesting, tangential details to learning content. There is evidence that interesting and engaging information promotes image-based thoughts and is better remembered because it allows storage of material in both verbal and nonverbal systems. This suggests that interesting material, even if tangential to the topic, does not detract from learning and can promote recall of vague or uninteresting material.\n\nSeveral recent studies have shown that adding seductive details does not have a significant impact on learner outcomes. Park et al. (2011) looked at cognitive load theory to explain these controversial results. The experiment asked high school students to learn about biology using a multimedia environment (one with seductive details and one without). The experiment also varied the cognitive load for the students. The results showed that students performed significantly higher when seductive details were present in a low cognitive load environment as compared with all other conditions. Another study by Park et al. (2015) showed that while seductive details were detrimental to learning in high cognitive load text conditions, seductive details actually improved motivation and learning outcomes in narration conditions where the cognitive load was low. This means that slideshows or webcasts with well-prepared narration that use motivating bits of information increase learner motivation.\n"}
{"id": "38674544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38674544", "title": "Self Organised Learning Environment", "text": "Self Organised Learning Environment\n\nA Self Organized Learning Environment (SOLE) is a program designed to support self-directed education. Sugata Mitra, an education scientist, first popularized the term in 1999, referencing an approach he developed following his Hole in the Wall experiments. Mitra's experiments demonstrated that groups of kids could learn to navigate computers and the internet by themselves, and \"[r]esearch since then has continued to support his startling conclusion that groups of children, with access to the Internet, can learn almost anything by themselves.\" Starting in 2014, he's worked with and through the School in the Cloud project to support the development of SOLEs around the world, adding \"Granny\" mentors and Big Questions as key components of such programs.\n\nOne of the things that was learned through the program is that children are often smarter than given credit for. Rather than providing lectures or spoon-feeding information to the students, it is better to ask \"engaging, provocative questions\" and let them work out the answers. It was also determined to be good to let the students self-direct in the areas that are of interest to them, with the idea that students will then often stretch to comprehend information that might have otherwise been too difficult for them.\n\nOther findings were that the educational experience is enhanced through collaboration and teamwork, that speech-to-text software is an effective tool for learning to speak a new language, and that tests asking students to solve real-life problems are more effective at prompting students to apply and demonstrate their learning than standard tests.\n\nThe first student in India to use the program was Gouri Chindarkar (born about 1996) from Sangli in Maharashtra. She learned about the program through a mentor, an American woman named Ann Thomas, who met with her at 6:30 in the morning. She used a computer for the first time, and her schoolwork delivered in English; her native language is Marathi. Gouri Chindarkar has since studied Computing Engineering at the Kankavali campus of Mumbai University and she was selected as one of the BBC's 100 Women in 2016.\n\nProject SOLE was begun in 10 locations in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, with an 11th one in Sindhudurg rural area of Maharashtra over a period of 2 years, 2008 to 2009. It is not clear to what extent the learning is effective over the long-term.\n\nIn their own words, \"The School in the Cloud platform was originally launched at the 2014 TED conference to help accelerate this research by helping educators — be they teachers, parents or community leaders — to run their own SOLEs and to contribute to the global experiment by sharing their experiences with others. It is now managed by SOLE Central at Newcastle University, a global hub for SOLE research and practice directed by Sugata Mitra.\" They are currently experimenting to refine and increase access to education programs that blend the SOLE approach of encouraging student groups to self-direct online learning with lessons from the Philosophy For Children (P4C) project.\n\nThough Mitra's initial experiments focused on children living in unstable environments and in poverty, his findings inspired educators in a wide variety of environments to adapt his work. Teachers in both traditional and progressive environments have found ways to incorporate the SOLE approach in their work, whether for the span of a lesson or a semester. One prominent education blog suggests, \"Consider it a tool for introducing and generating interest in a new topic, as well as broadening your students’ understanding of a familiar topic.\" In this context, the SOLE is just one element in a larger inquiry or project-based learning cycle.\n\nFor some, the initial SOLE projects showed the immense potential for learning in settings where students leverage technology and social learning to explore their interests with minimal interference. The US nonprofit Black Mountain SOLE opened a community center \"inspired by the idea that human curiosity is the best motivation for learning\" and identifying as an adaptation from earlier SOLE projects. Agile Learning Centers and a number of the projects that are part of the Alliance for Self-Directed Education also consider themselves to either be or be inspired by SOLEs. \n\n"}
{"id": "24069615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24069615", "title": "Senior (education)", "text": "Senior (education)\n\nIn United States education, a senior is a student in the fourth year of study (generally high school or college/university study).\n\nIn the United States, the twelfth grade is usually the fourth and final year of a student's high school period and is referred to as his/her senior year. In England and Wales, students in their tenth year and above in Secondary School are seniors; in Scotland, students in their fifth year and above are seniors. In the province of Ontario, high school students in their third year and above are considered to be seniors, while in the province of Alberta, only grade twelves are counted as seniors even though both provinces are Canadian (due to the fact that high school is only grades ten-twelve in Alberta). In the state of Queensland in Australia, senior refers to the final two years of high school.\n\nIn the United States, the fourth year that a student has been at a higher institution, is known as the senior year.\n\nIn college athletics, a student in their final year of eligibility is known as a senior.\n\nThe term super senior is used in the United States to refer to a fifth-year student who has not completed the graduation requirements by the end of the fourth year, and thus is required to stay an additional year to complete said requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "1222155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222155", "title": "Senioritis", "text": "Senioritis\n\nSenioritis is a colloquial term mainly used in the United States and Canada to describe the decreased motivation toward studies displayed by students who are nearing the end of their high school, college, and graduate school careers, or the end of the school year in general. It combines the word \"senior\" with the suffix \"-itis\", which technically denotes inflammation but in colloquial speech is assumed to mean a general illness.\n\nWriter James Coleman, Chairman of the President's Panel of Youth, urged changes in the high school curriculum to address the problem of senioritis. These concerns gave rise to the implementation of a \"Senior Semester\" in many high schools throughout the country, which allowed seniors to spend time outside of the school or attend seminars in their specific interests. In 1974, for example, McKeesport Area High School in Pennsylvania received a grant from the Richard King Mellon Foundation to establish a \"Senior Semester\" Program. The \"Evaluation Report for Senior Semester Program 1974-75 McKeesport Area Senior High School, McKeesport, Pennsylvania\" was produced by the Office of Measurement and Evaluation, University of Pittsburgh, July 1975. The \"Director's Report for Senior Semester Program 1974-75\" by Dr. Lester F. Jipp can be found at ERIC ED 157 165.\n\nThe College Board, the National Youth Leadership Council, and other youth-serving organizations suggest that there are many ways schools can help young people make the most of their senior year instead of succumbing to the temptation to take it easy once graduation is assured. Giving young people opportunities to make their academic work more meaningful through service-learning, or other forms of experiential education, can increase students' academic aspirations.\n\nIn some more serious cases where students allow their grades to drop quite significantly, especially failing, universities may rescind offers of admission. Those who experience senioritis are often shocked when colleges and universities send them a letter the summer before their fall semester starts telling them that they can no longer attend the college due to failure in the academic rigor that they promised in the interview or application process. Nonetheless, it is widely known that most colleges do not rescind, and even the most elite schools only revoke a very small number of students. However, senioritis in high school may still cause the incoming college freshmen not to be as adequately prepared for the rigor of college level studies, and may decrease their ability to gain entrance scholarships. Because Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and other advanced classes generally do not have their final exams until early May, they provide a challenge to seniors who are battling with senioritis issues, since most college and university admissions are decided in March and April and students in advanced classes have to overcome the pull of senioritis during the time gap between those two events. In addition, some advanced classes have tests, projects, and other major things relevant to the curriculum spread throughout the second semester; thereby ensuring that students remain busy with a constant stream of deadlines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45863353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45863353", "title": "Social justice educational leadership", "text": "Social justice educational leadership\n\nSocial justice educational leadership emphasizes the belief that all students can and will reach proficiency, without exceptions or excuses, and that schools ought to be organized to advance the equitable learning of all students. Rather than focusing on one group of students who traditionally struggle, or who traditionally succeed, social justice leaders address the learning needs of all students. Social justice educational leadership specifically addresses how differences in race, income, language, ability, gender, and sexual orientation influence the design and effectiveness of learning environments. Social justice leadership draws from inclusive education practices from disability education, but extends the concepts further to support students from diverse groups with a wide range of needs. Through restructuring staff allocation and assessing student progress through disaggregated data, school leaders strive to create schools with equal access and equitable support for all students.\n\nSocial justice educational leaders recognize the role race, ethnicity, family income, ability, gender, and sexual orientation play in predicting student success in school. They commit to creating schools that address societal inequalities by striving to help all students reach academic proficiency. As described by Scheurich and Skrla, \"In striving for both equity and excellence... we are aiming for schools in which there are no persistent patterns of differences in academic success or treatment among students grouped by race, ethnicity, culture, neighborhood, income of parents, or home language. In other words, we are aiming to foster schools that literally serve each and every student really well.\" (pg. 2).\n\nIn order to assess whether these patterns of difference exist, social justice leaders use data tools, such as equity audits, to uncover structures that create differences in student learning outcomes. Equity audits use data such as standardized test scores, discipline rates, family involvement in schools, advanced course participation, special education labeling, at-risk identification, and intervention placement to create profiles of achievement for different student groups in the school. Equity audits reveal achievement gap trends in these areas, in which traditionally marginalized students frequently perform at lower levels than their more privileged peers. Many schools find demographically similar groups of students struggling in academics, language, discipline, graduation rates, and other markers of student success. Once these patterns are identified, social justice leaders equip staff and students with the skills necessary to address discrepancies in student learning needs.\n\nSocial justice leadership builds on concepts of inclusive education, in which services are brought to students in the general classroom environment, rather than pulling students out to a resource room. However, social justice leadership diverges somewhat from inclusive education in that full inclusion at all times is not required. Social justice leaders focus on providing services in classrooms and other flexible spaces that can be accessed by all students, rather than removing students to receive special support in separate classrooms. Social justice leadership also emphasizes assigning students to classrooms and groups using proportional representation. This means that the proportion of students in any classroom or group should match the natural proportion of students from all demographic groups in the school. For example, if 15% of the student body is Latino, then 15% of every classroom should be Latino, only 15% of students who qualify for special education should be Latino and only 15% of students receiving discipline should be Latino.\n\nThis method of bringing services to students in general education environments with proportional representation also differs from pull-out models like response to intervention (RtI). Many pull-out models identify students struggling in the classroom and assign them to interventions led by educator specialists outside the general education classroom, rather than by their classroom teachers. For students with more significant needs, pull-out interventions may be from several staff, such as from the Title I teacher, reading interventionist, speech therapist, and social worker, introducing multiple adults and environments to students who would most benefit from consistency. This practice locates the responsibility for educating students with additional needs with the interventionist, rather than the classroom teacher, reducing their efficacy.\n\nMany school behavior management efforts criminalize small infractions, and maintain a focus on retribution rather than restoration. This, combined with institutional and individual bias, results in a significant overrepresentation of students of color in suspension and expulsion rates. Advocates of social justice in schools purport that exclusionary discipline practices such as suspension and expulsion actively remove students from their school communities and exacerbate feelings of isolation and resentment.\n\nZero tolerance policies, popularized in the 1990s, have been shown to be ineffective on multiple measures, leaving school leaders looking for alternative strategies to promote safe and orderly learning environments. School leaders focused on social justice are additionally compelled to find strategies that disrupt persisting inequities. This is where restorative justice practices, culturally and linguistically responsive practices (CLRP) and Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) come into play as approaches aiming to address both institutional inequities and the need for safe learning environments.\n\nPBIS comes with a variety of acronyms. Some schools cut out the “intervention” part, going with the proactive-only PBS system. PBIS is more akin to the three-tiered Response to Intervention system. Others add in the necessity of schoolwide (SW) implementation, dubbing the program SWPBIS. Whatever variation is used (here, PBIS), the primary practices included in the system are listed below. PBIS has shown promise in reducing exclusionary discipline practices overall, but has not shown, on its own, to be effective at reducing the racial disparities in student discipline, and in some cases has even been shown to exacerbate the discrepancies by further reducing discipline referrals for White students, but not for students of color. These criticisms have led to a call for examination of PBIS, and the integration of CLRP with PBIS in order to address systemic inequities in school discipline.\n\nCLRP has its roots in the work of Gloria Ladson-Billings surrounding culturally relevant pedagogy. Reflecting on this initial thinking, Ladson-Billings more recently stated:By focusing on student learning and academic achievement versus classroom and behavior management, cultural competence versus cultural assimilation or eradication, and sociopolitical consciousness rather than school-based tasks that have no beyond-school application, I was able to see students take both responsibility for and deep interest in their education. This is the secret behind culturally relevant pedagogy: the ability to link principles of learning with deep understanding of (and appreciation for) culture.Other scholars have echoed and built upon this work, giving linguistic relevance footing in the literature, proposing specific practices that may help teachers improve pedagogical relevance, and considering how to best integrate PBIS and CLRP.\n\n\nThalia González describes restorative justice in schools as “an approach to discipline that engages all parties in a balanced practice that brings together all people impacted by an issue or behavior.” Heather Alexander details the roots of these practices, stating, “The principles of restorative justice are consistent with many indigenous traditions, including Canadian First Nations people and the Maori in New Zealand.” She also links restorative justice to “entangled roots in native, religious, and legal communities.” Alexander and González have studied how the underpinnings of various cultural, religious, and judicial practices have made their way into the philosophy and practice of restorative justice. Multiple scholars advocate for restorative practices as an alternative to exclusionary approaches to discipline, both in schools and in the criminal justice system.\n\nMany different practices (including, but not limited to: circles, mediation, conferencing, and youth courts) are labeled as restorative justice. Trevor Fronius, et. al describe restorative justice as “a broad term that encompasses a growing social movement to institutionalize peaceful and non-punitive approaches for addressing harm, responding to violations of legal and human rights, and problem solving.” This definition speaks to restorative justice as more of a collection of practices rooted in a common philosophy than a specific “program.” Fronius, et. al go on to say that “the emphasis on the harm done rather than the act is a widely recognized principle across the RJ literature.” and they speak to Dorothy Vaandering’s work surrounding “how to use shame as a path toward reintegration rather than stigmatization.\" \nKey Principles of Restorative Justice \n\nBoth inclusive and pull-out models seek to reduce the student to teacher ratio, but inclusive models do so by bringing services and staff expertise to students. Thus, social justice leaders need to strategically plan how to effectively allocate their limited staff resources. Rather than having several specialists who work with students with specific needs, leaders structure collaborative teams of classroom teachers, cross-categorical special education teachers, and bilingual resource teachers to support classrooms of students.\n\nSocial justice educational leadership has been critiqued in several ways. Some feel social justice leadership reinforces the categorization of students, even though the approach emphasizes reducing unnecessary student labeling. The data equity audits \nfocus mostly on identifying inequitable learning outcomes, but few solutions and strategies are suggested for improving these outcomes. By identifying the classroom teacher as responsible for ensuring all students reach proficiency, many teachers feel unsupported in the work and struggle to adequately differentiate lessons for their students. Finally, social justice educational leadership emphasizes proficiency as measured by standardized test scores, which limits the space for innovation and teaching that builds higher-order thinking, which is difficult to measure on standardized tests.\n\n"}
{"id": "31055387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31055387", "title": "Strength and conditioning coach", "text": "Strength and conditioning coach\n\nA strength and conditioning coach is a fitness and physical performance professional who uses exercise prescription specifically, but not limited, to improve the performance of competitive athletes. This is achieved through the combination of strength training and aerobic conditioning, alongside a variety of further methods. Strength and conditioning coaches also help athletes with injury prevention and proper mechanics within their sports performances.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches may work with sports teams, as well as individuals. Strength and conditioning coaches are often employed by higher education institutions and professional athletic teams.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches have the option to specialize in a particular sports team, type of performance, training type, training philosophy, or work in the collegiate level, where they are assigned a sport. The general description and duty of a strength and conditioning coach is to develop an exercise prescription plan that modulates aerobic, resistance, and/or flexibility training to suit the metabolic and physical demands of the sport in question. With aerobic exercise prescription, strength and conditioning coaches determine the type, duration, and frequency of each exercise. For resistance exercise prescription, the type of exercise, total session volume, rest period, frequency, and intensity are determined. They may also be involved in prescription of stretching routines or other approaches. Nutrition and medical consultation are not within their scope of practice and training qualifications.\n\nIn the US, The National Strength and Conditioning Association offers a Certified Strength and Conditioning Coach qualification that is required for positions in the field. In addition to the C.S.C.S. certification, it is encouraged to attain a bachelor's degree in majors that are related to exercise science due to the competitiveness of the field.\n\nThe Collegiate Strength & Conditioning Coaches association also offers certification exclusive to the collegiate and professional-level strength and conditioning coach. This certification is known as Strength & Conditioning Coach Certified (SCCC) and requires a bachelor's degree and a 640-hour internship in addition to passing the certification exam.\n\nStrength and conditioning in the UK is generally overseen by the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA) and the Register of Exercise Professionals (REPS). Both organisations provide regulations and standards for employers and professionals. A UKSCA membership and Bachelor's degree in sport and exercise science are generally accepted by many professional sports clubs as prerequisites for strength and conditioning positions. As well as the UKSCA and REPS, 1st4sport Qualifications offer standardised training in accordance with other official National Governing Body qualifications.\n\nThe implementation of effective strength and conditioning programmes has led to an increase in speed and strength. Research has demonstrated that not only does training improve performance but incorrect training (distance running, a slow-twitch muscle fiber activity, in football athletes with fast-twitch characteristics) can cause decrements to performance. Using techniques such as plyometrics in some high-power athletes and sports-specific movements in others, strength coaches may improve physical function and athletic performance.\n\nCriticism has followed the increased use of strength and conditioning coaches in a variety of sports due to the shift in importance to the size and speed of the players. In rugby union, a game with heavy physical contact and minimal protection, players are being described as being \"too big\", creating collisions that are increasing the risk of short and long term injuries. Further, it has been proposed that the increased weight and speed of players and subsequent rise of collision force leads to more frequent and severe concussion injuries.\n\nHowever, there is as yet no research to suggest an increased use of strength and conditioning leading to an increased risk of injury.\n"}
{"id": "26285809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26285809", "title": "Teaching philosophy", "text": "Teaching philosophy\n\nThe teaching philosophy of a candidate for an academic position is a written statement of the candidate's general personal views on teaching. Colleges and universities that advertise a position whose duties require teaching often require the applicant to submit a teaching philosophy with the application. The philosophy statement often attempts to express what methods of teaching the candidate practices.\n"}
{"id": "13258797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13258797", "title": "Thinking Maps", "text": "Thinking Maps\n\nThinking Maps are a set of techniques used in primary and secondary education (\"K-12\"). There are eight diagram types that are intended to correspond with eight different fundamental thinking processes. They are supposed to provide a common visual language to information structure, often employed when students take notes.\n\nThinking Maps are visual tools for learning, and include eight visual patterns each linked to a specific cognitive process. Teachers may apply Thinking Maps in all content areas and all grade levels. The eight map types are:\n\nBy linking each thinking skill to a unique and dynamic visual representation, the language of Thinking Maps becomes a tool set for supporting effective instructional practice and improving student performance. Teachers and students, therefore, independently apply thinking skills for their own learning while also having a common visual language for cooperative learning. By having a rich language of visual maps based on thinking processes, learners are no longer confused by poorly organized brainstorming webs or an endless array of static graphic organizers. They are enabled to move from concrete to abstract concepts, think with depth, and directly apply their thinking to complex tasks.\n\nThinking Maps are a specific set of graphic Thinking organizers used in K-12 classroom settings, or \"visual teaching tools that foster and encourage life-long learning,\" as well as tol that provide students with the skills to be \"successful thinkers, problem solvers, [and] decision makers\" (Thinking Maps Inc., Pamphlet). Maps were founded as,\"a good skill for the mind\" quoted by Dr. Mark Davidson, scholarly teacher of accelerated classes. What he says is that the \"one common instructional thread that binds together all teachers, from prekindergarten through postgraduate, is that they all teach the same thought processes\" (Thinking Maps Inc., Pamphlet). For example, the thought process of classification might be taught in kindergarten by sorting or grouping, whereas classification in the upper grades might be taught as categorizing a main idea and details. Although we refer to classifying items, concepts, or ideas in different ways with different aged students, the thought process in its entirety is considered classification.\n\nWith this belief that all teachers, no matter the grade level, teach the same thought processes, these common set of visual organizers was created by Dr. David Hyerle as a type of language to be used across grade levels, content areas, and disciplines so that \"students could learn more effectively and more efficiently.\" Thinking Maps were also created so that these graphic organizers would \"become a familiar part of students' education that it would remain an effective learning tool throughout their academic careers – and beyond\" (Thinking Maps Inc., Pamphlet).\n\nIn 1970, Innovative Sciences, Inc. (ISI) was founded by Charles Adams in order to \"improve the thinking and problem-solving abilities of the work force\" (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). Over the next eighteen years, ISI created a variety of developmentally appropriate materials, or \"content-based thinking skills,\" for schools based on research from student reading performance and different educational teaching models (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). In 1988, David Hyerle wrote Expand Your Thinking, which was the first resource where his Thinking Maps were published, and at that point, he began training educators to use his Thinking Maps (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). In 1994, test results indicated that \"Thinking Maps significantly affect[ed] standardized and qualitative measures of student performance\" (Thinking Maps Inc., 2011). After more success and schools nationwide piloting Thinking Maps, ISI changed its name to Thinking Maps, Inc. in 2004 to \"better promote its mission\" (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). Today, thousands of teachers across America have been trained in using and implementing Thinking Maps in their classrooms. Thinking Maps are also being promoted in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011).\n\nIn his text \"Curriculum as Conversation\", Applebee (1996) states that a \"curriculum provides domains for conversation, and the conversations that take place within those domains are the primary means for teaching and learning. Through such conversations, students will be helped to enter into culturally significant traditions of knowledge-in-action\" (p. 37). When looking at Applebee's (1996) ideas of \"knowledge-in-action\" and social learning, a connection with Hyerle's Thinking Maps is apparent. When students produce Thinking Maps, conversations among the students and their Maps occur, which is where the real learning takes place. Students are able to \"illustrate\" and explain their thought processes through Maps, while other students listen, ask questions, agree and/or disagree. Social learning starts when the teacher realizes that his or her classroom needs to be based on a learning community of able and willing learners, where each student has a vital role in the everyday learning by participating and adding to the conversation, which is where Thinking Maps can aid, scaffold, and support.\n\nMoffitt's theory of integrated language arts is widely seen through the use of Thinking Maps. Thinking Maps are products of reading, writing, listening, and speaking, and the aspects of listening and speaking are parts of the thinking processes that students use to explain themselves. Although the same eight Thinking Maps are used across grade levels, the Maps are developmentally appropriate for each age and coincide with Moffitt's developmental principle. In second grade, a teacher may use the Flow Map to sequence the stages and life cycle of a butterfly, while a high school chemistry teacher may use the same map to sequence the changing of an element from the periodic table. One teacher uses the map to illustrate a concrete idea, while another teacher uses the map to illustrate an abstract idea.\n\nWhen looking at the overarching theories of education, Thinking Maps fall into the Postmodern Constructivism theory. In the Postmodern Constructivism theory of education, learners often use their prior experiences, and when using one of the eight fundamental thought processes and Thinking Maps, learners often do use their background knowledge to continue constructing new meaning and knowledge (Sherman, 2000). Students are also encouraged to create and form their own opinions after self-reflection and creating Thinking Maps, as well as to engage and discuss their individual maps with their peers, even if their ideas differ. Another aspect of the Postmodern Constructivism theory of education that is seen by the use of Thinking Maps is that they promote critical thinking and problem solving (Sherman, 2011).\n\nIn his book \"Student Successes With Thinking Maps\", Dr. David Hyerle (2011) provides a plethora of reasons and research as to why Thinking Maps are beneficial tools for the classroom. Hyerle states that using the eight Thinking Maps promote metacognition and continuous cognitive development for students across their academic careers, as well as adds an artistic and kinesthetic component for students who learn effectively with that specific multiple intelligence (Hyerle, 2011). Lesson objectives can be covered in less time and with greater retention when using Thinking Maps, teachers can determine their students' background knowledge before teaching a unit or area of study, and student performance can be tracked over time in an accurate manner, too (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). Through his research, Dr. Hyerle (2011) also found that Thinking Maps help close the achievement gap, as they \"can help students [below grade level] self-regulate their own learning and be more successful in the game of school because Thinking Maps serve as a device for mediating thinking, listening, speaking, reading, writing, problem solving, and acquiring new knowledge.\" The thought processes that educators hope to instill in students are represented similarly throughout the curricula, and integrated thinking and learning across disciplines is promoted (Thinking Maps, Inc., 2011). As fidelity and accountability are also huge aspects in the education field, the idea that Thinking Maps as a school-wide initiative for use of a common instructional and learning tool and as a shared language among teachers and students is one of Hyerle's (2011) main ideas for the use of this support curriculum.\n\nIn Villalon and Calvo's (2011) \"Concept Maps as Cognitive Visualizations of Writing Assignments\", concept maps are discussed as a means of scaffolding university-aged students' ideas in writing, as well as their metacognitive skills. In their study, Villalon and Calvo evaluated a new Concept Map Mining tool, which was used in an \"e-learning environment\" that automatically generated maps using students' written work (p. 16). The Concept Map Mining tool was used to look at a collection of annotated essays written by undergraduate college students (p. 16). Villalon and Calvo (2011) found that \"Cognitive Visualizations [such as Concept Map Mining] provide quality feedback because they make the author's thinking visible, making explicit the mental model learners are using…Within the writing process, providing automatic feedback in the form of [Cognitive Visualizations] allows learners to reflect on their own work and their own mental models that guided its construction, facilitating the development of metacognitive skills\" (p. 23). Villalon and Calvo's (2011) study illustrates that the use of concept maps are beneficial to even the oldest of learners in a college setting, and although precise Thinking Maps were not used in this study, the idea of a graphic organizer to \"map out\" thought processes is universal.\n\nIn \"Thinking with Maps\", Elisabeth Camp (2007) investigates how individuals think and how thinking is related to language. Camp (2007) states that \"…thinking in maps is substantively different from thinking in sentences\" (p. 155). This concept supports Hyerle's (2011) idea that Thinking Maps possess an artistic and kinesthetic component, where students can feel free to express their ideas in a \"drawing,\" or map, instead of using complete written sentences. Thinking Maps support learners who thrive with the artistic and kinesthetic multiple intelligences of learning.\n\nDavid Hyerle (1996) reports numerous success stories with the use of Thinking Maps in his article \"Thinking Maps: Seeing is Understanding\". After teachers participated in a year-long professional development in the use and purpose of Thinking Maps, as well as integrated the maps into their curriculum during this training year, the \"teachers agreed that the maps had successfully helped students develop their thinking processes and their ability to organize ideas, improved the quality and quantity of their writing, and also motivated them to learn. Further, the maps benefited the teachers by helping them organize content and assess student learning\" (p. 88). Hyerle (1996) also reported that the educators who gave Thinking Maps the highest ratings at the end of the year were those who taught English Learners (Spanish-speaking students), as Thinking Maps \"enabled their students to transfer patterns of thinking from Spanish into English, to focus on learning, and to build vocabulary\" (p. 88).\n\nIn \"Designs of Concept Maps and Their Impacts on Readers' Performance in Memory and Reasoning While Reading\", Jeng-Yi Tzeng (2010) investigates the effect of Thinking Maps on students' performance of \"cognitive operations.\" In the study, Tzeng had students read two opposing history articles that \"argued from different perspectives about a historical incident\" that occurred in Taiwan (p. 133). The results of the study indicated that the focus and design of the concept maps may \"influence the formation of mental representations, and that this may be facilitative or constraining in regard to the readers' memory formation and reasoning about the reading materials.\" With regards to the maps' designs, Tzeng uncovered that this can impact a student's memory and/or understanding of a text, which poses as a negative aspect of the maps themselves.\n\nIn conclusion, by linking each thinking skill to a unique and dynamic visual representation, the language of Thinking Maps becomes a tool set for supporting effective instructional practice and improving student performance. Teachers and students, therefore, independently apply thinking skills for their own learning while also having a common visual language for cooperative learning. By having a rich language of visual maps based on thinking processes, learners are no longer confused by poorly organized brainstorming webs or an endless array of static graphic organizers. They are enabled to move from concrete to abstract concepts, think with depth, and directly apply their thinking to complex tasks.\n\n"}
{"id": "5592778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5592778", "title": "Traditional education", "text": "Traditional education\n\nTraditional education, also known as back-to-basics, conventional education or customary education, refers to long-established customs that society traditionally used in schools. Some forms of education reform promote the adoption of progressive education practices, a more holistic approach which focuses on individual students' needs and self-control. In the eyes of reformers, traditional teacher-centered methods focused on rote learning and memorization must be abandoned in favor of student-centered and task-based approaches to learning. However, many parents and conservative citizens are concerned with the maintenance of objective educational standards based on testing, which favors a more traditional approach.\n\nDepending on the context, the opposite of \"traditional education\" may be progressive education, modern education (the education approaches based on developmental psychology), or alternative education.\n\nThe definition of \"traditional education\" varies greatly with geography and by historical period.\n\nThe chief business of traditional education is to transmit to a next generation those skills, facts, and standards of moral and social conduct that adults consider to be necessary for the next generation's material and social success. As beneficiaries of this scheme, which educational progressivist John Dewey described as being \"imposed from above and from outside\", the students are expected to docilely and obediently receive and believe these fixed answers. Teachers are the instruments by which this knowledge is communicated and these standards of behavior are enforced.\n\nHistorically, the primary educational technique of traditional education was simple oral recitation: In a typical approach, students sat quietly at their places and listened to one student after another recite his or her lesson, until each had been called upon. The teacher's primary activity was assigning and listening to these recitations; students studied and memorized the assignments at home. A test or oral examination might be given at the end of a unit, and the process, which was called \"assignment-study-recitation-test\", was repeated. In addition to its overemphasis on verbal answers, reliance on rote memorization (memorization with no effort at understanding the meaning), and disconnected, unrelated assignments, it was also an extremely inefficient use of students' and teachers' time. This traditional approach also insisted that all students be taught the same materials at the same point; students that did not learn quickly enough failed, rather than being allowed to succeed at their natural speeds. This approach, which had been imported from Europe, dominated American education until the end of the 19th century, when the education reform movement imported progressive education techniques from Europe.\n\nTraditional education is associated with much stronger elements of coercion than seems acceptable now in most cultures. It has sometimes included: the use of corporal punishment to maintain classroom discipline or punish errors; inculcating the dominant religion and language; separating students according to gender, race, and social class , as well as teaching different subjects to girls and boys. In terms of curriculum there was and still is a high level of attention paid to time-honoured academic knowledge.\n\nIn the present it varies enormously from culture to culture, but still tends to be characterised by a much higher level of coercion than alternative education. Traditional schooling in Britain and its possessions and former colonies tends to follow the English Public School style of strictly enforced uniforms and a militaristic style of discipline. This can be contrasted with South African, US and Australian schools, which can have a much higher tolerance for spontaneous student-to-teacher communication.\n\n"}
{"id": "32411778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32411778", "title": "ViPi project", "text": "ViPi project\n\nVirtual Portal for Impaired Groups Interaction (ViPi) is a project partially funded by the European Union (EU) under the Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013, subprogramme KA3 ICT. The project commenced on 1 January 2011 and has 36 months duration (until 31 December 2013). The main vision of the project is to provide alternative and creative solutions for the employment of People with Disabilities (PwD) by delivering a \"one-stop-shop\" interactive portal and learning environment comprising: 1) a multilingual platform, 2) an embedded social community, 3) accessible content (WCAG 2.0) for PwD and trainers, etc. The project will bring together key stakeholders and gatekeepers (VET, target groups, umbrella organizations) in order to address the lack of specific training support or material for PwD and their trainers by providing a set of applications and services that will be available via a complete educational framework, taking into account interaction possibilities offered by web 2.0 and localised, tested and assessed with different end-user communities (GR, BE, LT, UK and CY).\n\nViPi envisages filling the gap of accessible and flexible basic ICT skills training, designed to meet the specific needs of people with disabilities, as well as the special education trainers themselves. To cope with this, a multilingual platform will be designed and developed that will consist of an interactive portal with a semantically enriched (compliant with Web 3.0) repository of learning objects (LOs) accompanied by a social community area and a dedicated online learning environment to host training courses. The platform will be developed based on open source software and will fully embrace the WCAG 2.0 accessibility guidelines (level AA). Furthermore, the platform will embed functionalities based on ARIA.\n\nThe project will deliver an online ICT learning environment for people with disabilities and their trainers. The expected results and achievements within the project lifetime are summarized in the following:\n\nMore information for the project achievements and results can be found in the project web site.\n\nThe partners involved in the development of ViPi are:\n\n"}
{"id": "35610473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35610473", "title": "Video-based reflection", "text": "Video-based reflection\n\nVideo-based reflection is a reflective practice technique in which video recordings, rather than one's own memory, is used as a basis for reflection and professional growth. Video-based reflection is used with moderations in various professional fields, e.g. in the field of education and pedagogy. Several workshop formats can be described as based on video-based reflection, e.g. \"Videobased Reflection on Team Interaction\" (The ViRTI Method; Due & Lange 2015) within the conversation analytic school of research, or the concept of Marte Meo, a method of educational counseling.\n\nIndividual teachers can practice video-based reflection, but it is more commonly done when teachers are a part of video clubs. Research about the effect that video club participation can have on teacher practice has been done by Katherine A. Linsenmeier, Miriam Gamoran Sherin, and Elizabeth van Es.\n\nResearch indicates that teachers can benefit from video-based reflection, even when done apart from a group. Individuals using this mode of reflection tend to write longer and have more specific reflections than when writing a reflection using memory alone. This practice has also been shown to help pre-service and novice teachers focus their attention on their students' learning rather than on their own experiences.\n\nVideo clubs are formed by groups of teachers who want to investigate a specific aspect of their teaching practice. These clubs often meet on a monthly basis to view and discuss a video clip of a member's teaching. Teachers participating in video clubs focused on student learning report feeling better able to notice and respond to student learning during instruction.\n"}
{"id": "34638836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34638836", "title": "Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale", "text": "Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale\n\nThe Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale is a psychometric instrument used in child and adolescent psychiatry and clinical psychology. It is used especially in the assessment of individuals with an intellectual disability, a pervasive developmental disorder, and other types of developmental delays.\n\n"}
{"id": "32612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32612", "title": "Virtual reality", "text": "Virtual reality\n\nVirtual reality (VR) is an interactive computer-generated experience taking place within a simulated environment. It incorporates mainly auditory and visual feedback, but may also allow other types of sensory feedback like haptic. This immersive environment can be similar to the real world or it can be fantastical. Augmented reality systems may also be considered a form of VR that layers virtual information over a live camera feed into a headset or through a smartphone or tablet device giving the user the ability to view three-dimensional images.\n\nCurrent VR technology most commonly uses virtual reality headsets or multi-projected environments, sometimes in combination with physical environments or props, to generate realistic images, sounds and other sensations that simulate a user's physical presence in a virtual or imaginary environment. A person using virtual reality equipment is able to \"look around\" the artificial world, move around in it, and interact with virtual features or items. The effect is commonly created by VR headsets consisting of a head-mounted display with a small screen in front of the eyes, but can also be created through specially designed rooms with multiple large screens.\n\nVR systems that include transmission of vibrations and other sensations to the user through a game controller or other devices are known as haptic systems. This tactile information is generally known as force feedback in medical, video gaming, and military training applications.\n\n\"Virtual\" has had the meaning of \"being something in essence or effect, though not actually or in fact\" since the mid-1400s. The term \"virtual\" has been used in the computer sense of \"not physically existing but made to appear by software\" since 1959. \nIn 1938, the French avant-garde playwright Antonin Artaud described the illusory nature of characters and objects in the theatre as in a collection of essays, \"\". The English translation of this book, published in 1958 as \"The Theater and its Double\", is the earliest published use of the term \"virtual reality\". The term \"artificial reality\", coined by Myron Krueger, has been in use since the 1970s. The term \"virtual reality\" was first used in a science fiction context in \"The Judas Mandala\", a 1982 novel by Damien Broderick.\n\nA \"cyberspace\" is a networked virtual reality.\n\nVirtual reality shares some elements with \"augmented reality\" (or AR). AR is a type of virtual reality technology that blends what the user sees in their \"real\" surroundings with digital content generated by computer software. The additional software-generated images with the virtual scene typically enhance how the real surroundings look in some way. Some AR systems use a camera to capture the user's surroundings or some type of display screen which the user looks at (e.g., Microsoft's HoloLens, Magic Leap).\n\nThe Virtual Reality Modelling Language (VRML), first introduced in 1994, was intended for the development of \"virtual worlds\" without dependency on headsets. The Web3D consortium was subsequently founded in 1997 for the development of industry standards for web-based 3D graphics. The consortium subsequently developed X3D from the VRML framework as an archival, open-source standard for web-based distribution of VR content.\n\nAll modern VR displays are based on technology developed for smartphones including: gyroscopes and motion sensors for tracking head, hand, and body positions; small HD screens for stereoscopic displays; and small, lightweight and fast processors. These components led to relative affordability for independent VR developers, and lead to the 2012 Oculus Rift Kickstarter offering the first independently developed VR headset.\n\nIndependent production of VR images and video has increased by the development of omnidirectional cameras, also known as 360-degree cameras or VR cameras, that have the ability to record in all directions, although at low-resolutions or in highly compressed formats for online streaming of 360 video. In contrast, photogrammetry is increasingly used to combine several high-resolution photographs for the creation of detailed 3D objects and environments in VR applications.\n\nThe exact origins of virtual reality are disputed, partly because of how difficult it has been to formulate a definition for the concept of an alternative existence. The development of perspective in Renaissance Europe created convincing depictions of spaces that did not exist, in what has been referred to as the \"multiplying of artificial worlds\". Other elements of virtual reality appeared as early as the 1860s. Antonin Artaud took the view that illusion was not distinct from reality, advocating that spectators at a play should suspend disbelief and regard the drama on stage as reality. The first references to the more modern concept of virtual reality came from science fiction.\n\nMorton Heilig wrote in the 1950s of an \"Experience Theatre\" that could encompass all the senses in an effective manner, thus drawing the viewer into the onscreen activity. He built a prototype of his vision dubbed the Sensorama in 1962, along with five short films to be displayed in it while engaging multiple senses (sight, sound, smell, and touch). Predating digital computing, the Sensorama was a mechanical device. Heilig also developed what he referred to as the \"Telesphere Mask\" (patented in 1960). The patent application described the device as \"a telescopic television apparatus for individual use...The spectator is given a complete sensation of reality, i.e. moving three dimensional images which may be in colour, with 100% peripheral vision, binaural sound, scents and air breezes\".\n\nAround the same time, Douglas Engelbart used computer screens both as input and output devices. In 1968, Ivan Sutherland, with the help of his student Bob Sproull, created what was widely considered to be the first head-mounted display (HMD) system for use in immersive simulation applications. It was primitive both in terms of user interface and realism, and the HMD to be worn by the user was so heavy that it had to be suspended from the ceiling. The graphics comprising the virtual environment were simple wire-frame model rooms. The formidable appearance of the device inspired its name, The Sword of Damocles.\n\nThe VR industry mainly provided VR devices for medical, flight simulation, automobile industry design, and military training purposes from 1970 to 1990.\n\nDavid Em became the first artist to produce navigable virtual worlds at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), where he was Artist in Residence from 1977 to 1984.\n\nThe Aspen Movie Map was created at the MIT in 1978. The program was a crude virtual simulation of Aspen, Colorado in which users could wander the streets in one of the three modes: summer, winter, and polygons. \n\nIn 1979 Eric Howlett developed the Large Expanse, Extra Perspective (LEEP) optical system. The combined system created a stereoscopic image with a field of view wide enough to create a convincing sense of space. The users of the system have been impressed by the sensation of depth [field of view] in the scene and the corresponding realism. The original LEEP system was redesigned for the NASA Ames Research Center in 1985 for their first virtual reality installation, the VIEW (Virtual Interactive Environment Workstation) by Scott Fisher. The LEEP system provides the basis for most of the current virtual reality helmets available today.\n\nAtari founded a research lab for virtual reality in 1982, but the lab was closed after two years due to the Atari Shock (North American video game crash of 1983). However, its hired employees, such as Tom Zimmerman, Scott Fisher, Jaron Lanier, Michael Naimark, and Brenda Laurel, kept their research and development on VR-related technologies. \n\nBy the 1980s the term \"virtual reality\" was popularized by Jaron Lanier, one of the modern pioneers of the field. Lanier had founded the company VPL Research in 1985. VPL Research has developed several VR devices like the Data Glove, the EyePhone, and the Audio Sphere. VPL licensed the Data Glove technology to Mattel, which used it to make an accessory known as the Power Glove. While the Power Glove was hard to use and not popular, at US$75, it was an early affordable VR device.\n\nIn 1991, Carolina Cruz-Neira, Daniel J. Sandin and Thomas A. DeFanti from the Electronic Visualization Laboratory created the first cubic immersive room, The Cave. Developed as Cruz-Neira's PhD thesis, it involved a multi-projected environment, similar to the holodeck, allowing people to see their own bodies in relation to others in the room.\n\nBetween 1989-1992, Nicole Stenger created \"Angels\", the first real-time interactive immersive movie. The interaction was facilitated with a dataglove and high-resolution goggles.\n\nIn 1992, Louis Rosenberg created the Virtual Fixtures system at the U.S. Air Force’s Armstrong Labs using a , enabling a physically realistic virtual reality in 3D. The system enabled the overlay of physically real 3D virtual objects registered with a user's direct view of the real world, producing the first true augmented reality experience enabling sight, sound, and touch.\n\nAntonio Medina, a MIT graduate and NASA scientist, designed a virtual reality system to \"drive\" Mars rovers from Earth in apparent real time despite the substantial delay of Mars-Earth-Mars signals.\n\nThe 1990s saw the first widespread commercial releases of consumer headsets. In 1991, Sega announced the Sega VR headset for arcade games and the Mega Drive console. It used LCD screens in the visor, stereo headphones, and inertial sensors that allowed the system to track and react to the movements of the user's head. In the same year, Virtuality launched and went on to become the first mass-produced, networked, multiplayer VR entertainment system. It was released in many countries, including a dedicated VR arcade at Embarcadero Center in San Francisco. Costing up to $73,000 per multi-pod Virtuality system, they featured headsets and exoskeleton gloves that gave one of the first \"immersive\" VR experiences. \"Computer Gaming World\" predicted \"Affordable VR by 1994\". \n\nBy 1994, Sega released the Sega VR-1 motion simulator arcade attraction, in SegaWorld amusement arcades. It was able to track head movement and featured 3D polygon graphics in stereoscopic 3D, powered by the Sega Model 1 arcade system board. Apple released QuickTime VR, which, despite using the term \"VR\", was unable to represent virtual reality, and instead displayed 360 photographic panoramas.\n\nNintendo's Virtual Boy console was released in 1995. Also in 1995, a group in Seattle created public demonstrations of a \"CAVE-like\" 270 degree immersive projection room called the Virtual Environment Theater, produced by entrepreneurs Chet Dagit and Bob Jacobson. Forte released the VFX1, a PC-powered virtual reality headset in 1995.\n\nIn 1999, entrepreneur Philip Rosedale formed Linden Lab with an initial focus on the development of VR hardware. In its earliest form, the company struggled to produce a commercial version of \"The Rig\", which was realized in prototype form as a clunky steel contraption with several computer monitors that users could wear on their shoulders. The concept was later adapted into the personal computer-based, 3D virtual world Second Life.\n\nIn 2001, SAS Cube (SAS3) became the first PC based cubic room, developed by Z-A Production (Maurice Benayoun, David Nahon), Barco, and Clarté. It was installed in Laval, France. The SAS library gave birth to Virtools VRPack. \n\nBy 2007, Google introduced Street View, a service that shows panoramic views of an increasing number of worldwide positions such as roads, indoor buildings and rural areas. It also features a stereoscopic 3D mode, introduced in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Palmer Luckey designed the first prototype of the Oculus Rift. This prototype, built on a shell of another virtual reality headset, was only capable of rotational tracking. However, it boasted a 90-degree field of vision that was previously unseen in the consumer market at the time. This initial design would later serve as a basis from which the later designs came. In 2014, Facebook purchased Oculus VR for $2 billion. This purchase occurred after the first development kits ordered through Oculus' 2012 Kickstarter had shipped in 2013 but before the shipping of their second development kits in 2014.\n\nIn 2013, Valve Corporation discovered and freely shared the breakthrough of low-persistence displays which make lag-free and smear-free display of VR content possible. This was adopted by Oculus and was used in all their future headsets. In early 2014, Valve showed off their SteamSight prototype, the precursor to both consumer headsets released in 2016. It shared major features with the consumer headsets including separate 1K displays per eye, low persistence, positional tracking over a large area, and fresnel lenses.\n\nIn 2014, Sony announced Project Morpheus (its code name for PlayStation VR), a virtual reality headset for the PlayStation 4 video game console. In 2015, HTC and Valve announced the virtual reality headset HTC Vive and controllers. The set included tracking technology called Lighthouse, which utilized wall-mounted \"base stations\" for positional tracking using infrared light.\n\nIn 2015, Google announced Cardboard, a do-it-yourself stereoscopic viewer for smartphones. The user places their smartphone in the cardboard holder, which they wear on their head. Michael Naimark was appointed Google's first-ever 'resident artist' in their new VR division. The Kickstarter campaign for Gloveone, a pair of gloves providing motion tracking and haptic feedback, was successfully funded, with over $150,000 in contributions. \n\nBy 2016 there were at least 230 companies developing VR-related products. Facebook had 400 employees focused on VR development; Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Sony and Samsung all had dedicated AR and VR groups. Dynamic binaural audio was common to most headsets released that year. However, haptic interfaces were not well developed, and most hardware packages incorporated button-operated handsets for touch-based interactivity. Visually, displays were still of a low-enough resolution and frame-rate that images were still identifiable as virtual.\n\nIn 2016, HTC shipped its first units of the HTC Vive SteamVR headset. This marked the first major commercial release of sensor-based tracking, allowing for free movement of users within a defined space. In 2017, a patent filed by Sony showed they were developing a similar location tracking technology to the Vive for PlayStation VR, with the potential for the development of a wireless headset.\n\nVR is most commonly used in entertainment applications such as gaming and 3D cinema. Consumer virtual reality headsets were first released by video game companies in the early-mid 1990s. Beginning in the 2010s, next-generation commercial tethered headsets were released by Oculus (Rift), HTC (Vive) and Sony (PlayStation VR), setting off a new wave of application development. 3D cinema has been used for sporting events, pornography, fine art, music videos and short films. Since 2015, roller coasters and theme parks have incorporated virtual reality to match visual effects with haptic feedback .\n\nIn robotics, virtual reality has been used to control robots in telepresence and telerobotic systems. The technology is useful in robotics development such as in experiments that investigate how robots—through virtual articulations—can be applied as an intuitive human interface. For instance, researchers can simulate how robots are remotely controlled in different environments such as in space. Here, virtual reality not only offers insights into the manipulation and locomotion of robotic technology but also shows opportunities for inspection. \n\nIn social sciences and psychology, virtual reality offers a cost-effective tool to study and replicate interactions in a controlled environment. It can be used as a form of therapeutic intervention. For instance, there is the case of the virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET), a form of exposure therapy for treating anxiety disorders such as post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and phobias.\n\nWith the supervision of experts to provide feedback, simulated VR surgical environment provide effective and repeatable training at a low cost, allowing trainees to recognize and amend errors as they occur. \n\nVirtual reality has been used in rehabilitation since the 2000s. Despite numerous studies conducted, good quality evidence of its efficacy compared to other rehabilitation methods without sophisticated and expensive equipment is lacking for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. A 2018 review on the effectiveness of mirror therapy by virtual reality and robotics for any type of pathology concluded in a similar way.\n\nVR can simulate real workspaces for workplace occupational safety and health purposes, educational purposes, and training purposes. It can be used to provide learners with a virtual environment where they can develop their skills without the real-world consequences of failing. It has been used and studied in primary education, military, astronaut training, flight simulators, miner training, driver training and bridge inspection. Supplementing military training with virtual training environments has been claimed to offer avenues of realism in military and healthcare training while minimizing cost. It also has been claimed to reduce military training costs by minimizing the amounts of ammunition expended during training periods.\n\nApplications for VR are facilitated by technologies that go beyond the use of graphics and headsets. There are a multitude of techniques, technologies, and hardware solutions to enhance the immersive experience and derive data from the users’ responses to that experience. The use of haptic clothing, eye tracking technologies, and “Fourth Dimension” sensory stimulation are becoming especially popular and useful.\n\nThe first fine art virtual world was created in the 1970s. As the technology developed, more artistic programs were produced throughout the 1990s, including feature films. When commercially available technology became more widespread, VR festivals began to emerge in the mid-2010s. The first uses of VR in museum settings began in the 1990s, seeing a significant increase in the mid-2010s. Additionally, museums have begun making some of their content virtual reality accessible. \n\nImmersive VR engineering systems enable engineers to see virtual prototypes prior to the availability of any physical prototypes.\n\nVirtual reality's growing market presents an opportunity and an alternative channel for digital marketing. It is also seen as a new platform for e-commerce, particularly in the bid to challenge traditional brick and mortar retailers. A study revealed that the majority of goods are still purchased in physical stores. For this reason, the simulated store environment made possible by VR technology has the potential to attract more consumers since it offers an almost similar experience in the physical store without the inconvenience of being there.\n\nThere have been many works of fiction that reference and describe forms of virtual reality. \n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, cyberpunks viewed the technology as a potential means for social change. The recreational drug subculture praised virtual reality not only as a new art form, but as an entirely new frontier.\n\nThere are many health and safety considerations of virtual reality. Most virtual reality systems come with consumer warnings, including: seizures; developmental issues in children; trip-and-fall and collision warnings; discomfort; repetitive stress injury; and interference with medical devices. Some users may experience twitches, seizures or blackouts while using VR headsets, even if they do not have a history of epilepsy and have never had blackouts or seizures before. As many as one in 4000 people may experience these symptoms. Since these symptoms are more common among people under the age of 20, children are advised against using VR headsets. Other problems may occur in physical interactions with one's environment. While wearing VR headsets, people quickly lose awareness of their real-world surroundings and may injure themselves by tripping over, or colliding with real-world objects.\n\nA number of unwanted symptoms have been caused by prolonged use of virtual reality, and these may have slowed proliferation of the technology. For example, in 1995, Nintendo released a gaming console known as the Virtual Boy. Worn as a headpiece and connected to a typical controller, the Virtual Boy received much criticism for its negative physical effects, including \"dizziness, nausea, and headaches\". VR headsets may regularly cause eye fatigue, as does all screened technology, because people tend to blink less when watching screens, causing their eyes to become more dried out. There have been some concerns about VR headsets contributing to myopia, but although VR headsets sit close to the eyes, they may not necessarily contribute to nearsightedness if the focal length of the image being displayed is sufficiently far away. Virtual reality sickness (also known as cybersickness) occurs when a person's exposure to a virtual environment causes symptoms that are similar to motion sickness symptoms. The most common symptoms are general discomfort, headache, stomach awareness, nausea, vomiting, pallor, sweating, fatigue, drowsiness, disorientation, and apathy. These motion sickness symptoms are caused by a disconnect between what is being seen and what the rest of the body perceives. When the vestibular system, the body's internal balancing system, does not experience the motion that it expects from visual input through the eyes, the user may experience VR sickness. This can also happen if the VR system does not have a high enough frame rate, or if there is a lag between the body's movement and the onscreen visual reaction to it. Because approximately 25–40% of people experience some kind of VR sickness when using VR machines, companies are actively looking for ways to reduce VR sickness.\n\nThe persistent tracking required by all VR systems makes the technology particularly useful for, and vulnerable to, mass surveillance. The expansion of VR will increase the potential and reduce the costs for information gathering of personal actions, movements and responses.\n\nIn addition, there are conceptual and philosophical considerations and implications associated with the use of virtual reality. What the phrase \"virtual reality\" means or refers to can be ambiguous. Mychilo S. Cline argued in 2005 that through virtual reality techniques will be developed to influence human behavior, interpersonal communication, and cognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50132445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50132445", "title": "Zangle", "text": "Zangle\n\nZangle is a student information system for schools and school districts to allow teachers to record students' academic progress in classes and for parents and students to check their grades, find assignments that will be due in the future, find past-due assignments, pay fees, as well as other information. The system features many modules that record various student data such as attendance, academic history, behavior and so on. It is popular among schools across the United States, and a bit in other locations. The system uses the Microsoft SQL database engine for data storage.\n\nZangle is a copyright of a company by the name Aequitas Solutions, Inc. Zangle was developed by a company named \"C Innovation\" that was acquired by Aequitas Solutions.\n"}
