{"id": "49742724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49742724", "title": "21st century skills", "text": "21st century skills\n\n21st century skills comprise skills, abilities, and learning dispositions that have been identified as being required for success in 21st century society and workplaces by educators, business leaders, academics, and governmental agencies. This is part of a growing international movement focusing on the skills required for students to master in preparation for success in a rapidly changing, digital society. Many of these skills are also associated with deeper learning, which is based on mastering skills such as analytic reasoning, complex problem solving, and teamwork. These skills differ from traditional academic skills in that they are not primarily content knowledge-based.\n\nDuring the latter decades of the 20th century and into the 21st century, society has undergone an accelerating pace of change in economy and technology. Its effects on the workplace, and thus on the demands on the educational system preparing students for the workforce, have been significant in several ways. Beginning in the 1980s, government, educators, and major employers issued a series of reports identifying key skills and implementation strategies to steer students and workers towards meeting the demands of the changing workplace and society.\n\nThe current workforce is significantly more likely to change career fields or jobs. Those in the Baby Boom generation entered the workforce with a goal of stability; subsequent generations are more concerned with finding happiness and fulfillment in their work lives. Young workers in North America are now likely to change jobs at a much higher rate than previously, as much as once every 4.4 years on average. With this employment mobility comes a demand for different skills, ones that enable people to be flexible and adaptable in different roles or in different career fields.\n\nAs western economies have transformed from industrial-based to service-based, trades and vocations have smaller roles. However, specific hard skills and mastery of particular skill sets, with a focus on digital literacy, are in increasingly high demand. People skills that involve interaction, collaboration, and managing others are increasingly important. Skills that enable people to be flexible and adaptable in different roles or in different fields, those that involve processing information and managing people more than manipulating equipment—in an office or a factory—are in greater demand. These are also referred to as \"applied skills\" or \"soft skills\", including personal, interpersonal, or learning-based skills, such as life skills (problem-solving behaviors), people skills, and social skills. The skills have been grouped into three main areas: \n\nMany of these skills are also identified as key qualities of progressive education, a pedagogical movement that began in the late nineteenth century and continues in various forms to the present.\n\nSince the early 1980s, a variety of governmental, academic, non-profit, and corporate entities have conducted considerable research to identify key personal and academic skills and competencies they determined were needed for the current and next generation. The identification and implementation of 21st century skills into education and workplaces began in the United States but has spread to Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and through national and international organizations such as APEC and the OECD.\n\nIn 1981, the US Secretary of Education created the National Commission on Excellence in Education to examine the quality of education in the United States.\" The commission issued its report \"A Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform\" in 1983. A key finding was that \"educational reform should focus on the goal of creating a Learning Society.\" The report's recommendations included instructional content and skills:\n\nFive New Basics: English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, Computer Science\nOther Curriculum Matters: Develop proficiency, rigor, and skills in Foreign Languages, Performing Arts, Fine Arts, Vocational Studies, and the pursuit of higher level education.\nSkills and abilities (consolidated):\n\nUntil the dawn of the 21st century, education systems across the world focussed on preparing their students to accumulate content and knowledge. As a result, schools focussed on providing literacy and numeracy skills to their students, as these skills were perceived as necessary to gain content and knowledge. Recent developments in technology and telecommunication have made information and knowledge ubiquitous and easily accessible in the 21st century. Therefore, while skills such as literacy and numeracy are still relevant and necessary, they are no longer sufficient. In order to respond to technological, demographic and socio-economic changes, education systems began to make the shift toward providing their students with a range of skills that relied not only on cognition but also on the interdependencies of cognitive, social, and emotional characteristics. \n\nNotable efforts were conducted by the US Secretary of Labor's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS), a national coalition called the Partnership for 21st Century Skills (P21), the international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the American Association of College and Universities, researchers at MIT and other institutions of higher learning, and private organizations.\n\nAdditional research has found that the top skills demanded by U.S. Fortune 500 companies by the year 2000 had shifted from traditional reading, writing and arithmetic to teamwork, problem solving, and interpersonal skills. A 2006 Conference Board survey of some 400 employers revealed that the most important skills for new workforce entrants included oral and written communications and critical thinking/problem solving, ahead of basic knowledge and skills, such as the reading comprehension and mathematics. While the ‘three Rs’ were still considered foundational to new workforce entrants’ abilities, employers emphasized that applied skills like collaboration/teamwork and critical thinking were ‘very important’ to success at work.\"\n\nA 2006 report from MIT researchers countered the suggestion that students acquire critical skills and competencies independently by interacting with popular culture, noting three continuing trends that suggest the need for policy and pedagogical interventions:\"\n\nAccording to labor economists at MIT and Harvard’s Graduate School of Education, the economic changes brought about over the past four decades by emerging technology and globalization, employers’ demands for people with competencies like complex thinking and communications skills has increased greatly. They argue that the success of the U.S. economy will rely on the nation’s ability to give students the \"foundational skills in problem-solving and communications that computers don’t have.\"\n\nIn 2010, the Common Core State Standards Initiative, an effort sponsored by the National Governors Association (NGA) and the Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO), issued the Common Core Standards, calling for the integration of 21st century skills into K-12 curricula across the United States.\n\nThe skills and competencies that are generally considered \"21st Century skills\" are varied but share some common themes. They are based on the premise that effective learning, or deeper learning, a set of student educational outcomes including acquisition of robust core academic content, higher-order thinking skills, and learning dispositions. This pedagogy involves creating, working with others, analyzing, and presenting and sharing both the learning experience and the learned knowledge or wisdom, including to peers and mentors as well as teachers. This contrasts with more traditional learning methodology that involves learning by rote and regurgitating info/knowledge back to the teacher for a grade. The skills are geared towards students and workers to foster engagement; seeking, forging, and facilitating connections to knowledge, ideas, peers, instructors, and wider audiences; creating/producing; and presenting/publishing. The classification or grouping has been undertaken to encourage and promote pedagogies that facilitate deeper learning through both traditional instruction as well as active learning, project-based learning, problem based learning, and others. A 2012 survey conducted by the American Management Association (AMA) identified three top skills necessary for their employees: critical thinking, communication and collaboration. Below are some of the more readily identifiable lists of 21st century skills.\n\nThe Common Core Standards issued in 2010 were intended to support the \"application of knowledge through higher-order thinking skills.\" The initiative's stated goals are to promote the skills and concepts required for college and career readiness in multiple disciplines and life in the global economy. Skills identified for success in the areas of literacy and mathematics:\n\nFollowing the release of \"A Nation at Risk\", the U.S. Secretary of Labor appointed the Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS) to determine the skills needed for young people to succeed in the workplace to foster a high-performance economy. SCANS focused on what they called \"learning a living\" system. In 1991, they issued their initial report, \"What Work Requires of Schools\". The report concluded that a high-performance workplace requires workers who have key fundamental skills: basic skills and knowledge, thinking skills to apply that knowledge, personal skills to manage and perform; and five key workplace competencies.\n\nFundamental Skills\n\nWorkplace Competencies\n\nIn 2002 the Partnership for 21st Century Skills (now the Partnership for 21st Century Learning, or P21) was founded as a non-profit organization by a coalition that included members of the national business community, education leaders, and policymakers: the National Education Association (NEA), United States Department of Education, AOL Time Warner Foundation, Apple Computer, Inc., Cable in the Classroom, Cisco Systems, Inc., Dell Computer Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, SAP, Ken Kay (President and Co-Founder), and Dins Golder-Dardis. To foster a national conversation on \"the importance of 21st century skills for all students\" and \"position 21st century readiness at the center of US K-12 education\", P21 identified six key skills:\n\n7C Skills have been identified by P21 senior fellows at P21, Bernie Trilling and Charles Fadel:\n\nThe P21 organization also conducted research that identified deeper learning competencies and skills they called the Four Cs of 21st century learning:\n\nThe University of Southern California's Project New Literacies website list four different \"C\" skills: \n\nIn 2008, author and Harvard Graduate School of Education researcher Tony Wagner identified what he termed the \"7 Survival Skills\" needed for the modern workplace:\n\n\nResearchers at MIT, led by Henry Jenkins, Director of the Comparative Media Studies Program, in 2006 issued a white paper (\"Confronting the Challenges of a Participatory Culture: Media Education for the 21st Century\"), that examined digital media and learning. To address this Digital Divide, they recommended an effort be made to develop the cultural competencies and social skills required to participate fully in modern society instead of merely advocating for installing computers in each classroom. What they term participatory culture shifts this literacy from the individual level to a broader connection and involvement, with the premise that networking and collaboration develop social skills that are vital to new literacies. These in turn build on traditional foundation skills and knowledge taught in school: traditional literacy, research, technical, and critical analysis skills.\n\nParticipatory culture is defined by this study as having: low barriers to artistic expression and civic engagement, strong support for creating and sharing one’s creations, informal mentorship, belief that members' own contributions matter, and social connection (caring what other people think about their creations).\nForms of participatory culture include:\n\nThe skills identified were:\n\nA 2005 study (Lenhardt & Madden) found that more than one-half of all teens have created media content, and roughly one third of teens who use the Internet have shared content they produced, indicating a high degree of involvement in participatory cultures. Such digital literacies emphasize the intellectual activities of a person working with sophisticated information communications technology, not on proficiency with the tool.\n\nIn 2003 the North Central Regional Educational Laboratory and the Metiri Group issued a report entitled \"enGauge® 21st Century Skills: Literacy in the Digital Age\" based on two years of research. The report called for policymakers and educators to define 21st century skills, highlight the relationship of those skills to conventional academic standards, and recognize the need for multiple assessments to measure and evaluate these skills within the context of academic standards and the current technological and global society. To provide a common understanding of, and language for discussing, the needs of students, citizens, and workers in a modern digital society, the report identified four \"skill clusters\":\n\nIn 1997, member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development launched the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) to monitor \"the extent to which students near the end of compulsory schooling have acquired the knowledge and skills essential for full participation in society\". In 2005 they identified three \"Competency Categories:\" \n\nThe AAC&U conducted several studies and surveys of their members. In 2007 they recommended that graduates of higher education attain four skills - The Essential Learning Outcomes:\n\nThey found that skills most widely addressed in college and university goals are:\n\nA 2015 survey of AAC&U member institutions added the following goals:\n\nThe ISTE Educational Technology Standards (formerly National Educational Technology Standards (NETS)) are a set of standards published by the International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE) to leverage the use of technology in K-12 education. These are sometimes intermixed with information and communication technologies (ICT) skills. In 2007 NETS issued a series of six performance indicators (only the first four are on their website as of 2016):\n\n\nIn 2007 the Educational Testing Service (ETS) ICT Literacy Panel released its digital literacy standards:\nInformation and Communication Technologies (ICT) proficiencies:\n\nA person possessing these skills would be expected to perform these tasks for a particular set of information: access, manage, integrate, evaluate, create/publish/present. The emphasis is on proficiency with digital tools.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Dede of the Harvard Graduate School of Education developed a framework based on new digital literacies entitled\nNeomillennial Learning Styles:\n\nDede category system\nWith the exponential expansion of personal access to Internet resources, including social media, information and content on the Internet has evolved from being created by website providers to individuals and communities of contributors. The 21st century Internet centered on material created by a small number of people, Web 2.0 tools (e.g. Wikipedia) foster online communication, collaboration, and creation of content by large numbers of people (individually or in groups) in online communities.\n\nIn 2009, Dede created a category system for Web 2.0 tools: \n\nIn 2015, the World Economic Forum published a report titled ‘New Vision for Education: Unlocking the Potential of Technology’ that focused on the pressing issue of the 21st-century skills gap and ways to address it through technology. In the report, they defined a set of 16 crucial proficiencies for education in the 21st century. Those skills include six “foundational literacies”, four “competencies” and six “character qualities” listed below.\n\nFoundation Literacies\n\nCompetencies\n\n\nCharacter Qualities\n\nIn a paper titled ‘Education for Life and Work: Developing Transferable Knowledge and Skills in the 21st Century’ produced by the National Research Council of National Academies, the National Research defines 21st century skills, describes how the skills relate to each other and summaries the evidence regarding 21st century skills. \n\nAs a first step toward describing “21st century skills,” the National Research Council identified three domains of competence: cognitive, interpersonal, and intrapersonal while recognizing that the three domains while different, are intertwined in human development and learning. These three domains represent distinct facets of human thinking and build on previous efforts to identify and organize dimensions of human behaviour. The committee produced the following cluster of 21st century skills in the above mentioned 3 domains. \n\nCognitive Competencies\n\n\nIntrapersonal Competencies\n\n\nInterpersonal Competencies\n\n\nMultiple agencies and organizations have issued guides and recommendation for implementation of 21st century skills in a variety of learning environments and learning spaces. These include five separate educational areas: standards, assessment, professional development, curriculum & instruction, and learning environments.\n\nThe designs of learning environments and curricula have been impacted by the initiatives and efforts to implement and support 21st century skills with a move away from the factory model school model and into a variety of different organizational models. Hands-on learning project-based learning have resulted in the development of programs and spaces such as STEM and makerspaces. Collaborative learning environments have fostered flexibility in furniture and classroom layout as well as differentiated spaces, such as small seminar rooms near classrooms. Literacy with, and access to, digital technology has impacted the design of furniture and fixed components as students and teachers use tablets, interactive whiteboards and interactive projectors. Classroom sizes have grown to accommodate a variety of furniture arrangements and grouping, many of which are less space-efficient than traditional configurations of desks in rows.\n\n\nBellanca, J. (Ed.) (2010) 21st Century Skills: Rethinking How Students Learn. Solution Tree Press, Bloomington, In. \nBellanca, J (Ed.) (2014) Deeper Learning: Beyond 21st Century Skills. Solution Tree Press, Bloomington, In. (Ben Franklin Award, Independent Publishers. Asso. 2016)\n\n"}
{"id": "38108929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38108929", "title": "8-4-4 Curriculum in Kenya", "text": "8-4-4 Curriculum in Kenya\n\nIn 1985, former Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi introduced the 8-4-4 System educational program, which adopted eight years of primary education, four years of secondary education and four years of university education . With the introduction of the 8-4-4 system CPE became KCPE (Kenya Certificate of Primary Education) while KCE became the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE).\n\nSince 1985, public education in Kenya has been based on an 8-4-4 system, with eight years of primary education followed by four years of secondary school and four years of college or university of the\n\n4. New 2-6-3-3-3 Kenya Education System\n"}
{"id": "44917940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44917940", "title": "929: Tanakh B'yachad", "text": "929: Tanakh B'yachad\n\n929: Tanakh B'yachad (Hebrew: Bible Together, 929 - תנך ביחד) is a project for learning one chapter of Tanakh per day (except Friday and Saturday), totaling 5 chapters per week. The name '929' refers to the total number of chapters in the Tanakh.\n\nThe project was announced by the Israeli Education Ministry, and began on December 21, 2014. The first cycle was completed on April 18, 2018, coinciding with Israel's 70th Independence Day. \n\nThe first cycle of the project offered content in Hebrew only. The second cycle, which began on July 15, 2018, offers some content in English as well. It will conclude on February 2, 2022. \n\n"}
{"id": "5667683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5667683", "title": "AP German Language and Culture", "text": "AP German Language and Culture\n\nAdvanced Placement German Language and Culture (also known as AP German Language and Culture, AP German Language or AP German) is a course and examination provided by the College Board through the Advanced Placement Program. This course is designed to give high school students the opportunity to receive credit in a college-level German language course. It is generally taken in the fourth year of high school German study.\n\nThe AP German Language and Culture exam administered around the end of the academic year is split into two parts, a multiple choice section and a free response section, each with equal value in the overall exam score.\n\nThe College Board originally offered two AP German exams, AP German Language and AP German Literature. However, in 1983, due to the persistently low number of AP German Literature exam students, the College Board dropped the Literature exam and since then only offered the AP German Language exam.\n\nThe grade distributions for the AP German Language and Culture exam since 2012 are:\n"}
{"id": "25542987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25542987", "title": "Academic discourse socialization", "text": "Academic discourse socialization\n\nAcademic discourse socialization is defined as one’s growing process to realize the academic discourse and reach the expectation of the academic community.\n\n“Academic discourse refers to the ways of thinking and using language which exist in the academy.” Discourse is not just “language” itself; discourse is language use that represents a person’s existence in the world. Thus, what one has said and written are significant to academic community, which also shows that the institution cannot exist without academic discourse. Academic discourse does not only function as a tool to convey one’s thoughts but also influences one’s formation of social identity, values, and world knowledge. The common ways to present academic discourse are through textbooks, conference presentations, dissertations, lectures, and research articles.\n\nStudents in the institution learn to display their thoughts through different types of academic discourse, such as classroom and conference presentations, assignments, and dissertations. In this way, they acquire social practice in the different academic fields, get to the heart of academic enterprise, and finally become a member of a social group.\n\nDiscourse conventions in a particular academic field are shaped by the ways of thinking of community members and the values they believe in. Written works and speeches are widely accepted if they are composed and delivered in a suitable way in terms of discourse conventions. The recognition of a publication from an academic community is regarded as the accomplishment of one’s academic life and the realization of academic discourse. It is highly motivated when one’s published paper was cited or further developed by community members because it is the evidence of acceptance. In order to get a reputation of the academic community, people make some contributions through publication to receive compliments.\n\nFrom mid-1960s, the issues of academic discourse have caught researchers’ and scholars’ eyes and grown massively. The first reason why academic discourse has become popular is because the number of students in higher education has been dramatically increased, which also results in great diversity of students.\n\n“This more culturally, socially and linguistically heterogeneous student population means that learners bring different identities, understandings and habits of meaning-making to a more diverse range of subjects.” Therefore, it leads to the problem that it is more difficult for teachers to know whether students acquire the required ability of the principle or not. With the popularity of the concept of academic discourse, teachers can clearly define students’ learning achievement through their performance on different types of academic discourse.\n\nA second factor concerns the transformation of education system. Nowadays, schools do not solely rely on governments funding; instead, students’ fees are thought of as major income. Universities are more competitive because students as customers choose prestigious schools which are highly evaluated on the aspect of academic discourse, including the publication of dissertations and lectures in conferences.\n\nThe last reason, and also the most important factor affecting the development of academic discourse is the spread of English. English becomes as a lingua franca for oral and written communication. Even academic journals, as a representative type of academic discourse, are most in English. Moreover, “the global status of English has come to influence both the lives of scholars throughout the globe and the production and exchange of academic knowledge in the twenty-first century.” As a result, the learning of academic discourse is especially meaningful for second language learners.\n\nAcademic discourse socialization is a dynamic and complex process. Learners internalize the practice of the academic fields through the participation with more competent members of social groups. As novices in the academic principle, less proficient learners acquire the knowledge of academic discourse from the interaction with experts in the field. This kind of interaction is defined as a bidirectional process: both novice learners and experts can learn from each other.\n\nNovice learners first enter into legitimate peripheral participation and then move to the center of the academic community. That is, beginners first acquire the conventions of academic discourse peripherally and imitate discourse activities from experienced learners or experts. After a period of time, learners can also complete academic oral presentations and academic essays, and in the end, the publication of dissertations and participation in international conferences just as what former experts do in the academic community.\n\nFor students in the institution, they learn to display their thoughts through different types of academic discourse, such as classroom and conference presentations, assignments, and dissertations. In this way, they acquire social practice in the different academic fields, get to the heart of academic enterprise, and finally become a member of a social group, which can be seen as a process of academic discourse socialization.\n\nFlowerdew, J. (2002). Introduction: Approaches to the analysis of academic discourse in English. In Flowerdew, J. (Ed.), Academic discourse. (pp. 21–39). Edinburgh Gate, H: Longman.\n\nMorita, N. (2000). Discourse socialization through oral classroom activities in a TESL graduate program. TESOL Quarterly, 34, 279-310.\n\nMorita, N. (2009). Language, culture, gender, and academic socialization. Language and education, 23, 443-460.\n\nZamel, V. (1998). Questioning academic discourse. In Zamel, V. & Spack, R. (Eds.), Negotiating academic literacies: Teaching and learning across languages and cultures (pp. 187–197). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.\n"}
{"id": "24586655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24586655", "title": "Al-Azhar English Training Centre", "text": "Al-Azhar English Training Centre\n\nThe Al-Azhar English Training Centre (AAETC) is an English language teaching facility at Al-Azhar University in Cairo funded by Al Azhar University with the support of the British government. The centre opened in February 2008 and is managed by the British Council. The centre aims to give students the skills to \"discuss and explain Islam\", especially to non-Muslims, as well as training Egyptian teachers in methodology, mentoring and management.\n\n"}
{"id": "26513686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26513686", "title": "Ancient higher-learning institutions", "text": "Ancient higher-learning institutions\n\nA variety of ancient higher-learning institutions were developed in many cultures to provide institutional frameworks for scholarly activities. These ancient centres were sponsored and overseen by courts; by religious institutions, which sponsored cathedral schools, monastic schools, and madrasas; by scientific institutions, such as museums, hospitals, and observatories; and by individual scholars. They are to be distinguished from the Western-style university, an autonomous organization of scholars that originated in medieval Europe and has been adopted in other regions in modern times (see list of oldest universities in continuous operation).\n\nThe Platonic Academy (sometimes referred to as the University of Athens), founded ca. 387 BC in Athens, Greece, by the philosopher Plato, lasted 916 years (until AD 529) with interruptions. It was emulated during the Renaissance by the Florentine Platonic Academy, whose members saw themselves as following Plato's tradition.\n\nAround 335 BC, Plato's successor Aristotle founded the Peripatetic school, the students of which met at the Lyceum gymnasium in Athens. The school ceased in 86 BC during the famine, siege and sacking of Athens by Sulla.\n\nDuring the Hellenistic period, the Museion in Alexandria (which included the Library of Alexandria) became the leading research institute for science and technology from which many Greek innovations sprang. The engineer Ctesibius (fl. 285–222 BC) may have been its first head. It was suppressed and burned between AD 216 and 272, and the library was destroyed between 272 and 391.\n\nThe reputation of these Greek institutions was such that at least four central modern educational terms derive from them: the academy, the lyceum, the gymnasium and the museum.\n\nThe Pandidakterion of Constantinople, founded as an institution of higher learning in 425, educated graduates to take on posts of authority in the imperial service or within the Church. It was reorganized as a corporation of students in 849 by the regent Bardas of emperor Michael III, is considered by some to be the earliest institution of higher learning with some of the characteristics we associate today with a university (research and teaching, auto-administration, academic independence, et cetera). If a university is defined as \"an institution of higher learning\" then it is preceded by several others, including the Academy that it was founded to compete with and eventually replaced. If the original meaning of the word is considered \"a corporation of students\" then this could be the first example of such an institution. The Preslav Literary School and Ohrid Literary School were the two major literary schools of the First Bulgarian Empire.\n\nIn Western Europe during the Early Middle Ages, bishops sponsored cathedral schools and monasteries sponsored monastic schools, chiefly dedicated to the education of clergy. The earliest evidence of a European episcopal school is that established in Visigothic Spain at the Second Council of Toledo in 527. These early episcopal schools, with a focus on an apprenticeship in religious learning under a scholarly bishop, have been identified in Spain and in about twenty towns in Gaul during the 6th and 7th centuries.\n\nIn addition to these episcopal schools, there were monastic schools which educated monks and nuns, as well as future bishops, at a more advanced level. Around the turn of the 12th and 13th centuries, some of them developed into autonomous universities. A notable example is when the University of Paris grew out of the schools associated with the Cathedral of Notre Dame, the Monastery of Ste. Geneviève, and the Abbey of St. Victor.\n\nMajor Buddhist monasteries (\"mahaviharas\"), notably those at Pushpagiri, Nalanda, and Taxila, included schools that were some of the primary institutions of higher learning in ancient India.\n\nThe school in Pushpagiri was established in the 3rd century AD as present Odisha, India. As of 2007, the ruins of this Mahavihara had not yet been fully excavated. Consequently, much of the Mahavihara's history remains unknown. Of the three Mahavihara campuses, Lalitgiri in the district of Cuttack is the oldest. Iconographic analysis indicates that Lalitgiri had already been established during the Shunga period of the 2nd century BC, making it one of the oldest Buddhist establishments in the world. The Chinese traveller Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang), who visited it in AD 639, as \"Puphagiri Mahavihara\", as well as in medieval Tibetan texts. However, unlike Takshila and Nalanda, the ruins of Pushpagiri were not discovered until 1995, when a lecturer from a local college first stumbled upon the site. The task of excavating Pushpagiri's ruins, stretching over of land, was undertaken by the Odisha Institute of Maritime and South East Asian Studies between 1996 and 2006. It is now being carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).\nThe Nagarjunakonda inscriptions also mention about this learning center.\n\nNalanda was established in the fifth century AD in Bihar, India and survived until circa 1200 AD. It was devoted to Buddhist studies, but it also trained students in fine arts, medicine, mathematics, astronomy, politics and the art of war.\n\nThe center had eight separate compounds, ten temples, meditation halls, classrooms, lakes and parks. It had a nine-story library where monks meticulously copied books and documents so that individual scholars could have their own collections. It had dormitories for students, housing 10,000 students in the school’s heyday and providing accommodation for 2,000 professors. Nalanda attracted pupils and scholars from Sri Lanka, Korea, Japan, China, Tibet, Indonesia, Persia and Turkey, who left accounts of the center.\n\nIn 2014 a modern Nalanda University was launched in nearby Rajgir.\n\nAncient Taxila or Takshashila, in ancient Gandhara (modern-day Pakistan), was an early Hindu and Buddhist centre of learning. According to scattered references that were only fixed a millennium later, it may have dated back to at least the fifth century BC. Some scholars date Takshashila's existence back to the sixth century BC. The school consisted of several monasteries without large dormitories or lecture halls where the religious instruction was most likely still provided on an individualistic basis.\n\nTakshashila is described in some detail in later Jātaka tales, written in Sri Lanka around the fifth century AD.\n\nIt became a noted centre of learning at least several centuries BC, and continued to attract students until the destruction of the city in the fifth century AD. Takshashila is perhaps best known because of its association with Chanakya. The famous treatise Arthashastra (Sanskrit for The knowledge of Economics) by Chanakya, is said to have been composed in Takshashila itself. Chanakya (or Kautilya), the Maurya Emperor Chandragupta and the Ayurvedic healer Charaka studied at Taxila.\n\nGenerally, a student entered Takshashila at the age of sixteen. The Vedas and the Eighteen Arts, which included skills such as archery, hunting, and elephant lore, were taught, in addition to its law school, medical school, and school of military science.\n\nVikramashila was one of the two most important centres of learning in India during the Pala Empire, along with Nalanda. Vikramashila was established by King Dharmapala (783 to 820) in response to a supposed decline in the quality of scholarship at Nalanda. Atisha, the renowned pandita, is sometimes listed as a notable abbot. It was destroyed by the forces of Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khilji around 1200.\n\nVikramashila is known to us mainly through Tibetan sources, especially the writings of Tāranātha, the Tibetan monk historian of the 16th–17th centuries.\n\nVikramashila was one of the largest Buddhist universities, with more than one hundred teachers and about one thousand students. It produced eminent scholars who were often invited by foreign countries to spread Buddhist learning, culture and religion. The most distinguished and eminent among all was Atisha Dipankara, a founder of the Sarma traditions of Tibetan Buddhism. Subjects like philosophy, grammar, metaphysics, Indian logic etc. were taught here, but the most important branch of learning was tantrism.\n\nFurther centers include Telhara in Bihar (probably older than Nalanda), Odantapuri, in Bihar (circa 550 - 1040), Somapura, in Bangladesh (from the Gupta period to the Turkic Muslim conquest), Sharada Peeth, Pakistan, Jagaddala Mahavihara, in Bengal (from the Pala period to the Turkic Muslim conquest), Nagarjunakonda, in Andhra Pradesh, Vikramashila, in Bihar (\"circa\" 800-1040), Valabhi, in Gujarat (from the Maitrak period to the Arab raids), Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh (eighth century to modern times), Kanchipuram, in Tamil Nadu, Manyakheta, in Karnataka, Mahavihara, Abhayagiri Vihāra, and Jetavanaramaya, in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn China, the ancient imperial academy known as Taixue was established by the Han Dynasty. It was intermittently inherited by succeeding Chinese dynasties up until the Qing dynasty, in some of which the name was changed to Guozixue or Guozijian. Peking University (Imperial University of Peking) established in 1898 is regarded as the replacement of Taixue. By 725 AD, Shuyuan or Academies of Classical Learning were private learning institutions established during the medieval Chinese Tang dynasty. In Japan, Daigakuryo was founded in 671 and Ashikaga Gakko was founded in the 9th century and restored in 1432. In Korea, Taehak was founded in 372 and Gukhak was established in 682. Seowons were private institutions established during the Joseon dynasty which combined functions of a Confucian shrine and a preparatory school. The Seonggyungwan was founded by in 1398 to offer prayers and memorials to Confucius and his disciples, and to promote the study of the Confucian canon. It was the successor to Gukjagam from the Goryeo Dynasty (992). It was reopened as a private Western-style university in 1946.\n\nThe Academy of Gondishapur was established in the 3rd century AD under the rule of Sassanid kings and continued its scholarly activities up to four centuries after Islam came to Iran. It was an important medical centre of the 6th and 7th centuries and a prominent example of higher education model in pre-Islam Iran. When the Platonic Academy in Athens was closed in 529, some of its pagan scholars went to Gundishahpur, although they returned within a year to Byzantium.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13848912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13848912", "title": "Bachelor of Integrated Studies", "text": "Bachelor of Integrated Studies\n\nBachelor of Integrated Studies (BIS) is an interdisciplinary bachelor's degree offered by several universities in the United States and Canada. It allows students to design a customized and specific course of study to best suit their educational and professional objectives. Generally, this degree is sponsored by two or more departments within the university. Schools which confer the degree include the University of North Texas, Northern Kentucky University, Utah Valley University, Miami University in Ohio, Pittsburg State University, George Mason University, Weber State University, Washburn University, Ferris State University, Jacksonville State University, Kennesaw State University, Oakland University, Nevada State College, Dixie State University, and the University of New Brunswick, Florida Gulf Coast University, among others. \n\nAccording to materials issued by Weber State University:The program best suits students who have developed a sense of their educational and life goals, and who are looking for ways to express those goals through a self-designed and self-directed university program. The BIS Program serves the needs of students who want to individualize or create a unique academic program; students who want to obtain a broad liberal education; and/or students who want to prepare for specific career goals and/or graduate school.\n"}
{"id": "57618222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57618222", "title": "Blended mobility", "text": "Blended mobility\n\nBlended mobility is a term used to describe an educational concept that combines physical academic mobility, virtual mobility and blended learning. It aims to promote employability of higher education students. Since 2009 is has evolved from virtual mobility, keeping the international value of academic mobility, but at the same time giving a concrete answer to possible family related, financial, psychological and social barriers of a physical mobility.\nThe virtual mobility part of blended mobility is mostly supported through the use of information and communication technologies (e.g. Skype, Adobe Connect, Slack, Google Hangout, Trello) to stay connected with the teachers and/or students who may be situated at many distant locations. The physical mobility part is typically of short-term duration, ranging from 2 to 14 days. There may exist multiple periods of short-term mobility. Short periods of physical mobility enable participants to focus for a couple of days only on the actual project, which is difficult in daily life in a local environment.\n\nEarly applications of a blended mobility format can be found back in 2009. Through this project an environment was created which encourages the development of students’ soft skills, such as teamwork and communication, in an international setting by means of an innovative instruction paradigm to improve such skills without expensive and extensive curricular changes.\n\nThe blended mobility paradigm may be executed through various formats.\n\nBlended mobility is also seen and recognised by the Commission as a preparation for the long-term physical mobility or as complementing regular study programmes.\n\nIn the Digital Education Action Plan of the European Commission (January 2018) it is stated that blended mobility will be further promoted with new opportunities in Erasmus+ to support both online and face-to-face learning and student exchange in different countries.\n\nBlended mobility is an educational concept that combines virtual mobility through the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) and short-term physical mobility. \n\nThe goal of this methodology is to obtain similar benefits as those gained with physical mobility but with less barriers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3236995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3236995", "title": "CDIO Initiative", "text": "CDIO Initiative\n\nThe CDIO Initiative is an educational framework that stresses engineering fundamentals set in the context of conceiving, designing, implementing and operating real-world systems and products. Throughout the world, CDIO Initiative collaborators have adopted CDIO as the framework of their curricular planning and outcome-based assessment. The CDIO approach uses active learning tools, such as group projects and problem-based learning, to better equip engineering students with technical knowledge as well as communication and professional skills. Additionally, the CDIO Initiative provides resources for instructors of member universities to improve their teaching abilities. CDIO is a trademarked initialism for Conceive Design Implement Operate.\n\nThe CDIO concept was originally conceived at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the late 1990s. In 2000, MIT in collaboration with three Swedish universities - Chalmers University of Technology, Linköping University and the Royal Institute of Technology — formally founded the CDIO Initiative. It became an international collaboration, with universities around the world adopting the same framework.\n\nCDIO collaborators recognize that an engineering education is acquired over a long period and in a variety of institutions, and that educators in all parts of this spectrum can learn from practice elsewhere. The CDIO network therefore welcomes members in a diverse range of institutions ranging from research-led internationally acclaimed universities to local colleges dedicated to providing students with their initial grounding in engineering.\n\nThe collaborators maintain a dialogue about what works and what does not and continue to refine the project. Determining additional members of the collaboration is a selective process managed by a Council comprising original members and early adopters.\n\nThe CDIO revised syllabus consists of four parts: \n\nThe following institutions collaborate in the CDIO initiative:\n\nAustralia\n\nBrasil\nBelgium\n\nCanada\n\nChile\n\nChina\n\nColombia\n\nDenmark\n\nFinland\n\nFrance\n\nGermany\n\nHonduras\n\nIceland\n\nIndia\n\nIreland\n\nIsrael\n\nItaly\n\nJapan\n\nMalaysia\n\nMongolia\n\nNetherlands\n\nNew Zealand\n\nNorway\n\nPhilippines\n\nPoland\n\nPortugal\n\nRussia\n\nSingapore\n\nSouth Africa\n\nSouth Korea\n\nSpain\n\nSweden\n\nTaiwan\n\nThailand\n\nTunisia\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nUnited States of America\n\nVietnam\nCDIO currently has two guide books: \"Rethinking Engineering Education\" and \"Think Like an Engineer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30527225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30527225", "title": "CSCOPE (education)", "text": "CSCOPE (education)\n\nCSCOPE is a K-12 educational curriculum support system that has been widely adopted in Texas. It was created by the Texas Education Service Center Curriculum Collaborative (TESCCC).\n\nNineteen out of twenty education regions in Texas have districts that use CSCOPE, and as of January 2, 2011 there were 747 school districts (out of 1,051 total) using it.\n\nWhile popular with district administrators, CSCOPE has elicited mixed reactions from teachers, some of whom feel excessively constrained by a set timetable for lessons. Other teachers, however, feel that CSCOPE is appreciated by the students and has improved classroom performance and attendance. Some say that CSCOPE will better help prepare districts for the next generation of standardized tests in Texas, such as the State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness test.\n\nThe system is a product of an increased emphasis on accountability in public education over the last two decades.\n\nIn 2013, after complaints about parents' inability to access the curriculum as well as about lesson plans, Texas announced significant changes would be made to the system. These changes include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7494658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7494658", "title": "Course atlas", "text": "Course atlas\n\nA course atlas is an online repository of credit and noncredit education courses offered by one to many educational providers across a state, region, country or around the world to facilitate course planning. Courses listed in the course atlas database reflect the availability of what educational providers offer the public or to their private constituents.\n\nThe term course atlas describes an online repository containing course offerings from one or more education providers. The course atlas thus allows one to search and find comparable courses exploring the implications of college transfer, curriculum alignment initiatives, transfer evaluation methods, cross registration functions, dual enrollment strategies, study abroad programs, online registration and course planning.\n\nHistorically, colleges, universities, vocational schools, adult education centers, corporate universities and other educational providers publish standalone course catalogs and listings in a variety of formats. The course atlas combines the course listings from individual providers into a single, searchable and maintainable electronic repository abstracting the differences in format to make it easier to search and compare course characteristics and attributes.\n\nA course atlas stores course attributes defining the course, such as title, description, cost, location, subject, cross reference course id, method of instruction, length of instruction, text books, faculty level, meeting times, pre-requisites, co-requisites, number of credits to be awarded, grading method, comparable courses linked by course equivalency, and other descriptive elements. Additionally, the course atlas can attach learning objectives, syllabi, and learning outcomes to each course record.\n\nThe first national online course repository in the United States was the National Course Atlas, published by AcademyOne and used by State education agencies and education providers. The National Course Atlas is loaded and synchronized with current course offerings of higher education institutions providing keyword search of 3.5 million courses covering 10,000 subjects. Some of the statewide projects using the National Course Atlas include Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas and Utah. The Province of Ontario, Canada has undertaken developing and launching a course atlas to power ONTransfer - Ontario's Council on Articulation and Transfer Portal including all higher education institutional courses in 2012.\n\nHigher education institutions, school districts and other education related organizations assessing formal or sponsored learning reference online course repositories supporting their efforts to search, compare and link course offerings from one another. The National Course Atlas was one of the first examples of an aggregated course repository established in the United States used to support college transfer, course planning, curriculum alignment and course equivalency management - functions that span education providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "5149505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149505", "title": "Critical consciousness", "text": "Critical consciousness\n\nCritical consciousness, conscientization, or in Portuguese, is a popular education and social concept developed by Brazilian pedagogue and educational theorist Paulo Freire, grounded in post-Marxist critical theory. Critical consciousness focuses on achieving an in-depth understanding of the world, allowing for the perception and exposure of social and political contradictions. Critical consciousness also includes taking action against the oppressive elements in one's life that are illuminated by that understanding.\n\nThe English term \"conscientization\" is a translation of the Portuguese term , which is also translated as \"consciousness raising\" and \"critical consciousness\". The term was popularized by Brazilian educator, activist, and theorist Paulo Freire in his 1970 work \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\". Freire was teaching the poor and illiterate members of Brazilian society to read at a time when literacy was a requirement for suffrage and dictators ruled many South American countries. The term originally derives from Frantz Fanon's coinage of a French term, , in his 1952 book, \"Black Skins, White Masks\".\n\nPaulo Freire defines critical consciousness as the ability to \"intervene in reality in order to change it.\" Critical consciousness proceeds through the identification of \"generative themes\", which Freire identifies as \"iconic representations that have a powerful emotional impact in the daily lives of learners.\" In this way, individual consciousness helps end the \"culture of silence\" in which the socially dispossessed internalize the negative images of themselves created and propagated by the oppressor in situations of extreme poverty. Liberating learners from this mimicry of the powerful, and the fratricidal violence that results therefrom is a major goal of critical consciousness. Critical consciousness is a fundamental aspect of Freire's concept of popular education.\n\nArlene Goldbard, an author on the subject of community cultural development finds the concept of conscientization to be a foundation of community cultural development. From the glossary of Goldbard's 2006 book \"New Creative Community.\": \"Conscientization is an ongoing process by which a learner moves toward critical consciousness. This process is the heart of liberatory education. It differs from \"consciousness raising\" in that the latter may involve transmission of preselected knowledge. Conscientization means engaging in praxis, in which one both reflects and takes action on their social reality to break through prevailing mythologies and reach new levels of awareness—in particular, awareness of oppression, being an \"object\" of others’ will rather than a self-determining \"subject.\" The process of conscientization involves identifying contradictions in experience through dialogue and becoming part of the process of changing the world.\" \n\nThe ancient Greeks first identified the essence of critical consciousness when philosophers encouraged their students to develop an \"impulse and willingness to stand back from humanity and nature... [and] to make them objects of thought and criticism, and to search for their meaning and significance. In his books \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" and \"Education for Critical Consciousness\", Freire explains critical consciousness as a sociopolitical educative tool that engages learners in questioning the nature of their historical and social situation, which Freire addressed as \"reading the world\". The goal of critical consciousness, according to Freire, should be acting as subjects in the creation of democratic society. In education, Freire implies intergenerational equity between students and teachers in which both learn, both question, both reflect and both participate in meaning-making. Using this idea, and describing current instructional methods as homogenization and lockstep standardization, alternative approaches are proposed, such as the Sudbury model of democratic education schools, an alternative approach in which children, by enjoying personal freedom thus encouraged to exercise personal responsibility for their actions, learn at their own pace rather than following a previously imposed chronologically-based curriculum. In a similar form students learn all the subjects, techniques and skills in these schools. The staff are minor actors, the \"teacher\" is an adviser and helps just when asked. Sudbury model of democratic education schools maintain that values, social justice, critical consciousness, intergenerational equity, and political consciousness included, must be learned through experience, as Aristotle said: \"For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them.\"\n\nPicking up on Freire's definition of critical consciousness, Joe L. Kincheloe has expanded the definition of the concept in his work on postformalism. In Kincheloe's formulation postformalism connects cognition to critical theoretical questions of power and social justice. In this context Kincheloe constructs a critical theory of cognition that explores questions of meaning, emancipation vis-a-vis ideological inscription, and a particular focus on the socio-political construction of the self. With these concerns in mind Kincheloe's postformal critical consciousness engages questions of purpose, issues of human dignity, freedom, authority, reconceptualized notions of reason, intellectual quality, and social responsibility. Postformal critical consciousness stimulates a conversation between critical pedagogy and a wide range of social, cultural, political economic, psychological, and philosophical concerns. Kincheloe employs this \"multilogical conversation\" to shape new modes of self-awareness, more effective forms of social, political, and pedagogical action, and an elastic model of an evolving critical consciousness (Kincheloe and Steinberg, 1993; Kincheloe, 1999; Thomas and Kincheloe, 2006).\n\nFreire's development of critical consciousness has been expanded upon in several academic disciplines and common applications. Public health community collaborations focused on HIV prevention for women, the role of critical consciousness in adult education, and the effect of peer pressure on cigarette smokers Freire's notion of critical consciousness is, in part, a type of political consciousness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24145205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24145205", "title": "Critical lens essay", "text": "Critical lens essay\n\nA critical lens essay is a type of analytical essay that focuses on a quotation from a piece of literature. The essay states whether the quotation is valid, and explains why using literary devices. It is an analysis of the quote and uses literary elements and techniques to do so.\n"}
{"id": "18883413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18883413", "title": "ETS Europe", "text": "ETS Europe\n\nETS Europe is the European arm of Educational Testing Service, an American company, involved in scholastic assessment in Europe.\n\nIt is headquartered in Utrecht in the Netherlands. ETS employs about 2,700 individuals, including 240 with doctorates and an additional 350 others with \"higher degrees.\" Work that ETS does that is not associated with its nonprofit educational research mission is conducted by for-profit subsidiaries, such as Prometric, which administers test by computer for licensing and certification in the professional world, and ETS Global BV, which contains much of the international operations of the company.\n\nAbout 25% of the work carried out by ETS is contracted by the private, not-for-profit firm, the College Board. The most popular of the College Board's tests is the SAT, taken by more than 3 million students annually. ETS also develops and administers The College Board's Advanced Placement program, which is widely used in US high schools for advanced course credit.\n\nIn England and Wales ETS Europe were contracted to operate the National Curriculum assessments on behalf of the government. ETS took over this role from Edexcel in 2008. The first year of their operation was struck by a number of problems, including the late arrival of scripts to examiners, a database of student entries being unavailable, and countrywide reports of problems with the marking of the papers. The opposition Conservative party has criticised the awarding of the contracts to ETS, and produced a dossier listing previous problems with ETS' service. Their contract with the QCA was terminated in August 2008: ETS is to pay back £19.5m and cancel invoices worth £4.6m. The UK government asked Lord Sutherland to conduct an inquiry into the failure of the 2008 tests. The report included in its main findings:\n"}
{"id": "18103379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103379", "title": "Education in Kiribati", "text": "Education in Kiribati\n\nEducation in Kiribati is free and compulsory from age 6 to 14, which includes primary school through grade six, and Junior Secondary School for three additional grade levels. In 1998, the gross primary enrollment rate was 84.4 percent, and net primary enrollment rate was 70.7 percent. School quality and access to education are better in urban areas; schools in small communities on isolated islands are expensive to maintain. Mission schools are slowly being absorbed into the government primary school system.\n\nThere are primary schools on most of the inhabited islands. Secondary schools are located on some of the islands with students travelling to live at their school. For example, Abaiang, which is in the northern Gilbert Islands, has three secondary schools, in 2011 there were 212 students at the Ministry of Education school, Ueen Abaiang, which is located between the villages of Koinawa and Aonobuaka. A further 135 students are enrolled at St Joseph’s College in Tabwiroa and 23 students at Steven Whitmee High School in Morikao, making 370 secondary school students in total. The two high schools at Morikao and Tabuiroa accommodate students from all over Kiribati who have passed the entrance examinations to get into the schools.\n\nSt. Joseph's College was founded in 1939. Its alumni include both current President Anote Tong, and previous incumbent Teburoro Tito.\n\nThere are primary schools and secondary schools operated by the Christian denominations including the Roman Catholic Church (such as St. Joseph's College) and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, (such as Moroni High School in South Tarawa, of which Waitea Abiuta has been the headmaster).\n\nThe Kiribati Teacher College and King George V and Elaine Bernachi School, the Government High School, are in Bikenibeu in South Tarawa.\n\nHigher education is expanding; students may seek technical, teacher or marine training, or study in other countries. To date, most choosing to do the latter have gone to Fiji to attend University of the South Pacific, and those wishing to complete medical training have been sent to Cuba.\n\nThe University of the South Pacific has a campus in Kiribati for distant/flexible learning, but also to provide preparatory studies towards obtaining certificates, diplomas and degrees at other campus sites.\n\nKiribati Ministry of Education is the education ministry. Kiribati has 94 elementary schools, 24 junior high schools, and 16 senior high schools. The government high schools are King George V and Elaine Bernacchi School, Tabiteuea North Senior Secondary School, and Melaengi Tabai Secondary School; Tabiteuea North, in Eita, is also known as Teabike College. Previously KGV/EBS was the sole government high school.\n\n13 high schools are operated by Christian churches. They are:\n"}
{"id": "33395724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33395724", "title": "Education in the Federated States of Micronesia", "text": "Education in the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nEducation in the Federated States of Micronesia is required for citizens aged 6 to 13, and is important to their economy. The literacy rate for citizens aged 15 to 24 is 98.8%.\n\nThe national education agency is the FSM Department of Education. Each state has its own education agency operating public schools.\n\nCollege of Micronesia is the tertiary institution.\n\nBefore foreign influence, education in Micronesia was rarely distinguished from everyday life experiences and learning opportunities. Spanish influence during the 17th century changed the Micronesian learning experience to what happened at schools. This system was also influenced by German influence starting in 1899. The Japanese brought their strict model of education to Micronesia in 1914. Following World War II, the United States brought their own model of education to Micronesia.\n"}
{"id": "1355251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1355251", "title": "Education policy", "text": "Education policy\n\nEducation policy consists of the principles and government policies in the educational sphere as well as the collection of laws and rules that govern the operation of education systems.\n\nOr simply we can say that An Education Policy is a past or up to date statement or series of statements which explain, recommend or exclude a course of action or actions to be taken to run the system of education. These statements are usually written, but they could be oral. \n\nEducation occurs in many forms for many purposes through many institutions. Examples include early childhood education, kindergarten through to 12th grade, two and four year colleges or universities, graduate and professional education, adult education and job training. Therefore, education policy can directly affect the education people engage in at all ages.\n\nExamples of areas subject to debate in education policy, specifically from the field of schools, include school size, class size, school choice, school privatization, tracking, teacher selection, education and certification, teacher pay, teaching methods, curricular content, graduation requirements, school infrastructure investment, and the values that schools are expected to uphold and model.\n\nIssues in education policy also address problems within higher education. The Pell Institute analyzes the barriers experienced by teachers and students within community colleges and universities. These issues involve undocumented students, sex education, and federal grant aides.\n\nEducation policy analysis is the scholarly study of education policy. It seeks to answer questions about the purpose of education, the objectives (societal and personal) that it is designed to attain, the methods for attaining them and the tools for measuring their success or failure. Research intended to inform education policy is carried out in a wide variety of institutions and in many academic disciplines. Important researchers are affiliated with departments of psychology, economics, sociology, and human development, in addition to schools and departments of education or public policy. Examples of education policy analysis may be found in such academic journals as \"Education Policy Analysis Archives\" and in university policy centers such as the National Education Policy Center housed at the University of Colorado Boulder University of Colorado Boulder.\n\nEducation reform is a topic that is in the mainstream currently in the United States. Over the past 30 years, policy makers have made a steady increase at the state and federal levels of government in their involvement of US schools. US states spend most of their budgets funding schools, whereas only a small portion of the federal budget is allocated to education. Although states hold the constitutional right on education policy, the federal government is advancing their role by building on state and local education policies. In the state of Texas during the 84th Legislature, there were several education reform bills filed and sponsored by many education reform groups, such as Texans for Education Reform. Lawmakers want to create more involvement at the local level, and more transparency in our public schools. These groups are being pressured and opposed by teachers' unions saying that accountability and transparency policies are targeting educators, and that they are trying to hold them responsible for the education system.\n\nTeacher policy is education policy that addresses the preparation, recruitment, and retention of teachers. A teacher policy is guided by the same overall vision and essential characteristics as the wider education policy: it should be strategic, holistic, feasible, sustainable, and context-sensitive. Overall objectives and major challenges to be addressed, the funding to achieve these objectives, the demographic parameters of the learner population and the human resources required to achieve universally accessible quality education should all be addressed in a comprehensive teacher policy.\n\nNine key dimensions are considered crucial to any comprehensive teacher policy: Teacher Recruitment and Retention, Teacher education (initial and continuing), Deployment, Career Structures/Paths, Teacher Employment and Working Conditions, Teach Reward and Remuneration, Teacher Standards, Teacher Accountability, and School Governance.\n\nAn effective education system must have a way to attract and retain outstanding educators. There has been a growing demand for teachers but the supply continues to diminish and many of them leave their profession. This development is a threat to the “academic and economic welfare of students.” It affects learning and drain taxpayers’ money. The federal and state governments along with the districts must invest in complete human capital systems. It is the best approach in preparing and retaining committed and capable mentors for the long-term. A reasonable strategy in talent management for the education sector must focus on recruitment, development, and retention of intelligent and efficient teachers. \n\nTeachers need to go back to school periodically to become better educators. Good mentors can become outstanding by going further than textbooks. This is the logic behind continuing education. Technology in the form of web-based workshops and lectures will be helpful. School administrators and district officials must push their teachers to make use of available resources and opportunities to continue the learning process. Conferences with workshops are also valuable because these activities provide teachers with tools for integration of technology in the classrooms and Continuing Professional Development Units in boosting their careers. \n\n\nInformation on education policy, OECD - Contains indicators and information about education policy in OECD countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "7082881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7082881", "title": "Enactivism", "text": "Enactivism\n\nEnactivism argues that cognition arises through a dynamic interaction between an acting organism and its environment. It claims that our environment is one which we selectively create through our capacities to interact with the world. \"Organisms do not passively receive information from their environments, which they then translate into internal representations. Natural cognitive systems...participate in the generation of meaning ...engaging in transformational and not merely informational interactions: \"they enact a world\".\" These authors suggest that the increasing emphasis upon enactive terminology presages a new era in thinking about cognitive science. How the actions involved in enactivism relate to age-old questions about free will remains a topic of active debate.\n\nThe term 'enactivism' is close in meaning to 'enaction', defined as \"the manner in which a subject of perception creatively matches its actions to the requirements of its situation\". The introduction of the term \"enaction\" in this context is attributed to Francisco Varela, Evan Thompson, and Eleanor Rosch, who proposed the name to \"emphasize the growing conviction that cognition is not the representation of a pre-given world by a pre-given mind but is rather the enactment of a world and a mind on the basis of a history of the variety of actions that a being in the world performs\". This was further developed by Thompson and others, to place emphasis upon the idea that experience of the world is a result of mutual interaction between the sensorimotor capacities of the organism and its environment.\n\nThe initial emphasis of enactivism upon sensorimotor skills has been criticized as \"cognitively marginal\", but it has been extended to apply to higher level cognitive activities, such as social interactions. \"In the enactive view... knowledge is constructed: it is constructed by an agent through its sensorimotor interactions with its environment, co-constructed between and within living species through their meaningful interaction with each other. In its most abstract form, knowledge is co-constructed between human individuals in socio-linguistic interactions...Science is a particular form of social knowledge construction...[that] allows us to perceive and predict events beyond our immediate cognitive grasp...and also to construct further, even more powerful scientific knowledge.\"\n\nEnactivism is closely related to situated cognition and embodied cognition, and is presented as an alternative to cognitivism, computationalism, and Cartesian dualism.\n\nEnactivism is one of a cluster of related theories sometimes known as the \"4Es\". As described by Mark Rowlands, mental processes are:\n\nEnactivism proposes an alternative to dualism as a philosophy of mind, in that it emphasises the interactions between mind, body and the environment, seeing them all as inseparably intertwined in mental processes. The self arises as part of the process of an embodied entity interacting with the environment in precise ways determined by its physiology. In this sense, individuals can be seen to \"grow into\" or arise from their interactive role with the world.\n\nIn \"The Tree of Knowledge\" Maturana & Varela proposed the term \"enactive\" \"to evoke the view of knowledge that what is known is brought forth, in contraposition to the more classical views of either cognitivism or connectionism. They see enactivism as providing a middle ground between the two extremes of representationalism and solipsism. They seek to \"confront the problem of understanding how our existence-the praxis of our living- is coupled to a surrounding world which appears filled with regularities that are at every instant the result of our biological and social histories... to find a \"via media\": to understand the regularity of the world we are experiencing at every moment, but without any point of reference independent of ourselves that would give certainty to our descriptions and cognitive assertions. Indeed the whole mechanism of generating ourselves, as describers and observers tells us that our world, as the world which we bring forth in our coexistence with others, will always have precisely that mixture of regularity and mutability, that combination of solidity and shifting sand, so typical of human experience when we look at it up close.\"[\"Tree of Knowledge\", p. 241]\n\nEnactivism also addresses the hard problem of consciousness, referred to by Thompson as part of the \"explanatory gap\" in explaining how consciousness and subjective experience are related to brain and body. \"The problem with the dualistic concepts of consciousness and life in standard formulations of the hard problem is that they exclude each other by construction\". Instead, according to Thompson's view of enactivism, the study of consciousness or phenomenology as exemplified by Husserl and Merleau-Ponty is to complement science and its objectification of the world. \"The whole universe of science is built upon the world as directly experienced, and if we want to subject science itself to rigorous scrutiny and arrive at a precise assessment of its meaning and scope, we must begin by reawakening the basic experience of the world of which science is the second-order expression\" (Merleau-Ponty, \"The phenomenology of perception\" as quoted by Thompson, p. 165). In this interpretation, enactivism asserts that science is formed or enacted as part of humankind's interactivity with its world, and by embracing phenomenology \"science itself is properly situated in relation to the rest of human life and is thereby secured on a sounder footing.\"\n\nEnaction has been seen as a move to conjoin representationalism with phenomenalism, that is, as adopting a constructivist epistemology, an epistemology centered upon the active participation of the subject in constructing reality. However, 'constructivism' focuses upon more than a simple 'interactivity' that could be described as a minor adjustment to 'assimilate' reality or 'accommodate' to it. Constructivism looks upon interactivity as a radical, creative, revisionist process in which the knower \"constructs\" a personal 'knowledge system' based upon their experience and tested by its viability in practical encounters with their environment. Learning is a result of perceived anomalies that produce dissatisfaction with existing conceptions.\n\nHow does constructivism relate to enactivism? From the above remarks it can be seen that Glasersfeld expresses an interactivity between the knower and the known quite acceptable to an enactivist, but does not emphasize the structured probing of the environment by the knower that leads to the \"perturbation relative to some expected result\" that then leads to a new understanding. It is this probing activity, especially where it is not accidental but deliberate, that characterizes enaction, and invokes \"affect\", that is, the motivation and planning that lead to doing and to fashioning the probing, both observing and modifying the environment, so that \"perceptions and nature condition one another through generating one another.\" The questioning nature of this probing activity is not an emphasis of Piaget and Glasersfeld.\n\nSharing enactivism's stress upon both action and embodiment in the incorporation of knowledge, but giving Glasersfeld's mechanism of viability an evolutionary emphasis, is evolutionary epistemology. Inasmuch as an organism must reflect its environment well enough for the organism to be able to survive in it, and to be competitive enough to be able to reproduce at sustainable rate, the structure and reflexes of the organism itself embody knowledge of its environment. This biology-inspired theory of the growth of knowledge is closely tied to universal Darwinism, and is associated with evolutionary epistemologists such as Karl Popper, Donald T. Campbell, Peter Munz, and Gary Cziko. According to Munz, \"an organism is an \"embodied theory\" about its environment... Embodied theories are also no longer expressed in language, but in anatomical structures or reflex responses, etc.\"\n\nMcGann & others argue that enactivism attempts to mediate between the explanatory role of the coupling between cognitive agent and environment and the traditional emphasis on brain mechanisms found in neuroscience and psychology. In the interactive approach to social cognition developed by De Jaegher & others, the dynamics of interactive processes are seen to play significant roles in coordinating interpersonal understanding, processes that in part include what they call \"participatory sense-making\". Recent developments of enactivism in the area of social neuroscience involve the proposal of \"The Interactive Brain Hypothesis\" where social cognition brain mechanisms, even those used in non-interactive situations, are proposed to have interactive origins.\n\nIn the enactive view, perception \"is not conceived as the transmission of information but more as an exploration of the world by various means. Cognition is not tied into the workings of an 'inner mind', some cognitive core, but occurs in directed interaction between the body and the world it inhabits.\"\n\nAlva Noë in advocating an enactive view of perception sought to resolve how we perceive three-dimensional objects, on the basis of two-dimensional input. He argues that we perceive this solidity (or 'volumetricity') by appealing to patterns of sensorimotor expectations. These arise from our agent-active 'movements and interaction' with objects, or 'object-active' changes in the object itself. The solidity is perceived through our expectations and skills in knowing how the object's appearance would change with changes in how we relate to it. He saw all perception as an active exploration of the world, rather than being a passive process, something which happens to us.\n\nNoë's idea of the role of 'expectations' in three-dimensional perception has been opposed by several philosophers, notably by Andy Clark. Clark points to difficulties of the enactive approach. He points to internal processing of visual signals, for example, in the ventral and dorsal pathways, the two-streams hypothesis. This results in an integrated perception of objects (their recognition and location, respectively) yet this processing cannot be described as an action or actions. In a more general criticism, Clark suggests that perception is not a matter of expectations about sensorimotor mechanisms guiding perception. Rather, although the limitations of sensorimotor mechanisms constrain perception, this sensorimotor activity is drastically filtered to fit current needs and purposes of the organism, and it is these imposed 'expectations' that govern perception, filtering for the 'relevant' details of sensorimotor input (called \"sensorimotor summarizing\").\n\nThese sensorimotor-centered and purpose-centered views appear to agree on the general scheme but disagree on the dominance issue – is the dominant component peripheral or central. Another view, the closed-loop perception one, assigns equal a-priori dominance to the peripheral and central components. In closed-loop perception, perception emerges through the process of inclusion of an item in a motor-sensory-motor loop, i.e., a loop (or loops) connecting the peripheral and central components that are relevant to that item. The item can be a body part (in which case the loops are in steady-state) or an external object (in which case the loops are perturbed and gradually converge to a steady state). These enactive loops are always active, switching dominance by the need.\n\nAnother application of enaction to perception is analysis of the human hand. The many remarkably demanding uses of the hand are not learned by instruction, but through a history of engagements that lead to the acquisition of skills. According to one interpretation, it is suggested that \"the hand [is]...an organ of cognition\", not a faithful subordinate working under top-down instruction, but a partner in a \"bi-directional interplay between manual and brain activity.\" According to Daniel Hutto: \"Enactivists are concerned to defend the view that our most elementary ways of engaging with the world and others - including our basic forms of perception and perceptual experience - are mindful in the sense of being phenomenally charged and intentionally directed, despite being non-representational and content-free.\" Hutto calls this position 'REC' (Radical Enactive Cognition): \"According to REC, there is no way to distinguish neural activity that is imagined to be genuinely content involving (and thus truly mental, truly cognitive) from other non-neural activity that merely plays a supporting or enabling role in making mind and cognition possible.\"\n\nHanne De Jaegher and Ezequiel Di Paolo (2007) have extended the enactive concept of sense-making into the social domain. The idea takes as its departure point the process of interaction between individuals in a social encounter. De Jaegher and Di Paolo argue that the interaction process itself can take on a form of autonomy (operationally defined). This allows them to define social cognition as the generation of meaning and its transformation through interacting individuals.\n\nThe notion of participatory sense-making has led to the proposal that interaction processes can sometimes play constitutive roles in social cognition (De Jaegher, Di Paolo, Gallagher, 2010). It has been applied to research in social neuroscience\"\" and autism.\"\"\n\nIn a similar vein, \"an inter-enactive approach to agency holds that the behavior of agents in a social situation unfolds not only according to their individual abilities and goals, but also according to the conditions and constraints imposed by the autonomous dynamics of the interaction process itself\". According to Torrance, enactivism involves five interlocking themes related to the question \"What is it to be a (cognizing, conscious) agent?\" It is:\n\nTorrance adds that \"many kinds of agency, in particular the agency of human beings, cannot be understood separately from understanding the nature of the interaction that occurs between agents.\" That view introduces the social applications of enactivism. \"Social cognition is regarded as the result of a special form of action, namely \"social interaction\"...the enactive approach looks at the circular dynamic within a dyad of embodied agents.\"\nIn cultural psychology, enactivism is seen as a way to uncover cultural influences upon feeling, thinking and acting. Baerveldt and Verheggen argue that \"It appears that seemingly natural experience is thoroughly intertwined with sociocultural realities.\" They suggest that the social patterning of experience is to be understood through enactivism, \"the idea that the reality we have in common, and in which we find ourselves, is neither a world that exists independently from us, nor a socially shared way of representing such a pregiven world, but a world itself brought forth by our ways of communicating and our joint action...The world we inhabit is manufactured of 'meaning' rather than 'information'.\n\nLuhmann attempted to apply Maturana and Varela's notion of autopoiesis to social systems. \"A core concept of social systems theory is derived from biological systems theory: the concept of \"autopoiesis\". Chilean biologist Humberto Maturana come up with the concept to explain how biological systems such as cells are a product of their own production.\" \"Systems exist by way of operational closure and this means that they each construct themselves and their own realities.\"\n\nThe first definition of enaction was introduced by psychologist Jerome Bruner, who introduced enaction as 'learning by doing' in his discussion of how children learn, and how they can best be helped to learn. He associated enaction with two other ways of knowledge organization: Iconic and Symbolic.\n\nThe term 'enactive framework' was elaborated upon by Francisco Varela and Humberto Maturana.\n\nSriramen argues that enactivism provides \"a rich and powerful explanatory theory for learning and being.\" and that it is closely related to both the ideas of cognitive development of Piaget, and also the social constructivism of Vygotsky. Piaget focused on the child's immediate environment, and suggested cognitive structures like spatial perception emerge as a result of the child's interaction with the world. According to Piaget, children \"construct\" knowledge, using what they know in new ways and testing it, and the environment provides feedback concerning the adequacy of their construction. In a cultural context, Vygotsky suggested that the kind of cognition that can take place is not dictated by the engagement of the isolated child, but is also a function of social interaction and dialogue that is contingent upon a sociohistorical context. Enactivism in educational theory \"looks at each learning situation as a complex system consisting of teacher, learner, and context, all of which frame and co-create the learning situation.\" Enactivism in education is very closely related to situated cognition, which holds that \"knowledge is situated, being in part a product of the activity, context, and culture in which it is developed and used.\" This approach challenges the \"separating of what is learned from how it is learned and used.\"\n\nThe ideas of enactivism regarding how organisms engage with their environment have interested those involved in robotics and man-machine interfaces. The analogy is drawn that a robot can be designed to interact and learn from its environment in a manner similar to the way an organism does that, and a human can interact with a computer-aided design tool or data base using an interface that creates an enactive environment for the user, that is, all the user's tactile, auditory, and visual capabilities are enlisted in a mutually explorative engagement, capitalizing upon all the user's abilities, and not at all limited to cerebral engagement. In these areas it is common to refer to affordances as a design concept, the idea that an environment or an interface affords opportunities for enaction, and good design involves optimizing the role of such affordances.\n\nThe activity in the AI community also has influenced enactivism as whole. Referring extensively to modeling techniques for evolutionary robotics by Beer, the modeling of learning behavior by Kelso, and to modeling of sensorimotor activity by Saltzman, McGann, De Jaegher, and Di Paolo discuss how this work makes the dynamics of coupling between an agent and its environment, the foundation of enactivism, \"an operational, empirically observable phenomenon.\" That is, the AI environment invents examples of enactivism using concrete examples that, although not as complex as living organisms, isolate and illuminate basic principles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "447089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447089", "title": "Experiential education", "text": "Experiential education\n\nExperiential education is a philosophy of education that describes the process that occurs between a teacher and student that infuses direct experience with the learning environment and content. The term is not interchangeable with experiential learning; however experiential learning is a sub-field and operates under the methodologies of experiential education. The Association for Experiential Education regards experiential education as \"a philosophy that informs many methodologies in which educators purposefully engage with learners in direct experience and focused reflection in order to increase knowledge, develop skills, clarify values, and develop people's capacity to contribute to their communities\". Experiential education is the term for the philosophy and educational progressivism is the movement which it informed.\n\nJohn Dewey was the most famous proponent of experiential education, writing \"Experience and Education\" (1938). It expressed his ideas about curriculum theory in the context of historical debates about school organization and the need to have experience as central in the educational process; hence, experiential education is referred to as a philosophy. Dewey's fame during that period rested on relentlessly critiquing public education and pointing out that the authoritarian, strict, pre-ordained knowledge approach of modern traditional education was too concerned with delivering knowledge, and not enough with understanding students' experiences.\n\nDewey's work influenced dozens of other prominent experiential models and advocates in the later 20th century, including Foxfire, service learning, Kurt Hahn and Outward Bound, and Paulo Freire. Freire is often cited in works on experiential education. He focused on the participation by students in experience and radical democracy, and the creation of \"praxis\" among learners.\n\nJohn Dewey was an educator, but he was foremost a philosopher. His interests included political philosophy, metaphysics, epistemology, aesthetics, logic, and philosophy of education. Political philosophy was one of his many philosophical interests. He saw weaknesses in both the traditional and progressive styles of education. He explains in length his criticisms of both forms of education in his book, \"Experience & Education\" (1938). In essence, he did not believe that they met the goals of education, which he defined as obtaining freedom of thought. Dewey did not believe in freedom of thought in any kind of absolute sense.\n\nDewey advocated that education be based upon the quality of experience. For an experience to be educational, Dewey believed that certain parameters had to be met, the most important of which is that the experience has continuity and interaction. Continuity is the idea that the experience comes from and leads to other experiences, in essence propelling the person to learn more. Interaction is when the experience meets the internal needs or goals of a person. Dewey also categorizes experiences as possibly being mis-educative and non-educative. A mis-educative experience is one that stops or distorts growth for future experiences. A non-educative experience is one in which a person has not done any reflection and so has obtained nothing for mental growth that is lasting (\"Experience & Education,\" Dewey).\n\nIn addition to the notions raised by Dewey, recent research has shown that experiential learning does not replace traditional methods of learning but supplements it in the form of laboratory and clinical learning to offer additional skills, perspectives, and understanding of relationships. Instead, experiential learning is designed to improve one's understanding by giving one the freedom to explore and find the learning path that is most suitable for them.\n\nThe methodologies reflected in experiential education have evolved since the time of Hahn and Dewey. For experiential education to become efficient pedagogy, physical experience must be combined with reflection. Adding reflective practice, allows for personal introspection of challenges and key learnings. That is, physical challenges provide a gateway in which we can observe qualities about ourselves, and those whom we are working with. Further, for the efficacy of experiential education, experiences must be separated, giving the learner sufficient time to process the information.\n\nExperiential education informs many educational practices underway in schools (formal education) and out-of-school (informal education) programs. Many teaching methods rely on experiential education to provide context and frameworks for learning through action and reflection while others at higher levels (university and professional education) focus on field skills and modeling.\n\n\nExperiential education serves as an umbrella for linking many diverse practices into a coherent whole. Its philosophy is closely linked to numerous other educational theories, but it should not be conflated with progressive education, critical pedagogy, youth empowerment, feminist-based education, and constructivism. The development of experiential education as a philosophy has been intertwined with the development of these other educational theories; their contrasts have clarified differences.\n\nFellowships and other training programs are available for experiential educators; but, formal training in experiential methods is lacking for K-12 undergraduate teaching programs (see Wendel, A. and Mantil, A., (2008) and the National Society for Experiential Education).\n\nExamples of experiential education can be found in various disciplines. The educator Lucy Calkins writes,\nIf we asked our students for the highlight of their school careers, most would choose a time when they dedicated themselves to an endeavor of great importance...I am thinking of youngsters from P.S. 321, who have launched a save-the-tree campaign to prevent the oaks outside their school from being cut down. I am thinking of children who write the school newspaper, act in the school play, organize the playground building committee... On projects such as these, youngsters will work before school, after school, during lunch. Our youngsters want to work hard on endeavors they deem significant.\n\nWriting journals proves to be quite effective as part of English classes. Specifically, by writing \"personal\" and \"text-related\" journals, students find meaning in their own thoughts as well as in concepts learned in class. Personal journaling is the recording of past and present personal thoughts and events in the student's life to enhance self-awareness, student interest, and learning. Text-related journaling is writing about concepts learned in class in relation to students' personal experiences, to promote understanding.\n\nThe Nicodemus Wilderness Project provides an environmental experiential education program with a global reach called the \"Apprentice Ecologist Initiative\". This scholarship-based opportunity is targeted for youth volunteers who want to help protect the environment. The initiative seeks to develop young people for leadership roles by engaging them in environmental cleanup and conservation projects, empower volunteers to rebuild the environmental and social well-being of our communities, and improve local living conditions for both citizens and wildlife.\n\nPresidential Classroom, a non-profit civic education organization in Washington D.C., is open to high school students from across the country and abroad. They meet and interact with government officials, media correspondents, congressman, and key players on the world stage to learn how public policy shapes many aspects of citizens' lives. Students travel to Washington and spend a week hearing from prominent speakers, meet with interest group spokesmen and tour the national capital. Students participate in a group project directed by experienced instructors; they have mediated debates on current issues facing the country. The focus of the week is to give students a hands-on introduction to how \"real world\" politics take place.\n\nGlobal College, a four-year international study program offered by Long Island University, is based on self-guided, experiential learning while a student is immersed in foreign cultures. Regional centers employ mostly advisors rather than teaching faculty; these advisors guide the individual students in preparing a \"portfolio of learning\" each semester to display the results of their experiences and projects.\n\nThe New England Literature Program in the English Department at the University of Michigan is a 45-day program, in which University instructors live and work together with 40 UM students in the woods of Maine in early spring. They intensively study 19th and 20th-century New England literature, in a program that includes creative writing in the form of academic journaling, as well as a deep physical engagement with the landscape of New England. NELP students and staff take hiking trips into the White Mountains and other parts of the New England natural areas each week, integrating their experience of the landscape with writing and discussion of texts.\n\nThe Chicago Center for Urban Life and Culture is the only nonprofit and independent experiential educational program for college students in the United States. The Chicago Center is distinguished by unique seminars characterized by a 'First Voice' pedagogy, its location in the multi-ethnic Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago, and development of several hundred internship sites in Chicago. While many of the students who attend Chicago Center grew up in cities, the majority are from suburban, rural and farming communities. Students participate individually in its Semester, May Term and Summer Session. The Chicago Center also designs and staffs programs for groups, what it calls \"LearnChicago!\", which promise non-tourist experiences in the city.\n\nThe Philadelphia Center is an off-campus program based on a model of experiential education. Recognized by The Great Lakes Colleges Association, The Philadelphia Center is currently the only undergraduate level program that supports independent living and encourages the use of the city as a learning space.\n\nSeveral Australian high schools have established experiential education programmes, including Caulfield Grammar School's five-week internationalism programme in Nanjing, China and Geelong Grammar School's Timbertop outdoor education programme.\n\nAt the professional school level, experiential education is often integrated into curricula in \"clinical\" courses following the medical school model of \"See one, Do one, Teach one\", in which students learn by practicing medicine. This approach is being introduced in other professions in which skills are directly worked into courses to teach every concept (starting with interviewing, listening skills, negotiation, contract writing and advocacy, for example) to larger-scale projects in which students run legal aid clinics or community loan programs, or write legislation or community development plans.\n\nThe Boys and Girls Club of America provides a framework for youth development professionals to employ experiential learning methods.\n\nLifeworks International offers experiential, service-learning programs for high school students. Trips combine adventure travel, cultural immersion, community service, and global education during expeditions in China, Thailand, India, Costa Rica, Peru, the British Virgin Islands, and Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands.\n\nIn Legal Education, critical pedagogy is associated with devising more equitable methods of teaching, helping students develop consciousness of freedom, and helping them connect knowledge to power.\n\nWhether teachers employ experiential education in cultural journalism, service learning, environmental education, or more traditional school subjects, its key idea involves engaging student voice in active roles for the purpose of learning. Armstrong (2012) claims that students should be responsible for learning, not teachers. Students participate in a real activity with real consequences for the purpose of meeting learning objectives.\n\nExperiential education uses various tools like field work, policy and civic activity, and entrepreneurship outside of the classroom along with games, simulations, role plays, stories in classrooms. The experiential education mindset changes the way the teachers and students view knowledge. Knowledge is no longer just some letters on a page. It becomes active, something that is transacted with in life or lifelike situations. It starts to make teachers experience and skill facilitators, and not just transmitters of the written word.\n\nBesides changing student roles, experiential education requires a change in the role of teachers. When students are active learners, their endeavors often take them outside the classroom walls. Because action precedes attempts to synthesize knowledge, teachers generally cannot plan a curriculum unit as a neat, predictable package. Teachers become active learners, too, experimenting together with their students, reflecting upon the learning activities they have designed, and responding to their students' reactions to the activities. In this way, teachers themselves become more active; they come to view themselves as more than just recipients of school district policy and curriculum decisions.\n\nIt is also important to point out that not all learners learn in the same way. As a result, there are diverse learners that have unique learning styles pertinent to their success as students. Studies have shown that cooperative learning is strongly suggested in a diverse learning atmosphere. \"Contemporary views of learning and their pedagogical applications have begun to change traditional classroom interaction patterns, shaping the communicative roles of the teacher and students as participants in a classroom learning community,\" write David Wray & Kristiina Kumpulainen. This paradigm shift in education gives both the student and teacher shared responsibility of the learning process. The teacher's participation in discussion sessions is to act as a facilitator, maintain classroom decorum, provide individual and group feedback, and alleviate concerns or issues in the lesson.\n\nCritical thinking strategies are pertinent to the success of student-oriented learning. When students are engaged in active discussions, high-level thinking skills are put into practice to the point where students are synthesizing the information at a deeper level of understanding. According to Elliot Eisner, \"We need to provide opportunities for youngsters and adolescents to engage in challenging kinds of conversation, and we need to help them know how to do so. Such conversation is all too rare in schools. I use 'conversation' seriously, for challenging conversation is an intellectual affair. It has to do with thinking about what people have said and responding reflectively, analytically, and imaginatively to that process. The practice of conversation is almost a lost art. The most significant intellectual achievement is not so much in problem solving, but in question posing.\" Through experimental education, students are capable of finding their voice through peer-to-peer interaction. Students are now seen as active participants in the learning process. Vygotsky`s social development theory requires students to play untraditional roles as they collaborate with one another through critical thinking and conversational skills. According to Ann Ketch, author of Conversation: The comprehension connection writes, \"The oral process helps students clarify and solidify their thoughts. The thinking changes from what it was before the conversation took place. Through conversation, the student is in charge of his or her own mental processing. The teacher acts as a facilitator, pushing the student to rely upon and monitor his or her own comprehension, which fosters critical thinking.\" This is very vital because student conversation can elicit new ideas that may not have been mentioned or even thought of by another student. Therefore, student dialogue is very important because it helps individuals make sense of what is being learned. It also helps build respect for other's opinions while taking ownership of his or her learning process.\n\nIn experimental education, students are given the opportunity to apply their knowledge and skills by making connections to the real world. Therefore, effective learning entails active experimentation with a hands-on approach to learning. It is perceived that students learn more by being active. Students are interdependent in establishing group goals and decision-making skills. As a result, students are also capable of developing leadership skills, which can also enhance student motivation and confidence.\n\nWhen students are given a choice in terms of content to be learned, it ensures the teacher that his or her learners are interactive in the learning process. According to Ernie Stringer, \"Action learners move through continuous cycles of this inquiry process to improve their understanding, extend their knowledge, or refine their skills.\" When given a preference, students may feel motivated to take control of his or her learning experience. Student incentives are tied to progress in academic achievement. \"Research indicates that intrinsic motivation stems from one's interests and capacities to surmount challenge s when presented or pursued,\" says Fenice B. Boyd. Many schools are encouraging teachers to tap into student interests with the hope that they transfer that motivation into the classroom.\n\nThrough the continuous cycle of learning, teacher's often work with students to develop a framework of knowledge, which is to be evaluated based on student input to the lessons content. Therefore, the teacher should establish criteria of what is to be learned as related to the student(s) choice in learning material. Ernie Stringer draws on the importance that \"action research provides a process for developing a rich, engaging curriculum relevant to the lives and purposes of students, engaging their interests and abilities, and serving the broad human needs of community, society, and the planet. Creative construction of curricula or syllabi provides the means whereby the needs, perspectives, and/or interests of diverse stakeholders can be incorporated into vital, creative, effective programs of learning.\" In essence, a well-planned curriculum is designed for learning that encompasses a broad range of goals and individual needs that ensures the active learning process.\n\nAs students and teachers take on new roles, the traditional organizational structures of the school also may meet challenges. For example, at the Challenger Middle School in Colorado Springs, Colorado, service activities are an integral part of the academic program. Such nontraditional activities require teachers and administrators to look at traditional practices in new ways. For instance, they may consider reorganizing time blocks. They may also teach research methods by involving students in investigations of the community, rather than restricting research activities to the library (Rolzinski, 1990). \n\nAt the University Heights Alternative School in the Bronx, the Project Adventure experiential learning program has led the faculty to adopt an all-day time block as an alternative to the traditional 45-minute periods. The faculty now organizes the curriculum by project instead of by separate disciplines. Schools that promote meaningful student involvement actively engage students as partners in education improvement activities. These young people learn while planning, researching, teaching, and making decisions that affect the entire education system.\n\nOther university level programs are entirely field-taught on outdoor expeditions. These courses combine traditional academic readings and written assignments with field observations, service projects, open discussions of course material, and meetings with local speakers who are involved with the course subjects. These \"hybrid\" experiential/traditional programs aim to provide the academic rigor of a classroom course with the breadth and personal connections of experiential education.\n\nAt first, these new roles and structures may seem unfamiliar and uncomfortable to both students and adults in the school. Traditionally, students have most often been rewarded for competing rather than cooperating with one another. Teachers are not often called upon for collaborative work either. Teaching has traditionally been an activity carried out in isolation from one's peers, behind closed doors. Principals, accustomed to the traditional hierarchical structure of schools, often do not know how to help their teachers constitute self-managed work teams or how to help teachers coach students to work in cooperative teams. The techniques of experiential education can help students and staff adjust to teamwork, an important part of the process of reforming schools.\n\nAdventure education may use the philosophy of experiential education in developing team and group skills in both students and adults (Rohnke, 1989). Initially, groups work to solve problems that are unrelated to the problems in their actual school environment. For example, in a ropes course designed to build the skills required by teamwork, a faculty or student team might work together to get the entire group over a 12-foot wall or through an intricate web of rope. After each challenge in a series of this kind, the group looks at how it functioned as a team:\n\n\nThe wall or web of rope can then become a metaphor for the classroom or school environment. While the problems and challenges of the classroom or school are different from the physical challenges of the adventure activity, many skills needed to respond successfully as a team are the same in both settings.\n\nThese skills — listening, recognizing each other's strengths, and supporting each other through difficulties — can apply equally well to an academic Socratic Method of questioning or problem-solving toward schoolwide improvement efforts.\n\nFor example, the Kane School in Lawrence, Massachusetts has been using adventure as a tool for school restructuring. The entire faculty — particularly the Faculty Advisory Council, which shares the decisionmaking responsibilities with the principal — has honed group skills through experiential education activities developed by Project Adventure. These skills include open communication, methods of conflict resolution, and mechanisms for decision making (High Strides, 1990).\n\nEstablished in 1973, \"Breakthrough\" in Hong Kong was the first non-profit organization that applied the concepts of experiential education (though primarily conceptualized in terms of outdoor adventure education) in youth works. Since then, development in experiential education has proceeded in Singapore, Taiwan, Macau, and some large cities in China.\n\nExperiential methods in education have existed in China for thousands of years. However, it should be noted that John Dewey was in China in the early 1900s and his ideas were extremely popular. Interest in Dewey's experience in China and contribution is growing.\n\nExperiential education started in Qatar in 2010 through AL-Bairaq, which is an outreach, non-traditional educational program that targets high school students and focuses on a curriculum based on STEM fields. The idea behind AL-Bairaq is to offer high school students the opportunity to connect with the research environment in the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Faculty members train and mentor the students and help develop and enhance their critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork skills, using a hands-on-activities approach.\n\nThere are multiple ways in which experiential education is practiced. Examples of experiential learning methods used include:\n\n\nAll of these use the pattern of problem, plan, test and reflect as their foundation for the educative experience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23261600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23261600", "title": "Fushūgaku", "text": "Fushūgaku\n\nThere are a number of reasons as to why these children do not go to school. There are many cases where they cannot understand the Japanese language. In other cases they may be able to understand both Japanese and their own native language, but their level of conversation is insufficient to participate in class lessons. Bullying by native Japanese students may also contribute to their choice not to attend school. In other cases, the children have parents who both work to support the family, and the children end up being left at home alone. In these families, they spend time together late at night after their parents stop working. On their parents' day off, they go out late at night together (shopping, etc.) They pass their time at autonomous Japanese language classrooms that were built for the children of foreigners. These parents are usually blue-collar workers.\n\nOther reasons are that the parents of \"fushugaku\" children want their children to go to a school where they would use their native language. However, such schools cost between 30,000 and 50,000 yen per month, so parents cannot afford to send their children.\n\n"}
{"id": "3898956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3898956", "title": "Integrative learning", "text": "Integrative learning\n\nIntegrative learning is a learning theory describing a movement toward integrated lessons helping students make connections across curricula. This higher education concept is distinct from the elementary and high school \"integrated curriculum\" movement.\n\nIntegrative Learning comes in many varieties: connecting skills and knowledge from multiple sources and experiences; applying skills and practices in various settings; utilizing diverse and even contradictory points of view; and, understanding issues and positions contextually.\"\n\n...making connections within a major, between fields, between curriculum, cocurriculum, or between academic knowledge and practice.\"\n\nIntegrated studies involve bringing together traditionally separate subjects so that students can grasp a more authentic understanding. Veronica Boix Mansilla, cofounder of the Interdisciplinary Studies Project at Project Zero, explains \"when [students] can bring together concepts, methods, or languages from two or more disciplines or established areas of expertise in order to explain a phenomenon, solve a problem, create a product, or raise a new question\" they are demonstrating interdisciplinary understanding. For over a decade, Project Zero researchers at the Harvard Graduate School of Education have been studying interdisciplinary work across a range of settings. They have found interdisciplinary understanding to be crucial for modern-thinking students.\n\nEdutopia highlighted Central York High School as a \"School That Works\" because of its successful integrated studies approach. For example, an AP government teacher and art teacher collaborated to create a joint project that asked students to create a sculpture based on the principles presented by the AP government class.\nAP government teacher Dayna Laur states that,\n\"Integrated studies projects [aim to] create a connectedness between disciplines that otherwise might seem unrelated to many students. Deliberately searching for ways in which you can mingle standards and content is imperative if you want to create truly authentic experiences because, in the world outside of the classroom, content is not stand-alone.\"\n\nIn many American medical schools, an integrated curriculum refers to a non-compartmentalized approach to basic science learning. As opposed to traditional medical curriculum, which separate subjects such as embryology, physiology, pathology and anatomy, integrated curricula alternate lectures on these subjects over the course of the first two years. (Jonas 1989) The course of study is instead organized around organ systems (such as \"Cardiovascular\" or \"Gastrointestinal\"). Another major component of the integrated medical curriculum is problem-based learning.\n\nInterdisciplinary curricula has been shown by several studies to support students’ engagement and learning. Specifically integrating science with reading comprehension and writing lessons has been shown to improve students’ understanding in both science and English language arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25425741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25425741", "title": "Intercultural communicative competence in computer-supported collaborative learning", "text": "Intercultural communicative competence in computer-supported collaborative learning\n\nIntercultural communicative competence in computer-supported collaborative learning is the application of computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) to provide intercultural communicative competence (ICC).\n\nOne of the well-known applications of CSCL is telecollaboration involving the use of the Internet or other computer-mediated communication tools by internationally dispersed students in order to foster the development of foreign language linguistic and intercultural competence in communication. With the aid of the technological mediation used in telecollaborative study, participants on each side of the network have cost-effective access to \"Languaculture.\"\n\nNumerous models and theories of intercultural communication have been proposed, including communication accommodation (Giles, 1973), cultural convergence (Barnett & Kincaid, 1983), identity or face negotiation theory (Ting-Toomey, 1993), and interactive acculturation (Bourhis, Moise, Perreault, & Senecal, 1997). A model of ICC (or IC) widely accepted in foreign language education has been proposed by Byram. This model includes five components, all of which are needed for a student to become an \"intercultural speaker\":\n\n\nThe benefits as well as the challenges of utilizing CSCL as a means of intercultural communication must be considered. Research in the field indicates several advantages, including:\n\n\nHowever, despite the potential advantages of using CSCL to overcome the barriers of face-to-face prejudice, develop social skills, and increase cognitive flexibility, simply adding CSCL to a communicative situation does not automatically foster trust nor resolve intercultural issues. In fact, research has indicated that some problems are made worse (or at least more obvious) by moving to a computer-supported medium:\n\n\nAlthough there are many benefits to using CSCL, especially in language learning contexts, teachers must approach its adoption with clear goals and objectives. Teachers should select the CSCL medium with careful consideration. In fact, tool selection is critical since different media work well for some people and not for others. In addition, instructors need to be familiar with concepts of intercultural communication in addition to CSCL. In terms of its application CSCL is not appropriate for short-term projects, and teachers should expect to spend a considerable amount of extra management time in roles such as mediators, monitors, and facilitators. Teachers who have little extra time should not implement CSCL.\n\nCSCL requires instructional scaffolding to accommodate different levels of foreign language ability as well as concrete and structured exercises that are built in during the team formation stage. Teachers may have to provide background information to extend their students' understanding of the target culture while also being unafraid to confront negative stereotypes that their students may possess. Despite these challenges, CSCL may prove to be a superior tool through which teachers can foster greater understanding between their students and members of other cultures.\n"}
{"id": "58830224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58830224", "title": "Israeli Students Combating Antisemitism", "text": "Israeli Students Combating Antisemitism\n\nIsraeli Students combating antisemitism (ISCA) online has been founded in 2011 and operates with the purpose of fighting the growing antisemitism, xenophobia and Holocaust denial on the internet. \n\nIsraeli Students Combating Antisemitism (ISCA) is one of the world's leading initiatives for combating antisemitism, Holocaust denial & racism online, designed by the National Union of Israeli Students. The program trains excelling students to monitor and respond to racist materials distributed online in exchange for academic credits or a scholarship. ISCA is a member of the International Network Against Cyber Hate (INACH) and is taking an active role in shaping a civil discourse online together with NGO's and human rights organizations.\nTens of students from various academic institutions in Israel participate each year in the program. The students operate on various social media platforms, monitoring content on more than 10 languages, including answering questions regarding the Jewish nation, Holocaust, Jewish history and reporting antisemitic questions published on social media.\n\nThe students operate in three teams: monitoring, Yahoo answers and new media. The monitoring team oversaes reporting and removing antisemitic content in the following social media platforms: Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube and Vikontakte (Russian social media), monitoring content on more than 10 languages. The Yahoo Answers team includes students answering questions asked by Yahoo users regarding the Jewish nation, Holocaust, Jewish history etc. In addition, students report antisemitic questions published on the website. The new media team oversees the ongoing operation in different social media platforms: Facebook pages (English, French and Portuguese), Twitter (English and French), a YouTube channel and an Instagram account.\nThe program is leading in its field due to its special nature and operation and is appreciated by many countries. The program for combating antisemitism online is the biggest in the world for monitoring antisemitic content online and in the most languages, compared to other NGO's in the field. The program corporate with human rights organizations and NGO’S such as Yad Vashem, ADL, Kantor Center, INACH and more.\n\nThe program for combating antisemitism online is the biggest in the world for monitoring antisemitic content online and in the most languages, compared to other NGO's in the field. \nAs part of the program's cooperation with various organizations, its representatives regularly participate in committees in the Knesset and in conferences around the world. In 2017 representatives participated in OSCE – a youth conference in Spain. In 2018, the program shared experiences of fighting antisemitism online at a special panel at the Global forum for antisemitism, organized by the Israeli Ministry for Foreign Affairs.\nIn 2014, the Academic Program for Combating Antisemitism was established at the Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) in Herzliya, to channel the program's activities to the academia. The program grants credit to around 30 students every year for academic training and two-semester activities. The academic program encourages students, both Jewish and non-Jewish, to initiate a personal project to eradicate the phenomenon of hatred on the Internet.\n\nPart of the achievements of the program over the years: On Facebook, monitoring over 21,000 antisemitic and Holocaust deniers, with an average removal rate of 44%. On Twitter, monitoring more than 17,000 accounts with an average removal rate of 60%. On YouTube, monitoring more than 6,000 videos with an average removal rate of 41%. On Instagram, monitoring more than 8,000 accounts and pictures with an average removal rate of 90%. On Yahoo Answers and Quora, answered over 3,000 questions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11987681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11987681", "title": "Joseph Priestley and education", "text": "Joseph Priestley and education\n\nJoseph Priestley ( – 8 February 1804) was a British natural philosopher, Dissenting clergyman, political theorist, and theologian. While his achievements in all of these areas are renowned, he was also dedicated to improving education in Britain; he did this on an individual level and through his support of the Dissenting academies. His grammar textbook was innovative and highly influential. More importantly, though, Priestley introduced a liberal arts curriculum at Warrington Academy, arguing that a practical education would be more useful to students than a classical one. He was also the first to advocate the study and teaching of modern history, an interest driven by his belief that humanity was improving and could bring about Christ's Millennium.\n\nPriestley was a teacher in one way or another throughout his entire adult life. Once he discovered how much he enjoyed teaching, he consistently returned to this calling. At the school he established in Nantwich, Cheshire, he taught a wide range of topics to the town's children: Latin (and perhaps Greek), geography, mathematics, and English grammar. Unusually for the time, he also taught natural philosophy. Following the success of this school, he was offered the position of tutor of modern languages and rhetoric at Warrington Academy. In later years, when he lived in Leeds and Birmingham, he created classes for the youth of his parishes; in Birmingham his three classes totaled 150 students and he helped organize the New Meeting Sunday schools for the poor.\n\nHaving received an excellent education at Daventry, a Dissenting academy, and convinced that education was the key to shaping people and the world's future, Priestley continued to support the Dissenting academies throughout his life. For example, he advised the founders of New College at Hackney on its curriculum and preached a charity sermon on the \"proper Objects of Education\" to help raise money for the school. After emigrating to America in 1794, Priestley continued the educational projects that had always been important to him. He attempted to find funding for the Northumberland Academy and donated his library to it, but the academy did not open until 1813 and closed soon after. He communicated with Thomas Jefferson regarding the proper organization of a university and when Jefferson founded the University of Virginia, it was Priestley's curricular principles that dominated the school. Jefferson also passed Priestley's advice on to Bishop James Madison, whose College of William & Mary also followed Priestley's maxims.\n\nWherever Priestley went, he also instructed people in natural philosophy. In Nantwich, he bought scientific instruments, such as a microscope, for the school, and encouraged his students to give public presentations of their experiments. In Calne, where he was a tutor to the son of Lord Shelburne, Priestley convinced his patron to buy expensive equipment with which to teach his son the fundamentals of natural philosophy. He wrote in his \"Miscellaneous Observations relating to Education\" (1778), published during these years, that children should not only be educated in the ancient subjects of rhetoric and grammar but should also become acquainted with science early in their lives since scientific understanding underpins the progress of the human race.\n\nAfter Priestley moved to Birmingham in 1780, he encouraged the town's children to play with his apparatus and ask questions about his laboratory: the Priestley home became a place of scientific education for the town's children. Priestley's rain gauge and \"perambulator\" (a wheelbarrow for recording distances) delighted them. The boys often played with his air-gun, aiming at a wig of Priestley's which he had fastened to a post. Priestley designed magic lantern shows for them and shocked them with his electrical machine.\n\nIn 1765, Priestley dedicated his \"Essay on a Course of Liberal Education for Civil and Active Life\" (1765), to the governing board of Warrington Academy. In it he argues that young people's education should anticipate their practical needs, something he accused the current universities, Dissenting and Establishment alike, of failing to do. In Priestley's eyes, the contemporary focus on a traditional classical education prevented students from acquiring useful skills. This principle of utility guided his unusual curricular recommendations. He proposed that students study English and the modern languages instead of the classical languages, learn practical mathematics, read modern rather than ancient history, and study the constitution and laws of England. He believed that these topics would prepare his students for the commercial middle-class life that most of them would live; he did not believe that the poor should receive this same education, arguing \"it could be of no service to their country, and often a real detriment to themselves.\" In 1766 Warrington Academy replaced its old classical curriculum with Priestley's new liberal arts model. Some scholars of education have argued that this work and his later \"Miscellaneous Observations relating to Education\" (1778) (often reprinted with the \"Essay on Education\") made Priestley the \"most considerable English writer on educational philosophy\" between John Locke and Herbert Spencer.\n\nPriestley's first successful educational venture was the establishment of a local school in Nantwich. Believing that all students should have a good grasp of the English language and its grammar before learning any other language and dismayed at the quality of the instruction manuals available, Priestley wrote his own textbook: \"The Rudiments of English Grammar\" (1761). The book was very successful—it was reprinted for over fifty years. Its humor may have contributed to its popularity; for example, Priestley illustrated the \"couplet\" with this rhyme:\n\nPriestley also quoted from the most famous English authors, encouraging the middle-class association between reading and pleasure, a reading that would also, Priestley hoped, foster morality. Priestley's innovations in the teaching and description of English grammar, particularly his efforts to disassociate it from Latin grammar, made his textbook revolutionary and have led twentieth-century scholars to describe him as \"one of the great grammarians of his time.\" \"Rudiments\" influenced all of the major grammarians of the late eighteenth century: Robert Lowth, James Harris, John Horne Tooke and even the American Noah Webster. The resounding success of Priestley's book was one of the reasons that Warrington Academy offered him a teaching position in 1761.\n\nPriestley's philosophy was founded on the fervent belief that a thorough understanding of history was necessary not only to worldly success but also to spiritual growth. He wrote: \"my view was, not merely to make history intelligible to persons who may choose to read it for amusement, but . . . to facilitate its subserviency to the highest uses to which it can be applied: to contribute to its forming the able statesman and the intelligent and useful citizen.\" His abiding interest in history, particularly modern history, sets Priestley apart from his contemporaries. Priestley was the first person to advocate the serious study of modern history; no other British university was teaching the subject at the time and Oxford would not begin until 1841.\n\nWhile at Warrington Academy, Priestley gave a series of lectures on history and government; in 1788 he finally published them as \"Lectures on History and General Policy\". They cover a wide array of topics—\"forms of government, the feudal system, the rise of corporations, law, agriculture, commerce, the arts, finance and taxation, colonies, manners, population, war and peace\"—demonstrating how all-encompassing Priestley believed the study of history to be. In this text, he narrates a version of history in which all events are \"an exhibition of the ways of God;\" studying history and nature, according to Priestley, \"leads us to the knowledge of his perfections and of his will.\" Understanding history thus allows one to comprehend the natural laws God established and the perfection towards which they allow the world to tend. This millennial outlook is tied together with Priestley's belief in scientific progress and the improvement of the human race. Priestley maintained that each age improves upon the previous one and studying history allows people to see and participate in that progress. In his \"Essay on the First Principles of Government\" (1768) he writes:\n\nHighly as we think of the \"wisdom of our ancestors\" we justly think of ourselves, of the present age, wiser and . . . must see that we can . . . improve upon institutions that have been transmitted to us. Let us not doubt but that every generation in posterity will be as much superior to us in political, and all kinds of knowledge, and that they will be able to improve upon the best civil and religious institutions that we can prescribe for them. [Priestley's emphasis]\n\nThis millennial conception of history was in direct contrast to the two dominant historical paradigms of the time: Edward Gibbon's decline narrative found in his \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" and David Hume's cyclical narrative found in his \"History of England\".\n\nUnlike Gibbon and Hume, Priestley did not limit himself to narrating a version of history in these \"Lectures\"; he also presented a method for historical research and was one of the first to argue for the primacy of original documents in the study of history. He also contended that much could be learned from \"material evidence\" of former civilizations, such as \"ancient coins, medals and inscriptions,\" as well as \"exchequer rolls, public and private ledger books, letters, diaries, monetary, financial and exchange systems, systems of fortifications and city plans . . . [in addition to] ballads and works of fiction.\" The book was well received and was employed by many educational institutions, such as the Dissenting academy at Hackney, Brown, Princeton, Yale and Cambridge.\n\nThe theory underpinning Priestley's millennial view of history and his educational philosophy, was David Hartley's theory of association. Hartley's associationism, an expansion of John Locke's theories in \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690) and laid out in \"Observations on Man\" (1749), postulated that the human mind operated according to natural laws and that the most important law for the formation of the self was \"associationism.\" For Hartley, associationism was a physical process: vibrations in the physical world traveled through the nerves attached to people's sense organs and ended up in their brains. The brain connected the vibrations of whatever sensory input it was receiving with whatever feelings or ideas that the brain was simultaneously \"thinking.\" These \"associations\" were impossible to avoid, formed as they were simply by experiencing the world; they were also the foundation of a person's character. Locke famously warns against letting \"a foolish maid\" convince a child that \"goblins and sprites\" are associated with the darkness, for \"darkness shall ever afterwards bring with it those frightful ideas, and they shall be so joined, that he can no more bear the one than the other.\" Associationism provided the scientific basis for Priestley's belief that man is \"perfectible\" and served as the foundation for all of his pedagogical innovations.\n\nBecause Priestley viewed education as one of the primary forces shaping a person's character as well as the basis of morality, he, unusually for his time, promoted the education of women. Alluding to the language of Locke's \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", he wrote: \"certainly, the minds of women are capable of the same improvement, and the same furniture, as those of men.\" He argued that if women were to care for children and be intellectually stimulating companions for their husbands, they had to be well-educated. Although Priestley advocated education for middle-class women, he did not extend this logic to the poor.\n\nAs a supplement to his lectures on history, Priestley also designed and published \"A Chart of Biography\" (1765) and a \"New Chart of History\" (1769) (which he dedicated to Benjamin Franklin). These charts and their accompanying \"Descriptions\" would allow students, Priestley said, to \"trace out distinctly the dependence of events to distribute them into such periods and divisions as shall lay the whole claim of past transactions in a just and orderly manner.\"\n\nThe \"Chart of Biography\" covers a vast timespan, from 1200 BC to 1800 AD, and includes two thousand names. Priestley organized his list into six categories: Statesman and Warriors; Divines and Metaphysicians; Mathematicians and Physicians (natural philosophers were placed here); Poets and Artists; Orators and Critics (prose fiction authors were placed here); and Historians and Antiquarians (lawyers were placed here). Priestley's \"principle of selection\" was fame, not merit; therefore, as he mentions, the chart is a reflection of current opinion. He also wanted to ensure that his readers would recognize the entires on the chart. Priestley had difficulty assigning his all of his people to individual categories; he attempted to list them in the category under which their most important work had been done. Machiavelli is therefore listed as a historian rather than a statesman and Cicero is listed as a statesman instead of an orator. The chart was also arranged in order of importance; \"statesmen are placed on the lower margin, where they are easier to see, because they are the names most familiar to readers.\"\n\nThe \"Chart of History\" lists events in 106 separate locations; it illustrates Priestley's belief that the entire world's history was significant, a relatively new development in the eighteenth century, which had begun with Voltaire and William Robertson. The world's history is divided up into the following geographical categories: Scandinavia, Poland, Russia, Great Britain, Spain, France, Italy, Turkey in Europe, Turkey in Asia, Germany, Persia, India, China, Africa and America. Priestley aimed to show the history of empires and the passing of power; the subtitle of the \"Description\" that accompanied the chart was \"A View of the Principle Revolutions of Empire that have taken place in the World\" and he wrote that:\n\nThe capital use [of the \"Charts\" was as] a most excellent mechanical help to the knowledge of history, impressing the imagination indelibly with a just image of the rise, progress, extent, duration, and contemporary state of all the considerable empires that have ever existed in the world.\n\nAs Arthur Sheps in his article about the \"Charts\" explains, \"the horizontal line conveys an idea of the duration of fame, influence, power and domination. A vertical reading conveys an impression of the contemporaneity of ideas, events and people. The number or density of entries . . . tells us about the vitality of any age.\" Voids in the chart indicated intellectual Dark Ages, for example. Both \"Charts\" were popular for decades—the \"A New Chart of History\" went through fifteen editions by 1816. The trustees of Warrington were so impressed with Priestley's lectures and charts that they arranged for the University of Edinburgh to grant him a Doctor of Law degree in 1764.\n\nPriestley pondered what form the best religious education would take throughout his life. In the 1760s, when he was a student at Daventry Academy, he imbibed the pedagogical principles of its founder, Philip Doddridge; although he was dead, Doddridge's emphasis on academic rigor and freedom of thought lived on at the school and impressed Priestley. These ideals would always be a part of Priestley's educational programs. He began writing one of these while still at Daventry, the \"Institutes of Natural and Revealed Religion\". However, he did not publish the work until 1772, when he was at Leeds. In an effort to increase and stabilize membership at his church there, he taught three religious education classes. He subdivided the young people of the congregation into three categories: young men from 18-30 to whom he taught \"the elements of natural and revealed religion\" (young women may or may not be included in this group); children under 14 to whom he taught \"the first elements of religious knowledge by way of a short catechism in the plainest and most familiar language possible\"; and \"an intermediate class\" to whom he taught \"knowledge of the Scriptures only.\" Unlike the later Sunday schools established by Robert Raikes, Priestley aimed his classes at middle-class Rational Dissenters; he wanted to teach them \"the principles of natural religion and the evidences and doctrine of revelation in a regular and systematic course,\" something their parents could not provide.\n\nPriestley wrote texts for the courses he envisioned: \"A Catechism for Children and Young Persons\" (1767), which went through eleven English-language editions; and \"A Scripture Catechism, consisting of a Series of Questions, with References to the Scriptures instead of Answers\" (1772), which went through six British editions by 1817. He aimed to write non-sectarian \"Catechisms\", but in this he failed. He offended many orthodox readers by focusing on God's benevolence instead of on Adam's sin and Christ's atonement. Priestley implemented this same system of religious instruction over a decade later in Birmingham, when he became a minister at New Meeting.\nFor a complete bibliography of Priestley's works, see the list of works by Joseph Priestley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44582355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44582355", "title": "Kahoot!", "text": "Kahoot!\n\nKahoot! is a game-based learning platform, used as educational technology in schools and other educational institutions. Its learning games, \"Kahoots\", are multiple-choice quizzes that allow user generation and can be accessed via a web browser.\n\nKahoot! can be used to review students' knowledge, for formative assessment, or as a break from traditional classroom activities. Kahoot! also includes trivia quizzes.\nKahoot was founded by Johan Brand, Jamie Brooker and Morten Versvik in a joint project with the Norwegian University of Technology and Science, they teamed up with Professor Alf Inge Wang, and were later joined by Norwegian entrepreneur Åsmund Furuseth.\nKahoot was designed for social learning, with learners gathered around a common screen such as an interactive whiteboard, projector or a computer monitor. The site can also be used through screen-sharing tools such as Skype or Google Hangouts. The game design is such that the players are required to frequently look up from their devices. The gameplay is simple; all players connect using a generated game PIN shown on the common screen, and use a device to answer questions created by a teacher, business leader, or other person. These questions can be changed to award points. Points then show up on the leaderboard after each question. \n\nKahoot can be played through different web browsers and mobile devices through its web interface.\n\nIn September 2017, Kahoot launched a mobile application for homework.\nKahoot added a new feature in 2016, called Jumble. Users create quizzes with exactly four options (it is always exactly four) in the correct order. Kahoot automatically randomizes the answers during the game. Users have to move the triangle, diamond, circle and square up and into the right order. Then users have to press a blue, circular button with a white text that says \"K!\" under the rectangles. If a user suspects that the answers are in the wrong order, the rectangles will have to be moved down back to its original position before it can be moved back up to the correct position again.\n\nKahoot was launched in a private beta at SXSWedu in March 2013 and the beta was released to the public in September 2013.\n\nIn March 2017, Kahoot reached one billion cumulative participating players and in the month of May, the company was reported to have 50 million monthly active unique users.\n\nAs of 2017, Kahoot has raised $26.5 million in funding from Northzone, Creandum and Microsoft Ventures, as well as private investors in Norway.\n\nAs of October 11, 2018, Kahoot is valued at $300 million.\n\nAccording to research by two students at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, the network latency in accessing the website greatly influences the quality of experience of the platform, in both longitudinal and cross-section studies, with a sample size N=21. It was found that about 70% of the sample size regard Kahoot! as having positive results on all delay levels, while a varying number of students (between 10-20%) report that the platform is too time-consuming, forming a direct relationship with the duration of delay.\n\n"}
{"id": "1095131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1095131", "title": "Kinesthetic learning", "text": "Kinesthetic learning\n\nKinesthetic learning (American English), kinaesthetic learning (British English), or tactile learning is a learning style in which learning takes place by the students carrying out physical activities, rather than listening to a lecture or watching demonstrations. As cited by Favre (2009), Dunn and Dunn define kinesthetic learners as students who require whole-body movement to process new and difficult information.\nKinesthetic intelligence, which was originally coupled with tactile abilities, was defined and discussed in Howard Gardner's \"\" in 1983. In this book, Gardner describes activities such as dancing and performing surgery as requiring great kinesthetic intelligence: using the body to create (or do) something.\n\nMargaret H'Doubler wrote and spoke about kinesthetic learning during the 1940s, defining kinesthetic learning as the human body's ability to express itself through movement and dance.\n\nNeil Fleming, a New Zealand teacher and educational theorist, designed the VARK model (visual, aural or auditory, read/write and kinesthetic). According to Fleming’s model, kinesthetic learners are similar to tactile learners in that they like hands-on experiential learning. They excel in concrete learning such as on-the-job training, work experience, internships, simulations and so forth (Kte’pi, 2016).\n\nThe Fleming VAK/VARK model (one of the most common and widely used categorizations of the various types of learning styles) categorized learning styles as follows:\nSkill memory also fits into the category of kinesthetic learning, as it is what happens when somebody is learning kinesthetically. Skill memories are difficult to convey except by direct demonstration, may be acquired without awareness, and require several repetitions.\n\nRita Dunn contends that kinesthetic and tactile learning are the same style. Galeet BenZion asserts that kinesthetic and tactile learning are separate learning styles, with different characteristics. She defined kinesthetic learning as the process that results in new knowledge (or understanding) with the involvement of the learner's body movement. This movement is performed to establish new knowledge or extend existing knowledge. Kinesthetic learning is at its best, BenZion found, when the learner uses language (their own words) in order to define, explain, resolve and sort out how their body's movement reflects the concept explored. One example is a student using movement to work out the sum of 1/2 plus 3/4 via movement, then explaining how their motions in space reflect the mathematical process leading to the correct answer.\n\nIn addition, Denig (2004) in his article ‘Multiple Intelligences and Learning Styles: Two Complementary Dimensions’, presented Dunn and Dunn’s Learning Styles Model, which addresses 21 elements that affect students’ learning. These elements are broken down into five stimuli: environmental, emotional, sociological, physiological and psychological variables. Under this model, physiological stimuli consist of four elements, one of which is perceptual. Perceptual depicts the auditory, visual, tactual and kinesthetic styles whereby learners learn more effectively. This gives meaning to the concept that kinesthetic learners learn best through whole-body activities and experiences while tactual learners learn best through manipulation of items with their hands.\n\nDepending upon memory systems the kinesthetic learners respond differently. The different kinds of learners mainly include whole body learners, hands-on learners, doodlers, students learning through emotional experiences. The learning and the memory is generally short term. To achieve a long term memory different techniques can be used depending on the learning style. Mind mapping, story mapping, webbing, drawing can be used to enhance the learning of a doodler. For the hands-on learner, role play, clay, building and math manipulative can be used. The whole book body learner can learn better through role-playing, body mapping, puzzles and use of computer technology which allows for certain movement while learning. Students can be engaged in group activities and activities which involve bodily movement such as dance, drama, sports can be used to nurture their learning. The following strategies can be used to facilitate kinesthetic memory through procedural motor pathway such as:\nThe kinesthetic learners who have memories associated with emotions learning can be facilitated through dance, debate, drama, role-play, and charades. This kind of learning leads to a long-term memory since it is associated with emotions such as excitement, curiosity, anger, disappointment and success.\n\nPerceptual-motor skills are skills learned by movement patterns guided by sensory inputs. There are closed skills and open skills. Closed skills are skills learned such as dance. A ballerina learns a specific set of moves and doesn’t stray from the exact routine, which is why it is called a closed skill; there is one option. Open skills are skills that require more flexibility in learning such as team sports. A person learning how to play football learns multiple drills, strategies, and practices scrimmages in order to learn how to work in multiple types of environments. Because no football game is the same, and a person can't know going into a game the exact steps the other team is going to take, open skills are required to become successful. Cognitive skills also are a part of kinesthetic learning, perceptual learning, and skill memories. Some people learn better in an environment that is more hands-on, and this builds their cognitive skills as well. Cognitive skills are skills which require individuals to solve problems or apply strategies rather than to move their bodies based on what they perceive. Solving a puzzle would be an example of a cognitive skill.\n\nLearners with kinesthetic preferences learn through active movements and experiences. Activities such as playing, puppetry, drama, acting and designing ensures involvement of the learners. Thus, it is also important to manage the students during such activities.\n\nSome effective strategies used to involve unmotivated students during activities are:\nSome effective strategies used to manage hyper motivated students are:\n\nSubjects can be taught to cater for kinesthetic learners. Through a strength-based and learner-centered approach, educators should engage kinesthetic students in activities that require movements because they learn by doing. Activities could include role-plays, drama, dance, races and competitions, field trips and projects.\n\nFavre (2009) stated that instructional strategies should include movement in a game-like format. Favre suggested designing kinesthetic games. For example, “game boards such as Tic-Tac-Toe affixed to the classroom floor and hopscotch template painted on the playground tarmac or sidewalks around the school” (p. 32). Favre also suggested that instructors can use “commercial games such as Twister, Jeopardy and Nerf basketball and create game cards that align with their lesson objectives” (pp.32-33) . \n\nReese & Dunn (2007) in their research of college freshmen learning styles provided recommended that \"to ensure success for kinesthetic learners, classes should provide active experiences for planning or carrying out objectives, such as visits, project, role playing, simulations and floor or wall games\"(p. 108). \n\nAlthough the concept of learning styles is popular among educators in some countries (and children and adults express preferences for particular modes of learning), there is no evidence that identifying a student's learning style produces better outcomes; on the contrary, there is substantial evidence that the meshing hypothesis (that a student will learn best if taught in a method deemed appropriate for the student's learning style) is invalid. Well-designed studies \"flatly contradict the popular meshing hypothesis\".\n\nProponents state that the evidence related to kinesthetic learners benefiting from specialized instruction (or targeted materials) appears mixed at best; the diagnosis of kinesthetic and tactile learning is coupled (rather than isolated), and teachers are likely to misdiagnose students' learning styles.\n\nOn the other hand, studies do show that mixed-modality presentations (for instance, using auditory and visual techniques) improve results in a variety of subjects. Instruction that stimulates more than auditory learning (for example, kinesthetic learning) is more likely to enhance learning in a heterogeneous student population.\n\nThere are three parts of the brain that are the most important to kinesthetic and skill learning. The basal ganglia, cerebral cortex, and the cerebellum all play equally important roles in the ability to learn new skills and master them.\n\nThe basal ganglia are a collection of ganglia (clusters of neurons) that lie at the base of the forebrain. The basal ganglia receive information from other parts of the brain such as the hippocampus and cortical areas that send messages about the outside world. Most of these messages are sensory, meaning what a person is physically feeling. The basal ganglia then interpret this information and sends it on a path to the thalamus and the brainstem which both play large factors in physical movement. Therefore, the basal ganglia are the beginning of the process for somebody who is learning-by-doing to respond viscerally to the stimuli around them. It is important once a skill is learned to practice it. This can change how basal ganglia circuits participate in the performance of that skill and that synaptic plasticity is a basic neural mechanism enabling such changes. The more a person practices, the more plasticity they develop.\n\nThe cerebral cortex is the brain tissue covering the top and sides of the brain in most vertebrates. It is involved in storing and processing of sensory inputs and motor outputs. In the human brain, the cerebral cortex is actually a sheet of neural tissue about 1/8th inch thick. The sheet is folded so that it can fit inside the skull. The neural circuits in this area of the brain expand with practice of an activity, just like the synaptic plasticity grows with practice. Clarification of some of the mechanisms of learning by neuro science has been advanced, in part, by the advent of non-invasive imaging technologies, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI). These technologies have allowed researchers to observe human learning processes directly. Through these types of technologies, we are now able to see and study what happens in the process of learning. In different tests performed the brain being imaged showed a greater blood flow and activation to that area of the brain being stimulated through different activities such as finger tapping in a specific sequence. It has been revealed that the process at the beginning of learning a new skill happens quickly, and later on slows down to almost a plateau. This process can also be referred to as The Law of Learning. The slower learning showed in the FMRI that in the cerebral cortex this was when the long term learning was occurring, suggesting that the structural changes in the cortex reflect the enhancement of skill memories during later stages of training. When a person studies a skill for a longer duration of time, but in a shorter amount of time they will learn quickly, but also only retain the information into their short-term memory. Just like studying for an exam; if a student tries to learn everything the night before, it will not stick in the long run. If a person studies a skill for a shorter duration of time, but more frequently and long-term, their brain will retain this information much longer as it is stored in the long-term memory. Functional and structural studies of the brain have revealed a vast interconnectivity between diverse regions of the cerebral cortex. For example, large numbers of axons interconnect the posterior sensory areas serving vision, audition, and touch with anterior motor regions. Constant communication between sensation and movement makes sense, because to execute smooth movement through the environment, movement must be continuously integrated with knowledge about one's surroundings obtained via sensory perception. The cerebral cortex plays a role in allowing humans to do this.\n\nThe cerebellum is critical to the ability for a human or animal to be able to regulate movement. This area of the brain wraps around the brainstem and is very densely packed with neurons and neural connections. This part of the brain is involved in timing as well as movement. It assists in predicting events, especially in the formation, execution, and timing of conditioned responses. The cerebellum plays a very important role in all forms of kinesthetic learning and motor function. For a ballerina, it is important to be able to control their movements and time it exactly right for their routine. For a football player it is important to be able to regulate movement when running throwing, and being able to have control over where the ball goes as well as the timing of it.\n\nAll three of these important systems in the brain function together as a team, one not being more important than the other. They work together to allow for responding to sensory events, timing, controlling physical actions, and more. However, it is important to remember than unless a person is actively practicing, these parts of the brain won't help them get to their full potential. Alterations in the brain that occur during learning seem to make the nerve cells more efficient or powerful. Studies have shown that animals raised in complex environments have a greater volume of capillaries per nerve cell—and therefore a greater supply of blood to the brain—than the caged animals, regardless of whether the caged animal lived alone or with companions. Overall, these studies depict an orchestrated pattern of increased capacity in the brain that depends on experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "5906669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5906669", "title": "Language-learning aptitude", "text": "Language-learning aptitude\n\nLanguage learning aptitude refers to the \"prediction of how well, relative to other individuals, an individual can learn a foreign language in a given amount of time and under given conditions\".\n\nAs with many measures of aptitude, language learning aptitude is thought to be relatively stable once a person matures. Many people show a remarkable learning aptitude for learning their language.\n\nSome high schools, universities or other institutions will interpret low language learning aptitude as a sign of a language learning disability. A pattern of evidence from several sources can help to diagnose a foreign language learning disability. Evidence can come from scoring poorly on language learning aptitude assessments, like the Modern Language Aptitude Test, Pimsleur Language Aptitude Battery, Modern Language Aptitude Test – Elementary or Defense Language Aptitude Battery, while attaining average or above-average scores on aptitude assessments in other areas, like general intelligence. A history of scoring poorly on an array of language aptitude tests taken at the appropriate time (MLAT-E for grades 3–6, PLAB for grades 7–12, MLAT for adults) can provide even stronger evidence for a language learning disability. Evidence can also come from comparing a poor past performance in foreign language courses with average or above-average performance in other courses unrelated to language learning.\n\nLanguage aptitude is one of the important factors that determined L2 later learners' ultimate achievement, but it has less effect on L2 early learners.\n\nJohn B. Carroll, an influential psychologist in the field of educational linguistics, developed a theory about a cluster of four abilities that factored into language learning aptitude, separate from verbal intelligence and motivation. Using these four distinct abilities (phonetic coding ability, grammatical sensitivity, rote learning ability, and inductive learning ability), Carroll developed the MLAT, a language aptitude assessment for adults.\n\nThe four ability components are defined as follows:\n\nPaul Pimsleur, also known for the Pimsleur language learning system, spent time researching four factors that he believed to be related to language learning aptitude. Pimsleur included grade point average as an indication of general academic achievement as well as motivation in his factors. In addition, the verbal ability factor indicated how well a student would be able to handle the mechanics of learning a foreign language and the auditory factor indicated how well a student would be able to listen to and produce phrases in a foreign language. To test these four factors, Pimsleur developed the Pimsleur Language Aptitude Battery.\n\nMeasurements of language learning aptitude are used in many different ways. The United States Department of Defense uses a measurement of language learning aptitude, the Defense Language Aptitude Battery, to help place employees in positions that require them to learn a new language.\n\nGovernmental agencies use the MLAT as a tool to select and place employees in intensive language training programs. Businesses and missionaries use the MLAT to select, place and plan for language training. Universities, colleges and high schools use the MLAT to help in the diagnosis of foreign language learning disabilities. Although each institution has its own policy, many will waive a foreign language requirement in cases of a foreign language learning disability in favor of a history or linguistic course.\n\nSchools use the PLAB and MLAT-E to place students in suitable language courses, build a history of a foreign language learning difficulty, identify especially gifted students in respect to language learning and to match learning styles with instructional styles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4852131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4852131", "title": "Language attrition", "text": "Language attrition\n\nLanguage attrition is the process of losing a native, or first, language. This process is generally caused by both isolation from speakers of the first language and the acquisition and use of a second language, which interferes with the correct production and comprehension of the first. Such interference from a second language is likely experienced to some extent by all bilinguals, but is most evident among speakers for whom a language other than their first has started to play an important, if not dominant, role in everyday life; these speakers are at a higher risk for experiencing language attrition. A notable example of this is found in immigrants, who may move to a country in which a language foreign to them is spoken, and go on to use that later-learned environmental language in their daily lives. Their gradual decline in proficiency in their first language, or L1, resulting from both isolation from other speakers of their L1 and interference from the L2 they are acquiring, is considered language attrition.\n\nThere are a number of factors which may affect the process of L1 attrition. Frequent exposure and use of a particular language is often assumed adequate to maintain the native language system intact. However, research has often failed to confirm this prediction. A positive attitude towards the potentially attriting language or its speech community and motivation to retain the language are other factors which may reduce the effects of attrition. This factor too is difficult to confirm by research. However, age of the attriter can well predict the likelihood of attrition; children are demonstrably more likely to lose their first language than adults. All of these potential or proven factors are similar to those that affect second language acquisition, and the two processes are sometimes compared. However, the overall impact of these factors is far less strongly pronounced than what has been found in second language acquisition.\n\nLanguage attrition results in a decrease of language proficiency from what was previously acquired. The current consensus is that attrition manifests itself first and most noticeably in the vocabulary knowledge of speakers (in their lexical access and their mental lexicon) while grammatical and especially phonological representations appear more stable among speakers for whom emigration took place after puberty.\n\nThe term \"first language attrition\" (FLA) refers to the gradual decline in native language proficiency. As speakers use their L2 frequently and become proficient (or even dominant) in it, some aspects of the L1 can deteriorate or become subject to L2 influence.\n\nThe study of language attrition became a subfield of linguistics with a 1980 conference at the University of Pennsylvania called \"Loss of Language Skills\". The aim of the conference was to discuss areas of second language, or L2, attrition and to ideate on possible future research. The conference revealed that attrition is a wide topic, with numerous factors and taking many forms. Decades later, the field of first language attrition gained new momentum with two conferences held in Amsterdam in 2002 and 2005, as well as a series of graduate workshops and panels at international conferences, such as the International Symposium on Bilingualism (2007, 2009), the annual conferences of the European Second Language Association, and the AILA World Congress (2008). The outcomes of some of these meetings were later published in edited volumes.\n\nTo study the process of language attrition, researchers initially looked at neighboring areas of linguistics to identify which parts of the L1 system attrite first; lacking years of experimental data of attrition itself, linguists studied language contact, creolization, L2 acquisition, and aphasia, and applied their findings to language acquisition.\n\nOne issue that is faced when researching attrition is distinguishing between normal L2 influence on the L1 and actual attrition of the L1. Since all bilinguals experience some degree of cross linguistic influence, where the L2 interferes with the retrieval of the speaker's L1, it is difficult to determine if delays and/or mistakes in the L1 are due to attrition or cause by CLI. Also, simultaneous bilinguals may not have a language that is indistinguishable from that of a native speaker or a language where their knowledge of it is less extensive than a native speaker's; therefore testing for attrition is difficult.\n\nThe first linguistic system to be affected by first language attrition is the lexicon. The lexical-semantic relationship usually starts to deteriorate first and most quickly, driven by Cross Linguistic Interference (CLI) from the attriter's L2, and it is believed to be exacerbated by continued exposure to, and frequent use of, the L2. Evidence for such interlanguage effects can be seen in a study by Pavlenko (2003, 2004) which shows that there was some semantic extension from the L2, which was English, into the L1 Russian speakers' lexicons. In order to test for lexical attrition, researchers use tests such as picture naming tasks, where they place a picture of an item in front of the participant and ask them to name it, or by measuring lexical diversity in the speaker's spontaneous speech (speech that is unprompted and improvised). In both cases, attriters performed worse than non-attriters. One hypothesis suggests that when a speaker tries to access a lexical item from their L1 they are also competing with the translation equivalents of their L2 and that there is either a problem with activating the L1 due to infrequent use or with the inhibition of the competing L2.\n\nGrammatical attrition can be defined as \"the disintegration of the structure of a first language (L1) in contact situations with a second language (L2)\". In a study of bilingual Swedes raised outside of Sweden, who in their late twenties returned to their home country for schooling, there was noted to be attrition of their L1. The participants demonstrated a complete retention of the underlying syntactic structure of their L1. Notably, they exhibited the V2, verb second, word order present in most Germanic languages, except English. This rule requires the tense-marked verb of a main clause to occur in the second position of the sentence, even if that means it comes before the subject (e.g. there is an adverb at the beginning of the sentence). These speakers' ability to form sentences with V2 word order was compared against L2 learners who often overproduce the rigid SVO word order rather than applying the V2 rule. Although the study did not show evidence for attrition of syntax of the person's L1, there was evidence for attrition in the expatriates' morphology, especially in terms of agreement. They found that the bilinguals would choose to use the unmarked morphemes in place of the marked one when having to differentiate between gender and plurality; also they tend to overgeneralize where certain morphemes can be used. For example, they may use the suffix /-a/, which is used to express an indefinite plural, and overextend this morpheme to also represent the indefinite singular. There is little evidence to support the view that there is a complete restructuring of the language systems. That is, even under language attrition the syntax is largely unaffected and any variability observed is thought to be due to interference from another language, rather than attrition.\n\nL1 attriters, like L2 learners, may use language differently from native speakers. In particular, they can have variability on certain rules which native speakers apply deterministically. In the context of attrition, however, there is strong evidence that this optionality is not indicative of any underlying representational deficits: the same individuals do not appear to encounter recurring problems with the same kinds of grammatical phenomena in different speech situations or on different tasks. This suggests that problems of L1 attriters are due to momentary conflicts between the two linguistic systems and not indicative of a structural change to underlying linguistic knowledge (that is, to an emerging representational deficit of any kind). This assumption is in line with a range of investigations of L1 attrition which argue that this process may affect interface phenomena (e.g. the distribution of overt and null subjects in pro-drop languages) but will not touch the narrow syntax.\n\nPhonological attrition is a form of language loss that affects the speaker's ability to produce their native language with their native accent. A study of five native speakers of American English who moved to Brazil and learned Portuguese as their L2 demonstrates the possibility that one could lose one's L1 accent in place of an accent that is directly influenced by the L2. It is thought that phonological loss can occur to those who are closer to native-like fluency in the L2, especially in terms of phonological production, and for those who have immersed themselves and built a connection to the culture of the country for the L2. A sociolinguistic approach to this phenomenon is that the acquisition of a native-like L2 accent and the subsequent loss of one's native accent is influenced by the societal norms of the country and the speakers' attempt to adapt in order to feel a part of the culture they are trying to assimilate into. This type of attrition is not to be confused with contact-induced change since that would mean speech production changes due to an increased use of another language and not due to the less frequent use of the L1.\n\nLambert and Moore attempted to define numerous hypotheses regarding the nature of language loss, crossed with various aspects of language. They envisioned a test to be given to American State Department employees that would include four linguistic categories (syntax, morphology, lexicon, and phonology) and three skill areas (reading, listening, and speaking). A translation component would feature on a sub-section of each skill area tested. The test was to include linguistic features that are the most difficult, according to teachers, for students to master. Such a test may confound testing what was not acquired with what was lost. Lambert, in personal communication with Köpke and Schmid, described the results as 'not substantial enough to help much in the development of the new field of language skill attrition'.\n\nThe use of translation tests to study language loss is inappropriate for a number of reasons: it is questionable what such tests measure; too much variation; the difference between attriters and bilinguals is complex; activating two languages at once may cause interference. Yoshitomi attempted to define a model of language attrition that was related to neurological and psychological aspects of language learning and unlearning. She discussed four possible hypotheses and five key aspects related to acquisition and attrition. The hypotheses are:\n\nAccording to Yoshitomi, the five key aspects related to attrition are neuroplasticity, consolidation, permastore/savings, decreased accessibility, and receptive versus productive abilities.\n\nThe regression hypothesis, first formulated by Roman Jakobson in 1941 and originally formulated on the phonology of only Slavic languages, goes back to the beginnings of psychology and psychoanalysis. It states that that which was learned first will be retained last, both in 'normal' processes of forgetting and in pathological conditions such as aphasia or dementia. As a template for language attrition, the regression hypothesis has long seemed an attractive paradigm. However, regression is not in itself a theoretical or explanatory framework. Both order of acquisition and order of attrition need to be put into the larger context of linguistic theory in order to gain explanatory adequacy.\n\nKeijzer (2007) conducted a study on the attrition of Dutch in Anglophone Canada. She finds some evidence that later-learned rules, such as diminutive and plural formation, indeed erode before earlier learned grammatical rules. However, there is also considerable interaction between the first and second language and so a straightforward 'regression pattern' cannot be observed. Also, parallels in noun and verb phrase morphology could be present because of the nature of the tests or because of avoidance by the participants. In a follow up 2010 article, Keijzer suggests that the regression hypothesis may be more applicable to morphology than to syntax.\n\nCiting the studies on the regression hypothesis that have been done, Yukawa says that the results have been contradictory. It is possible that attrition is a case-by-case situation depending on a number of variables (age, proficiency,& literacy, the similarities between the L1 and L2, and whether the L1 or the L2 is attriting). The threshold hypothesis states that there may be a level of proficiency that once attained, enables the attriting language to remain stable.\n\nChildren are more susceptible to (first) language attrition than adults. Research shows an age effect around the ages of 8 through 13. Before this time period, a first language can attrite under certain circumstances, the most prominent being a sudden decline in exposure to the first language. Various case studies show that children who emigrate before puberty and have little to no exposure to their first language end up losing the first language. In 2009, a study compared two groups of Swedish-speaking groups: native Swedish speakers and Korean international adoptees who were at risk for losing their Korean. Of the Korean adoptees, those who were adopted the earliest essentially lost their Korean and those adopted later still retained some of it, although it was primarily their comprehension of Korean that was spared. A 2007 study looked at Korean adoptees in France and found that they performed on par with native French speakers in French proficiency and Korean.\n\nAttrition of a first language does not guarantee an advantage in learning a second language. Attriters are outperformed by native speakers of the second language in proficiency. A 2009 study tested the Swedish proficiency of Swedish speakers who had attrited knowledge of Spanish. These participants did show almost but not quite native-like proficiency when compared to native Swedish speakers, and they did not show an advantage when compared with bilingual Swedish-Spanish speakers.\n\nOn the other hand, L1 attrition may also occur if the overall effort to maintain the first language is insufficient while exposed to a dominant L2 environment. Another recent investigation, focussing on the development of language in late bilinguals (i.e. adults past puberty), has claimed that maintenance of the mother tongue in an L1 environment requires little to no maintenance for individuals, whereas those in the L2 environment have an additive requirement for the maintenance of the L1 and the development of the L2 (Optiz, 2013).\n\nthere have been cases in which adults have undergone first language attrition. A 2011 study tested adult monolingual English speakers, adult monolingual Russian speakers and adult bilingual English-Russian speakers on naming various liquid containers (cup, glass, mug, etc.) in both English and Russian. The results showed that the bilinguals had attrited Russian vocabulary because they did not label these liquid containers the same way as the monolingual Russian speakers. When grouped according to Age of Acquisition (AoA) of English, the bilinguals showed an effect of AoA (or perhaps length of exposure to the L2) in that bilinguals with earlier AoA (mean AoA 3.4 years) exhibited much stronger attrition than bilinguals with later AoA (mean AoA 22.8 years). That is, the individuals with earlier AoA were the more different from monolingual Russian speakers in their labeling and categorization of drinking vessels, than the people with later AoA. However, even the late AoA bilinguals exhibited some degree of attrition in that they labeled the drinking vessels differently from native monolingual Russian-speaking adults.\n\nGiven that exposure to an L2 at a younger age typically leads to stronger attrition of the L1 than L2 exposure at later ages, there may be a relationship between language attrition and the critical period hypothesis. The critical period for language claims that there is an optimal time period for humans to acquire language, and after this time language acquisition is more difficult (though not impossible). Language attrition also seems to have a time period; before around age 12, a first language is most susceptible to attrition if there is reduced exposure to that language. Research shows that the complete attrition of a language would occur before the critical period ends.\n\nAll available evidence on the age effect for L1 attrition therefore indicates that the development of susceptibility displays a curved, not a linear, function. This suggests that in native language learning there is indeed a Critical Period effect, and that full development of native language capacities necessitates exposure to L1 input for the entire duration of this CP.\n\nIn Hansen & Reetz-Kurashige (1999), Hansen cites her own research on L2-Hindi and Urdu attrition in young children. As young pre-school children in India and Pakistan, the subjects of her study were often judged to be native speakers of Hindi or Urdu; their mother was far less proficient. On return visits to their home country, the United States, both children appeared to lose all their L2 while the mother noticed no decline in her own L2 abilities. Twenty years later, those same young children as adults \"comprehend not a word from recordings of their own animated conversations in Hindi-Urdu; the mother still understands much of them\".\n\nYamamoto (2001) found a link between age and bilinguality. In fact, a number of factors are at play in bilingual families. In her study, bicultural families that maintained only one language, the minority language, in the household, were able to raise bilingual, bicultural children without fail. Families that adopted the one parent – one language policy were able to raise bilingual children at first but when the children joined the dominant language school system, there was a 50% chance that children would lose their minority language abilities. In families that had more than one child, the older child was most likely to retain two languages, if it was at all possible. Younger siblings in families with more than two other brothers and sisters had little chance of maintaining or ever becoming bilingual.\n\nThere are few principled and systematic investigations of FLA specifically investigating the impact of AoA. However, converging evidence suggests an age effect on FLA which is much stronger and more clearly delineated than the effects that have been found in SLA research. Two studies that consider prepuberty and postpuberty migrants (Ammerlaan, 1996, AoA 0–29 yrs; Pelc, 2001, AoA 8–32 years) find that AoA is one of the most important predictors of ultimate proficiency, and a number of studies that investigate the impact of age among postpuberty migrants fail to find any effect at all (Köpke, 1999, AoA 14–36 yrs; Schmid, 2002, AoA 12–29 yrs; Schmid, 2007, AoA 17–51 yrs). A range of studies conducted by Montrul on Spanish heritage speakers in the US as well as Spanish-English bilinguals with varying levels of AoA also suggests that the L1 system of early bilinguals may be similar to that of L2 speakers, while later learners pattern with monolinguals in their L1 (e.g. Montrul, 2008; Montrul, 2009). These findings therefore indicate strongly that early (prepuberty) and late (postpuberty) exposure to an L2 environment have a different impact on possible fossilization and/or deterioration of the linguistic system.\n\nFrequency of use has been shown to be an important factor in language attrition. Decline in use of a given language leads to gradual loss of that language.\n\nIn the face of much evidence to the contrary, one study is often cited to suggest that frequency of use does not correlate strongly with language attrition. Their methodology, however, can be called into question, especially concerning the small sample size and the reliance on self reported data. The researchers themselves state that their findings may be inaccurate. The overall evidence suggests that frequency of use is a strong indicator of language attrition.\n\nMotivation could be defined as the willingness and desire to learn a second language, or, in the case of attrition, the incentive to maintain a language. Motivation can be split into four categories, but it is often simply split into two distinct forms: the instrumental and the integrative. Instrumental motivation, in the case of attrition, is the desire to maintain a language in order to complete a specific goal, i.e. maintaining a language to maintain a job. Integrative motivation, however, is motivation that comes from a desire to fit in or maintain one's cultural ties. These inferences can be drawn, as strategies for knowledge maintenance will, by definition, precisely oppose actions that lead to forgetting.\n\nThere are differences in attrition related to motivation depending on the type at hand. Instrumental motivation is often less potent than integrative motivation, but, given sufficient incentives, it can be equally as powerful. A 1972 study by Gardner and Lambert emphasized the importance of integrative motivation in particular in regards to factors relating to language acquisition, and, by extension, language attrition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17591048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17591048", "title": "Leadership Foundation for Higher Education", "text": "Leadership Foundation for Higher Education\n\nThe Leadership Foundation for Higher Education (LFHE) is an organisation in the United Kingdom providing support and advice on leadership, governance and management for higher education, based in Holborn, London.\n\nIt was established in 2004 by the UUK and SCOP (now known as Guild HE). It took over the function of the Higher Education Staff Development Agency (HESDA), based in Ingram House in Sheffield. It was incorporated as a company in October 2003, and registered as a charity in February 2004.\n\nIt is situated in Holborn off the Grays Inn Road, near Chancery Lane tube station. It is funded by the four higher education funding bodies of the UK Higher Education Funding Council for England, HEFCE; Scottish Funding Council, SFC; Higher Education Funding Council for Wales, HEFCW; and the Department for Employment and Learning Northern Ireland, DELNI.\n\nThe Leadership Foundation is a membership organisation and in 2014-15 there are 152 universities and higher education colleges in membership.\n\nThe Leadership Foundation delivers it work through programmes and events; institutional advice and consultancy and providing research on leadership, management and governance for higher education institutions. It cooperates with a wide range of organisations and associations to do this.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41683631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41683631", "title": "List of AACSB-accredited schools (accounting)", "text": "List of AACSB-accredited schools (accounting)\n\nThere are 182 schools that hold the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business's (AACSB) Accounting Accreditation. The AACSB accredits business schools by evaluating critical areas of each school to ensure that it provides top-quality education, and schools can apply for the accounting accreditation, which focusses on the schools' accounting programs, in addition to business accreditation.\n\nAccreditation is gained and maintained via a peer-review system, and schools are assessed in the context of their respective missions rather than against a fixed standard. To apply for accounting accreditation, a school is required either to already hold the business accreditation, or to apply for both the business and accounting accreditations at the same time.\n\nThe initial accounting accreditation process starts with the submission of an eligibility application, and includes self-evaluations and peer reviews. The business school and the accounting academic unit are evaluated on their alignment with the AACSB's accreditation standards; under the standard for accounting accreditation, an accounting academic unit is evaluated based on its mission, intellectual contributions, and financial strategies for achieving its mission. For example, one of the bases of evaluation is whether the academic unit has produced intellectual contributions that have affected accounting, business and management \"in ways that are consistent with the mission, expected outcomes, and strategies of the unit\". Subsequently, the accounting accreditation is extended via 5-year review cycles.\n\nAs of 2013, the AACSB estimated that 5% of all business programs internationally, and most top business programs in the United States, held AACSB accreditation. AACSB accreditation is seen as a standard requirement in graduate business education, and universities are more likely to accept transfer credit earned from accredited schools; it has been called \"the hallmark of excellence in business education\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31350029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31350029", "title": "List of autodidacts", "text": "List of autodidacts\n\nThis is a list of notable autodidacts which includes people who have been partially or wholly self-taught.\n\nBecause of the large increase in years of education since 1800, especially during the early 20th century, it is difficult to define autodidactism and to compare autodidacts during different time periods.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55440207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55440207", "title": "List of hazing deaths in the Philippines", "text": "List of hazing deaths in the Philippines\n\nThis is a list of hazing deaths in the Philippines. This is not an exhaustive list. Inclusion in this list requires that the incident was described by the media as a hazing-related death. Majority of deaths in this list include but is not limited to cases that involve fraternities.\n\nThe first reported hazing death in the Philippines was that of Gonzalo Mariano Albert, a University of the Philippines Diliman student and a Upsilon Sigma Phi neophyte. He died in 1954.\n\nThe death of Leonardo Villa in 1991 led to the passage of the Anti-Hazing Act of 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "12911389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12911389", "title": "May L. Cheney", "text": "May L. Cheney\n\nMay Lucretia Shepard Cheney (May 11, 1862 – April 22, 1942) was born during the Civil War in Garden Grove, Iowa, and was named after the month in which she was born, and her maternal grandmother who influenced her childhood. May's early school attendance was in her hometown. She attended high schools in Oakland and Chico, California before enrolling at UCB in 1879. With her widowed mother, she settled at \"2020 Hearst Avenue\" (then \"College Way\"), in a house with a watermill in the rear yard. Residing in the same house was Lemuel Warren Cheney (1858–1921), a law student.\n\nThe following year, the Shepards moved to 2316 Allston Way, across the street from the campus. Before long, Cheney had moved there too. The Shepards’ last address before May’s graduation in 1883 was Club House No. 4 on the university grounds, again shared by Cheney, now a journalist. In addition to their shared living quarters, May and Lemuel had a common interest in literature. Both belonged to the Neolaean Literary Society, of which May was vice-president.\n\nOn 29 April 1883, during her senior year, she married Cheney, the Bachelor of Letters degree was granted to her in December of that year. They left for Europe, where he served as Balkan Peninsula correspondent for the San Francisco Chronicle. Their first son, Charles Henry Cheney, was born in Rome in February 1884. Upon their return she and her husband had a house built close to UCB, on College Avenue in Lodi.\n\nIn 1886, when she was 24 years old, May founded Cheney’s Pacific Coast Bureau of Education in San Francisco. It was the first commercial teacher placement agency west of the Rockies, and her husband participated in its management. She decided that UCB owed some obligation to the graduates unable to find proper positions. The English universities had appointment secretaries. Harvard University had a similar official. UCB, she thought, should likewise give such a service to students. After she convinced UCB President Martin Kellogg, her plan was accepted. She opened the UCB placement service in the president's office in South Hall on January 1, 1898, and continued to serve as the university’s Appointment Secretary for 40 years, placing countless university graduates as high-school teachers throughout the state.\n\nThe Cheneys raised four sons, three of whom survived to adulthood. The eldest, Charles Henry Cheney (1884–1943), earned the first architectural degree awarded by UC before continuing his studies in Paris, eventually becoming a notable city planner and zoning expert. His son, Warren DeWitt Cheney (1907-1979), was a well-known sculptor and art teacher who took up psychology in midlife, founding the Transactional Analysis Journal. Sheldon Warren Cheney (1886–1980), entered his father’s real estate business before moving to Detroit, where he became a notable author and art critic. In 1916 he founded Theatre Arts Magazine. Marshall Chipman Cheney (1888–1972) became a physician. He did his residency at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston before returning to Berkeley, where he practiced near the campus and at Cowell Memorial Hospital. He lived with his widowed mother at 2241 College Avenue until 1940.\n\nAt the end of 1939, May Cheney sold her two campus houses to the university, and the family soon moved to 116 Tunnel Road. The two Cheney houses on campus were designated City of Berkeley Landmarks in 1990. Built in 1885, 2241 College Avenue is the second oldest surviving structure in the Berkeley Property Tract.\n\nMay L. Cheney was the founder of the National Association of Appointment Secretaries (NAAS) now known as the American College Personnel Association.\n\nIn choosing a permanent home we seek that place above all others which promises abundance of life, stimulus, interests that postpone as long as possible the inevitable apathy of old age. Where do we find this precious boon more abundantly than in Berkeley?\n\nOn August 4, 1919, Cheney was shot at by Roger Sprague, a chemistry assistant who was despondent at not being recommended for further advancement. She escaped unhurt.\n\n"}
{"id": "40653247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40653247", "title": "Mosaic Network", "text": "Mosaic Network\n\nThe Mosaic Network is a charitable initiative founded by Charles, Prince of Wales in 2007. Mosaic delivers mentoring programmes in primary and secondary schools and in prisons. The mentoring programmes are designed to help those from disadvantaged communities to realise their potential with the support of volunteer mentors. Mosaic operates in five regions of the UK: London, North West, South East, West Midlands and Yorkshire.\n\nIn the academic year 2012/13, Mosaic supported 5,000 young people in 140 schools and other institutions, supported by over 900 volunteers. 83% of UK beneficiaries were drawn from the 20% most deprived areas of the country. Mosaic also operates internationally through its International Leadership Programme and delivery of its Enterprise Challenge competition with local partners in Jordan and Qatar. Mosaic’s International Leadership Programme supports 80 young leaders from 16 countries\n\nMosaic’s schools programmes have received independent accreditation through the Approved Provider Standard of the Mentoring & Befriending Foundation. In addition, Mosaic’s programmes have been independently evaluated by Demos, the leading research organisation, which described its programmes as “very well run and both the mentors and mentees reported significant benefits in taking part”. In 2013, Mosaic received The Prime Minister's Big Society Award \nMosaic is an initiative of Business in the Community (BITC). As such, Mosaic is part of The Prince's Charities. Mosaic is overseen by a national Advisory Board. Mosaic's Founder Chairman was HRH Princess Badiya bint El Hassan of Jordan.\n\nThe Apax-Mosaic Enterprise challenge is a national competition for secondary school students across the UK, designed to develop and encourage their entrepreneurial skills. Indian Chef Vivek Singh of The Cinnamon Club in London supported the launch of Enterprise Challenge & hosted World of Work by giving students a real insight into the restaurant industry.\n\nIn January 2015, Mosaic was nominated for the Spirit of Britain award at the British Muslim Awards.\n"}
{"id": "45638104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45638104", "title": "Myanmar National Education Law 2014", "text": "Myanmar National Education Law 2014\n\nMyanmar National Education Law (), enacted on 30 September 2014, is designed to reform the country's outdated education system. Drafted in March 2014, the bill was passed after being sent back to the floor by President Thein Sein with 25 proposed changes, 19 of which were accepted. From the beginning of its drafting process, the law faced criticism from students and teachers unions as well as various civil society groups. Concerns over the law later turned into protests, which were eventually cracked down by the government.\n\nSection 1 includes definition of terms used in the law.\n\nAs laid out in Section 2, the main objectives of the law are to train students to become critical thinkers; to nurture students to become law-abiding citizens with democratic principles; to enable students to become citizens who could pass down their ethnic languages, traditions, literature and to value historical heritage and environmental sustainability; to enhance human resources in preparation for economic development and higher standards of living; to provide a learning environment that is up to date with international standards and to improve teaching, learning and research by using technology information and communication information; to help students excel in their own fields of interest; and to promote sportsmanship and school health projects.\n\nSection 3 of the law covers the fundamental policies of the law that include providing education for students with disabilities; providing education relevant to the lives of the students; and granting autonomy of colleges and universities.\n\nSection 4 outlines the formation of National Education Commission that will consist of ministers from related sectors, experts from nationality groups and relevant individuals. The duties of the committee include providing guidelines on implementation of the objectives and the policies of the law; setting policies to ensure the quality of education; working with the government and local administration to get funding for the education sector; making policies regarding shutting down or opening of domestic as well as international schools; and working with relevant departments and ministries on short-term and long-term educational goals. Article 7 of the Section 4 also states that the commission should not interfere with the management of institutions of higher education but only assist with policy-related issues for their development.\n\nSection 5 states that public education will be divided into primary education, vocational education and higher education. The section also talks about formal and informal education as well as self-learning education.\n\nSection 6 covers the different types of schools that include public schools, private schools, monastic schools, volunteer schools, regional schools, government-funded schools, special schools and emergency mobile schools.\n\nSection 7 is about curriculum and it states that National Education Commission has to ensure curriculums used in the country have boundaries and standards and guarantee autonomy of curriculum formations if it meets these standards. Ministry of Education will set the standards of National Education Curriculum with approval from the Commission. Schools can teach in either Burmese or English or both languages and if necessary, an ethnic language and Burmese can be used in primary education. It also mentions that in States and Regions, ethnic language and literature program can be implemented through state and regional governments starting from elementary level and upgraded step by step.\n\nSection 8 details educational duties and benefits and explain the roles of parent(s) or guardian(s) and local and regional administration.\n\nSection 9 focuses on requirements for and quality of teachers.\n\nSection 10 covers monitoring and accessing the education quality and states that in every level of education there must be a quality assessment scheme.\n\nSection 11 is on management and administrative duties of education. In Article 56 (a), it states the Ministry of Education, relevant ministries and Higher Education Committee will work together to manage related institutions of higher education based on this law and existing laws.\n\nSection 12 covers budget and Section 13, Article 66 states that existing schools before the implementation of the law must operate according to the law by five years of its enactment. Section 14 covers more general issues including that the law does not govern schools that only teach religion.\n\nIn March 2014, Education Promotion and Implementation Committee (EPIC) drafted the National Education Bill, which went through both houses of Hluttaw on July 30, 2014. While the bill was waiting for the approval from President, students and teachers unions as well as the civil society groups raised concerns over whether the bill was drafted democratically . They claimed that even though the government held meetings to seek advice from the public, it ignored their recommendations. Thein Sein sent back the bill to the parliament with some 25 proposed changes. On September 26, the parliament accepted 19 of the proposed changes but denied 6 one of which is to delay the full implementation of the law to 2027 and it became enacted on September 30. The next step is for Hluttaw to pass by-laws in the coming months to supplement the enacted law.\n\nOpponents of the law claimed that the government didn't seek advice from the students adequately. They were also unsatisfied that minority ethnic languages would not be taught at institutes of higher education. They also stated that under the new law, universities would not be independent from Ministry of Education and most of all, they point out that the law will not recognize the formation of student and teacher unions.\n\nOn the other hand, members of Hluttaw responded that institutions of higher education would remain independent from central control. Khin Maung Yi, the secretary of the Joint Bill Committee, asserted that universities would have autonomy over creating their own policies. He also accused that protesters had \"little understanding\" of law. Yin Yin Nwe, a member of the President Education Advisory Group, remarked that complete decentralization of education would be impossible. The advisory group also stated that government committees that would be established as mentioned in the law were not designed to control universities but just to allocate budget.\n\nThe National League for Democracy, the main opposition party led by Aung San Su Kyi, was rather silent on the issue. In fact, the party distanced itself from the student protests stating explicitly that they would not follow National Network for Education Reform and did not endorse its criticism of the law (behind the student protests). Moreover, Phyo Min Thein, one the NLD's Pyithu Hluttaw Representatives, said that the current law was \"practical\" given the political constraints.\n\nNNER is one of the most vocal opponents of the national education bill since its drafting stage. It is a coalition of civil society groups that include student unions, teacher unions, ethnic education groups, faith-based education groups, disabled education groups, community-based education groups, alternative education groups, education branches of political organisations, scholars and interested persons. It was formed in 2012 and had held several discussions across the country to seek opinions from the public on the current education reform process and in June 2013, it held a nationwide conference, attended by 1200 participants. During the drafting process of national education bill, NNER met with several government representatives and was even invited to meetings held in Naypyidaw. However, later it was left out from the discussion on the crafting of the bill.\n\nThe two most eminent student unions involved in opposing the education law are All Burma Federation of Student Unions and Confederation of University Student Unions and Middle Myanmar Student Unions. These organizations are also the major force behind the student protests against the law.\n\nMTF (Myanmar Teachers Federation), a nationwide teacher union, is also one of the major opponents of the bill. It released a statement on September 15, 2014 to publicly assert their position on the issue:\n\nWe would like to announce to the people that we strongly believe that the National Education Law will affect not only the education sector but [also] the entire country and the people. Therefore, the Myanmar Teachers Federation will fully cooperate with the student unions across the country who are pushing for the education reform that will benefit the country. \n\nIn the same statement, MTF also criticized the government for investigating the students' protests against the law and called for the drop of criminal charges.\n\nThe earliest protests against the National Education Law came even before the passage of the bill. In Mandalay Region, students at colleges and universities had held ongoing protests since May 2014. The protests were, however, postponed in early September due to upcoming exams but the students continued holding public talks to voice why they opposed the bill. Initially, protesters also linked their campaigns against the bill to the arrest of an ABFSU member, Phyu Hnin Htwe, charged for allegedly kidnapping two Chinese workers from Letpadaung Copper Mine. Government authorities also initiated criminal investigations against these protests based on the ground that they were held without prior government approval.\n\nOn 4 October 2014, three days after the law was enacted, an organizing committee was formed composed of 10 members of ABFSU and 10 members of CUSU. On 10 October, ABFSU announced that they would be holding an emergency meeting with student representatives from across the country in November. The plan was to have a two-day meeting to discuss about the National Education Law on the first day and then make plans on how to proceed on the next day. Later, the meeting was held in Yangon from November 12 to 13, which concluded with the formation of Action Committee for Democratic Education - 15-person group that consists of members of ABFSU, CUSU and MMSU - in charge of planning the four-day protest in Yangon.\n\nOn November 14, about 350 students gathered in front of Maha Bandula Park in downtown Yangon to stage a protest against the National Education Law. The students also later held subsequent protests at Yangon University and Shwedagon Pagoda. Moreover, Kyaw Ko Ko, the chairman of ABFSU, declared that the protest was just the beginning of the fight to reform National Education Law. He also stated that the main concern against the NEL is the formation of a National Education Commission composed of ministers and government officials that could limit students' opinions and further reinforce the government control over higher education. The protest also coincided with United States President Barack Obama's second visit to Yangon although Kyaw Ko Ko claimed that it was not intentional. He added, though, that the students would be ready to seize the opportunity to raise awareness about issues on education. The Action Committee for Democratic Education then requested the government to convene a quadripartite meeting with its members, NNER, members of Parliament and the government to discuss the students' concerns. On 17 November, the students announced a 60-day interval for the government to respond to their demands and also threatened that they would stage a nationwide protests if the government didn't respond within the deadline.\n\nOn November 18, a day after the students announced an ultimatum, Ministry of Education held a press conference, urging the students to attend a negotiating meeting with Education Promotion and Implementation Committee (EPIC), which drafted the legislation. At the conference, Khin San Yee, the Minister of Education, said:\n\nI want them to negotiate freely and transparently. Every parent cannot fulfill all of the demands of their children. So think of us like the parents and demand and negotiate with us and we will do. But if the parents can't afford it, the children should understand it.\n\nOn November 20, President's Education Advisory Group held a meeting at the Diamond Jubliee Hall at Yangon University, to assert their stance on the current controversy over National Education Law. While acknowledging the voice of the students on the importance of decentralization of education, the group claims that there are limits to how independent universities could be. It further claims that the formation of National Education Committee is the solely on the purpose of budget allocation but not to centralize control over institutions of higher education.\n\nZaw Htay, the Director General of Higher Education Department (Lower Myanmar) stated that negotiations were still open, after the students rejected a meeting with the ministry. He also said that students, parents and experts would be consulted in the process of crafting by-laws Shwe Mann, the speaker of Pyidaungsu Hluttaw, also agreed to accept written submissions to the parliament while EPIC also offered to serve as an intermediary. The students, however, announced that they had no intention to write submissions to the parliament because they were waiting for the quadripartite meeting.\n\nOn November 26, the Action Committee for Democratic Education announced that they were planning a seminar on National Education Law in mid-December and would invite experts unaffiliated with the government or the protesters. They also had plans to stage two more protests in the upcoming week and had held three in the previous week.\n\nOn November 27, about fifty students from Mandalay, Sagaing, Monywa and Myingyan staged an unauthorized protest in front of City Hall in Mandalay to reiterate their demand: to convene a quadripartite meeting. The police at first stopped the students from exiting Eaindawyar Pagoda, their initial meeting point. The students, however, convinced the police that the officers' children themselves would benefit from the protests and were able to march to the City Hall and ended their protest at Mahamuni Buddha Temple, a history significant place where 17 Burmese pro-independence leaders were killed during the colonial era.\n\nOn December 1, six students were threatened to get arrested for unauthorized protests that took place on November 29. They were told that they would be arrested for a day and then be eligible to be bailed out. The police left to inform the superiors and never returned after the students told them that they would not accept the release on bail but would rather get arrested. The six accused students, also the members of ABFSU, waited at Taungoo train station until 10 pm for the police to show up but then left.\n\nOn December 12, the Ministry of Education formed a teacher union consisting of two teachers from each department of Yangon University of Foreign Languages. Myanmar Teachers Federation promptly rejected the ministry's attempt to form a union stating that it violated the internationally accepted principles of freedom of association. A statement released by MTF also said that the ministry failed to recognize MTF even though Burma had agreed to adhere to 1955 International Labor convention that guaranteed the formation of union and the right to organize and despite MTF's compliance with the current Burma's labor draft law.\n\nAfter the 60-day ultimatum to convene a quadripartite expired on Jan 16, students from far afield as Pakokku, Sagaing and Monywa set out to join the march from Mandalay to Yangon. On Jan 20, more than a hundred students left Mandalay as the march began. The students also had plans to join other student protesters on their 404-mile journey to Yangon that they were planning to finish in 15 days. They also said that they would set up a camp after arriving in Yangon to urge the government to consult with students and teachers on future amendments to the law. \nImmediately after the march began, President Thein Sein, announced in a state-run newspaper on Jan 21 that the parliament should reconsider some parts of the National Education Law and said that amendments would lead to stability and allow the students to resume their studies.\n\nOn January 23, in a statement released by the parliament mentioned that it had agreed to consider changing the National Education Law and ordered the Ministry of Education to urgently come up with a draft that would incorporate inputs from both houses of the parliament, related government committees and commissions as well as relevant individuals. On January 24, ACDE released a statement that outlined the 11 issues that the students wanted to discuss at the quadripartite meeting:\n\nOn January 28, the student representatives and the government had a meeting in Naypyidaw – attended by ten student representatives, two members of parliament and Minister Aung Min as well as Deputy Education Minister Thant Shin. The government and the student leaders then released a joint statement announcing that they had agreed to stop the march to Yangon after the quadripartite meeting which would be held at the Diamond Jubilee Hall at Yangon University on February 1. The statement also said that 11 demand-points from the students would also be discussed at the meeting on February 1. Meanwhile, the students declared that until they met with their representatives who went to Naypyidaw for the meeting, they would still continue the march. On the other hand, the protesters in Pakokku and Dawei who were planning to join the march suspended their plans.\n\nOn February 1 as the quadripartite meeting was taking place, the NLD publicly announced that Thein Lwin, its central committee member and the chairman of National Network for Education Reform, did not represent the party or its policies. It further mentioned in the statement that the NLD could take legal action against Thein Lwin for violating party rules regarding asking permission to participate in organizations independent of the party. Han Tha Myint, a central committee member of the NLD, also stated that Aung San Suu Kyi, the chairman of the NLD, did not support Thein Lwin as his actions could be construed as representative of the party's stance on the issue. The ACDE promptly responded to that statement the next day by accusing the NLD for attempting to undermine the student protests at such a critical moment.\n\nThe first quadripartite meeting ended with the students reaching an agreement concerning eight preconditions on further negotiations although the government denied the request to ensure security to demonstrators. However, Aung Min, a President's Office Minister, told the students that he would ask permission from the president the responsibility of the students' safety until they arrived in Popa in Mandalay Region. The first three preconditions from the students –issuing a public statement after every meeting, having information on education reforms available to the public, making sure all the parties involved in the meeting have equal opportunities to participate – were readily accepted while agreement on officially recognizing student and teacher unions was reached after four-hour long discussion albeit many details pending for further discussions. Furthermore, the meeting ended without any discussions on the eleven-point demands that the ACDE issued even though the students reached to an official agreement to continue the negotiations on February 3.\n\nOn February 3, in front of Ministry of Education headquarter in Naypyidaw, the students announced that they would be resuming their nationwide protests. Earlier that day, the government declared that the second quadripartite meeting was postponed after refusing to allow extra attendees who came along with the students to the meeting. During the meeting, Aung Min read out a letter, which he claimed to have just received from the president. The letter suggested that the meeting should be postponed and the government representatives decided to follow the president's advice after a discussion. That early afternoon, the Ministry of Information released photos of government delegates standing in an empty room with a caption saying that the students did not show up to the meeting. Later that day, the government announced that the meeting would be postponed until February 12. The student leaders, meanwhile, declared that they have students ready to continue marching to Yangon from different parts of the country, including Mandalay in the north, Pathein in the southwest and Dawei in the south. On the same day, Aung San Su Kyi confirmed her opinions on the current protests, asking Thein Lwin to resign from his position in the central executive committee if he wanted to pursue his work with NNER. Initially silent on the topic, U Thein Lwin said in a press conference on February 3 that he would accept NLD's decision.\n\nOn February 4, the student demonstrators from Ayeyarwady Region have arrived near Kyaunggon after they received a welcoming reception from the town residents. About 800 people also temporarily joined the students marching from Mandalay on their way to Taungdwingyi after the leaders gave a speech at Magwe Computer University. The students also planned to stay and protest in Pakokku for three days starting February 5 before they resumed their march to Yangon. At the same time, a committee representing about 260 civil society groups released a statement urging the government to continue quadripartite meetings and to refrain from the use of violence against student protestors.\n\nOn February 5, it was confirmed that students from Ayeyarwady Region and Taninthayi Region had continued marching to Yangon to join other protesters. That same day, the government announced that some political organization with intentions to destabilize the country were behind the student protests even though it did not identify them. It further urged the public to remind themselves of riots resulting in instability in the past.\n\nOn February 7, Ko Ko, Minister for Home Affairs, said in the interview that some political extremists were manipulating students to use methods of confrontation and that in some cases, most of them were supported by foreign organizations. Ye Yint Kyaw, a member of the ACDE, retaliated by accusing the government of having the same mentality as the former military regime.\n\nOn February 9, the NLD released a statement saying that Thein Lwin, a member of NNER, was suspended from his position in the party's central executive committee indefinitely. Another statement released by the NLD also announced the suspension of its Central Education Committee chaired by Thein Lwin. Aung San Su Kyi, the leader of the NLD, also said that it was a conflict of interest for a party member to be involved in an organization independent of the party. Thein Lwin responded by saying that he believed \"student demands are righteous\". The statement came out as Thein Lwin along with other education advocates and student representatives attended the third quadripartite meeting with Deputy Minister of Education and reached an agreement to resume further talks on February 11 at Yangon Region Parliamentary building. At the same time, the students marching from Mandalay were approaching Pyay in Bago Region and were about a mile away from a barricade set up by 200 riot police and 100 Swan Arr Shin members. About 300 residents from nearby towns accompanied the students to protect them due to rumors of a possible crackdown. Meanwhile, the students marching from Tanintharyi Region arrived in Mawlamyine, the capital of Mon State the day before and held several demonstrations joined by the locals (thein lwin suspended). The third group leaving from Ayeyarwady Region reportedly arrived in Maubin, about 100 miles away from Yangon. In Dedaye, in the northwest of Maubin and about 56 miles from Yangon, around 400 riot police were deployed. The student protesters called for negotiations with the police in case of a potential confrontation and the police informed that they were there to provide security not to stop the protests. Moreover, the fourth group of around 300 students left Pakokku, following the path that the group from Mandalay took several weeks ago.\n\nAfter ten-hour long meeting on February 11, the government accepted all the demands from the students. The students and the government delegates released a joint-statement, saying that the government generally agreed on the 11 demands and that the meeting would be reconvened on February 14 to further discuss the details. The plan was to send the proposed bill to the parliament on February 16. Despite the agreement, the student protesters announced that they would continue the march since the parliament had not passed the amendments. \nTo the students' surprise, the government released a statement on February 13 announcing that it would not allow the students to enter Yangon and that it would take measures to restore stability if the students did not halt their march. The students immediately held a meeting that evening to decide whether they should continue. The day before on February 12, the students sent a delegate to meet with Aung San Su Kyi who then told the students that it would be impossible to achieve all their demands and that was just the nature of democracy.\n\nAs the fourth quadripartite meeting on February 14 went without any issues, the student leaders and NNER began to craft the proposed amendment bill, which they finished on February 15. and the bill was submitted to the parliament on February 16. Student groups from Ayeyarwady Region and Tanintharyi Region decided to suspend their march after hearing the result of the meeting. Student organizers also stated one of the reasons they decided to go back was because of Ashin Nyanisarra, one of the most respected monks in Myanmar, who told them to take pride in what they achieved and go back to continue their education for the future of the country. In another statement, Ashin Nyanisarra told the government to forgive the students and to accept their demands. Meanwhile, the main group of protesters from Mandalay continued to march from Minla to Letpadan in Bago Region and planned to arrive in Yangon in ten days despite announcement by the government the day before that it would be taking legal actions against the protesters if they continued their march to Yangon.\n\nOn February 19, the protesters from Ayeyarwaddy Region stalled their march and set up temporary camps in Maubin and Pathein Townships as they waited for the decision from the parliament while giving public talks on the latest updates on the agreements they had with the government and the content of the proposed amendment bill. That day, Union Nationalities Alliance announced that they were in support of the student protests and donated $1000 while at the same time urging the parliament to quickly pass the amendments. Meanwhile, some 30 students from Dagon University in Yangon staged a sit-in in front of the rector's office from 9:30 am to noon after they were unknowing invited to a campus event earlier that week that condemned the student protests. The sit-in was also a response to the article featured in The Mirror, a state-owned newspaper that claimed that students had organized the event by themselves.\n\nOn February 20, the main column of student protesters from Mandalay announced that they would take a break from marching until March 1 due to primary and middle school exams coming up at the end of February. The students also stated that they wanted to give time to the parliament and see how it would handle the amendment bill.\n\nOn February 22, at a press conference in Yangon, the students accused the government for violating the agreements as the government submitted the Ministry of Education's version of the amendment bill alongside with the one agreed upon at the quadripartite meetings. Earlier that week on February 17, the Ministry of Education presented two proposed bills, claiming that the ministry crafted one of them. The bill that the Ministry of Education proposed, according to Thein Lwin, the chairman of NNER, was the one presented at first at the quadripartite meeting but agreed to be discarded by the government. The competing drafts in the parliament might delay the process and could take up to a month according to Phyo Min Thein, a member of parliament representing the NLD. Despite concerns from the students, the two proposed bills seemed to have some features in common. They both stated that schools and universities will be independent from the National Education Commission; that the school system would cater to students with disabilities; that the students would have the right to choose subjects they want to study except for those mandatory to pass the matriculation; that students and teachers would have the right to form unions and if necessary with financial help from university administration; that schools would be able to choose which language to teach; and that the government would increase the funding to 20% of the national budget in five years.\n\nMeanwhile, on February 24, the Amyotha Hluttaw (the Upper House) invited six major groups of stakeholders - the NNER, the ACDE, some 20 political parties, relevant members of the public, civil society groups and individuals who submitted the suggestions to the parliament - on the current issue to attend public hearings between March 5 – 15. Later that day, the State Sangha Maha Nayaka Committee (SSMNC) – a body of government-appointed monks in charge of regulating Buddhist monks in Burma – issued a statement to the parliament publicly accusing that the proposed amendment bill that recognized unions will result in confusion between religious and political issues, leading to the demise of the roots of Theravada Buddhism]]. Arkar Moe Thu, a member of NNER, however, pointed out that according to Article 68(a), \"schools that only teach religion are not governed by the law\". Meanwhile, the students confirmed that they would continue marching on March 1, accusing the parliament for intentionally delaying the process of passing the amendment bill.\n\nOn February 25, in response to the accusation from the students, Khin Maung Yi, the chairperson of Joint Bill Committee, stated that the committee was not just buying time. He also claimed that the committee was putting all necessary effort to finalize the bill in the current parliamentary session amidst other important bills such as the budget bill, the taxation bill and the national planning bill. Moreover, since the education bill is not under the category of bills that will go directly to the Union of Parliament, it has to go through the Lower House and the Upper House before it could be passed.\n\nOn February 27, the students met with Shwe Mann, the Speaker of the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw and the Joint Bill Committee to voice their concerns over the competing bills but they were told that the bills were already submitted to the parliament. Nanda Sit Aung, member of the ACDE, said that it was the violation of the quadripartite agreements because the bill that was submitted as the one proposed by students and the NNER was actually the one that everyone agreed at the quadripartite meeting.\nOn March 2, as the students prepared to resume their march to Yangon from Letpadan, the police surrounded the monastery where they were staying. The students then agreed to delay their march and were joined by another group of students that pushed through a barricade of riot police.\n\nOn March 3, a confrontation broke out between the student protesters and the police when a group of female students went to sit in front of the monks who were on hunger strike. The police misinterpreted the move as the students attempting to push through the line and came charging toward the students. The issue was later resolved when student leaders came to calm down the situation. Earlier that day, students negotiated with Bago Region Border and Security Affairs Minister Col. Thet Htun who urged them to halt their march. The students offered a compromise and stated that they would disperse in Yangon if the minister agreed on the eight-point conditions: to march to Tharawaddy, the nearest town; to fly banners and use megaphones after they embarked on vehicles to Yangon; and to have the police forces keep a distance from them. However, they did not receive any response from the minister.\n\nOn March 4, the students woke up to find that the government had reinforced the blockade with barbed wire. The riot police also stopped a group of student protesters who left [Pyay] to join the students in Letpadan. The truck the students were on was checked on its way to Letpadan and was not allowed to continue. A police officer said that they were ordered to stop the protesters and that the students should wait for the results of the negotiation scheduled for the next day. Police Lt. Col. Nanda Win also said that he wanted the issue to be resolved peacefully that did not intend to use force.\n\nOn March 5, the student representatives boycotted the parliamentary hearings due to police blockade of the protesters in Letpadan. On that day, the protest staged right outside of Yangon City Hall to show solidarity with the student protesters in Letpadan was cracked down by the riot police and civilians with \"duty\" armbands. There were in total about fifty protesters and eight people were arrested - five students and three members from 88 Generation Peace and Open Society. Instead of detaining them in a police station, they were taken to the former office of Ministry of Agriculture in Yankin Township.\n\nOn March 6, all eight students were released but they were charged under Article 18 of Peaceful Assembly Law for organizing unlawful protest, which could result in up to one-year prison sentence. The same morning, another five student protesters near the town market in Letpadan were arrested and the Letpadan local police also announced that 11 people present at a rally two days earlier would be charged under the same article used to arrest protesters in Yangon. There were also two rallies that day, one near the Yangon University campus and one at the entrance of Mandalay University campus to criticize the government's violent crackdown of the protests a day earlier in Yangon and to urge the government to let the students continue their march from Letpadan.\n\nOn March 9, the students after going a hunger strike since March 3 announced the deadline at 10 am on March 10, asking the government to bring an end to the standoff in Letpadan and to allow them to continue marching to Yangon.\n\nOn March 10, as the deadline expired, the students began to remove the barbed wire set up by the police but their attempt was futile. After their second attempt an hour later, the police declared that the protest was illegal and ordered the students to evacuate the monastery five persons at a time and not to leave Yangon in one group. The students refused and turned themselves in for peaceful arrests. The police then initiated an assault on the protesters including those inside the monastery. The exact number of injured people was not confirmed but the estimate was around 100. The police also attacked on volunteers working to escort the injured. Zar Zar Tun from Free Funeral Service Society, an organization in support of the movement from the beginning, announced that the first ambulance provided by the organization transported six men and two women one of whom suffered a severe head injury. In a statement released by the Ministry of Information, a total of 127 people – 100 men and 27 women – were arrested. The Myanmar Council also released a statement later that afternoon condemning the arrest of the journalists during the crackdown. At 2:30 pm on the same day, a group of students marching from Hledan junction in Yangon to downtown was also dispersed using force, minutes after the protest began. Several people were injured and initially one of the protesters was handcuffed but later released at the scene after the students plead and agreed to disband.\n\nThe Letpadan crackdown received criticism from the European Union as well as the NLD, which was not in support of the current student movement. The EU that had funded about $11 million on trainings to enhance the country's police force witnessed three student crackdowns as the first phase of EU-funded training came to an end. NLD also released a statement calling for independent government investigation on the reasons behind the use of violence \n\n\n"}
{"id": "36352733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36352733", "title": "Peer learning", "text": "Peer learning\n\nOne of the most visible approaches to peer learning comes out of cognitive psychology, and is applied within a \"mainstream\" educational framework: \"Peer learning is an educational practice in which students interact with other students to attain educational goals.\" In this context, it can be compared to the practices that go by the name cooperative learning. However, other contemporary views on peer learning relax the constraints, and position \"peer-to-peer learning\" as a mode of \"learning for everyone, by everyone, about almost anything.\" Whether it takes place in a formal or informal learning context, in small groups or online, peer learning manifests aspects of self-organization that are mostly absent from pedagogical models of teaching and learning.\n\nIn his 1916 book, Democracy and Education, John Dewey wrote, “Education is not an affair of 'telling' and being told, but an active and constructive process.” In a later essay, entitled \"Experience and Education\", Dewey went into greater detail about the science of child development and developed the basic Constructivist theory that knowledge is created through experience, rather than passed down from teacher to student through rote memorization. Soviet psychologist Lev Vygotsky, who developed the concept of the Zone of Proximal Development, was another proponent of constructivist learning: his book, \"Thought and Language\", provides evidence that students learn better through collaborative, meaningful problem-solving activities than through solo exercises.\n\nThe three distinguishing features of constructivist theory are claims that:\nThese are clearly meaningful propositions in a social context with sustained relationships, where people work on projects or tasks that are collaborative or otherwise shared.\n\nEducational Psychology Professor Alison King explains in \"Promoting Thinking Through Peer Learning\" that peer learning exercises as simple as having students explain concepts to one another are proof of social constructivism theory at work; the act of teaching another individual demands that students “clarify, elaborate on, and otherwise reconceptualize material.” Joss Winn, Senior Lecturer in Educational Research at University of Lincoln, proposes that schools radically redefine the teacher-student relationship to fit this constructivist theory of knowledge in his December 2011 paper, \"Student as Producer\". Carl Rogers' \"Personal Thoughts on Learning\" focus on the individual’s experience of effective learning, and eventually conclude that nearly the entire traditional educational structure is at odds with this experience. Self-discovered learning in a group that designates a facilitator is the “new approach” Rogers recommends for education.\n\nIn general, peer learning may adapt constructivist or discovery learning methods for the peer-to-peer context: however, peer learning typically manifests constructivist ideas in a more informal way, when learning and collaboration are simply applied to solve some real shared problem.\n\nCritical pedagogy engages students and instructors in analyzing and critiquing power structures around them. The most influential scholar in the development of this field was Paulo Freire, whose book Pedagogy of the Oppressed described the traditional teaching framework as a “banking system” in which students are thought of as empty vessels to be filled with knowledge and concepts. Instead, Freire advocated a more equitable relationship between teachers and students, one in which information is questioned and situated in political context, and all participants in the classroom work together to create knowledge.\n\nFreire’s vision for dialogical education, where learning is situated within students’ lived experience, has been commonly deemed idealistic by modern educators. Yet Paulo Blikstein, Assistant Professor of Education at Stanford University wrote in \"Travels in Troy with Freire: Technology as an Agent of Emancipation\" that through exploratory building activities, “Not only did students become more autonomous and responsible, they learned to teach one another.”\n\nYochai Benkler explains how the now-ubiquitous computer helps us produce and process knowledge together with others in his book, The Wealth of Networks. George Siemens argues in Connectivism: A Learning Theory for the Digital Age, that technology has changed the way we learn, explaining how it tends to complicate or expose the limitations of the learning theories of the past. In practice, the ideas of connectivism developed in and alongside the then-new social formation, \"massive open online courses\" or MOOCs.\n\nConnectivism proposes that the knowledge we can access by virtue of our connections with others is just as valuable as the information carried inside our minds. The learning process, therefore, is not entirely under an individual’s control—learning can happen outside ourselves, as if we are a member of a large organization where many people are continuously updating a shared database.\n\nRita Kop and Adrian Hill, in their critique of connectivism, state that:\n\nIn a joint paper, Roy Williams, Regina Karousou, and Jenny Mackness argue that educational institutions should consider \"emergent learning,\" in which learning arises from a self-organized group interaction, as a valuable component of education in the Digital Age. Web 2.0 puts distributed individuals into a group setting where emergent learning can occur. However, deciding how to manage emergence is important; “fail-safe” management drives activity towards pre-determined outcomes, while “safe/fail experiments” steer away from negative outcomes while leaving space open for mistakes and innovation. Williams \"et al.\" also distinguish between the term “environment” as controlled, and “ecology” as free/open.\n\nCathy Davidson and David Theo Goldberg write in \"The Future of Learning Institutions in a Digital Age\" about the potential of “participatory learning,” and a new paradigm of education that is focused on mediated interactions between peers.\nThey argue that if institutions of higher learning could begin to value this type of learning, instead of simply trying to implement “Instructional Technology” in classrooms, they could transform old models of university education. Davidson and Goldberg introduce “Ten Principles for the Future of Learning,” which include self-learning, horizontal structures, and open source education. Peter Sloterdijk's recent book \"You Must Change Your Life\" proposes similar ideas in the context of a \"General Disciplinics\" that would \"counteract the atrophy of the educational system\" by focusing on forms of learning that takes place through direct participation in the disciplines. (p. 156)\n\nYochai Benkler & Helen Nissenbaum discuss implications for the realm of moral philosophy in their 2006 essay, \n\"Commons-Based Peer Production and Virtue\". They argue that the “socio-technical systems” of today’s Internet make it easier for people to role-model and adopt positive, virtuous behaviors on a large scale.\n\nJoseph Corneli and Charles Jeffrey Danoff proposed the label “paragogy” to describe a collection of “best practices of effective peer learning.” They published a short book\nalong with several papers in which they discuss five \"paragogical principles\" that form the core of their proposed learning theory. These were generated by rethinking Malcolm Knowles principles of andragogy for a learning context that is co-created by the learners.\n\nThe learning theories and approaches described above are currently being tested in peer-learning communities around the world, often adapting educational technology to support informal learning, though results in formal learning contexts exist too. For example, Eric Mazur and colleagues report on \"Ten years of experience and results\" with a teaching technique they call \"Peer Instruction\":\n\nThis approach made early use of a variant of the technique that is now known as the \"flipped classroom\":\n\nPeer 2 Peer University, or P2PU, which was founded in 2009 by Philipp Schmidt and others, is an example from the informal learning side. Speaking about the beginnings of P2PU, Schmidt echoes Siemens’ connectivism ideas and explains that, “The expertise is in the group. That’s the message, that everyone can bring something to the conversation.” In numerous public talks, Schmidt argues that current educational models are \"broken\" (particularly on the basis of the high cost of university-level training). He suggests that social assessment mechanisms similar to those applied in open-source software development can be applied to education. In practice, this approach uses peer-based assessment including recommendations and badges to provide an alternative form of accreditation.\n\nJeff Young’s article in the Chronicle of Higher Education, \"When Professors Print Their Own Diplomas\", sparked a conversation about the necessity of formal degrees in an age when class lectures can be uploaded for free. The MIT Open Teaching initiative, for example, has since 2001 put all of its course materials online. But David A. Wiley, then Psychology Professor at Utah State, went further, signing certificates for whoever takes his class. A similar practice has become even more visible in learning projects like Udacity, Coursera, and EdX. Although these projects attempt to \"scale education\" by distributing learning materials produced by experts (not classic examples of peer learning), they do frequently feature peer-to-peer discussions in forums or offline.\n\nIn the forward to a book on the \"Power of peer learning\" by Jean-H. Guilmette, Maureen O'Neil, then president of Canada's International Development Research Centre, states that\n\nGuilmette suggests that peer learning is useful in the development context because\n\nGuilmette cites Anne K. Bernard, who in a report based on extensive interviews, concludes:\n\nScardamalia and Bereiter explain in \"Computer Support for Knowledge-Building Communities\" that computers in the classroom have the opportunity to restructure the learning environment, but too often they are simply used to provide a digital version of a normal lesson or exam. They propose that classrooms be exchanged for “knowledge-building communities” where students can use computers to connect to and create knowledge in the outside world. However, as illustrated in citations above, this way of thinking about learning is often at odds with traditional educational praxis.\n\nIn \"The Role of the Learning Platform in Student-Centered E-Learning\", Kurliha, Miettinen, Nokelainen, and Tirri found a \"difference in\nlearning outcomes based on the tools used.\" However, the variables at work are not well understood, and are the subject of ongoing research. Within a formal education setting, a 1994 study found that students were more responsive to feedback from a teacher than they were to peer feedback. However, another later study showed that training in assessment techniques had a positive impact on individual student performance.\n\nA classic study on motivation in peer tutoring showed that \"reward is no motivator.\" Although other more recent work has shown that non-monetary rewards or acknowledgement can make a difference in \"performance\" (for certain populations of peer producers), the exact motivations for going out of the way to teach or tutor someone else are not clearly understood. As mentioned above, learning is often just part of solving a problem, so \"peer learning\" and \"peer teaching\" would tend to happen informally when people solve problems in groups.\n\nResearch on peer learning may involve participant observation, and may itself be peer produced. Some of this research falls under the broader umbrella of Scholarship of Teaching and Learning. Computer-supported collaborative learning is one obvious context in which to study peer learning, since in such settings \"learning is observably and accountably embedded in collaborative activity.\" However, peer learning can play a role in settings where traditional conceptions of both \"teaching\" and \"learning\" do not apply, for instance, in academic peer review, in organizational learning, in development work, and in public health programmes. Research in these areas may fall within the area of organization science, science, technology and society (STS) or other fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "9920258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9920258", "title": "Russian School Defense Staff", "text": "Russian School Defense Staff\n\nRussian School Defense Staff or Headquarters for the Protection of Russian Schools (; ) — movement in Latvia for protection of public secondary education in Russian. Leaders: Vladimir Buzayev, Gennady Kotov, Yury Petropavlovsky, Miroslav Mitrofanov, Mihail Tyasin, Viktor Dergunov, Vladislav Rafalsky, for some time also Alexander Kazakov (deported out of Latvia in 2004), one of the most prominent spokesmen — Yakov Pliner.\n\nCancelling the Education law provisions, which originally ordered the language of instruction in public secondary schools (Forms 10-12) to be only Latvian (later - at least 60% Latvian) since 2004. It also supports providing effective learning of Latvian language in the Latvian language and literature lessons and specific preparation of teachers for Russian schools.\n\nThe Staff was founded in April 2003 as a coalition of various organizations, most prominent being ForHRUL, and later expanded, involving nonpartisan people. In 2003–2004, the Staff has organized political demonstrations (according to the Freedom House and political scientist T. Boguševiča, the biggest ones in Latvia since the beginning of the 1990s) to protest to expanding use of Latvian language in Russian schools.\n\nAs a result, the Education law was amended in February 2004, allowing to teach up to 40% in the forms 10-12 in minority languages. The proportion of teaching 60% of subjects in Latvian and 40% in Russian, according to BISS research, was supported by 20% of the teachers, 15% of pupils and 13% of parents in minority schools and most stated that they would rather support bilingual instruction in all subjects; only 15% of teachers thought that no reform was needed, while this opinion was expressed by 36% of parents and 44% of pupils. The parliamentary opposition started two cases before the Constitutional Court of Latvia (abjudicated in May and September, 2005) with most of its demands being refused.\n\n"}
{"id": "38674544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38674544", "title": "Self Organised Learning Environment", "text": "Self Organised Learning Environment\n\nA Self Organized Learning Environment (SOLE) is a program designed to support self-directed education. Sugata Mitra, an education scientist, first popularized the term in 1999, referencing an approach he developed following his Hole in the Wall experiments. Mitra's experiments demonstrated that groups of kids could learn to navigate computers and the internet by themselves, and \"[r]esearch since then has continued to support his startling conclusion that groups of children, with access to the Internet, can learn almost anything by themselves.\" Starting in 2014, he's worked with and through the School in the Cloud project to support the development of SOLEs around the world, adding \"Granny\" mentors and Big Questions as key components of such programs.\n\nOne of the things that was learned through the program is that children are often smarter than given credit for. Rather than providing lectures or spoon-feeding information to the students, it is better to ask \"engaging, provocative questions\" and let them work out the answers. It was also determined to be good to let the students self-direct in the areas that are of interest to them, with the idea that students will then often stretch to comprehend information that might have otherwise been too difficult for them.\n\nOther findings were that the educational experience is enhanced through collaboration and teamwork, that speech-to-text software is an effective tool for learning to speak a new language, and that tests asking students to solve real-life problems are more effective at prompting students to apply and demonstrate their learning than standard tests.\n\nThe first student in India to use the program was Gouri Chindarkar (born about 1996) from Sangli in Maharashtra. She learned about the program through a mentor, an American woman named Ann Thomas, who met with her at 6:30 in the morning. She used a computer for the first time, and her schoolwork delivered in English; her native language is Marathi. Gouri Chindarkar has since studied Computing Engineering at the Kankavali campus of Mumbai University and she was selected as one of the BBC's 100 Women in 2016.\n\nProject SOLE was begun in 10 locations in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, with an 11th one in Sindhudurg rural area of Maharashtra over a period of 2 years, 2008 to 2009. It is not clear to what extent the learning is effective over the long-term.\n\nIn their own words, \"The School in the Cloud platform was originally launched at the 2014 TED conference to help accelerate this research by helping educators — be they teachers, parents or community leaders — to run their own SOLEs and to contribute to the global experiment by sharing their experiences with others. It is now managed by SOLE Central at Newcastle University, a global hub for SOLE research and practice directed by Sugata Mitra.\" They are currently experimenting to refine and increase access to education programs that blend the SOLE approach of encouraging student groups to self-direct online learning with lessons from the Philosophy For Children (P4C) project.\n\nThough Mitra's initial experiments focused on children living in unstable environments and in poverty, his findings inspired educators in a wide variety of environments to adapt his work. Teachers in both traditional and progressive environments have found ways to incorporate the SOLE approach in their work, whether for the span of a lesson or a semester. One prominent education blog suggests, \"Consider it a tool for introducing and generating interest in a new topic, as well as broadening your students’ understanding of a familiar topic.\" In this context, the SOLE is just one element in a larger inquiry or project-based learning cycle.\n\nFor some, the initial SOLE projects showed the immense potential for learning in settings where students leverage technology and social learning to explore their interests with minimal interference. The US nonprofit Black Mountain SOLE opened a community center \"inspired by the idea that human curiosity is the best motivation for learning\" and identifying as an adaptation from earlier SOLE projects. Agile Learning Centers and a number of the projects that are part of the Alliance for Self-Directed Education also consider themselves to either be or be inspired by SOLEs. \n\n"}
{"id": "21744081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21744081", "title": "Shokuiku", "text": "Shokuiku\n\nShokuiku (Kanji: 食育) is the Japanese term for \"food education\". The law defines it as the \"acquisition of knowledge about food and nutrition, as well as the ability to make appropriate decisions through practical experience with food, with the aim of developing people's ability to live on a healthy diet\".\n\nIt was initiated by Sagen Ishizuka, a famous military doctor and pioneer of the macrobiotic diet. Following the introduction of Western fast food in the late 20th century, the Japanese government mandated education in nutrition and food origins, starting with the Basic Law of Shokuiku in 2005, and followed with the School Health Law in 2008. Universities have established programs to teach shokuiku in public schools, as well as investigating its effectiveness through academic study.\nMajor concerns that led to the development of shokuiku law include:\n\nClasses in shokuiku will study the processes of making food, such as farming or fermentation; how additives create flavor; and where food comes from.\n\n"}
{"id": "36740322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36740322", "title": "The Forbidden Education", "text": "The Forbidden Education\n\nThe Forbidden Education () is an independent documentary released in 2012. The film documents diverse alternative education practices and unconventional schools in Latin America and Spain and includes educational approaches such as popular education, Montessori, progressive education, Waldorf, homeschooling.\n\nIt became the first released movie in Spanish to be funded under a crowdfunding methodology. It was also highlighted by its distributed screening proposal that enabled a synchronized release in 130 cities in 13 countries with a total number of 18,000 viewers in a single day. One week after its release, the movie was viewed almost 2 millions times.\n\nThe film was released under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license.\n\nThe documentary is divided into 10 thematic episodes, each presenting a different aspect of education in the school context and outside of it. Topics include the history of the school system, authority and power in schools, evaluation and segregation of students, social function of educational institutions, and the role of teachers and families.\n\nThe film has almost 30 minutes of animation and a fictional dramatic story connecting the episodes.\n\nThe movie participated in the following festivals and exhibitions:\n\n"}
{"id": "35139541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35139541", "title": "Two-body problem (career)", "text": "Two-body problem (career)\n\nThe two-body problem is a dilemma for life partners (for e.g. spouses or any other couple) in academia, relating to the difficulty of both spouses obtaining jobs at the same university or within a reasonable commuting distance from each other. The central dilemma is thus a no-win situation in which if the couple wishes to stay together one of them may be forced to abandon an academic career, or if both wish to pursue academic careers the relationship may falter due to the spouses being constantly separated. Compromises the couple makes while trying to negotiate the two-body problem have implications for gender inequality. The term \"two-body problem\" has been used in the context of working couples since at least the mid-1990s. It alludes to the insolvable three-body problem in classical mechanics.\n\nMore than 70 percent of academic faculty have a working partner, while more than a third of faculty have an academic partner.\n\nTypical solutions include:\n\nAlthough it is not an ideal solution, a possible outcome is a break-up of the relationship. Long distance commuting certainly places a strain on relationships, especially when maintained over long periods (years or even decades). Many academic institutes recognize the two-body problem is a challenging issue when they hire a new faculty member, and prepare policies to help dual-career academic couples to settle down at their institutions. An institution in a small, rural state such as Wyoming may be under increased pressure to hire a spouse than in a large metropolitan area with many colleges and universities such as Boston.\n\nMore proactive institutions may establish funds and procedures to assist with this situation. Frequently a university will seek to hire one person in a couple, thereby making the other the \"trailing spouse.\" One approach is for a tenure-track position to be funded for the trailing spouse be a combination of funds from both academic departments involved with additional funds from the dean and/or provost. Substantial resources must be offered external to the department that would accept the trailing spouse, as this department would not typically be in the position to hire said person nor would that particular person necessarily rank highly if a search were to be conducted. For this reason, it is not unusual for departments to reject the trailing spouse even if substantial external funds are made available. This makes the problem particularly intractable, as qualified persons may remain unemployed simply because they are not an ideal fit for the trailing department. More commonly, institutions do not have such proactive programs in place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19725260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19725260", "title": "University", "text": "University\n\nA university (, \"a whole\") is an institution of higher (or tertiary) education and research which awards academic degrees in various academic disciplines. Universities typically provide undergraduate education and postgraduate education.\n\nThe word \"university\" is derived from the Latin \"universitas magistrorum et scholarium\", which roughly means \"community of teachers and scholars\". While antecedents had existed in Asia and Africa, the modern university system has roots in the European medieval university, which was created in Italy and evolved from Catholic Cathedral schools for the clergy during the High Middle Ages.\n\nThe original Latin word \"universitas\" refers in general to \"a number of persons associated into one body, a society, company, community, guild, corporation, etc\". At the time of the emergence of urban town life and medieval guilds, specialized \"associations of students and teachers with collective legal rights usually guaranteed by charters issued by princes, prelates, or the towns in which they were located\" came to be denominated by this general term. Like other guilds, they were self-regulating and determined the qualifications of their members.\n\nIn modern usage the word has come to mean \"An institution of higher education offering tuition in mainly non-vocational subjects and typically having the power to confer degrees,\" with the earlier emphasis on its corporate organization considered as applying historically to Medieval universities.\n\nThe original Latin word referred to degree-awarding institutions of learning in Western and Central Europe, where this form of legal organisation was prevalent, and from where the institution spread around the world.\n\nAn important idea in the definition of a university is the notion of academic freedom. The first documentary evidence of this comes from early in the life of the University of Bologna, which adopted an academic charter, the \"Constitutio Habita\", in 1158 or 1155, which guaranteed the right of a traveling scholar to unhindered passage in the interests of education. Today this is claimed as the origin of \"academic freedom\". This is now widely recognised internationally - on 18 September 1988, 430 university rectors signed the \"Magna Charta Universitatum\", marking the 900th anniversary of Bologna's foundation. The number of universities signing the \"Magna Charta Universitatum\" continues to grow, drawing from all parts of the world.\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the earliest universities were founded in Asia and Africa, predating the first European medieval universities. The University of Al Quaraouiyine, founded in Morocco by Fatima al-Fihri in 859, is considered by some to be the oldest degree-granting university.\n\nTheir endowment by a prince or monarch and their role in training government officials made early Mediterranean universities similar to Islamic madrasas, although madrasas were generally smaller, and individual teachers, rather than the madrasa itself, granted the license or degree. Scholars like Arnold H. Green and Hossein Nasr have argued that starting in the 10th century, some medieval Islamic madrasas became universities. However, scholars like George Makdisi, Toby Huff and Norman Daniel argue that the European university has no parallel in the medieval Islamic world. Several other scholars consider the university as uniquely European in origin and characteristics. Darleen Pryds questions this view, pointing out that madaris and European universities in the Mediterranean region shared similar foundations by princely patrons and were intended to provide loyal administrators to further the rulers' agenda.\n\nSome scholars, including Makdisi, have argued that early medieval universities were influenced by the madrasas in Al-Andalus, the Emirate of Sicily, and the Middle East during the Crusades. Norman Daniel, however, views this argument as overstated. Roy Lowe and Yoshihito Yasuhara have recently drawn on the well-documented influences of scholarship from the Islamic world on the universities of Western Europe to call for a reconsideration of the development of higher education, turning away from a concern with local institutional structures to a broader consideration within a global context.\n\nThe university is generally regarded as a formal institution that has its origin in the Medieval Catholic tradition. European higher education took place for hundreds of years in Catholic cathedral schools or monastic schools (\"scholae monasticae\"), in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century. The earliest universities were developed under the aegis of the Latin Church by papal bull as \"studia generalia\" and perhaps from Catholic cathedral schools. It is possible, however, that the development of cathedral schools into universities was quite rare, with the University of Paris being an exception. Later they were also founded by Kings (University of Naples Federico II, Charles University in Prague, Jagiellonian University in Kraków) or municipal administrations (University of Cologne, University of Erfurt). In the early medieval period, most new universities were founded from pre-existing schools, usually when these schools were deemed to have become primarily sites of higher education. Many historians state that universities and cathedral schools were a continuation of the interest in learning promoted by monasteries. Pope Gregory VII was critical in promoting and regulating the concept of modern university as his 1079 Papal Decree ordered the regulated establishment of Catholic cathedral schools that transformed themselves into the first European universities.\n\nThe first universities in Europe with a form of corporate/guild structure were the University of Bologna (1088), the University of Paris (c.1150, later associated with the Sorbonne), and the University of Oxford (1167).\n\nThe University of Bologna began as a law school teaching the \"ius gentium\" or Roman law of peoples which was in demand across Europe for those defending the right of incipient nations against empire and church. Bologna's special claim to \"Alma Mater Studiorum\" is based on its autonomy, its awarding of degrees, and other structural arrangements, making it the oldest continuously operating institution independent of kings, emperors or any kind of direct religious authority.\n\nThe conventional date of 1088, or 1087 according to some, records when Irnerius commences teaching Emperor Justinian's 6th century codification of Roman law, the \"Corpus Iuris Civilis\", recently discovered at Pisa. Lay students arrived in the city from many lands entering into a contract to gain this knowledge, organising themselves into 'Nationes', divided between that of the Cismontanes and that of the Ultramontanes. The students \"had all the power … and dominated the masters\".\n\nIn Europe, young men proceeded to university when they had completed their study of the trivium–the preparatory arts of grammar, rhetoric and dialectic or logic–and the quadrivium: arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy.\n\nAll over Europe rulers and city governments began to create universities to satisfy a European thirst for knowledge, and the belief that society would benefit from the scholarly expertise generated from these institutions. Princes and leaders of city governments perceived the potential benefits of having a scholarly expertise develop with the ability to address difficult problems and achieve desired ends. The emergence of humanism was essential to this understanding of the possible utility of universities as well as the revival of interest in knowledge gained from ancient Greek texts.\n\nThe rediscovery of Aristotle's works–more than 3000 pages of it would eventually be translated–fuelled a spirit of inquiry into natural processes that had already begun to emerge in the 12th century. Some scholars believe that these works represented one of the most important document discoveries in Western intellectual history. Richard Dales, for instance, calls the discovery of Aristotle's works \"a turning point in the history of Western thought.\" After Aristotle re-emerged, a community of scholars, primarily communicating in Latin, accelerated the process and practice of attempting to reconcile the thoughts of Greek antiquity, and especially ideas related to understanding the natural world, with those of the church. The efforts of this \"scholasticism\" were focused on applying Aristotelian logic and thoughts about natural processes to biblical passages and attempting to prove the viability of those passages through reason. This became the primary mission of lecturers, and the expectation of students.\n\nThe university culture developed differently in northern Europe than it did in the south, although the northern (primarily Germany, France and Great Britain) and southern universities (primarily Italy) did have many elements in common. Latin was the language of the university, used for all texts, lectures, disputations and examinations. Professors lectured on the books of Aristotle for logic, natural philosophy, and metaphysics; while Hippocrates, Galen, and Avicenna were used for medicine. Outside of these commonalities, great differences separated north and south, primarily in subject matter. Italian universities focused on law and medicine, while the northern universities focused on the arts and theology. There were distinct differences in the quality of instruction in these areas which were congruent with their focus, so scholars would travel north or south based on their interests and means. There was also a difference in the types of degrees awarded at these universities. English, French and German universities usually awarded bachelor's degrees, with the exception of degrees in theology, for which the doctorate was more common. Italian universities awarded primarily doctorates. The distinction can be attributed to the intent of the degree holder after graduation – in the north the focus tended to be on acquiring teaching positions, while in the south students often went on to professional positions. The structure of northern universities tended to be modeled after the system of faculty governance developed at the University of Paris. Southern universities tended to be patterned after the student-controlled model begun at the University of Bologna. Among the southern universities, a further distinction has been noted between those of northern Italy, which followed the pattern of Bologna as a \"self-regulating, independent corporation of scholars\" and those of southern Italy and Iberia, which were \"founded by royal and imperial charter to serve the needs of government.\"\n\nDuring the Early Modern period (approximately late 15th century to 1800), the universities of Europe would see a tremendous amount of growth, productivity and innovative research. At the end of the Middle Ages, about 400 years after the first European university was founded, there were twenty-nine universities spread throughout Europe. In the 15th century, twenty-eight new ones were created, with another eighteen added between 1500 and 1625. This pace continued until by the end of the 18th century there were approximately 143 universities in Europe, with the highest concentrations in the German Empire (34), Italian countries (26), France (25), and Spain (23) – this was close to a 500% increase over the number of universities toward the end of the Middle Ages. This number does not include the numerous universities that disappeared, or institutions that merged with other universities during this time. The identification of a university was not necessarily obvious during the Early Modern period, as the term is applied to a burgeoning number of institutions. In fact, the term \"university\" was not always used to designate a higher education institution. In Mediterranean countries, the term \"studium generale\" was still often used, while \"Academy\" was common in Northern European countries.\n\nThe propagation of universities was not necessarily a steady progression, as the 17th century was rife with events that adversely affected university expansion. Many wars, and especially the Thirty Years' War, disrupted the university landscape throughout Europe at different times. War, plague, famine, regicide, and changes in religious power and structure often adversely affected the societies that provided support for universities. Internal strife within the universities themselves, such as student brawling and absentee professors, acted to destabilize these institutions as well. Universities were also reluctant to give up older curricula, and the continued reliance on the works of Aristotle defied contemporary advancements in science and the arts. This era was also affected by the rise of the nation-state. As universities increasingly came under state control, or formed under the auspices of the state, the faculty governance model (begun by the University of Paris) became more and more prominent. Although the older student-controlled universities still existed, they slowly started to move toward this structural organization. Control of universities still tended to be independent, although university leadership was increasingly appointed by the state.\n\nAlthough the structural model provided by the University of Paris, where student members are controlled by faculty \"masters\", provided a standard for universities, the application of this model took at least three different forms. There were universities that had a system of faculties whose teaching addressed a very specific curriculum; this model tended to train specialists. There was a collegiate or tutorial model based on the system at University of Oxford where teaching and organization was decentralized and knowledge was more of a generalist nature. There were also universities that combined these models, using the collegiate model but having a centralized organization.\n\nEarly Modern universities initially continued the curriculum and research of the Middle Ages: natural philosophy, logic, medicine, theology, mathematics, astronomy (and astrology), law, grammar and rhetoric. Aristotle was prevalent throughout the curriculum, while medicine also depended on Galen and Arabic scholarship. The importance of humanism for changing this state-of-affairs cannot be underestimated. Once humanist professors joined the university faculty, they began to transform the study of grammar and rhetoric through the studia humanitatis. Humanist professors focused on the ability of students to write and speak with distinction, to translate and interpret classical texts, and to live honorable lives. Other scholars within the university were affected by the humanist approaches to learning and their linguistic expertise in relation to ancient texts, as well as the ideology that advocated the ultimate importance of those texts. Professors of medicine such as Niccolò Leoniceno, Thomas Linacre and William Cop were often trained in and taught from a humanist perspective as well as translated important ancient medical texts. The critical mindset imparted by humanism was imperative for changes in universities and scholarship. For instance, Andreas Vesalius was educated in a humanist fashion before producing a translation of Galen, whose ideas he verified through his own dissections. In law, Andreas Alciatus infused the \"Corpus Juris\" with a humanist perspective, while Jacques Cujas humanist writings were paramount to his reputation as a jurist. Philipp Melanchthon cited the works of Erasmus as a highly influential guide for connecting theology back to original texts, which was important for the reform at Protestant universities. Galileo Galilei, who taught at the Universities of Pisa and Padua, and Martin Luther, who taught at the University of Wittenberg (as did Melanchthon), also had humanist training. The task of the humanists was to slowly permeate the university; to increase the humanist presence in professorships and chairs, syllabi and textbooks so that published works would demonstrate the humanistic ideal of science and scholarship.\n\nAlthough the initial focus of the humanist scholars in the university was the discovery, exposition and insertion of ancient texts and languages into the university, and the ideas of those texts into society generally, their influence was ultimately quite progressive. The emergence of classical texts brought new ideas and led to a more creative university climate (as the notable list of scholars above attests to). A focus on knowledge coming from self, from the human, has a direct implication for new forms of scholarship and instruction, and was the foundation for what is commonly known as the humanities. This disposition toward knowledge manifested in not simply the translation and propagation of ancient texts, but also their adaptation and expansion. For instance, Vesalius was imperative for advocating the use of Galen, but he also invigorated this text with experimentation, disagreements and further research. The propagation of these texts, especially within the universities, was greatly aided by the emergence of the printing press and the beginning of the use of the vernacular, which allowed for the printing of relatively large texts at reasonable prices.\n\nExamining the influence of humanism on scholars in medicine, mathematics, astronomy and physics may suggest that humanism and universities were a strong impetus for the scientific revolution. Although the connection between humanism and the scientific discovery may very well have begun within the confines of the university, the connection has been commonly perceived as having been severed by the changing nature of science during the scientific revolution. Historians such as Richard S. Westfall have argued that the overt traditionalism of universities inhibited attempts to re-conceptualize nature and knowledge and caused an indelible tension between universities and scientists. This resistance to changes in science may have been a significant factor in driving many scientists away from the university and toward private benefactors, usually in princely courts, and associations with newly forming scientific societies.\n\nOther historians find incongruity in the proposition that the very place where the vast number of the scholars that influenced the scientific revolution received their education should also be the place that inhibits their research and the advancement of science. In fact, more than 80% of the European scientists between 1450–1650 included in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography were university trained, of which approximately 45% held university posts. It was the case that the academic foundations remaining from the Middle Ages were stable, and they did provide for an environment that fostered considerable growth and development. There was considerable reluctance on the part of universities to relinquish the symmetry and comprehensiveness provided by the Aristotelian system, which was effective as a coherent system for understanding and interpreting the world. However, university professors still utilized some autonomy, at least in the sciences, to choose epistemological foundations and methods. For instance, Melanchthon and his disciples at University of Wittenberg were instrumental for integrating Copernican mathematical constructs into astronomical debate and instruction. Another example was the short-lived but fairly rapid adoption of Cartesian epistemology and methodology in European universities, and the debates surrounding that adoption, which led to more mechanistic approaches to scientific problems as well as demonstrated an openness to change. There are many examples which belie the commonly perceived intransigence of universities. Although universities may have been slow to accept new sciences and methodologies as they emerged, when they did accept new ideas it helped to convey legitimacy and respectability, and supported the scientific changes through providing a stable environment for instruction and material resources.\n\nRegardless of the way the tension between universities, individual scientists, and the scientific revolution itself is perceived, there was a discernible impact on the way that university education was constructed. Aristotelian epistemology provided a coherent framework not simply for knowledge and knowledge construction, but also for the training of scholars within the higher education setting. The creation of new scientific constructs during the scientific revolution, and the epistemological challenges that were inherent within this creation, initiated the idea of both the autonomy of science and the hierarchy of the disciplines. Instead of entering higher education to become a \"general scholar\" immersed in becoming proficient in the entire curriculum, there emerged a type of scholar that put science first and viewed it as a vocation in itself. The divergence between those focused on science and those still entrenched in the idea of a general scholar exacerbated the epistemological tensions that were already beginning to emerge.\n\nThe epistemological tensions between scientists and universities were also heightened by the economic realities of research during this time, as individual scientists, associations and universities were vying for limited resources. There was also competition from the formation of new colleges funded by private benefactors and designed to provide free education to the public, or established by local governments to provide a knowledge hungry populace with an alternative to traditional universities. Even when universities supported new scientific endeavors, and the university provided foundational training and authority for the research and conclusions, they could not compete with the resources available through private benefactors.\nBy the end of the early modern period, the structure and orientation of higher education had changed in ways that are eminently recognizable for the modern context. Aristotle was no longer a force providing the epistemological and methodological focus for universities and a more mechanistic orientation was emerging. The hierarchical place of theological knowledge had for the most part been displaced and the humanities had become a fixture, and a new openness was beginning to take hold in the construction and dissemination of knowledge that were to become imperative for the formation of the modern state.\n\nBy the 18th century, universities published their own research journals and by the 19th century, the German and the French university models had arisen. The German, or Humboldtian model, was conceived by Wilhelm von Humboldt and based on Friedrich Schleiermacher's liberal ideas pertaining to the importance of freedom, seminars, and laboratories in universities. The French university model involved strict discipline and control over every aspect of the university.\n\nUntil the 19th century, religion played a significant role in university curriculum; however, the role of religion in research universities decreased in the 19th century, and by the end of the 19th century, the German university model had spread around the world. Universities concentrated on science in the 19th and 20th centuries and became increasingly accessible to the masses. In the United States, the Johns Hopkins University was the first to adopt the (German) research university model; this pioneered the adoption by most other American universities. In Britain, the move from Industrial Revolution to modernity saw the arrival of new civic universities with an emphasis on science and engineering, a movement initiated in 1960 by Sir Keith Murray (chairman of the University Grants Committee) and Sir Samuel Curran, with the formation of the University of Strathclyde. The British also established universities worldwide, and higher education became available to the masses not only in Europe.\n\nIn 1963, the Robbins Report on universities in the United Kingdom concluded that such institutions should have four main \"objectives essential to any properly balanced system: instruction in skills; the promotion of the general powers of the mind so as to produce not mere specialists but rather cultivated men and women; to maintain research in balance with teaching, since teaching should not be separated from the advancement of learning and the search for truth; and to transmit a common culture and common standards of citizenship.\"\n\nIn the early 21st century, concerns were raised over the increasing managerialisation and standardisation of universities worldwide. Neo-liberal management models have in this sense been critiqued for creating \"corporate universities (where) power is transferred from faculty to managers, economic justifications dominate, and the familiar 'bottom line' ecclipses pedagogical or intellectual concerns\". Academics' understanding of time, pedagogical pleasure, vocation, and collegiality have been cited as possible ways of alleviating such problems.\n\nA national university is generally a university created or run by a national state but at the same time represents a state autonomic institution which functions as a completely independent body inside of the same state. Some national universities are closely associated with national cultural, religious or political aspirations, for instance the National University of Ireland, which formed partly from the Catholic University of Ireland which was created almost immediately and specifically in answer to the non-denominational universities which had been set up in Ireland in 1850. In the years leading up to the Easter Rising, and in no small part a result of the Gaelic Romantic revivalists, the NUI collected a large amount of information on the Irish language and Irish culture. Reforms in Argentina were the result of the University Revolution of 1918 and its posterior reforms by incorporating values that sought for a more equal and laic higher education system.\n\nUniversities created by bilateral or multilateral treaties between states are intergovernmental. An example is the Academy of European Law, which offers training in European law to lawyers, judges, barristers, solicitors, in-house counsel and academics. EUCLID (Pôle Universitaire Euclide, Euclid University) is chartered as a university and umbrella organisation dedicated to sustainable development in signatory countries, and the United Nations University engages in efforts to resolve the pressing global problems that are of concern to the United Nations, its peoples and member states. The European University Institute, a post-graduate university specialised in the social sciences, is officially an intergovernmental organisation, set up by the member states of the European Union.\n\nAlthough each institution is organized differently, nearly all universities have a board of trustees; a president, chancellor, or rector; at least one vice president, vice-chancellor, or vice-rector; and deans of various divisions. Universities are generally divided into a number of academic departments, schools or faculties. Public university systems are ruled over by government-run higher education boards. They review financial requests and budget proposals and then allocate funds for each university in the system. They also approve new programs of instruction and cancel or make changes in existing programs. In addition, they plan for the further coordinated growth and development of the various institutions of higher education in the state or country. However, many public universities in the world have a considerable degree of financial, research and pedagogical autonomy. Private universities are privately funded and generally have broader independence from state policies. However, they may have less independence from business corporations depending on the source of their finances.\n\nThe funding and organization of universities varies widely between different countries around the world. In some countries universities are predominantly funded by the state, while in others funding may come from donors or from fees which students attending the university must pay. In some countries the vast majority of students attend university in their local town, while in other countries universities attract students from all over the world, and may provide university accommodation for their students.\n\nThe definition of a university varies widely, even within some countries. Where there is clarification, it is usually set by a government agency. For example:\n\nIn Australia, the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) is Australia's independent national regulator of the higher education sector. Students rights within university are also protected by the Education Services for Overseas Students Act (ESOS).\n\nIn the United States there is no nationally standardized definition for the term \"university\", although the term has traditionally been used to designate research institutions and was once reserved for doctorate-granting research institutions. Some states, such as Massachusetts, will only grant a school \"university status\" if it grants at least two doctoral degrees.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Privy Council is responsible for approving the use of the word \"university\" in the name of an institution, under the terms of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.\n\nIn India, a new designation deemed universities has been created for institutions of higher education that are not universities, but work at a very high standard in a specific area of study (\"An Institution of Higher Education, other than universities, working at a very high standard in specific area of study, can be declared by the Central Government on the advice of the University Grants Commission as an Institution 'Deemed-to-be-university'\"). Institutions that are 'deemed-to-be-university' enjoy the academic status and the privileges of a university. Through this provision many schools that are commercial in nature and have been established just to exploit the demand for higher education have sprung up.\n\nIn Canada, \"college\" generally refers to a two-year, non-degree-granting institution, while \"university\" connotes a four-year, degree-granting institution. Universities may be sub-classified (as in the Macleans rankings) into large research universities with many PhD-granting programs and medical schools (for example, McGill University); \"comprehensive\" universities that have some PhDs but are not geared toward research (such as Waterloo); and smaller, primarily undergraduate universities (such as St. Francis Xavier).\n\nIn Germany, universities are institutions of higher education which have the power to confer bachelor, master and PhD degrees. They are explicitly recognised as such by law and cannot be founded without government approval. The term Universitaet (i.e. the German term for university) is protected by law and any use without official approval is a criminal offense. Most of them are public institutions, though a few private universities exist. Such universities are always research universities. Apart from these universities, Germany has other institutions of higher education (Hochschule, Fachhochschule). Fachhochschule means a higher education institution which is similar to the former polytechnics in the British education system, the English term used for these German institutions is usually 'university of applied sciences'. They can confer master degrees but no PhDs. They are similar to the model of teaching universities with less research and the research undertaken being highly practical. Hochschule can refer to various kinds of institutions, often specialised in a certain field (e.g. music, fine arts, business). They might or might not have the power to award PhD degrees, depending on the respective government legislation. If they award PhD degrees, their rank is considered equivalent to that of universities proper (Universitaet), if not, their rank is equivalent to universities of applied sciences.\n\nColloquially, the term \"university\" may be used to describe a phase in one's life: \"When I was at university...\" (in the United States and Ireland, \"college\" is often used instead: \"When I was in college...\"). In Ireland, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Nigeria, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and the German-speaking countries, \"university\" is often contracted to \"uni\". In Ghana, New Zealand, Bangladesh and in South Africa it is sometimes called \"varsity\" (although this has become uncommon in New Zealand in recent years). \"Varsity\" was also common usage in the UK in the 19th century. \"Varsity\" is still in common usage in Scotland.\n\nIn many countries, students are required to pay tuition fees.\nMany students look to get 'student grants' to cover the cost of university. In 2016, the average outstanding student loan balance per borrower in the United States was US$30,000. In many U.S. states, costs are anticipated to rise for students as a result of decreased state funding given to public universities.\n\nThere are several major exceptions on tuition fees. In many European countries, it is possible to study without tuition fees. Public universities in Nordic countries were entirely without tuition fees until around 2005. Denmark, Sweden and Finland then moved to put in place tuition fees for foreign students. Citizens of EU and EEA member states and citizens from Switzerland remain exempted from tuition fees, and the amounts of public grants granted to promising foreign students were increased to offset some of the impact. The situation in Germany is similar; public universities usually do not charge tuition fees apart from a small administrative fee. For degrees of a postgraduate professional level sometimes tuition fees are levied. Private universities, however, almost always charge tuition fees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21048816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21048816", "title": "Vision Forum", "text": "Vision Forum\n\nVision Forum was an evangelical Christian organization based in San Antonio, Texas. It was founded in 1998; its president was Doug Phillips, son of U.S. Constitution Party leader Howard Phillips. Vision Forum Ministries was a 501(c) non-profit organization which was closed by its board of directors in November 2013 after Doug Phillips' confession of marital infidelity. The associated commercial operation, called Vision Forum, Inc., continued to operate until January 2014, when it was announced that it too was shutting down operations. Vision Forum advocated Biblical patriarchy, creationism, homeschooling, Family Integrated Churches and Quiverfull beliefs.\n\nVision Forum was an advocate of \"biblical patriarchy\". The \"Tenets of Biblical Patriarchy\" article on its website advocated such beliefs as:\n\n\nThe organization sponsored the Christian Filmmakers Academy and the San Antonio Independent Christian Film Festival.\n\nIn 2007, the group organized an alternative celebration of the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia, saying that the official celebration did not give enough emphasis to the Christian perspective of the settlers.\n\nVision Forum was criticized for allegedly holding views that demean women and view them as property. Don and Joy Veinot of Midwest Christian Outreach interpreted the Vision Forum statement to imply that \"women really cannot be trusted as decision makers\" and \"unless a daughter marries, she functionally remains pretty much the \"property\" of the father until he dies.\" They also argued that Vision Forum promoted a \"pagan top-down view of authority\".\n\nSimilar criticisms were voiced when a lawsuit was filed against Doug Phillips and Vision Forum, Inc. by a woman who had worked as the Phillips family's nanny. Her suit alleged that Phillips had sexually abused her for years. Phillips acknowledged an \"inappropriate relationship\" but denied all charges of sexual abuse, \"calling them sensationalist and suggesting that they are motivated by a desire for financial gain.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50599763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50599763", "title": "WAC Clearinghouse", "text": "WAC Clearinghouse\n\nThe WAC Clearinghouse publishes peer-reviewed, open-access journals and books, as well as other professional resources for teachers and instructional materials for students. Writing-across-the-curriculum (WAC) refers to a formal programmatic approach within contemporary secondary and higher education composition studies that promotes the importance of writing in classes outside of composition. \n\nWorking in partnership with the Association for Writing Across the Curriculum Programs (AWAC), the WAC Clearinghouse operates as a publishing collaborative, drawing on contributions from more than 125 individuals serving on the editorial boards of academic journals supported by the Clearinghouse, as editors or reviewers of its book series, as editors of resource pages on its website, and as members of the overall Clearinghouse editorial board. The open-access character of the scholarship available through the Clearinghouse book series provides free access to scholarly books and textbooks, providing students and teachers with an alternative to purchasing scholarly and classroom instructional materials. For individuals and libraries who wish to own print copies of its books, the Clearinghouse works with University Press of Colorado to make print books available in low-cost editions. The Clearinghouse also collaborates with other open-access publishers in the field of writing studies, including Computers and Composition Digital Press and Writing Spaces, which both publish open-access scholarly work, including innovative, multimodal digital writing projects, using traditional academic peer reviewed processes. The WAC Clearinghouse addresses several disciplinary areas within writing studies, such as second-language writing, writing fellows, and writing in the STEM disciplines.\n\nEstablished in 1997, the Clearinghouse is among the most successful open-access publishing projects in the humanities. It supports eight academic journals, including \"The WAC Journal,\" focused on WAC theory and ideas; \"Across the Disciplines,\" devoted to language, learning and academic writing; \"Double Helix,\" an international journal on writing, critical thinking, pedagogical theory and classroom practice; and \"RhetNet,\" an online journal of rhetoric and composition that explores what \"net\" publishing may be in its natural form, as well as several others. The Clearinghouse also has published 90 books and provides access to peer-reviewed resources for teachers who wish to use writing in courses across the disciplines, including a bibliography (published in collaboration with CompPile, which became part of the Clearinghouse in 2018), resource pages on writing fellows programs and second-language learners, conference proceedings, WAC program descriptions, a list of scholarly journals, and the 2014 Statement on WAC Principles and Practices, among others.\n\nIn May 2012, to mark its fifteenth year of operation, the WAC Clearinghouse launched the 25 Collective, a demonstration project for sustainable publishing. The goal of the project was to publish 25 new books for a total expenditure of $50,000—a cost far below that borne by traditional academic presses. Leveraging university resources (office space, computing resources, and web servers), the project operated within its budget and had, by March 2017, reached its goal, producing 29 books at an average cost of less than $2000 per book. The success of the project led to the launch of the Colorado State University Open Press, a publishing project that supports the use of the publishing collaborative model developed through the WAC Clearinghouse in other disciplines.\n\nThe Clearinghouse is hosted by Colorado State University and receives support from the Colorado State University Open Press. It also receives support from donations and funds from purchases of selected books in print form. Donations are used to defray costs associated with honoraria for graduate students who serve as copy editors and designers for Clearinghouse books, for accessibility to the Web site and publications, for the purchase of ISBN numbers, and for software and equipment expense. Interested patrons my donate online or by check through the Clearinghouse Web site. \n\n"}
{"id": "40367305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40367305", "title": "Web filtering in schools", "text": "Web filtering in schools\n\nTechnological innovation has brought more computing to schools, and with it a need to protect students from inappropriate content across the web, while also allowing students to use content-rich educational sites that can enhance the learning experience. Rather than simply blocking off large portions of the Internet, many schools are utilizing customizable web filtering systems that allow them greater control over which sites are allowed and which are blocked. The Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA) requires that U.S. schools have appropriate measures in place to protect students from obscene or harmful online content in order to be eligible for discounts on internet access or internal connections through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as the E-Rate program. There are a number of commercially available free and paid services that allow schools to meet CIPA requirements and receive the discount.\n\nThe FCC and CIPA do not specify how the filtering needs to be done, so most schools are using a combination of DNS, Browser and Firewall-based filtering.\n\nThe DNS filtering happens at the domain resolution layer of the Internet and does not allow the IP address of an obscene or harmful website to be discovered. There are multiple paid products that perform such work, but many schools are leveraging free solutions to filter non-safe sites.\n\nSome Browser extensions allow parental control to be enabled to restrict non desirable websites categories. For CIPA, those categories include any website with adult-only content.\n\nFirewall-based filtering can be done at the IP layer or using Web proxies to intercept and filter HTTP and HTTPS requests to websites that are not kid safe. This type of solution is difficult to implement as much of the web is moving to HTTPS, so it does not have a high efficiency.\n"}
{"id": "28654727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28654727", "title": "Wittgenstein's ladder", "text": "Wittgenstein's ladder\n\nA Wittgenstein's ladder is a simplified explanation of a technical or complex subject that is used as a teaching tool, despite being technically wrong.\n\nThe term stems from proposition number 6.54 in Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein's 1921 philosophical work \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", in which he states that although his propositions are at some level incorrect, they can be used like steps on a ladder to help one reach an understanding of higher level concepts.\n\nOther philosophers before Wittgenstein including Schopenhauer and Fritz Mauthner had used a similar metaphor before him. In 1930, Wittgenstein rejected his own \"ladder\" idea, stating:\n"}
{"id": "56970574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56970574", "title": "Word gap", "text": "Word gap\n\nThe term 30 million word gap (often shortened to just the word gap) was coined in a 2003 article by Betty Hart and Todd R. Risley titled \"The Early Catastrophe: The 30 Million Word Gap by Age 3\". Hart and Risley used LENA devices, an electronic microphone that measured how many words the child hears to record samples of the utterances of entire families over 2.5 years. Families were classified by socioeconomic status (SES) into \"high\" (professional), \"middle\" (working class), and \"low\" (welfare) SES. They found that the average child in a professional family hears 2,153 words per waking hour, the average child in a working class family hears 1,251 words per hour, and an average child in a welfare family only 616 words per hour. Extrapolating, they stated that, \"in four years, an average child in a professional family would accumulate experience with almost 45 million words, an average child in a working-class family 26 million words, and an average child in a welfare family 13 million words.\"\n\nThe authors found a correlation between word exposure and the rate of vocabulary acquisition in the subject children. The recordings showed that high SES toddlers spoke approximately 2 new words a day between their second and third birthdays, middle SES children 1 word per day, and low SES children 0.5 words per day. Spoken words are a measure of productive vocabulary. It is thought that during children's vocabulary development the productive vocabulary mirrors their underlying receptive vocabulary growth.\n\nThe authors and subsequent researchers have posited that the word gap–or certainly the differing rates of vocabulary acquisition–partially explains the achievement gap in the United States, the persistent disparity in educational performance among subgroups of U.S. students, especially subgroups defined by socioeconomic status and race.\n\nOther critics theorize that the language and achievement gaps are not a result of the amount of words a child is exposed to, but rather alternative theories suggest it could derive from the disconnect of linguistic practices between home and school. Thus, judging academic success and linguistic capabilities from socioeconomic may ignore bigger societal issues. The ongoing word gap discourse can be seen as a modern movement in educational discussion.\n\nPrior to the 30 million word gap study, extensive research had noted strong institutional variation in student success on standardized tests. The initial attention to achievement gap started with a 1966 publication from the U.S. Department of Education titled “Equality of Educational Opportunity.” The publication begins the onset of achievement gap by acknowledging that there is a great disparity within educational outcomes as a result of inequitable institutions, especially those that were not seen as part of the purview of schools such as cultural, socioeconomic, and linguistic realities of students at home. The National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) had further been used to census information that various studies used to show achievement gaps across a number of demographics. The idea of equity in education had also given rise to similar gap discourse around the world.\n\nHart and Risley (2003) spent 2 ½ years observing 42 families for an hour each month to learn what typical home life was like for 1 and 2 year old children. The families were grouped into 4 variables, upper SES, middle SES, lower SES and just a few that were on welfare. They found that by age 3 children in welfare families had a vocabulary of 525 words where children in upper SES families had vocabulary of 1,116 words. They also found that the children in upper class families were learning vocabulary at a faster rate. The researchers suggested the reason for this difference is because the welfare children heard on average 616 words per hour where professional-family children heard on average 2,153 words per hour. Thus, proposing the 30 Million Word Gap. The achievement gap is explained as a result of the language gap, in that because children are lacking in their vocabulary and literary skills, they will not be as successful in academics. Hart and Risley argue this is an indispensable societal concern because it sets the child at a disadvantage for not being exposed to more vocabulary skills at a young age.\n\nFernald, Marchman, and Weisleder (2013) conducted a study with 48 children from diverse backgrounds ages 18–24 months old. The families were divided into low-SES (socioeconomic status) and high-SES. Their first goal was to track developmental changes in processing efficiency in relation to vocabulary learning. Their second goal was to examine difference in aspects of early language development in relation to their SES. Their results showed that children at the same age from the lower class families had lower vocabulary scores when compared to children in higher class families. Fernald et al (2013) also found that by 18 months old language processing and vocabulary disparities were already evident, and by 24 months old there was a 6 month gap between the SES groups in processing skills critical to language development. Fernald et al found fast reaction time as a child can translate into reaction time as an adult. Adults who have high reaction time tend to have better memories, reasoning abilities, language skills and are better able to learn new skills (fluid intelligence). Having better processing speed means having a stronger working memory, and a stronger working memory leads to a better cognitive competence. The authors express the importance of vocabulary knowledge because it sets a foundation for later literacy and language proficiency in preschool and that is predictive of academic success. Implications of long term developmental trajectories. Thus, the issue of the language gap and achievement gap are prevalent in our youth, which can be resolved by teaching families how to work and speak with their children.\n\nSperry, Sperry, and Miller (2018) replicated Hart and Risley’s study and found that the amount of word gaps varied within the same backgrounds of socio-economic status. A longitudinal study observed families with their children in their homes and the researchers spoke to the participants as if they were a family friend. They used similar social classes as HR for comparison. Middle class, working class, lower class, poor “welfare” group. During the visit, three analyses were made and transcribed for research. The first was how many words the primary caregiver spoke to the child. The second was that the words spoken by all caregivers to the child showed social class alone did not determine either the composition of households or consequently the amount of a speech a child heard. Lastly, all ambient speech, like language addressed to other individuals but overheard by language learning children was considered. In the poor community sample when you took into consideration the ambient speech, or the words that primary caregivers said to extended family, the amount of words a child hears increased by 54%, in the working class by 210%. This study was the first attempt to replicate Hart and Risley and their findings did not support the previous claims. Given the variation within communities was greater than when simply comparing socioeconomic statuses.\n\nGarcia and Otheguy (2016) were interested in the origins and validity of the Language Gap, and how the preconceptions of it impact bilingual and bidialectical children, specifically from Latino and Black backgrounds. They focused more so on how people talk about and understand language as a whole, especially within the education system. Their argument claims language is a semiotic process that involves sound, touch, and gestures and should be seen as a translanguaging-internalist perspective. She offers historical context to give insight to the creation of the Language Gap and the biases it may hold. They suggest it began when \"Brown vs The Board of Education\" (1954) and the Civil Rights Act (1964) made it illegal to judge based on one’s color or race; thus, exclusions needed to be made based on another trait. They build on Flores and Rosas (2017) idea of raciolinguistics that suggests a new way to separate whites and non-whites. They continue to give historical context on the Achievement Gap in that it was a result of the No Child Left Behind Act (2001), despite its good intentions, it compared every race and background on a standardized test written in a White monolingual way. Given the educational system functions on the dominant groups of society (i.e. white, Standardized English, middle-upper class), it ignores the linguistic and cultural practices of minorities. The theory here is that it is not that families of differing backgrounds are not adequate in teaching their children how to speak, but teach them a different linguistic culture at home than the one taught in schools.\n\nSimilarly, Johnson (2015) draws on from Faltis (2006) socialization mismatch hypothesis that the culture of the schooling system that is based around middle to upper class, White, Standardized English principles do not match the language socialization of backgrounds that may not fit into these categories. He argues the Language Gap was not a result of vocabulary or literary deficiency in a child, but rather not understanding the language socialization of different cultural backgrounds. He drew from a previous linguistic anthropologist Hymes (1972) term of “communicative competence” in that social expectations within a speech community shape the member’s use of language. Thus, diverse backgrounds in language have a different set of expectations that a member conforms to. As language differs, so does the developmental process. Johnson (2015) argues the Language Gap is not fair because it does not consider the various ways children use words and create meaning. Therefore, it is not the parents at fault leading their children to fall behind, but the school’s fault for not accommodating to children’s backgrounds.Thus, the Language Gap is not a result of a child’s capabilities to understand, but a result of how a linear function of language ignores the needs of the various ways to make meaning.\n\nThere are possible social implications to Hart and Risley’s theories of the issue of the Language Gap in society. The first possible implication is that this Language Gap is affecting youth’s success because they are not exposed to the same amount of vocabulary and literary skill as other kids from middle-upper classes. Hart and Risely suggest that possible solutions include interventions on how to improve vocab and literary skills for caregivers in low SES. However, the second possible implication of this theory is that it ignores the fact that language and culture are taught differently. In stating other backgrounds cannot be as successful as the dominant groups in society, It reinstates the homogeneity of language, in that it proposes one “true” way of speaking.\n\nGarcia and Otheguy (2016) implies the Language and Achievement Gap derive from racist ideals that reinforce the idea that some cultures are seen as “disadvantaged”. To place the blame on different backgrounds is to invalidate their way to make meaning just because they have different cultures. Thus, to not consider the responsibility of the schooling system is to promote the homogeneity of Standardized English and this notion that anyone who doesn’t speak or understand it is inferior and prone to future failure. Garcia argues it deligitimatizes backgrounds of families and their linguistic and cultural practices because it is not seen to be “successful” in the eyes of the education system.\n\nSperry, Sperry and Miller discussed some of the consequences of the original Hart and Risley (2003) article. The 30 Million Word Gap has received widespread media attention. In 2013 Bloomberg Philanthropies mayors challenge awarded providence Rhode Island its grand prize to “providence talks” - a project proposed to teach poor parents how to speak to their children with the aid of the LENA Device. The Clinton foundations “Too Small to Fail” initiative which hosted the White House Word Gap event in 2014, resulted in the US department of Health and Human services funding remedial efforts to address the Word Gap.\n\nIn addition, Georgia has a policy “Talk with Me Baby” that is a public action strategy aimed at increasing the number of words children are exposed to in early childhood. \"Talk With Me Baby\" is a program that provides professional development of nurses, who will then coach new parents how they should talk to their children. This program is funded by Greater United Way of Atlanta.\n\nThe University of Chicago, School of Medicine's Thirty Million Words Initiative provides intervention for caregivers and teaches to show them how to optimize their talk with their kids. This program is funded by the PNC Foundation.\n\nThe Word Gap theory can be seen as part of a larger development in modern educational reform and movement: the Achievement Gap discourse. It is widely accepted and noted by scholars that ideas around individual outcome in schools varies based on various demographics. Explaining variations in achievement in schools across levels of demographics that may result in a gap in student achievement has become the primary problems public schools have to address. The Discourse is based on evidence and assumptions of why primarily poor students of color do not perform at the same levels as their more affluent White and certain Asian group counterparts- it creates language to how schools and communities can be organized more optimally to help students and schools produce more equitable and successful outcomes. The Achievement Gap also addresses a gender gap achievement, and standardized test score gaps broadly across countries, notably with standardized examinations on STEM subjects. The Discourse can also be seen as a turning away from traditional explanations of performance in school as individualistic, to the creation of cultural framework understanding to help explain what conventions hinder and produce successful students. \"Under performing, adequate yearly progress (AYP), highly qualified, below basic, and proficient\" are some terms used to mark good and bad aspects of schools, their teachers, and their students which in turn reifies the Achievement Gap theory. As a broader Discourse, it is an idea which is multimodally shared and accepted as common belief between parents, policy makers, teachers and students through various means according to James Paul Gee’s idea of Discourse in socio-linguistic analysis.\n\nThe effects of the Achievement Gap Discourse cause several cultural phenomena- “cultural gate-keeping,” in which policy makers and education reformers decide and label students as more or less capable and worthy than others. Schools might be called under-performing, which can further affect the policy and financing prescribed by their districts, or even higher authorities.\n\nUsing metric standards to understand the cause in Achievement Gap as a result of ineffective cultural practices also tends to place blame on the families unless there is ample socio-linguistic inquiry to individual family circumstance, which still often creates a Discourse against deemed underachieving students’ culture.\n\nThe Achievement Gap Discourse initiated with two primary modes in American educational studies: Achievement Gap among races, and gap among socioeconomic status (SES). \"The gap Discourse\" does not typically extend across generations or other forms of demographics that have been studied, and further study of Achievement Gap among different dimensions faces the initial stigmatization as a result of the gap Discourse in various studies around the turn of the 21st Century, pin-headed by the 30 million Word Gap. Among critics are many linguists, anthropologists, and social discipline specialists, as well as organizations such as the Linguistic Society of America.\n\nThe achievement gap became an especially strong interest for study in the turn of the century, and the early 2000's when a plethora of studies looked at factors such as standardized test scores, presence in class, GPA, enrollment, and dropout rates in secondary and post-secondary education. The problem came in the analyses of the studies which were criticized for looking at race and socioeconomic explanations to explain educational outcome without taking into account others such as S. J. Lee, 2005, Pang, Kiang, & Pak, 2004, and Rothstein 2004 which provided broad postulations as to why race and SES accounted for varied success. President George W. Bush's administration’s No Child Left Behind rhetoric of 2001 and 2002 left researchers limited to the type of research they could conduct for educational equity due to a need to appease policy makers among educational stakeholders. According to Roderick L Carey, Word Gap researcher, the NCLB “mandated objective and quantitative ‘scientifically based’ research, which left little room for qualitative research agendas that unpack contextual factors that add nuance to the understandings of how high-stakes accountability is felt and lived by students, teachers, and their families.” The rhetoric also posed ideas that placed responsibility of achievement in institutions on their most proximal function oriented members, shifting responsibility to achieve positive outcomes on high-stakes standardized tests nearly entirely on teachers and schools, whilst the difference in achievement was largely believed to be due to factors outside of the classroom. Various studies culminated to suggest general and vague underlying problems within specific communities which caused deficit in learning outcomes under this context.\n\nAmong these studies, Hart and Risley stumbled upon the idea of word gap when working with youth who used cochlear implants, to form their the idea: they hypothesized exposure to spoken word might explain an achievement gap in standardized test scores, then used standardized testing data on language as well as an in depth study to conclude their 30 million word gap publication.\n\nThe \"Oxford Word Gap\" is used to describe the word gap found between races and socioeconomic classes in the United Kingdom. The report study “Why Closing the Word Gap Matters: Oxford Language Report” details out statistics collected in primary and secondary schools in the United Kingdom, along the same ideas as the American Word Gap idea, citing \"Hart and Risley (2003)\" in the report. It was published in 2018, so all of its implications are yet to be seen.\n\nA great number of states have paid attention to Achievement Gap across hundreds of criteria including demographics, access to language and economic resources and race around the world: notably in the United Kingdom, France, South Africa as named in one comparative analysis. UNESCO has held strongly in its principles the importance on aspects of educational equity, and other educational movements similar to that of the United States Word Gap are numerous throughout Europe and some other members of UNESCO. Europe also has its own varied standards on the ideas of multilingual competence per state, which stress the apprehension and exposure to secondary language vocabulary in students of all ages.\n\nThe Word Gap has largely been defined to mean the idea of the observed gap between the spoken and read language in the specific context of American education reform described in this article, however other proposed ideas or active research have used it to describe differences in access to language varieties experienced in public settings, such as signage in Orellana, 2017's \"Another Type of Word Gap\", as well as other linguistic resources such as using media for language acquisition. Other aspects of linguistic resource studies could change the language or may attempt to use terms to remain distinct from the stigma of word gap.\n"}
