{"id": "53695544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53695544", "title": "Access to public information in Cyprus", "text": "Access to public information in Cyprus\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nThe right of access to information in Cyprus is guaranteed in constitutional provisions on freedom of expression but the legal framework is seriously flawed, with no law on access to information in the Southern Republic of Cyprus of the country and a law that falls below Council of Europe standards in the Northern part of Cyprus. The right to access to public information is provided in different ways in the two parts of the island, in which Cyprus is \"de facto\" divided.\n\nAs to 2011, a research by the Open Cyprus Project showed that there was a level of 75% of administrative silence island-wide, in response to information requests. Over half of the respondents to this survey stated that, in practice, access to key documents is not possible.\n\nSince late 2013, a draft law on the Right to Access Public Information is being discussed in the Parliament of the (Southern) Republic of Cyprus. \n\nOn 22 December 2017 the law has finally been approved (Law number 184(I)/2017).\n\nThe right to access public information is granted by Article No. 24 of the Constitution of Northern Cyprus. Even if the Constitutional article echoes Article No. 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), experts say that the possibilities to restrict the fundamental right of access to public information are provided in an overbroad manner. Specifically, Article No. 10 (2) ECHR says that the conditions and restrictions imposed on the right to freedom of expression have to be “necessary in a democratic society”. Instead, even if the Constitution of Northern Cyprus- under Article No. 24- provides for a test of whether a restriction to such a right is necessary, it does not specify the key qualification of being necessary in a democratic society, as required by Article 10 of the ECHR.\n\nThe relevant laws regulating the right to access public information in the Northern part of Cyprus are: the Right to Access Information Law No. 12 of 2006; the Public Officials Law No. 7 of 1979; the State Procurement Regulation; the Rules and Procedures of the Parliament and the Personal Data Protection Act No. 89 of 2007.\n\nThe Right to Access Information Law obliges “public bodies” to process all information requests, regardless of the means by which they are submitted.\n\nA 2011 research recommends that, with regard to the Access to Information Law in the Northern part of the country, the scope of the law should be extended to all classes of information held by public bodies. Also, according to experts, an implementing regulation should be approved, clarifying the administrative procedure to request and receive information. Finally, the Access to Information Assessment Commission foreseen by the law has not been appointed yet.\n\nThe Cypriot government couldn't sign or ratify the 2009 Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents as it did not have a transparency law that meets the Convention’s minimum standard. Until 2017, Cyprus was the only country in Europe, other than Luxembourg, without a law guaranteeing the right of access to information.. But as of 2018, the law has been published (Law 184(I)/2017)\n\nThe relevant laws with regard to the right to access public information are the following:\nAccording to experts, these non-specific laws that might grant access to some classes of information, such as environmental information or archives, require amendments to comply with the basic international and European standards.\n\nSince April 2014, the Republic of Cyprus has been holding public consultations aimed at drafting a Freedom of Information Law, which as to 2017 has to be enacted. In October 2015, the Cypriot Justice Minister Ionas Nicolaou expressed his commitment to adopt a strong access to information (Freedom of Information) law that will be “one of the best in the European Union”.\n\nAgain, in February 2017, the association Access Info Europe has addressed the Cypriot Parliament asking to review such a draft. In particular, Access Info Europe advocated for the removal of the fees for making information requests and for cutting down the possible 60 days extension for complex requests which has been included in the draft. Moreover, according to Access Info, also the regime of possible exceptions needs to be reviewed. Currently, the draft includes absolute exceptions, with no public interest test. Furthermore, under the international and European transparency standards, when disclosure of information is denied requesters must be given clear reasons as to why the exception has been applied.\n\nIn March 2017, the recommendations elaborated by Access Info Europe were sent to the Cypriot Parliament Legal Committee.\n\nSince March 2015, Citizen Service Centres have been established all over the island in order to provide multiple services as an alternative channel for dealing with public agencies/organizations. They work through a single 4-digit number (1434) which citizens can call in order to obtain information with respect to approximately 90 services offered by the CSCs, such as eligibility criteria for submitting an application, documents that need to be submitted, fees charged etc. Through this Call Centre, citizens can also submit applications for 18 services relating to the issuing of specific documents/licenses/certificates etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "35247766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35247766", "title": "Aggressive legalism", "text": "Aggressive legalism\n\nIn the context of globalization and the subsequent proliferation of free trade agreements (FTAs), legal scholars generally refer to the political strategy used by a sovereign state to leverage a trade agreement’s substantive rules to counter behavior it deems unreasonable by its trading partners, as aggressive legalism.\n\nFollowing World War II and the Bretton Woods Conference, the United States and the Allied Powers designed a new world economic order, partially emphasizing greater cooperative trade relationships. With the adoption of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1946 and via its replacement by the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995, these countries developed a comprehensive legal framework, that reflected their common legal traditions, to facilitate these relationships, including a system to settle disputes that favored litigation.\n\nSomewhat under GATT in the 1950s but specifically with the adoption of the WTO, these countries engaged increased trade with Asian countries, as they became signatories. Initially, while the U.S. and the Allied Powers leveraged the agreement's respective legal frameworks and dispute-mechanisms including litigation to deal with disputes with their trading partners, many Asian countries choose not to. Instead, they avoided legal confrontation, in favor of bilateral negotiations to arrive at a settlement. Social-cultural disparities between each, concerning an inclination to litigate, are likely indicative of why.\n\nHowever, in the 1980s and 1990s, under both GATT and WTO, many Asian countries began to utilize their legal frameworks to settle disputes.\n\nIn 2001, in \"Aggressive Legalism: The Rules of the WTO and Japan’s Emerging Trade Strategy\", Saadia M. Pekkanen described the increasing tendency of the Japanese government’s use of the World Trade Organization's (WTO) dispute settlement protocols to counter adverse acts by its trading partners as aggressive legalism. Aggressive legalism, she argued is “a conscious strategy where a substantive set of international legal rules can be made to serve as both ‘shield’ and ‘sword’ in trade disputes among sovereign states.”\n\nIn a policy primer for the United States Government, The Policymaker's Library wrote that the United States' influence with its Asian trading partners has waned and that an \"emphasis on aggressive legalism\" affords opportunities to reshape economic relationships going forward.\n\nThe Korea–US Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), reflects a political strategy by both the United States and South Korea of aggressive legalism. That is, both countries agreed to envelope in the agreement binding legal rules to deal with lingering bilateral trade disputes.\n\nFollowing the succession of GATT with the WTO in the 1980s and 1990s, many Asian countries, including China, Japan, and South Korea, shifted to a policy of aggressive legalism, evidenced by each's willingness to use the legal frameworks provided under both to directly engage bilateral trading disputes with their partners.\n"}
{"id": "56468972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56468972", "title": "American Society for Legal History", "text": "American Society for Legal History\n\nThe American Society for Legal History is a learned society dedicated to promoting scholarship and teaching in the field of legal history. It was founded in 1956 and has an international scope, despite being based in the United States. It sponsors the peer-reviewed journal \"Law and History Review\" and the book series \"Studies in Legal History\", both of which are published by Cambridge University Press. In 1957, the Society established the \"American Journal of Legal History\", which the Society originally published as its official journal. The journal was later acquired by the Temple University Beasley School of Law. It has been a member of the American Council of Learned Societies since 1973. \n"}
{"id": "13131229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13131229", "title": "Bicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation", "text": "Bicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation\n\nBicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation is a bicycle law treatise on the engineering and legal aspects of bicycle accidents, directed at engineers and attorneys handling bicycle accident cases. Thus, its scope is confined to the highly technical engineering and legal issues specific to bicycle accidents. However, while its scope within the field of bicycle law is limited, and is thus of limited use as a general treatise on bicycle law, it serves as an invaluable guide to the professional practitioner handling a bicycle accident case.\n\n\"Bicycle Accident Reconstruction and Litigation\", by James M. Green, Paul F. Hill, and Douglas Hayduk (Tucson, Arizona: Lawyers & Judges Publishing Co., 1996) \n"}
{"id": "24781422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24781422", "title": "Brandeis Award (litigation)", "text": "Brandeis Award (litigation)\n\nThe Brandeis Award of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission is awarded annually to \"outstanding litigators\".\n\nRecipients include the following:\n2018 - Patricia McDermott\n"}
{"id": "40967662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40967662", "title": "Break/fix", "text": "Break/fix\n\nThe term break/fix refers to the fee-for-service method of providing information technology (IT) services to businesses. Using this method an IT solution provider performs services as needed and bills the customer only for the work done. The service may include repairs, upgrades or installation of systems, components, peripheral equipment, networking or software.\n\nThe alternative to break/fix is managed services, which is a service plan, where the customer pays a fixed amount for services covered in the plan and pays additional amounts for repairs or other work which is not covered in the plan. \n\nThe equivalent practice in the consumer market is that of out-of-warranty appliances, where the customer can pay for repairs as needed (break/fix) or they can buy an extended warranty (managed services).\n\nAdvantages:\n\nPossible lower cost (at first).\n\nDisadvantages:\n\nSince problems are only addressed when they arise, maintenance is reactive rather than proactive. Small problems left unaddressed due to shortsightedness because of cost can balloon to major failures.\n\nUnscrupulous providers are incentivized to use inefficient or malicious means to increase break/fix work and thus increase their revenue.\n"}
{"id": "5802282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5802282", "title": "Casebook method", "text": "Casebook method\n\nThe casebook method, similar to but not exactly the same as the case method, is the primary method of teaching law in law schools in the United States. It was pioneered at Harvard Law School by Christopher C. Langdell. It is based on the principle that rather than studying highly abstract summaries of legal rules (the technique used in most countries), the best way to learn American law is to read the actual judicial opinions which become the law under the rule of \"stare decisis\" (due to its Anglo-American common law origin).\n\nTo set up the case method of law study, American law professors traditionally collect the most illustrative cases concerning a particular area of the law in special textbooks called casebooks. Some professors heavily edit cases down to the most important paragraphs, while deleting nearly all citations and paraphrasing everything else; a few present all cases in full, and most others are in between. One common technique is to provide almost all of the entire text of a landmark case which created an important legal rule, followed by brief notes summarizing the holdings of other cases which further refined the rule. \nTraditionally, the casebook method is coupled with the Socratic method in American law schools. For a given class, a professor will assign several cases from the casebook to read, and may also require students to be familiar with any notes following those cases. In class, the professor will ask students questions about the assigned cases to determine whether they identified and understood the correct rule from the case, if there is one—in certain heavily contested areas of the law, there will \"not\" be any \"one\" correct rule.\n\nA typical example in the law of contracts is \"Hadley v Baxendale\" (1854), a case that is still routinely tested on bar examinations today. Treatises designed for practicing lawyers as well as textbooks for students earning non-legal degrees (i.e., business law courses for business administration students) concisely state the famous rules announced in that case that (1) consequential damages are limited to those foreseen by the parties at the time of contracting, thus implying that (2) a party must notify the other up front of its specific needs in order to expand what is mutually foreseeable and thereby recover consequential damages if the other breaches. Thus stated, \"Hadley\" seems simple enough, but a casebook for a law school course will \"never\" say that. Rather, the law student must deduce those principles from the somewhat archaic text of the Court of Exchequer's mid-19th-century decision.\n\nThis teaching method differs in two ways from the teaching methods used in most other academic programs: (1) it requires students to work almost exclusively with primary source material, which can be written in obscure or obsolete language for older cases; and (2) a typical American law school class is supposed to be a dialogue about the meaning of a case, not a straightforward lecture.\n\nIn some law schools, the casebook method is used in conjunction with lectures or other more structured forms of instruction. This is especially true in classes which are more heavily geared toward statutory law, such as tax law (which in the USA is governed by the Internal Revenue Code) and certain areas of commercial law (particularly courses dealing with the Uniform Commercial Code).\n\nThis method is also used in other common law countries, including Canada, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nTo facilitate the case method of study, \"law school outlines\" are used as legal topic study aids. Typically, the outlines are created by law school students; however, there are professional outlines also available. An outline typically provides a concise and direct statement of legal issues in a particular area of law, organized according to the typical law school curriculum. In some cases, outlines are organized according to specific professors or courses. Outlines often remove many legal nuances and fact specific distinctions in case law to establish more generalized legal principles. Students must remember to be cautious before relying on outlines written by others found on online databases. They frequently come with copyright notices and may often be outdated. Many such sites also warn their users that relying on these outlines alone will not be sufficient to prepare for an exam and they should only be used as a supplement to the studying process.\n\n"}
{"id": "11819371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11819371", "title": "Certificate in Legal Practice (Malaysia)", "text": "Certificate in Legal Practice (Malaysia)\n\nThe Certificate in Legal Practice (CLP) is a 9-month long post-graduate course and examination taken by foreign law graduates and graduates of Bachelor of Jurisprudence (Hons)/B.Juris (Hons) from University of Malaya and Bachelor of Legal Studies (Hons)/BLS (Hons) from Universiti Teknologi MARA, to become a qualified lawyer in Malaysia.\n\nThe examination is conducted by the Legal Profession Qualifying Board of Malaysia and is governed by the Legal Profession Act 1976. The Board allows degree holders from shortlisted universities in the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand to sit for the examination. The Board also allows graduates from a shortlisted universities to be exempted from the this examination.Multimedia University in Melaka is the 1st private university in Malaysia obtaining exemption of CLP exam for its law graduates.\n\nLike all law graduates, CLP graduates must proceed to read in chambers of a pupil master who has been in active practice in Malaysia for a total period of not less than 7 years. After completing nine (9) months of pupillage, the student may finally be called to the bar and become a qualified lawyer.\n\nThe Certificate in Legal Practice was originally designed in 1984 only as a temporary stop-gap measure to assist those Malaysians who were not able to sit for the English Bar Finals Examinations. It was then a solution to those who can't apply to be a Barrister but ended up as another recognised legal qualification to be an advocate and solicitor in Malaysia.\n\nExaminations are normally held around July each year. Every student is required to sit for five subject papers, namely, General Paper, Professional Practice, Evidence, Criminal Procedure, and Civil Procedure. The student must pass all papers to obtain the certificate. If a student fails one paper he or she may be given a conditional pass and be allowed to resit that subject two more times. However, if a student failed in two or more papers, he must sit for the whole examination again to obtain the certificate. Each student is allowed to sit for the examination four times.\n\nThe Legal Profession Qualifying Board only sets the examination and does not provide classes to prepare the candidate for the examination. Classes were initially conducted by the Faculty of Law, University of Malaya and later Faculty of Law, Universiti Teknologi MARA but the task was subsequently delegated to private colleges only. Three of the major institutions that offer tuition for the CLP in Kuala Lumpur are Brickfields Asia College , Advance Tertiary College (formerly Kemayan ATC), and HELP University. ATC also offers the course in its Penang Campus.\n\nThe examination is extremely rigorous in that it has a very low passing rate of between 10% to 20% each year. This is due to the extremely high standard imposed by the CLP Board to ensure that only the best candidates go on to qualify and practice as lawyers.\n\nThe CLP board has pointed out, among other things, in an article published in The Star on 24 September 2008 as well as in its CLP Subject Guide 2008 issued to candidates, that “The examination is not a test of memory function by the candidates. It is the mediocre candidates who resort to regurgitation of information memorized by them”, thereby leading to the low pass rates annually.\n\nThe Professional Practice paper, for example, covers of Land Law, Probate and Administration of Estates, Bankruptcy and Winding Up, Ethics of the Legal Profession, and Advocacy. Any person familiar with legal education would understand that Land Law is among the bulkiest subject.\n\nStudents were denied access to the many relevant Statutes (Acts of Parliaments) during the exams, such as the Bankruptcy Act 1967, Companies Act 1965, Winding Up Rules 1997, Probate and Administration Act 1959, Legal Profession Act 1976, Legal Profession (Practice & Etiquette) Rules 1978, Legal Profession (Publicity) Rules, and many more.\n\nIn 2007, the then CLP Director, Khalid Yusoff, was jailed three months for forgery and cheating in the July 2001 CLP examination “master list”. In May 2010, he was freed by the Court of Appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "51894591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51894591", "title": "Concurrent intent", "text": "Concurrent intent\n\nConcurrent intent is when there is a specific intent to commit one crime, and at the same time (concurrently) an intent to commit another. An example is when a perpetrator plants a bomb or shoots an automatic weapon in a crowded place, with an intent to kill a specified target, the perpetrator can be found to have a concurrent intent to kill others who are not specifically targeted, but who are in the kill zone. Cases de, fining concurrent intent in common law include \"People v. Stone\" (2009) and \"People v. Bland\" (2002), each of which involve a drive-by shooting into a crowd.\n"}
{"id": "5637619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5637619", "title": "Conservator of the peace", "text": "Conservator of the peace\n\nIn ancient British customs, Conservators of the Peace (Latin: \"Custodes pacis\"), or Wardens of the Peace, were individuals who had a special charge, by virtue of their office, to see that the King's peace was kept.\n\nUntil the creation of the Justices of the Peace by King Edward III, there were several people, who by common law were interested in keeping the same—some having that charge as incident to other offices; others simply, or of itself, called \"custodes\", or \"Conservators of the Peace\".\n\nMore recently, the Chamberlain of Chester was a Conservator in the county of Cheshire; and petty constables are, by the common law, conservators in the first sense.\n\nThe Conservator of the Peace title is still used in the USA. For example, in Virginia, Special Conservators of the Peace upon a showing by the applicant of a necessity for the security of property or the peace and presentation of evidence that the person or persons to be appointed as a special conservator of the peace possess a valid registration issued by the Department of Criminal Justice Services. The order of appointment shall provide that a special conservator of the peace may perform only the duties for which he is qualified by training as established by the Criminal Justice Services Board. The order of appointment shall provide that such duties shall be exercised only within geographical limitations specified by the court, which shall be within the confines of the county, city or town that makes application or on the real property where the corporate applicant is located, or any real property contiguous to such real property. The order may provide that the special conservator of the peace shall have the authority to make an arrest outside of such geographical limitations if the arrest results from a close pursuit that was initiated when the special conservator of the peace was within the confines of the area wherein he has been authorized to have the powers and authority of a special conservator of the peace; the order shall further delineate a geographical limitation or distance beyond which the special conservator of the peace may not effectuate such an arrest that follows from a close pursuit. The order may also provide that a special conservator of the peace who has completed the minimum training standards established by the Criminal Justice Services Board, has the authority to affect arrests, using up to the same amount of force as would be allowed to a law-enforcement officer employed by the Commonwealth or any of its political subdivisions when making a lawful arrest. No special conservator of the peace shall display or use the word \"police\" on any uniform, badge, credential, or vehicle in the performance of his duties as a special conservator of the peace. Other than special conservators of the peace employed by a state agency, no special conservator of the peace shall use the seal of the Commonwealth on any uniform, badge, credential, or vehicle in the performance of his duties. \nhttps://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title19.2/chapter2/section19.2-13/\n"}
{"id": "51873283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51873283", "title": "Deific-decree", "text": "Deific-decree\n\nThe deific decree delusion is a defense in a criminal case in which a person committed a crime in the belief that God ordered them to do it. It is an example of a command hallucination. The perpetrator is legally insane because they are incapable of distinguishing right from wrong.\n"}
{"id": "1839443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839443", "title": "Disposal of human corpses", "text": "Disposal of human corpses\n\nDisposal of human corpses is the practice and process of dealing with the remains of a deceased human being. Like most animals, when humans die, their bodies start to decompose, emitting a foul odor and attracting scavengers and decomposers. For these reasons, corpses must be disposed of properly. The problem of body disposal consists of two parts: disposal of the soft tissues, which will rapidly decompose, and of the skeleton, which will remain intact for thousands of years under certain conditions.\n\nSeveral methods for disposal are practiced. In many cases, the manner of disposal is dominated by spiritual concerns and a desire to show respect for the dead, and may be highly ritualized. This event may be part of a larger funeral ritual. In other circumstances, such as war or natural disaster, practical concerns may be forefront. Many religions as well as legal jurisdictions have set rules regarding the disposal of corpses. Since the experience of death is universal to all humans, practices regarding corpse disposal are a part of every culture. Ancient methods of disposing of dead bodies include cremation practised by the Romans, Greeks, and Hindus; burial practised by the Jews, Christians, and Muslims; mummification practised by the Ancient Egyptians; and the sky burial and a similar method of disposal called Towers of Silence practiced by Tibetan Buddhists and Zoroastrians.\n\nThe most common methods of disposal are:\n\n\nNew methods in development include promession (freeze-drying), and the mushroom death suit by Infinity Burial Project.\n\nIn some cases an attempt is made to preserve some or all of a body. These methods include:\n\nHuman remains of archaeological or medical interest are often kept in museums and private collections. This practice is controversial (See NAGPRA). In the cases of Native Americans in the United States, possession of remains and related objects is regulated by the NAGPRA Act of 1990.\n\nDifferent religions and cultures have various funeral rites that accompany the disposal of a body. Some require that all parts of the body are buried together. If an autopsy has occurred, removed parts of the body are sewn back into the body so that they may be buried with the rest of the corpse.\n\nWhen it is not possible for a body to be disposed of promptly, it is generally stored at a morgue. Where this is not possible, such as on a battlefield, body bags are used. In the Western world, embalming of the body is a standard part of preparation. This is intended to temporarily preserve the corpse throughout the funeral process.\n\nMany jurisdictions have enacted regulations relating to the disposal of human bodies. Although it may be entirely legal to bury a deceased family member, the law may restrict the locations in which this activity is allowed, in some cases expressly limiting burials to property controlled by specific, licensed institutions. Furthermore, in many places, failure to properly dispose of a body is a crime. In some places, it is also a crime to fail to report a death, and to fail to report the disposal of the body.\n\nCertain conditions such as necrosis can cause parts of the body such as limbs or internal organs to die without causing the death of the individual. In such cases the body parts are usually not given a funeral. Surgical removal of dead tissue is usually necessary to prevent gangrenous infection. Surgically removed body parts are typically disposed of as medical waste, unless they need to be preserved for cultural reasons, as described above.\n\nConversely, donated organs or tissue may live on long after the death of an individual.\n\nIn some cases, a body is disposed of in such a way as to prevent, hinder, or delay discovery of the body, to prevent identification of the body, or to prevent autopsy. In such cases, the deceased is considered a missing person as long as a body is not identified, unless death is so likely that the person is declared legally dead.\nThis often occurs as part of a murder or voluntary manslaughter. In other cases, an individual who did not intend to cause death may still feel guilt about a death (e.g. by involuntary manslaughter or an accident) and may attempt to prevent discovery of the body. This can exacerbate any legal consequences associated with the death.\nOther motives for concealing death or the cause of death include insurance fraud or the desire to collect the pension of the deceased. An individual may commit suicide in such a way as to obscure the cause of death, allowing beneficiaries of a life insurance policy to collect on the policy.\n\nCriminal methods encountered in fiction and actual cases include:\n\nDisposal of this type happens for various reasons, including the main difference between a burial at sea and a burial on land: the difficulty in recovering the body. Sometimes this difference is desired to dispose of bodies outside of the law.\n\nThere may be a number of reasons for this kind of crime. One common reason for this behavior is to dispose of the evidence. The body may be the victim of a homicide, as for example murder or manslaughter. In some cases, the victim may even be still alive and drowning during the process. A live victim is usually restrained to reduce the likelihood of the victim freeing themselves or fighting back, and the body is often weighted to ensure the sinking of the body. The Mafia is infamous for disposing of victims in oceans or lakes with their feet cast in a concrete block. Other variants tie concrete blocks or other heavy objects to the victim. The \"Chicago-style\" method involves wrapping heavy chains around the victim. In Venice, barrels filled with a human body and concrete are occasionally found in the canals. It is difficult to determine if murder victims buried in a swamp are buried in water or in earth. Often, the body is also cut up to reduce the likelihood of reappearing.\n\nIn other cases, the victim may have died from an accident, and another involved party tries to destroy evidence of the accident. There are also cases where a stillborn infant is buried to dispose of evidence of infidelity, or problems with fertility, or the shame associated with unwed parenthood in many cultures.\n\nWhile a corpse properly buried at sea is unlikely to reappear, many criminals are unable to ensure the permanent disposals of a body, and evidence of the body may reappear. This is rarely as spectacular as the freshly caught shark in the Sydney Coogee Aquarium that vomited up a surgically separated human arm, leading to a murder investigation. That victim was determined to be James Smith, but the three murder suspects were acquitted.\n\nMany criminals dispose of bodies in a river, hoping that the body is carried away. However, this method will most likely lead to a quick detection of the body, because the body gets entangled at the side of the river, or stopped at a dam, or is simply seen floating by others. A disposal in large lakes or oceans is more likely to hide the body, but a decomposing body can develop a strong positive buoyancy due to the decomposing gases being trapped underneath the skin. This may bring the body up to the surface, or at least increase the movement across the ocean floor due to wave actions. Many bodies have washed up at the shore. Bodies have also been discovered in the nets or lines of fishermen, and occasionally, bodies are also discovered by divers.\n\nVery cold water with little oxygen may even preserve bodies, allowing for an easier identification, as for example Margaret Hogg, the \"Wasdale Lady in the Lake\" in Wast Water lake in the Wasdale area (see National Trust Properties in England). She was found after 8 years, with her body preserved like wax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3393673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3393673", "title": "Dziennik Ustaw", "text": "Dziennik Ustaw\n\nDziennik Ustaw or Dziennik Ustaw Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej (, abbreviated Dz. U.) is the most important Polish publication of legal acts. It is the only official source of law for promulgation of Polish laws. The publication of this journal is solely the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. 'Dziennik Ustaw' traces its history to the 1918 'Dziennik Praw Królestwa Polskiego' () and has changed its name several times during its existence.\n\nAccording to Article 122 of the Constitution of Poland of 1997, \"The President of the Republic shall sign a bill within 21 days of its submission and shall order its promulgation in the Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland (Dziennik Ustaw)\". The matter is further regulated by articles 87 and 234 of the constitution, as well as by the Article 9 of the \"Act on Publishing Normative Acts and Several Other Legal Acts\" of 2000. The Dziennik Ustaw is to include such documents as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7967131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7967131", "title": "Dépeçage", "text": "Dépeçage\n\nIn law, dépeçage is a conflict of laws where different issues within a case may be governed by the laws of different states. In common law countries \"dépeçage\" usually means a single contract which provides that different parts of the contract shall be governed by different laws. In the United States, \"depecage choice of law theory\" is where the court considers disagreement among states over which rule of law is applicable to each issue.\n\nThe concept originated in civil law countries, but has also been adopted in common law countries such as the United Kingdom and Ireland pursuant to the Rome Convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Article 3(1)).\n\nIn practice, it is relatively rare for a contract to have more than one expressly chosen governing law. Two examples of such situations are:\n"}
{"id": "59047183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59047183", "title": "East African Court of Appeal", "text": "East African Court of Appeal\n\nThe East African Court of Appeal (EACA) was a court which served as the appellate court for the British colonies in eastern Africa and west Asia.\n\nThe court was established in 1902 as the Eastern African Court of Appeal and was the appellate court for British Kenya, Uganda Protectorate, and Nyasaland. Later, the court's name was changed to the East African Court of Appeal, and in the 1950s to the Court of Appeal for East Africa or the Court of Appeal for Eastern Africa. The court was based in Kenya.\n\nOver time, the jurisdiction of the court grew to become the appellate court for the Sultanate of Zanzibar, Tanganyika, British Somaliland, Aden Protectorate, Colony of Aden, British Seychelles, and Saint Helena.\n\nDecisions of the court could be appealed with leave to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.\n\nThe court was retained by independent Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda as the appellate court for the East African Community. When the Community was abolished in 1977, so too was the court.\n\n"}
{"id": "28064884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28064884", "title": "Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents", "text": "Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents is a large collection of non-litigious legal forms and precedents published by LexisNexis UK.\n\nThe encyclopaedia is available in hard copy, on a searchable online database, and on CD-ROM. It currently consists of 90+ volumes which are subject to constant alteration, as volumes are regularly revised and reissued to reflect changes in the law. Subscribers are provided with frequent updates in the form of modifications to the online database, and a quarterly looseleaf service.\n\nThe encyclopaedia is most often subscribed to and utilised by legal practices and academic institutions.\n\nThe First Edition was published in 17 volumes from 1902 to 1910. The Second Edition was published in 20 volumes in 1925. The Third Edition was published in 20 volumes from 1946 to 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "12999302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12999302", "title": "European civil code", "text": "European civil code\n\nThe European civil code (ECC) is a proposed harmonisation of private law across the European Union. \n\nThe ultimate aim of a European civil code is, like a national civil code, to deal comprehensively with the core areas of private law. Private law typically covered in a civil code includes the family law, the law of inheritance, property law and the Law of Obligations. The law of obligations includes the law of contracts, delicts (or torts) and restitution. It was from work on European contract law that the push for a comprehensive European civil code arose. The development of a European civil code has primarily focused on creating a unified law of contracts. Thus, the term 'European civil code' is often used in specific reference to the harmonisation of contract law throughout the EU.\n\nThe idea of a unified European civil code can be traced to the idea of a unified Europe and the creation of the European Union. The European Parliament requested the creation of a European civil code in 1989, 1994 and 2000. A pragmatic approach has seen the proponents of a European civil code develop uniform laws in discrete areas before working towards a comprehensive European civil code.\n\nDevelopment of a European code for contract law began in 1982 with the formation of the Commission on European Contract Law. This became known as the Lando Commission after its chairman Ole Lando. At the same time UNIDROIT began similar studies leading to their 1994 publication Principles for International Commercial Contracts. The Lando Commission focused on creating their \"Principles of European Contract Law\" (PECL). The first part of the PECL was published in 1995, followed by Part II in 1999 and the final Part III in 2003. These Principles of European Contract Law may eventually form one part of the European civil code.\n\nIn 1997 the Dutch Government, as then Chair of the European Union, held a conference titled 'Towards a European Civil Code'. The conference considered the feasibility of such a code and led to the creation of a book titled \"Towards a European Civil Code\". The third edition was published in 2004 and although the primary focus is European contract law, it considers other areas of private law that may form part of a European civil code as well. The years following this conference have seen the development of many academic groups focusing on different areas of private law. These include: \n\n\nOn 11 July 2001, the European Commission issued a Communication in relation to possible developments in European contract law. Following the review of submissions on the Communication, the Commission released an Action Plan for a more coherent European contract law in 2003. The Action Plan began the process of creating what is known as the \"Common Frame of Reference\" (CFR). This was followed in 2004 by the publication of “European Contract Law and revision of the acquis: the way forward”. The CFR is intended to provide a structure and guideline for the development of harmonised European private law but has a specific focus on contract law. It was hoped that the creation of a unified European contract law would be achieved by 2010.\n\nThe \"Draft Common Frame of Reference\" (DCFR), a joint project of the Study Group and Acquis Group (funded by the European Commission for €4.3 million), was published in December 2007. Although the European Commission downplayed the CFR's expected future importance in a July 2006 report, a March 2006 European Parliament resolution stated that \"Even though the Commission denies that this is its objective, it is clear that many of the researchers and stakeholders working on the project believe that the ultimate long-term outcome will be a European code of obligations or even a full-blown European Civil Code.\" Economist Gerhard Wagner hailed \"the drafting of a coherent set of rules\" for all of Europe, such as the DCFR, as \"an immense scientific achievement\".\n\nA comprehensive European civil code would cover the major areas of private law in much the same way as domestic civil codes. The major areas that have been suggested are contract law, torts, property, restitution and also company law. \n\nAlthough family law and inheritance law are normally covered by domestic civil codes there is doubt over whether it is possible to include them in a broad European code. Family and Inheritance law is often closely tied to a nation’s culture. For this reason it may not be possible or suitable to create a uniform code to cover the entire European Union. \nAs previously stated, contract law is perhaps the most suited for harmonisation, followed by other areas of the law of obligations and the law of property.\nThe creation of individual codes for discrete areas of private law is considered the most feasible and realistic goal. For this reason efforts have concentrated on creating a unified European contract law before attempting a more comprehensive European civil code. \n\nAn example of a modern comprehensive code is the Dutch \"Burgerlijk Wetboek\" which came into force in 1992. The \"Burgerlijk Wetboek\" covers civil, commercial law, consumer law and labour law and was almost 40 years in the making. This gives an indication of how long it may take to create a complete unified European civil code. The March 2006 European Parliament resolution recommended taking the new Dutch civil code as a model as well.\n\nMany arguments have been raised both supporting and rejecting the idea of a European civil code. Included in this are claims that the creation of a civil code binding across the European Union will be impossible to achieve. As a much broader project, the creation of a European civil code is more easily dismissed than attempts at unifying discrete areas such as contract law.\n\nArguments supporting a unified European civil code relate to the emergence of the European Union and an increasingly globalised economy. Proponents also point out that Europe, including England, shares a long legal history in the form of the \"ius commune\" before the 18th and 19th century national codifications. Besides, except for England and Ireland, all of Europe shares the civil law tradition which began with the Napoleonic Code of 1804.\n\n\nThe feasibility of a European civil code has been questioned on both political and legal grounds. Cultural differences and the lack of a common European legal culture are often cited by opponents. The connection between law, language, culture and national history forms one small aspect of the arguments against replacing national civil codes with a European code. Arguments based upon cultural differences are, however, difficult to establish.\n\nMore substantive difficulties, which for some are reasons why it is neither feasible nor desirable to create a European civil code, include: \n\n\nIn April 2017, after Theresa May triggered Article 50 for the UK, Guy Verhofstadt remarked that \"it was naïve, maybe, to reconcile the legal system of Napoleon with the common law of the British Empire, and perhaps it was never meant to be. But our predecessors should never be blamed for having tried to.\"\n\nWhether the European Union has the legal power to create a European civil code has also been an issue. Article 95 of the EC Treaty is considered the means through which a code would be created. However, many people believe that the EU lacks the constitutional competence to enact a comprehensive code. Others argue that this does not defeat the idea of a European civil code and is merely a political issue. If a general consensus were to be reached in favour of a European civil code, it might be politically possible to expand the constitutional competence of the European Union or create an international treaty giving effect to the code. According to professor Christian von Bar \"it fully depends on a political decision of the European Commission, the [EU] Council and the European Parliament if in the end, the \"Common Frame of Reference\" will be adopted as an EU instrument.\"\n\nAs previously stated, the discussion of a European civil code has had a primary focus on the development of a unified European contract code. Proponents of a European code of contract law have largely been divided into two groups. One group favours the use of the acquis communautaire (the body of European Union law) as the basis of a unified European contract law. The other has preferred a foundation in the field of comparative law and analysis of the domestic contract law of member states of the EU. The latter view was the initially dominant opinion in the field, but more recently the Acquis position has come to the fore.\n\nBoth options were provided for in the Commission of European Communities 2001 Communication on European contract law. Although there were many submissions supporting both fields of thought, most favoured a review of the Acquis as a basis for developing European contract law. The subsequent Action Plan and its follow up Way Forward paper have progressed the development of a European code of contract law as well as a more comprehensive European civil code. The intended outcome of this new stage is the publication of the Common Frame of Reference. The CFR is hoped by some to form the central part of a future unified European contract law, although this is not its purpose. It is expected to be published in 2009/10.\n\nProfessor European Private Law Martijn W. Hesselink (director of the Amsterdam Centre for the Study of European Contract Law at the University of Amsterdam) argued in October 2007 that the development of a European contract code, or more broadly, civil code, should happen transparently, and with the participation and consent of citizens, consumers and smaller companies, lest big businesses will be able to obtain too much power over the others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146748", "title": "Execution warrant", "text": "Execution warrant\n\nAn execution warrant (also called death warrant or black warrant) is a writ that authorizes the execution of a judgment of death (capital punishment) on an individual. An execution warrant is not to be confused with a \"license to kill\", which operates like an arrest warrant but with deadly force instead of arrest as the end goal.\n\nIn the United States either a judicial or executive official designated by law issues an execution warrant. This is done when a person, in trial court proceedings, has been sentenced to death, after trial and conviction, and usually after appeals are exhausted. Normally when a death warrant is signed and an execution date is set, the condemned person is moved from his or her death row cell to a death watch cell, which is typically located adjacent to the execution chamber. Usually, the government agency charged with carrying out an execution, normally the state's Department of Corrections or the U.S. Bureau of Prisons in federal cases, has a limited time frame, normally about 60 days, from the date the warrant is signed, to complete the execution process, or the warrant expires and the condemned person is returned to the death row cell, where he or she will await another execution date.\n\nStays of execution can be ordered in state cases by the Governor of the state, a trial court, a state appeals court or state Supreme Court or a court in the federal judiciary (including the United States Supreme Court). In federal death penalty cases the trial court, appeals courts, the United States Supreme Court and President may grant a stay of execution. In all cases, the stay may be issued at any time, even when the condemned is being prepared for execution.\n\n"}
{"id": "2344023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2344023", "title": "FOCJ", "text": "FOCJ\n\nFunctional Overlapping Competing Jurisdictions (FOCJ, also Functional, Overlapping and Competing Jurisdictions) is a moderate form of panarchy advocated by Swiss economists Bruno Frey and Reiner Eichenberger.\n\nUnder FOCJ, government operations are divided into multiple organisations each known as a FOCUS. FOCJ are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5560330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5560330", "title": "Foreclosure consultant", "text": "Foreclosure consultant\n\nAlthough the definition may vary by jurisdiction, foreclosure consultant generally means any person who makes any solicitation, representation, or offer to any owner to perform for compensation or who, for compensation, performs any service which the person in any manner represents will in any manner do any of the following:\n\nIn some jurisdictions a foreclosure consultant must be licensed by the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157450", "title": "Forestry law", "text": "Forestry law\n\n<onlyinclude>\nForestry laws govern activities in designated forest lands, most commonly with respect to forest management and timber harvesting. Ancillary laws may regulate forest land acquisition and prescribed burn practices. Forest management laws generally adopt management policies, such as multiple use and sustained yield, by which public forest resources are to be managed. Governmental agencies are generally responsible for planning and implementing forestry laws on public forest lands, and may be involved in forest inventory, planning, and conservation, and oversight of timber sales. Broader initiatives may seek to slow or reverse deforestation.</onlyinclude>\n\nForestry laws are intended to protect resources and prevent forest clearing, logging, hunting, and collecting vegetables. However, there are no clear limitations set within these laws in regards to allowable cuts, harvesting rotations, and minimum harvesting diameters. Forest management plans state goals for the upkeep of the land, as well as steps to achieve them. foresters create management plans that account for each differentiated forest itself.\n\nIn some cases, plans are made with the assumption that ecosystems within a forest are holding a steady state, separate from the forest that surrounds them. Many foresters who are in third world countries do not have the knowledge nor training to follow by all the guidelines when making a management plan.\nAppropriate public policies and legislation serve to foster sustainable economic and social development in rural and urban areas. These policies work to safeguard the environment and protect flora, fauna and cultural heritage. Traditionally, environmental protection has been an element of forestry through emphasizing forest conservation and accounting for environmental impacts on soil and water. In recent years, outside influences have had a substantial impact on the objectives of forestry and the contents of forest law. In common with other sectors, forestry has been affected by the emergence of environmental awareness and legislation in the last generation. This has brought greater emphasis on the protection of wilderness and aesthetic values.\n\nBiological diversity and climate change have specifically influenced forest law. When forest management plans are created, biological diversity is represented in criteria for sustainability. Due to the Kyoto Protocol, the mitigation of climate change has become an objective of forest law and policy, complementing broader climate policies and programs. However, Rosenbaum and colleagues state that there is little legislation containing specific provisions for mitigating forest-based climate change.\n\nThe connections between forest and other areas of law have become more complex as they have grown in ambition and scope and as other areas directly and indirectly place guidelines on how forests are managed or used. Thus the links between a country's forest laws and its general environmental laws become more important as the environmental dimensions of forest legislation increase in complexity.\n\nForest legislation now recognizes the role of forests as a habitat for wildlife, a resource for grazing and agriculture, and a contributor to water and soil conservation. More recently, the general principles of environmental law and the more specific values of biological diversity have become a very visible part of forest law. The UN Forum on Forests, an intergovernmental policy forum created in 2000, has adopted resolutions on the sustainable development of forests, especially those on Social and Cultural Aspects of Forest and Traditional Forest-Related Knowledge.\n\nForest law is not easily adapted between countries, as there are immense variations in nature, importance, and role of forest resources, as well as legal and institutional settings. While there have been important comparative studies of trends in forest legislation, they seldom provide direct practical guidance on how to assess improve the law.\n\nActual practices differ from one country to the next, however, in all cases public forests are viewed as a national resource, that is, the sovereign property of the state. For example, even though most forest land in the United States and Canada is privately owned, a considerable amount is held by the state as a \"public good\" but systematically leased to private timber producers. In India, the Raj took ownership of virtually all forests, declaring them to be \"wasteland\" and, therefore, unowned. In Indonesia, forests are legally state owned but are treated as private property, while in Brazil, the lack of national government renders forests open access commons. In this role, the conservation of forests is tightly linked to the production of timber and other commodities that generate both capital and jobs, and the economies of large regions are almost wholly dependent on natural resource production from those forests.\nNew forest laws have been adopted in Eastern European countries as part of their transition to a market economy. These laws had considerable effect on the structure of forest land ownership, improvements in management regulations, and modernization of the forest sector's institutional framework. New forest legislation has also been developed in several countries in Western Europe in order to adapt to changing economic conditions, social demands, and more political participation of interest groups and citizens at local and regional levels.\n\nThe evolution of forest legislation in the European Countries indicates that understanding of how natural resources are to be used in a sustainable manner depends on a given economic and social context. The meaning of sustainable forestry is determined by local circumstances and their significance has considerably changed over time. Today sustainable management is understood as forestry practices which respect the naturally given potentials of the ecosystems and maintain the diversity of forests in their typical landscapes. They leave multiple options for an increasing production of wood, protection of the environment, and recreation.\n\nPublic provisions referring to forest uses over more than one generation are among the oldest forms of long-term environmental policies. Customary law, codified in the 14th century, regulated forest uses in accordance with the demands and options of their times. An increasing number of forest and timber ordinances, issued from the 16th century onward, followed. Meeting local needs, long-term availability of raw materials and energy, and increased outputs through better forestry practices were the issues at stake. Legislation established the requirement of a continuous flow of wood production, which meant stopping exploitation of what was available. It recognized the long-term nature of forests, and promoted the involvement of several generations in forestry activities. Increasingly, it provided for planning and management, and for measures of regeneration and reforestation. This introduced principles of utilizing renewable natural resources as a requirement for sustainability as we understand it today.\n\nNew policies place responsibilities for, and powers over, wood fuel management into the hands of economically interested individuals and the Forest Service. The Forest Service maintains complete control of all production and management decisions through required approval and through control of the rules by which production and management can take place.\n\nThe role of private forestry reaches up to over 80 percent of forest production in some countries. However, in many countries, private forestry has never been significant and, even when land has been privatized, the state has often retained the forests. In much of Africa, individual land ownership is relatively limited so that the closest approach to private forestry is usually community forestry (although South Africa and Swaziland, among other countries, have extensive private plantations). More recently, the values of farm forestry and of private capital and management have increased official interest in private forestry.\n\nIllegal forestry activities deprive governments of billions of dollars in tax revenues, as well as cause environmental damage and threaten forests. Forest related corruption and widespread violation of forestry laws undermines the rule of law, discourages legitimate investment, and gives unfair advantages. Money generated from illegal forestry activities has even been used to finance armed conflict. Concern about the extent to which illegal logging has been contributing to forest loss has grown sharply since the 1980s. A very large proportion of the timber entering both national and international markets has been accessed, harvested, transported and traded in contravention of national law in countries such as Bolivia, Brazil, Cambodia, Cameroon, Colombia, Honduras, Indonesia, Nicaragua, Peru, Philippines, and Russia.\n\nThe World Bank (2002) estimates that illegal logging results in an annual loss of around US$10–15 billion in developing countries worldwide. Although it is anticipated that better governance, increased rent capture by the state, and improved forest management can all benefit the poor indirectly, the direct impacts of illegal logging and forest law enforcement on rural livelihoods have not been a priority consideration to date.\n\nThe ways in which people use and value forests are changing. Growing populations, changing culture, technology, and science are increasing the demand for forest resources. In recent years forest laws around the world have been significantly revised in response to these changes. However, the lack of information about who really uses forests presents a major problem to forestry policy makers and supportive development agencies that are mandated to adopt a pro-poor approach. Without clear data it becomes all too easy to overlook the interests of lower income individuals when designing policy interventions aimed at improving forest management or asserting forest law. Some forest laws specifically favor poor rural households and ethnic minorities. Over the last few decades, many governments in Latin America recognized indigenous peoples' rights over large territories, but indigenous people often find it difficult to protect those territories from invasion by loggers, miners, and farmers.\n\nAccording to the World Bank, \"more than 1.6 billion people depend to varying degrees on forests for their livelihoods. About 60 million indigenous people are almost wholly dependent on forests. Some 350 million people who live in or adjacent to dense forests depend on them to a high degree for subsistence and income. In developing countries about 1.2 billion people rely on agroforestry farming systems that help to sustain agricultural productivity and generate income.\"\n\nForest law enforcement initiatives should seek to address the full range of laws that relate to forests and forest-dependent peoples, and not just forestry laws; adopt a rights-based approach to forest law enforcement with due attention paid to strengthening human rights networks, improving the independence of the judiciary, promoting legal literacy among rural communities, and providing legal aid; be linked to governance reform programs aimed at creating public accountability and transparency in the management of natural resources; be developed through processes of broad engagement with civil society organisations and based on national governments’ commitments to reform. \n\nA large portion of forestry legislation focuses on administrative requirements, fees, taxes, and property rights, rather than on how forests are really managed. Of particular importance to forestry is that, even where governments or colonial powers have been willing to recognize individual claims, based on custom or usage, to land used for agriculture or housing, they have generally ignored traditional-group rights to areas used in common, such as forest or pasture. By treating such land as “empty” during the process of settling rights, governments around the world have vested in the state ownership of vast expanses of forest land.\n\nrap battles are the last on more visible acts, such as transport. Another, common in civil law, is to make the official report of a sworn official admissible as evidence in further proceedings. This effectively shifts the burden of proof to the defendant. A third device is the use of evidentiary presumptions, which similarly shifts the burden of proof to the defendant.\n\nIn many countries the contrast between what forestry law prescribes and what actually happens on the ground is both stark and obvious. Even where the law is strong, illegal behavior by both public and private actors often continues. Some explanations for this are that forest departments lack the financial and human resources to monitor and control forest activities, which often take place in very remote areas; government officials entrusted with enforcing the law may be under immense pressure to condone violations, or engage in violations themselves; court systems are backlogged or bankrupt; the difficulties of daily life for the rural poor may overwhelm any likely risks associated with violating the law; etc.\n\nThese explanations underscore the point that while good forestry legislation is necessary, it is obviously not sufficient. The laws in many countries lie unused or underused for reasons like failure of political will, weak institutions, or even general disregard for the rule of law.\n\nIn 1992, representatives of 180 of the world's nations met in Rio de Janeiro to consider, among other things, the adoption of an Agreement on Forestry Principles, entitled a \"Non-legally binding authoritative statement of principles for a global consensus on the management, conservation and sustainable development of all types of forests.\"\n\nScientific forestry was based on the precise measurement of the distribution and volume of wood in a given parcel, the systematic felling of trees, and their replacement by standard, carefully aligned rows of mono-cultural plantations that could be harvested at set times.\n\nThe tendencies that become apparent from recent changes in forest laws and regulations in several European countries show a variety of approaches and may be judged from different point of views. Relevant criteria for analysis on the advancement of legislation are consistency, comprehensiveness, subsidiarity, and applicability.\n\nConsistency requires the compatibility of forest regulations with constitutional values and democratic rules, with national policies addressing land-use, economic development and environmental protection, and with international commitments and multilateral agreements. Comprehensiveness refers to the objectives of forest legislation with regard to forest protection and forestry development, to different types of forest tenures, and to the rights and responsibilities of various categories of forest owners. Subsidiarity relates to the role of forests as national, regional and local resources. It also relates to the double nature of forests as private production means that may be used according to the decisions of land owners and as resources that yield numerous benefits to the community. Subsidiarity indicates to what extent public programs support the activities of land owners. Applicability refers in particular to the organisational framework of public forest administrations in relation to changing responsibilities and tasks, and to appropriate forms of participation of forest owners and interest groups in regulating forest uses and management practices. Coordination of competencies among public entities is an important aspect in evaluating the applicability of new or amended regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "57738699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57738699", "title": "Freedom of religion in Australia", "text": "Freedom of religion in Australia\n\nFreedom of religion in Australia is allowed in practice and protected to varying degrees through the constitution and legislation at the Federal, State and Territory level. Australia is a secular country with legislated separation of church and state and with no state religion. The nation has over 13.5 million people who identify as religious and 7.1 million who identify as irreligious.\n\nRelevant legislation protecting religious freedoms include sections of the Constitution of Australia, Federal anti-discrimination laws and State/Territory-based human rights acts and anti-discrimination laws. As these freedoms are not protected in a single piece of legislation, but rather appear as sections, clauses and exemptions in other acts or laws, legal religious freedom protections are often a source of great debate and difficult to discern in Australia.\n\nThe Constitution of Australia prohibits the Commonwealth from establishing laws which create, force or prohibit any religion. It also restricts the Commonwealth from using religion as a qualifier or test in order to hold public office. Section 116 of \"Chapter V. The States\" in the Australian Constitution reads: \"The Commonwealth shall not make any law for establishing any religion, or for imposing any religious observance, or for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion, and no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the Commonwealth.\"The section is based on the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. The article does not prohibit the States of Australia from implementing such laws, meaning legislation at the state level could provide for restriction or enforcement of religion.\n\nTwo referendums were held on whether to restrict the ability of states to legislate laws that may impede religious freedoms: the Australian Post-War Reconstruction and Democratic Rights referendum, 1944 and Australian referendum, 1988. Both failed to achieve a majority of support amongst the states and therefore did not pass into law. In theory, Australian State and Territory Governments can therefore pass laws impeding religious freedoms.\n\nSome states and territories have implemented a bill or charter of rights which include freedom and protection for religion, such as \"Section 14: Freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief\" in:\n\n\nThese legislated acts are based on the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Australia was a signatory in 1966 despite no direct legislation to permit these freedoms. These acts do not prevent the passing of laws that impede any rights mentioned (including religious freedoms), but they do create a process by which all legislation must be scrutinised for human rights implications, and must be accompanied by a statement of compatibility with human rights before they can be passed by the relevant Parliament. In cases where the legislation is not compatible, it may still be passed despite contradicting these human rights acts.\n\nAnti-discrimination laws addressing unfair treatment on the basis of a range of attributes, including religion, also apply at the state and federal level. These laws contribute to religious freedoms by allowing Australians to practice religion without fear of consequence from the executive, organisations or individuals. This is achieved by prohibiting detrimental treatment as a result of an individual's religious appearance, beliefs or observances. Some argue these laws are inconsistent at the state level and may be limited at the federal level.\n\nThe \"Australian Human Rights Commission Act 1986\" defines discrimination as:\"(a) any distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin that has the effect of nullifying or impairing equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation;\" \n\nState and Territory legislation prohibits unfavourable treatment on the basis of an individual's personal characteristics, but to varying degrees and with varying detail.\n\nPersonal characteristics includes religious beliefs or activities in anti-discrimination legislation for the majority of states, and as such these laws may be seen to support religious freedom by prohibiting unfair treatment using religion as a basis. Further, anti-discrimination acts States where religious beliefs and activities are protected include:\n\n\nTwo other state acts apply narrower protection to 'religious appearance or dress' (\"Equal Opportunity Act 1984\", South Australia) and 'Ethno-religious or national origin' (\"Anti-Discrimination Act 1977\", New South Wales). It has been suggested that both states update their laws in order to align to the rest of the States and Territories.\n\nGeneral religious exception or exemption clauses exist within the various federal and state human rights acts with the aim to ensuring religious activities or observances are not impacted or inhibited by the protections provided by each act. These exemptions therefore protect freedom of religion by permitting what would otherwise be considered discrimination if it is in the context of \"an act or practice of a body established for religious purposes that conforms to the doctrines, tenets or beliefs of that religion or is necessary to avoid injury to the religious sensitivities of adherents of that religion.\"\n\nIn the case of the \"Australian Human Rights Commission Act 1986\", for example, an exemption is provided:\"Discrimination ... does not include any distinction, exclusion or preference:\" \"(d) in connection with employment as a member of the staff of an institution that is conducted in accordance with the doctrines, tenets, beliefs or teachings of a particular religion or creed, being a distinction, exclusion or preference made in good faith in order to avoid injury to the religious susceptibilities of adherents of that religion or that creed.\"Varying groups have argued that existing religious exceptions and exemptions go too far and impede the rights of individuals, whilst others argue the correct balance has been struck, and yet others petition for wider-reaching religious exemption clauses.\n\nThere have been few tests involving religious freedom put before the High Court of Australia. Judgements from the Court are generally considered to interpret the primary piece of legislation relating to religious freedom, Section 116, narrowly.\n\nIn the 1983 judgment of the High Court in \"Church of the New Faith v Commissioner for Pay-Roll Tax (Vic)\", the court was primarily concerned with whether Scientology was a religion (and therefore deserved tax exemptiont status). In judgement, the Court found that Scientology was a religion and argued that the definition of religion must be flexible, but also remain sceptical of false claims. Justices Ronald Wilson and William Deane set out five \"indicia\" of a religion:(i) That the collection of ideas and practices involved a belief in the supernatural (being something that could not be perceived by the senses); (ii) That 'the ideas relate to man's nature and place in the universe and his relation to things supernatural' ; (iii) That the adherents accept certain ideas as requiring them or encouraging them to observe particular codes of conduct or specific practices having some supernatural significance; (iv) The adherents themselves form an identifiable group or groups; (v) The adherents themselves see the collection of ideas, beliefs and practices as constituting a religion.In this judgement Section 116 was interpreted more broadly than in previous cases. The justices argued that Section 116 provides fundamental guarantees to freedom of religion:The development of the law towards complete religious liberty and religious equality... would be subverted and the guarantees in s. 116 of the Constitution would lose their character as a bastion of freedom if religion were so defined as to exclude from its ambit minority religions out of the main streams of religious thought.\n\nIn the 1941 the Commonwealth Government declared Jehovah's Witnesses to be a risk to national security, indicating they were believed to be \"prejudicial to the defence of the Commonwealth\" and the \"efficient prosecution of the war\" due to their following ideals of another Kingdom. Police occupied premises of the religious group, prompting a lawsuit heard by the High Court in which Jehovah's Witnesses argued their rights granted under Section 116 of the Constitution were infringed.\n\nThe court held that the \"National Security (Subversive Organisations) Regulations\" 1940, under which the Government had taken action, did not infringe against Section 116, but that the government had exceeded their \"defence power\" in section 51(vi) of the Constitution. Jehovah's Witnesses have since continued to practice in Australia unabated.\n\nThe absence of a Federal Bill of Rights (or Human Rights Act) which provide a guarantee of religious and other freedoms in almost all other western democracies, has been noted as a primary failure to solidify the current \"de facto\" and \"de jure\" rights to freedom of religion in Australia. The Australian Human Rights Commission has criticised the lack of protections for religious freedom alongside other \"de facto\" freedoms and has recommended the introduction of a Bill of Rights to formally protect the rights of people.\n\nOthers have highlighted that religion and religious freedoms are already well-protected, including with exemptions to anti-discrimination legislation. Frequently highlighted examples include religious schools having rights not extended to other institutions, including the ability to fire teachers who do not align with the institution's religious beliefs for any reason. This occurred in the case of the Perth South Coast Baptist College and teacher Craig Campbell who was sacked for coming out as homosexual in 2017.\n\nFollowing the passage of same-sex marriage legislation in Australia in 2017, a federal review was commissioned by the Turnbull Government to examine the suitability of current religious freedom protections, specifically within the context of the new Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious Freedoms) Act 2017. The Religious Freedom Review was chaired by Philip Ruddock, the former Attorney-General for Australia at the time same-sex marriage was banned by the Howard Government in 2004, and had no associated terms of reference.\n\nThe review panel was composed of Ruddock alongside Jesuit priest Frank Brennan, former judge Annabelle Bennett, Human Rights Commission president Ros Croucher and constitutional lawyer Nicholas Aroney. The expert review panel first met on 10 January 2018, and on 18 May the final review was handed to the Turnbull Government. The Government has declined to release the review in full pending cabinet discussion on its recommendations.\n\nThe Ruddock review has been interpreted as a way to allow the speedy passage of Dean Smith's marriage bill and to postpone discussions of religious freedom. Proponents of the Ruddock Review argue it is necessary to ensure that religious freedoms are upheld in the wake of religious objection to same-sex marriage, whilst opponents highlight that further protections for religion are not necessary and will occur at the expense of an individual's right to be free from discrimination (particularly in the case of same-sex marriages). Groups such as the Victorian Aids Council and Australian Human Rights Commission have argued that a comprehensive Bill of Rights -rather than an exclusive religious freedoms law- should be implemented as this would also give full effect to Australia's obligations and commitments under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights by enshrining all fundamental rights.\n\nTurnbull's government indicated it would not release the report received in May 2018 until it had been considered in full by the government. Following the deposition of Malcolm Turnbull as Prime Minister, his replacement Scott Morrison indicated his government would not release the report or form a full response to it before the end of 2018. This drew criticism from Michael Kirby and Kerryn Phelps given the timing of the Wentworth by-election, as voters would not have an understanding of any changes to religious law potentially instituted by Australia's first Pentecostal Prime Minister. \n\nDespite a senate motion ordering its release ahead of the by-election, the government refused to comply, claiming that a release would \"harm the public interest\" and interfere in cabinet consideration. The Prime Minister Scott Morrison suggested in an ABC Radio interview that the Ruddock review had recommended that people of different religions have the same protections as other attributes such as gender and race.\n\nOn 9 October 2018, extracts of the review were leaked to Fairfax Media, which reported that schools affiliated with a religion \"would be guaranteed the right to turn away gay students and teachers under changes to federal anti-discrimination laws\" recommended by the review. The Prime Minister initially defended this, but stated that the media coverage of the leaked report was \"confused\". Religious schools have held the right to discriminate against teachers and students on the basis of their gender or sexual orientation since 2013, however the Ruddock report recommended that schools additionally be required to hold a publicly-available policy and put the best interests of the child first. \n\nFollowing further media coverage and public pressure, the Labor opposition announced their support would be lent to the government should it seek to repeal the discrimination law exemptions already in existence which allow religious schools to ban students based on their sexuality. The Morrison Government subsequently agreed to introduce a bill to parliament with that aim. The Australian Greens and Labor opposition have further committed to revoking discrimination exemptions that also allow discrimination against teachers based on their sexual orientation, however the government has so far not indicated its position.\n\nThe full recommendations of the review were subsequently leaked to Fairfax and reported on 12 October 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "45563270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45563270", "title": "German Ethics Council", "text": "German Ethics Council\n\nGerman Ethics Council () (Precursor from June 2001 to February 2008: National Ethics Council) is an independent council of experts in Germany working on the ethical, social, scientific, medical, and legal issues and their consequences for the individuals and the society. Half of the 26 members are proposed by the Cabinet of Germany including the chancellor, while the other half of the 26 members is proposed by the Bundestag. The members of the German Ethics Council are then designated by the President of the Bundestag. \n\nIt is host of the 2016 Global Summit of National Ethics/Bioethics Councils in Berlin under the Presidency of 2012-2016 Chair Prof. Dr. Christiane Woopen of Cologne University.\n\nOn September 24, 2014 the German Ethics Council has recommended that the government abolish laws criminalizing incest between siblings, arguing that such bans impinge upon citizens.\n"}
{"id": "23777146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23777146", "title": "Gujarat Control of Organised Crime Act", "text": "Gujarat Control of Organised Crime Act\n\nThe Gujarat Control of Organised Crime Act (GUJCOCA) is a controversial anti-terrorism legislation passed by the state legislature of Gujarat, India, in April 2003. It is awaiting Presidential approval.\n\nThe bill was drawn on the lines of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (for Maharashtra) and Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act (for Karnataka). It was then sent to the office of the President of India for assent. The bill was returned to the state legislature suggesting certain amendments. In June 2004, it was passed again by the state legislature after deleting the provisions relating to interception of communication as suggested by the then President, Dr. A P J Kalam and sent back for approval.\n\nThe bill was sent back to the state in December 2008 with suggestions of further amendments, but the President's office recalled the file back shortly in January 2009 saying it wanted to have another look. In June 2009 the bill was returned to the state with recommendations to make following amendments to 3 clauses.\n\n\nIn July 2009, the bill was re-introduced in the state legislature without the changes suggested by the President and passed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2181771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181771", "title": "Harrison Tweed Award", "text": "Harrison Tweed Award\n\nThe Harrison Tweed Award was created in 1956 to recognize the extraordinary achievements of state and local bar associations that develop or significantly expand projects or programs to increase access to civil legal services for poor persons or criminal defense services for indigents. This award is given annually by the American Bar Association's (ABA) Standing Committee on Legal Aid and Indigent Defendants and the National Legal Aid & Defender Association, is presented during the ABA Annual Meeting at a joint luncheon of the National Conference of Bar Presidents, National Association of Bar Executives and National Conference of Bar Foundations. The award is named for Harrison Tweed, past president of Sarah Lawrence College.\n\n1953 • New York State Governor Thomas E. Dewey, and the state legislature formed the temporary Tweed Commission (named after its chair, lawyer Harrison Tweed) to conduct public and private hearings regarding the post-World War II court situation; such as overall caseload volumes that had grown to the point where court delay was becoming a major problem and procedural reform was necessary.\n\n1955 • The Legislature created the Judicial Conference to allow for periodic meetings of judges to discuss problems and established the Office of State Administrator; their functions were merely advisory but allowed the permanent examination of court operations.\n\n1958 • The Tweed Commission Report proposed reform through centralization of court administration, simplification of court structure, and continued supervision of the courts by the Judicial Conference and the Appellate Division.\n\n1962 • A new Judiciary Article for the State Constitution, implementing many of the Tweed Commission recommendations, was approved by the Legislature and the voters; this article created the \"Unified Court System,\" established the various trial courts, established the Administrative Board of the Judicial Conference (the Chief Judge of the Court of the Appellate Division), and conferred on the Appellate Divisions various administrative powers.\n\nNOTE: Tweed fellow family members included Simeon Eben Baldwin, Connecticut Governor and cofounder, American Bar Association; and Roger Nash Baldwin, cofounder and the first executive director, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU).\n\n"}
{"id": "22215125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22215125", "title": "Hart–Dworkin debate", "text": "Hart–Dworkin debate\n\nThe Hart–Dworkin debate is a debate in legal philosophy between H. L. A. Hart and Ronald Dworkin. At the heart of the debate lies a Dworkinian critique of Hartian legal positivism, specifically, the theory presented in Hart's book \"The Concept of Law\".\n\nWhile Hart insists that judges are within bounds to legislate on the basis of rules of law, Dworkin strives to show that in these cases, judges work from a set of 'principles' which they use to formulate judgements, and that these principles either form the basis, or can be extrapolated from the present rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "7521034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7521034", "title": "Jean Carbonnier", "text": "Jean Carbonnier\n\nJean Carbonnier (1908–2003) was one of the most important French jurists of the 20th century. He was a civil law specialist and a private law professor.\n\nJean Carbonnier was the son of Fernand Carbonnier and Dany Daniel. He married Madeleine Hugues.\n\nHis Protestant beliefs influenced his way of thinking and his work. Although Jean Carbonnier published theological and historical articles about Protestantism, he still supported secularity.\n\nJean Cabonnier studied at the Faculty of Law at the University of Bordeaux where he obtained his doctorate in 1932 and private law \"agrégation\" in 1937.\n\nHe was a professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Poitiers from 1937 to 1955, teaching French civil law. He became dean in 1950. At this time, he published his \"Treatise on Civil Law\" (\"Droit civil\") in 1955, which has been republished several times since then. Afterwards, Jean Carbonnier taught at the Paris Law Faculty (replaced with Panthéon-Assas University in 1970) until 1976.\n\nJean Carbonnier became President of \"L'Année Sociologique\" in 1964, and worked for the sociology journal during fifteen years. He also created and started heading the Laboratory for Legal Sociology (\"Laboratoire de sociologie juridique\") at Panthéon-Assas University in 1968 - in order to produce data that would help law making.\n\nOn the international level, Jean Carbonnier supported the creation of the Research Committee on Sociology of Law and participated in the inauguration of the International Institute for the Sociology of Law in Oñati, with Renato Treves. Jean Carbonnier was particularly well known in Canada and Italy. As a professor, he also often referenced to foreign legal systems, such as Germany or Italy.\n\nApart from his academic career, Jean Carbonnier was also a writer: his book \"Les incertitudes du jeune Saxon. Une autofiction de Jean Carbonnier\" was published posthumously, in 2011. This fiction shows that Jean Carbonnier was not only a theorist, but also an author of literature. This element can be perceived while reading his theoretical works about law, since he always explained his thoughts with an elegant and precise way of writing. \"Les incertitudes du jeune Saxon\" represents at the same time a fiction (sort of \"Bildungsroman\") and a reflection about law and history. This work is also linked with the story of his own family and tastes.\n\nJean Carbonnier's vision of law was based on his own philosophy, which includes Protestantism, realism, skepticism, and empiricism – always with open-mindedness. He was at the same time a theorist, an author, and a lawmaker. That is why he was – and still is – often called \"\"jurislateur\",\" which can be translated as \"jurislator\" in English.\n\nHis works are open to the sociology of law and the philosophy of law, cleverly linking legal, political, and social sciences. The author observed society in order to understand it. He also considered legal phenomena as social facts. At the same time a jurist and a sociologist, Jean Carbonnier played an important role in adapting law to society's traditions and customs. He considered law as an \"artifact\", and was interested in every system of norms. In \"Flexible droit\", he explains how law is changeable, uncertain – and \"flexible.\"\n\nJean Carbonnier inspired, constituted, and conceptualized the combination of the study of law with that of sociology (legal sociology) – at a time when it was not popular among French jurists. He practiced \"\"sociology without rigor\",\" as the subtitle of his work \"Flexible droit\" shows. Indeed, Jean Carbonnier did not like \"rigid\" law.\n\nSince our society is multicultural, law must adapt to its transformations – for instance, concerning family. In \"Sociologie juridique\" (1968), Jean Carbonnier explained his theories about the links between law and society. This work represents his most famous one on the international level, especially thanks to the concepts he developed, as well as his account of the relationship between jurisprudence and social sciences. \nIn \"Flexible droit\" (1969), the core study was \"\"non-law\" (\"non-droit\"\"), considered as the essence of social life. For Jean Carbonnier, when there is no law, other systems of social regulations will work instead – for instance, religion, morality, customs, friendships, or habits. This part of the book also made Jean Carbonnier an internationally recognized jurist.\nHis last work, \"Droit et passion du droit sous la Vème République\" (1996), also is a legal and sociological work. His study of labor law and contract law represents a good example of legal sociology.\n\nIn sum, Jean Carbonnier established at the same time a clear and understandable sociological theory for jurists, as well as a legal theory within the reach of sociologists. This synthesis between law and sociology allowed the usage of sociological methods of investigation, thereby breaking with the \"rational\" tradition in French legislation. These methods include the opinion poll (IFOP, then INED) and field research in order to measure the \"demand for law\" expressed by citizens. This allowed notably the establishment of divorce by mutual consent (1975), at a time when divorce by fault was the only form offered to divorcing couples.\n\nJean Carbonnier renewed the French Civil Code, especially in the domain of Family Law. He wrote a major \"Treatise on Civil Law\" (\"Droit civil\"), which is not only a theoretical work, but also shows links with history, sociology, anthropology, and philosophy. The author defined the French Civil Code as the \"Civil Constitution of French people,\" i.e. as part of the national, legal, and political culture in France.\n\nJean Carbonnier was regarded as an authority on family law and considered family as a legal area. He was the inspiration and wrote the pre-projects (\"avant-projets\") for ambitious reforms, from 1964 to 1977. These reforms include fields such as incapacity law (1964 and 1968), parental authority (1970), filiation (1972), and divorce (1975). They were exposed and explained in \"Essais sur les lois\" (1979).\n\nWith Pierre Catala, a French law professor, Jean Carbonnier authored a proposition for the reform of inheritance law. It was taken up by the legislature in its law of 3 December 2001. French inheritance law was thereby adapted to the aspirations of the modern family.\n\nThrough his critical mind and his convincing rhetoric, Jean Carbonnier used the term \"passion\" in the title of his book \"Droit et passion du droit sous la Vème République\" (1996). The idea behind it would be that producing too many laws tend to be harmful and dangerous. This refers to the tendency, in France, to legislate too much, leading to an \"inflation\" of the law. This excess is meant to limit arbitrary powers. Moreover, it is a consequence of decentralization and the importance of community law. Sociologically, with the growing power of the media, lawmakers must react constantly, which result in an increasing production of laws. For instance, some are used as tools for political and electoral communication. Law therefore becomes \"educational\" (\"pédagogique\").\n\nThis passion is dangerous, or even destructive. Indeed, the more laws there are, the less likely it is possible to apply them effectively. In particular, inflation leads to misunderstanding or ignorance from citizens – and sometimes even from judges. This results in a lack of substance and credibility. The inflation therefore implies uncertainty (or insecurity). Jean Carbonnier's theories are still topical: for instance, in 2006, the French Council of State (\"Conseil d'Etat\") criticized the excesses that could threaten social cohesion in its annual report about legal certainty (\"Sécurité juridique et complexité du droit\").\n\nAnother evolution described by Jean Carbonnier is the subjectivisation of the law. This refers to the fact that the \"rights to...\" (\"droits à...\") become more and more important. The author speaks in terms of a \"pulverisation in subjective rights\" (\"pulvérisation en droits subjectifs\"). Subjective rights (or entitlements) are replacing legal principles. This subjectivisation of the legal system reconstructs it, focusing on fundamental rights (substantial notion), instead of the law itself (institutional notion).\n\nTherefore, law considers each individual (fundamental rights), rather than society as a whole. The legislation becomes more particular and precise. As a consequence, there is an inversion of the role and status of lawmakers in France: they are more and more concrete, whereas judges become more abstract. This results in individualization, which is a source of the inflation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16366", "title": "Jurisprudence", "text": "Jurisprudence\n\nJurisprudence or legal theory is the theoretical study of law, principally by philosophers but, from the twentieth century, also by social scientists. Scholars of jurisprudence, also known as jurists or legal theorists, hope to obtain a deeper understanding of legal reasoning, legal systems, legal institutions, and the role of law in society.\n\nModern jurisprudence began in the 18th century and was focused on the first principles of the natural law, civil law, and the law of nations. General jurisprudence can be divided into categories both by the type of question scholars seek to answer and by the theories of jurisprudence, or schools of thought, regarding how those questions are best answered. Contemporary philosophy of law, which deals with general jurisprudence, addresses problems internal to law and legal systems, and problems of law as a particular social institution as law relates to the larger political and social situation in which it exists.\n\nThis article distinguishes three distinct branches of thought in general jurisprudence. To begin with, ancient natural law, as a major branch and theory of jurisprudence, is the idea that there are rational objective limits to the power of legislative rulers. The foundations of law are accessible through reason and it is from these laws of nature that human-created laws gain whatever force they have. Secondly, 'clarificatory' or analytic jurisprudence rejects natural law's fusing of what law is and what it ought to be. It espouses the use of a neutral point of view and descriptive language when referring to aspects of legal systems. It comprises different theories of jurisprudence. For example, \"legal positivism\", holds that there is no necessary connection between law and morality and that the force of law comes from some basic social facts. And \"legal realism\" argues that the real world practice of law is what determines what law is; the law has the force that it does because of what legislators, lawyers and judges do with it. Thirdly, normative jurisprudence is concerned with \"evaluative\" theories of law. It deals with what the goal or purpose of law is, or what moral or political theories provide a foundation for the law. Besides the question \"What is law?\", it tries to answer what the proper function of law was, or what sorts of acts should be subject to legal sanctions, and what sorts of punishment should be permitted.\n\nThe English word is based on the Latin maxim \"jurisprudentia\": \"juris\" is the genitive form of \"jus\" meaning \"law\", and \"prudentia\" means \"prudence\" (also: discretion, foresight, forethought, circumspection; refers to the exercise of good judgment, common sense, and even caution, especially in the conduct of practical matters). The word is first attested in English in 1628, at a time when the word \"prudence\" had the meaning of \"knowledge of or skill in a matter\". The word may have come via the French \"jurisprudence\", which is attested earlier.\n\nAncient Indian jurisprudence is available in various Dharmaśāstra texts starting from the Dharmasutra of Bhodhayana. Jurisprudence already had this meaning in Ancient Rome even if at its origins the discipline was a (\"periti\") in the \"jus\" of \"mos maiorum\" (traditional law), a body of oral laws and customs verbally transmitted \"by father to son\". Praetors established a workable body of laws by judging whether or not singular cases were capable of being prosecuted either by the edicta, the annual pronunciation of prosecutable offense, or in extraordinary situations, additions made to the edicta. An iudex then would judge a remedy according to the facts of the case.\n\nTheir sentences were supposed to be simple interpretations of the traditional customs, but effectively it was an activity that, apart from formally reconsidering for each case what precisely was traditionally in the legal habits, soon turned also to a more equitable interpretation, coherently adapting the law to the newer social instances. The law was then implemented with new evolutive \"Institutiones\" (legal concepts), while remaining in the traditional scheme. Praetors were replaced in the 3rd century BC by a laical body of \"prudentes\". Admission to this body was conditional upon proof of competence or experience.\n\nUnder the Roman Empire, schools of law were created, and the activity constantly became more academic. In the age from the early Roman Empire to the 3rd century, a relevant literature was produced by some notable groups including the Proculians and Sabinians. The scientific depth of the studies was unprecedented in ancient times.\n\nAfter the 3rd century, \"Juris prudentia\" became a more bureaucratic activity, with few notable authors. It was during the Eastern Roman Empire (5th century) that legal studies were once again undertaken in depth, and it is from this cultural movement that Justinian's Corpus Juris Civilis was born.\n\nIn its general context, natural law theory may be compared to both state-of-nature law and general law understood on the basis of an analogy to the physical laws of science. Natural law is often contrasted to positive law which asserts law as the product of human activity and human volition.\n\nAnother approach to natural law jurisprudence generally asserts that human law may be supported by decisive reasons for action. In other words, there must be a compelling rationale behind following human law. There are two readings of the natural law jurisprudential stance.\nNotions of an objective moral order, external to human legal systems, underlie natural law. What is right or wrong can vary according to the interests one is focused upon. Natural law is sometimes identified with the maxim that \"an unjust law is no law at all\", but as John Finnis, the most important of modern natural barristers has argued, this maxim is a poor guide to the classical Thomist position. Strongly related to theories of natural law are classical theories of justice, beginning in the West with Plato's Republic.\n\nAristotle is often said to be the father of natural law. Like his philosophical forefathers Socrates and Plato, Aristotle posited the existence of natural justice or natural right (\"dikaion physikon\", \"δικαίον φυσικόν\", Latin \"ius naturale\"). His association with natural law is largely due to the way in which he was interpreted by Thomas Aquinas. This was based on Aquinas' conflation of natural law and natural right, the latter of which Aristotle posits in Book V of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" (= Book IV of the \"Eudemian Ethics\"). Aquinas's influence was such as to affect a number of early translations of these passages, though more recent translations render them more literally.\n\nAristotle's theory of justice is bound up in his idea of the golden mean. Indeed, his treatment of what he calls \"political justice\" derives from his discussion of \"the just\" as a moral virtue derived as the mean between opposing vices, just like every other virtue he describes. His longest discussion of his theory of justice occurs in \"Nicomachean Ethics\" and begins by asking what sort of mean a just act is. He argues that the term \"justice\" actually refers to two different but related ideas: general justice and particular justice. When a person's actions are completely virtuous in all matters in relation to others, Aristotle calls them \"just\" in the sense of \"general justice;\" as such this idea of justice is more or less coextensive with virtue. \"Particular\" or \"partial justice\", by contrast, is the part of \"general justice\" or the individual virtue that is concerned with treating others equitably. Aristotle moves from this unqualified discussion of justice to a qualified view of political justice, by which he means something close to the subject of modern jurisprudence. Of political justice, Aristotle argues that it is partly derived from nature and partly a matter of convention. This can be taken as a statement that is similar to the views of modern natural law theorists. But it must also be remembered that Aristotle is describing a view of morality, not a system of law, and therefore his remarks as to nature are about the grounding of the morality enacted as law, not the laws themselves. The passage here is silent as to that question.\n\nThe best evidence of Aristotle's having thought there was a natural law comes from the \"Rhetoric\", where Aristotle notes that, aside from the \"particular\" laws that each people has set up for itself, there is a \"common\" law that is according to nature. The context of this remark, however, suggests only that Aristotle thought that it could be rhetorically advantageous to appeal to such a law, especially when the \"particular\" law of one's own city was adverse to the case being made, not that there actually was such a law; Aristotle, moreover, considered two of the three candidates for a universally valid, natural law suggested in this passage to be wrong. Aristotle's theoretical paternity of the natural law tradition is consequently disputed.\n\nThomas Aquinas, [Thomas of Aquin, or Aquino] (c. 1225 – 7 March 1274) was an Italian philosopher and theologian in the scholastic tradition, known as \"Doctor Angelicus, Doctor Universalis\". He is the foremost classical proponent of natural theology, and the father of the Thomistic school of philosophy, for a long time the primary philosophical approach of the Roman Catholic Church. The work for which he is best known is the \"Summa Theologica\". One of the thirty-five Doctors of the Church, he is considered by many Catholics to be the Church's greatest theologian. Consequently, many institutions of learning have been named after him.\n\nAquinas distinguished four kinds of law: eternal, natural, human and divine:\n\n\nNatural law, of course, is based on \"first principles\":\n\n\"... this is the first precept of the law, that good is to be done and promoted, and evil is to be avoided. All other precepts of the natural law are based on this ...\"\n\nThe desires to live and to procreate are counted by Aquinas among those basic (natural) human values on which all other human values are based.\n\nFrancisco de Vitoria was perhaps the first to develop a theory of \"ius gentium\" (the rights of peoples), and thus is an important figure in the transition to modernity. He extrapolated his ideas of legitimate sovereign power to society at the international level, concluding that this scope as well ought to be ruled by just forms respectable of the rights of all. The common good of the world is of a category superior to the good of each state. This meant that relations between states ought to pass from being justified by force to being justified by law and justice. Some scholars have upset the standard account of the origins of International law, which emphasises the seminal text \"De iure belli ac pacis\" by Grotius, and argued for Vitoria and, later, Suárez's importance as forerunners and, potentially, founders of the field. Others, such as Koskenniemi, have argued that none of these humanist and scholastic thinkers can be understood to have founded international law in the modern sense, instead placing its origins in the post-1870 period.\n\nFrancisco Suárez, regarded as among the greatest scholastics after Aquinas, subdivided the concept of \"ius gentium\". Working with already well-formed categories, he carefully distinguished \"ius inter gentes\" from \"ius intra gentes\". \"Ius inter gentes\" (which corresponds to modern international law) was something common to the majority of countries, although, being positive law, not natural law, was not necessarily universal. On the other hand, \"ius intra gentes\", or civil law, is specific to each nation.\n\nIn his treatise \"Leviathan, (1651)\", Hobbes expresses a view of natural law as a precept, or general rule, found out by reason, by which a man is forbidden to do that which is destructive of his life, or takes away the means of preserving the same; and to omit that by which he thinks it may best be preserved. Hobbes was a social contractarian and believed that the law gained peoples' tacit consent. He believed that society was formed from a state of nature to protect people from the state of war between mankind that exists otherwise. Life is, without an ordered society, \"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short\". It is commonly commented that Hobbes' views about the core of human nature were influenced by his times. The English Civil War and the Cromwellian dictatorship had taken place, and he felt absolute authority vested in a monarch, whose subjects obeyed the law, was the basis of a civilized society.\n\nWriting after World War II, Lon L. Fuller defended a secular and procedural form of natural law. He notably emphasised that the (natural) law must meet certain formal requirements (such as being impartial and publicly knowable). To the extent that an institutional system of social control falls short of these requirements, Fuller argues, we are less inclined to recognise it as a system of law, or to give it our respect. Thus, law has an internal morality that goes beyond the social rules by which valid laws are made.\n\nSophisticated positivist and natural law theories sometimes resemble each other more than the above descriptions might suggest, and they may concede certain points to the other \"side\". Identifying a particular theorist as a positivist or a natural law theorist sometimes involves matters of emphasis and degree, and the particular influences on the theorist's work. In particular, the older natural lawyers, such as Aquinas and John Locke made no distinction between analytic and normative jurisprudence. But modern natural lawyers, such as John Finnis claim to be positivists, while still arguing that law is a basically moral creature. His book \"Natural Law and Natural Rights\" (1980, 2011) is a restatement of natural law doctrine.\n\nAnalytic, or 'clarificatory', jurisprudence means the use of a neutral point of view and descriptive language when referring to the aspects of legal systems. This was a philosophical development that rejected natural law's fusing of what law is and what it ought to be. David Hume famously argued in \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" that people invariably slip between describing that the world \"is\" a certain way to saying therefore we \"ought\" to conclude on a particular course of action. But as a matter of pure logic, one cannot conclude that we \"ought\" to do something merely because something \"is\" the case. So analysing and clarifying the way the world \"is\" must be treated as a strictly separate question to normative and evaluative \"ought\" questions.\n\nThe most important questions of analytic jurisprudence are: \"What are laws?\"; \"What is \"the\" law?\"; \"What is the relationship between law and power/sociology?\"; and \"What is the relationship between law and morality?\" Legal positivism is the dominant theory, although there are a growing number of critics who offer their own interpretations.\n\nHistorical jurisprudence came to prominence during the German debate over the proposed codification of German law. In his book \"On the Vocation of Our Age for Legislation and Jurisprudence\", Friedrich Carl von Savigny argued that Germany did not have a legal language that would support codification because the traditions, customs and beliefs of the German people did not include a belief in a code. The Historicists believe that the law originates with society.\n\nThe effort to inform jurisprudence systematically with sociological insights developed strongly from the beginning of the twentieth century, as sociology began to establish itself as a distinct social science, especially in the United States and in continental Europe. In Germany the work of the 'free law' theorists (e.g. Ernst Fuchs, Hermann Kantorowicz and Eugen Ehrlich) encouraged the use of sociological insights in judicial development of law and juristic theory. The most internationally influential advocacy of a 'sociological jurisprudence' occurred in the United States, where Roscoe Pound, for many years the Dean of Harvard Law School, used this term to characterise his legal philosophy throughout the first half of the twentieth century. In the United States many later writers followed Pound's lead or developed distinctive approaches to sociological jurisprudence. In Australia, Julius Stone strongly defended and developed Pound's ideas. In the 1930s a significant split between the sociological jurists and the American legal realists emerged. In the second half of the twentieth century sociological jurisprudence as a distinct movement declined as jurisprudence came more strongly under the influence of analytical legal philosophy but with increasing criticism of dominant orientations of Anglophone legal philosophy in the present century it has attracted renewed interest.\n\nPositivism simply means that law is something that is \"posited\": laws are validly made in accordance with socially accepted rules. The positivist view on law can be seen to cover two broad principles: Firstly, that laws may seek to enforce justice, morality, or any other normative end, but their success or failure in doing so does not determine their validity. Provided a law is properly formed, in accordance with the rules recognized in the society concerned, it is a valid law, regardless of whether it is \"just\" by some other standard. Secondly, that law is nothing more than a set of rules to provide order and governance of society. No legal positivist, however, argues that it follows that the law is therefore to be obeyed, no matter what. This is seen as a separate question entirely.\n\nOne of the earliest legal positivists was Jeremy Bentham. Bentham was an early and staunch supporter of the utilitarian concept (along with Hume), an avid prison reformer, advocate for democracy, and strong atheist. Bentham's views about law and jurisprudence were popularized by his student, John Austin. Austin was the first chair of law at the new University of London from 1829. Austin's utilitarian answer to \"what is law?\" was that law is \"commands, backed by threat of sanctions, from a sovereign, to whom people have a habit of obedience\". Contemporary legal positivists have long abandoned this view, and have criticised its oversimplification, H. L. A. Hart particularly.\n\nHans Kelsen is considered one of the prominent jurists of the 20th century and has been highly influential in Europe and Latin America, although less so in common-law countries. His Pure Theory of Law aims to describe law as binding norms while at the same time refusing, itself, to evaluate those norms. That is, 'legal science' is to be separated from 'legal politics'. Central to the Pure Theory of Law is the notion of a 'basic norm (Grundnorm)'—a hypothetical norm, presupposed by the jurist, from which in a hierarchy all 'lower' norms in a legal system, beginning with constitutional law, are understood to derive their authority or 'bindingness'. In this way, Kelsen contends, the bindingness of legal norms, their specifically 'legal' character, can be understood without tracing it ultimately to some suprahuman source such as God, personified Nature or—of great importance in his time—a personified State or Nation.\n\nIn the Anglophone world, the pivotal writer was H. L. A. Hart, who argued that the law should be understood as a system of social rules. Hart rejected Kelsen's views that sanctions were essential to law and that a normative social phenomenon, like law, can not be grounded in non-normative social facts. Hart revived analytical jurisprudence as an important theoretical debate in the twentieth century through his book \"The Concept of Law\". As the professor of jurisprudence at Oxford University, Hart argued that law is a 'system of rules'.\n\nRules, said Hart, are divided into primary rules (rules of conduct) and secondary rules (rules addressed to officials to administer primary rules). Secondary rules are divided into rules of adjudication (to resolve legal disputes), rules of change (allowing laws to be varied) and the rule of recognition (allowing laws to be identified as valid). The \"rule of recognition\" is a customary practice of the officials (especially barristers and judges) that identifies certain acts and decisions as sources of law. A pivotal book on Hart was written by Neil MacCormick in 1981 (second edition due in 2007), which further refined and offered some important criticisms that led MacCormick to develop his own theory (the best example of which is his recently published \"Institutions of Law\", 2007). Other important critiques have included that of Ronald Dworkin, John Finnis, and Joseph Raz.\n\nIn recent years, debates about the nature of law have become increasingly fine-grained. One important debate is within legal positivism. One school is sometimes called \"exclusive legal positivism\", and it is associated with the view that the legal validity of a norm can never depend on its moral correctness. A second school is labeled \"inclusive legal positivism\", a major proponent of which is Wil Waluchow, and it is associated with the view that moral considerations \"may\" determine the legal validity of a norm, but that it is not necessary that this is the case.\n\nSome philosophers used to contend that positivism was the theory that there is \"no necessary connection\" between law and morality; but influential contemporary positivists, including Joseph Raz, John Gardner, and Leslie Green, reject that view. As Raz points out, it is a necessary truth that there are vices that a legal system cannot possibly have (for example, it cannot commit rape or murder).\n\nJoseph Raz defends the positivist outlook, but criticised Hart's \"soft social thesis\" approach in \"The Authority of Law\". Raz argues that law is authority, identifiable purely through social sources, without reference to moral reasoning. Any categorisation of rules beyond their role as authority is better left to sociology than to jurisprudence.\n\nLegal realism was a view popular with some Scandinavian and American writers. Skeptical in tone, it held that the law should be understood and determined by the actual practices of courts, law offices, and police stations, rather than as the rules and doctrines set forth in statutes or learned treatises. It had some affinities with the sociology of law and sociological jurisprudence. The essential tenet of legal realism is that all law is made by human beings and, thus, is subject to human foibles, frailties and imperfections.\n\nIt has become common today to identify Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., as the main precursor of American Legal Realism (other influences include Roscoe Pound, Karl Llewellyn and Justice Benjamin Cardozo). Karl Llewellyn, another founder of the U.S. legal realism movement, similarly believed that the law is little more than putty in the hands of judges who are able to shape the outcome of cases based on their personal values or policy choices. The chief inspiration for Scandinavian legal realism many consider to be the works of Axel Hägerström.\n\nDespite its decline in popularity, realism continues to influence a wide spectrum of jurisprudential schools today, including critical legal studies, feminist legal theory, critical race theory, sociology of law and law and economics.\n\nCritical legal studies are a younger theory of jurisprudence that has developed since the 1970s. It can be generally traced to American legal realism and is considered \"the first movement in legal theory and legal scholarship in the United States to have espoused a committed Left political stance and perspective\". It holds that the law is largely contradictory, and can be best analyzed as an expression of the policy goals of a dominant social group.\n\nKarl Popper originated the theory of critical rationalism. According to Reinhold Zippelius many advances in law and jurisprudence take place by operations of critical rationalism. He writes, \"daß die Suche nach dem Begriff des Rechts, nach seinen Bezügen zur Wirklichkeit und nach der Gerechtigkeit experimentierend voranschreitet, indem wir Problemlösungen versuchsweise entwerfen, überprüfen und verbessern\" (that we empirically search solutions of problems, which harmonise fair with the reality: by projecting, testing and improving the solutions).\n\nContemporary philosopher of law Ronald Dworkin has advocated a more constructivist theory of jurisprudence that can be characterized as a middle path between natural law theories and positivist theories of general jurisprudence. \nIn his book \"Law's Empire\" Dworkin attacked Hart and the positivists for their refusal to treat law as a moral issue. He argues that law is an 'interpretive' concept, that requires barristers to find the best-fitting and most just solution to a legal dispute, given their constitutional traditions. According to him, law is not entirely based on social facts, but includes the morally best justification for the institutional facts and practices that we intuitively regard as legal. It follows on Dworkin's view that one cannot know whether a society has a legal system in force, or what any of its laws are, until one knows some moral truths about the justifications for the practices in that society. It is consistent with Dworkin's view—in contrast with the views of legal positivists or legal realists—that \"no-one\" in a society may know what its laws are, because no-one may know the best justification for its practices.\n\nInterpretation, according to Dworkin's \"integrity theory of law\", has two dimensions. To count as an interpretation, the reading of a text must meet the criterion of \"fit\". Of those interpretations that fit, however, Dworkin maintains that the correct interpretation is the one that puts the political practices of the community in their best light, or makes of them \"the best that they can be\". But many writers have doubted whether there \"is\" a single best justification for the complex practices of any given community, and others have doubted whether, even if there are, they should be counted as part of the law of that community.\n\nConsequences from the operation of legal rules or legal procedures—or from the behavior of legal actors (such as lawyers and judges)—may be either beneficial (therapeutic) or harmful (anti-therapeutic) to people. Therapeutic jurisprudence (\"TJ\") studies law as a social force (or agent) and uses social science methods and data to study the extent to which a legal rule or practice affects the psychological well-being of the people it affects.\n\nIn addition to the question, \"What is law?\", legal philosophy is also concerned with normative, or \"evaluative\" theories of law. What is the goal or purpose of law? What moral or political theories provide a foundation for the law? What is the proper function of law? What sorts of acts should be subject to punishment, and what sorts of punishment should be permitted? What is justice? What rights do we have? Is there a duty to obey the law? What value has the rule of law? Some of the different schools and leading thinkers are as follows.\n\nAretaic moral theories such as contemporary virtue ethics emphasize the role of character in morality. Virtue jurisprudence is the view that the laws should promote the development of virtuous characters by citizens. Historically, this approach is associated mainly with Aristotle or Thomas Aquinas later. Contemporary virtue jurisprudence is inspired by philosophical work on virtue ethics.\n\nDeontology is \"the theory of duty or moral obligation.\" The philosopher Immanuel Kant formulated one influential deontological theory of law. He argued that any rule we follow must be able to be universally applied, i.e. we must be willing for everyone to follow that rule. A contemporary deontological approach can be found in the work of the legal philosopher Ronald Dworkin.\n\nUtilitarianism is the view that the laws should be crafted so as to produce the best consequences for the greatest number of people possible. Historically, utilitarian thinking about law is associated with the philosopher Jeremy Bentham. John Stuart Mill was a pupil of Bentham's and was the torch bearer for utilitarian philosophy through the late nineteenth century. In contemporary legal theory, the utilitarian approach is frequently championed by scholars who work in the law and economics tradition.\n\nJohn Rawls was an American philosopher, a professor of political philosophy at Harvard University and author of \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971), \"Political Liberalism\", \"\", and \"The Law of Peoples\". He is widely considered one of the most important English-language political philosophers of the 20th century. His theory of justice uses a device called the original position to ask us which principles of justice we would choose to regulate the basic institutions of our society if we were behind a 'veil of ignorance.' Imagine we do not know who we are - our race, sex, wealth status, class, or any distinguishing feature - so that we would not be biased in our own favour. Rawls argues from this 'original position' that we would choose exactly the same political liberties for everyone, like freedom of speech, the right to vote and so on. Also, we would choose a system where there is only inequality because that produces incentives enough for the economic well-being of all society, especially the poorest. This is Rawls's famous 'difference principle'. Justice is fairness, in the sense that the fairness of the original position of choice guarantees the fairness of the principles chosen in that position.\n\nThere are many other normative approaches to the philosophy of law, including critical legal studies and libertarian theories of law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6199688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199688", "title": "Law and literature", "text": "Law and literature\n\nThe law and literature movement focuses on the interdisciplinary connection between law and literature. This field has roots in two major developments in the intellectual history of law—first, the growing doubt about whether law in isolation is a source of value and meaning, or whether it must be plugged into a large cultural or philosophical or social-science context to give it value and meaning; and, second, the growing focus on the mutability of meaning in all texts, whether literary or legal. Those who work in the field stress one or the other of two complementary perspectives: \"Law in literature\" (understanding enduring issues as they are explored in great literary texts) and \"law as literature\" (understanding legal texts by reference to methods of literary interpretation, analysis, and critique).\n\nThis movement has broad and potentially far reaching implications with regards to future teaching methods, scholarship, and interpretations of legal texts. Combining literature's ability to provide unique insight into the human condition through text with the legal framework that regulates those human experiences in reality gives a democratic judiciary a new and dynamic approach to reaching the aims of providing a just and moral society. It is necessary, in practical thought and discussion about the use of legal rhetoric, to understand text's role in defining human experience.\n\nPerhaps first to envision the movement were John Wigmore and Benjamin Cardozo, who acknowledged \"novelists and poets\" as the principal teachers of law in the first half of the 20th century. Most scholars, however, credit James Boyd White as the founder of the law and literature movement because of the dedicated research and distinguished publications he has contributed to this rapidly growing field. Among his many literary books and articles, White's most renowned publication, \"The Legal Imagination\", is often credited with initiating the law and literature movement. This book, first published in 1973, is a fusion of anthology and critique, superficially resembling a traditional legal casebook but drawing on a much wider and more diverse range of sources, with headnotes and questions emphasizing the relationship of legal texts to literary analysis and literary texts to the legal issues that they explore.\n\nThe movement began attracting attention in the 1970s and by the 1980s had gained substantial ground in academia. The proponents of the \"law-in-literature\" theory, such as Richard Weisberg and Robert Weisberg, believe that literary works, especially narratives centered on a legal conflict, will offer lawyers and judges insight into the \"nature of law\" that would otherwise go missing in the traditionally strict study of legal rhetoric.\n\nIn its early stages, the law and literature movement focused strictly on the \"law in literature\" theory; however, beginning in the late 1970s the \"law as literature\" perspective began to gain popularity. This perspective seeks to enhance legal studies by examining and interpreting legal texts using the techniques of literary critics. Scholars such as White and Ronald Dworkin find greater relevance in \"law as literature\" because it maintains that the meaning of legal texts, such as written law, like any other genre of literature, can only be discovered through interpretation. Although legal scholars have long considered both literary and legal texts in their study of the legal process, the recent degree to which the two seemingly separate genres interact has sparked great debates among scholars.\n\nThe law in literature view is specifically concerned with the way in which legal situations are presented in literature. Generally, they place a high value on the \"independent\" view from which literary writers are able to see the law. They believe that such authors have a lesson to teach legal scholars and lawyers alike about the human condition, and the law's effect on it. Such scholars tend to cite authors like Franz Kafka, Albert Camus, Herman Melville, Fyodor Dostoevsky, and Charles Dickens. The fictional situations presented in literature, these scholars assert, can tell a great deal about political and social situations, and the individual that often find themselves before the court. For example, Robert Weisberg believes that the law in literature offers fertile possibilities. He suggests that even though some literature cannot instruct its readers about legal situations, they can still educate law students about the human condition.\n\nRichard H. Weisberg, professor at Cardozo School of Law is another leading scholar of law and literature. Following the lead of James Boyd White, he sees an intrinsic value in the use of literature as a means of discussing legal topics. Unlike White however, who places value on literature for its ability to stimulate critical thought and theory, Weisberg believes that literature should be valued for its ability to cause one to relate to others, and for the political and social contexts that novels, particularly those dealing with the law, grapple with. For Weisberg, this is reason enough for its justification in the legal arena because such novels cause their students to reach conclusions regarding human understanding. In his study \"Poethics\", Weisberg states that, \"Poethics in its attention to legal communication and to the plight of those who are 'other', seeks to revitalize the ethical component of the law.\"\n\nRichard Weisberg's interest in the law and literature movement might be seen as slightly different than that of White, who places emphasis on the rhetorical techniques and abilities that literature utilizes. Weisberg rather wishes to use literature as a way of critiquing social institutions and legal norms. For him it is the subject matter of novels and not their rhetorical tools that make them important in instructing law students, as well as furthering understanding of legal matters for the independent law scholar. \nOne example of his attempting to validate his stance of the effect of novels onto legal minds, is one where Weisberg cites a real life French lawyer living in France during the beginning of the deportation of French Jews to concentration camps. The lawyer was attempting to assign the duty of determining Jewry of an individual with only two Jewish grandparents to the state, then controlled by the Nazis and collaborators. In describing the words chosen by the lawyer, Weisberg believes that the \"masking of a moral crime\" is a direct descendant of \"Nietzschean ressentiment\", which is widely believed to be a philosophical outlook that permeates through the writings of Albert Camus and Kafka-literary authors whose works law and literature proponents cite often, including Weisberg. His belief that ressentiment makes its way into the writings of lawyers, such as this Frenchman, is seen as enough of a reason for him to view legal novels as compelling arguments of the human condition and thus their validity towards legal debate.\n\nLaw as literature scholars see value in the techniques employed by literary scholars. Generally speaking, these scholars may see legal text as a form of literature thus making literary critique and analysis of it possible. Unlike the law in literature scholars, these minds only see possibilities in the tools of literary theory, and not really the subject of the great novel that law students often find themselves reading, although most might agree that literature serves a purpose that allows for ethical development and growth within the student.\n\nBenjamin N. Cardozo was a proponent of law as literature. \"The success of Cardozo's books was also due in part to their distinction as literature. Convinced that style could not be separated from substance, Cardozo brought the Judicial process to life in lucid, eloquent prose sprinkled with humor, anecdotes, and practical allusions.\" (enotes.com, Benjamin Nathan Cardozo 1870-1938)\n\nWhile James Boyd White acknowledges the relevance of the \"law-in-literature\" perspective, he finds \"law-as-literature\" more tenable because of the position's ability to combine the two seemingly disparate disciplines and allow for text to fulfill its role of defining culture and creating relationships. According to White, Jane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\"\nRonald Dworkin also supports the arguments in favor of the use of literature to improve legal understanding. In his article, \"Law as Interpretation\", Dworkin stated, \"I propose that we can improve our understanding of law by comparing legal interpretation with interpretation in other fields of knowledge, particularly literature.\" He believes that our interpretations of literary works may help us to an improved understanding of our cultural environment, which in turn helps us to come to a better understanding and interpretation of the law.\n\nThe Law and Literature movement in Europe is wide-ranging and fruitful and a number of networks in Europe are significant to the movement. There is for example a European Network for Law and Literature Scholarship run by Jeanne Gaakeer, Professor at the Erasmus University Rotterdam, and Greta Olson, Professor at the Justus-Liebig Universität Giessen. Gaakeer's influence is also reflected in her publications, for example Hope Springs Eternal: An Introduction to the Work of James Boyd White (University of Michigan, 1998), and she is co-editor of Crossing Borders: law, language and Literature, Wolf Legal Publishers The Netherlands, 2008. Greta Olsen has edited a number of books including 9/11 Ten Years On(2011) Current Trends in Narratology. Berlin and New York: De Gruyter, 2011 and In the Grip of the Law: Trials, Prisons and the Space Between. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 2004a. There is also a Nordic Network for Law and Literature and two Italian Networks for Law and Literature, AIDEL and ISLL. In Norway: The Bergen School of Law and Literature, directed by Professor Arild Linneberg, Faculty of Humanities, Department of Linguistic, Literary and Aesthetic Studies, University of Bergen. Law and Literature in Europe is energetic but at times less self-promoting than its American counterpart. Greta Olson's article ‘De-Americanising Law and Literature Narratives: Opening Up the Story’ in the journal ‘Law and Literature’ 2010 (published by Cardozo in the USA) provides a reminder of scholarly activity in Europe as well as warning against a ‘tendency to universalise our scholarly narratives’ where some debates are particular to the American setting. She calls upon European scholars to ‘remember that the peculiarities of our own legal systems and legal histories need to be kept in mind as we contest law with the aesthetic and use law to query the literary’.\n\nPost-conference productions such as the Oxford University Press collection Law and Literature: Current Legal Issues Volume 2: Law and (1999) edited by Michael Freeman and Andrew Lewis are testament to the number of approaches opened up by this interdisciplinary approach. In the United Kingdom, scholars of note include Maria Aristodemou, with her Law and Literature from her to eternity, which looks at a number of texts from ancient Greek to modern day novels from a feminist and postmodern perspective. Adam Gearey's Law and Aesthetics provides a discussion of aesthetics and ethics relevant to contemporary law and literature scholarship, and to the development of postmodern jurisprudence, using a range of reference points from classical literature, from Sophocles to Shelley to Nietzsche. Professor Ian Ward, Law and Literature: Possibilities and Perspectives which considers a range of texts from Shakespeare, to children's literature, to Ivan Klima and Umberto Eco and, more recently Ward's Law, Text, Terror, looking at the phenomena of terror and the rhetoric of terrorism tracing back through literature, popular culture and politics. Professor Melanie Williams’ book Empty Justice: One Hundred Years of Law, Literature and Philosophy explores in particular feminist and existential questions as well as genre movements relating to caselaw combined with works by, for example, Thomas Hardy, J. G. Ballard, John Fowles, J. M. Coetzee, Virginia Woolf and Iris Murdoch, whilst her Secrets and Laws provides a range of essays on legal and political issues of note, from ethics, terrorism and identity to notions of obscenity, rape, sex and violence, through the prism of poetry, W. H. Auden and R. S. Thomas as well as 19th and 20th century works of fiction. Kieran Dolin's A Critical Introduction to Law and Literature takes in a wide range of historical periods from Renaissance literature to Victorian literature and modern texts, exploring a number of topical approaches to crime, feminism, race and colonialism, whilst Paul Raffield’s Shakespeare's Imaginary Constitution : late Elizabethan politics and the theatre of law (Hart, 2010) is an addition to the critical work available on Shakespeare and the Law. The Italian law and literature scholar Daniela Carpi has also written a book on Shakespeare and the Law as well as an interesting text discussing Plato’s relevance to 20th century English Literature.\n\nThese instances of European outputs in the Law and Literature movement are in no way representative of the large literature to be found in articles written by the above named scholars as well as others in the field.\n\nJack Balkin is a professor of constitutional law at Yale Law School. While his work in legal rhetoric draws on literary theory, he contends that law is best analogized to the performing arts such as music and drama, rather than to literature. For this reason, there is little to no work in which Balkin analyzes literature's relevance to the law, but his applications of the argument through other artistic mediums gain him admission to this discussion, as well.\n\nIn his views on politics and its effect on legal standards, Balkin adheres to what is known as \"partisan entrenchment\". This theory states that the party that controls the White House can place in the federal courts judges and justices that share the President's political views. This in turn affects Supreme Court justices and, ultimately, constitutional doctrine.\n\nRobert Barsky is a Professor of Literature, and a Professor of Law at Vanderbilt University, where he actively teaches courses on the law-literature overlap, and directs the Robert Penn Warren Seminar on Literature and Law. His work focuses upon the construction in narrative of the person, either in law (with examples from the domain of Convention refugees and undocumented immigrants) or in literary texts, from a perspective that references the work of Mikhail Mikhailovich Bakhtin, Pierre Bourdieu, Marc Angenot, Michael Holquist and others. A longtime contributor to the field, and a frequent reviewer of texts relating to it, Barsky works to bring a humanistic approach that favors dialogism, storytelling and empathy to the many realms captured by the idea of border-crossing. His works include a trilogy of law-literature informed books (Undocumented Immigrants in an Era of Arbitrary Law, Routledge Law 2016; Arguing and Justifying, Ashgate 2001; Constructing a Productive Other, John Benjamins 1994), and to the on-line open access border-crossing journal called AmeriQuests: Narrative, Law and Literature (www.ameriquests.org), which he founded as the Canadian Bicentennial Visiting Professor at the Yale Center for International and Area Studies in 2002-3. Because much of the legal corpus to which he refers emanates from the realm of migration studies, he has also contributed widely to translation and interpretations studies, with reference to both legal and literary texts.\n\nDaniela Carpi is Professor of English Literature at the Department of Foreign Literatures and Languages of the University of Verona. She started her career at the University of Bologna. Her fields of research are: Renaissance theatre, Postmodern fiction, literature and visual arts, the influence of Plato on twentieth-century English literature, law and literature. She started working on law and literature in the 1990s and introduced the topic in Italy. In 2008 she founded AIDEL Associazione Italiana di Diritto e Letteratura, which she presides and which gathers a large number of members from all over the world. In 2007 she founded the journal \"Pólemos\", a Journal of Law Literature and culture, now published by DeGruyter (Berlin/Boston). Together with professor Klaus Stierstorfer from the University of Muenster she edits the series \"Law and Literature\", also for DeGruyter. She also edits two series with an Italian publisher (Ombre Corte in Verona), “Culture” and “Agon”. She has directed several international projects on “Law and the Image”, “Human Rights”, “Bioethics, biolaw and literature”, “Law and Culture”, and in particular one on “Law and equity” which was financed by the Italian Ministry for Culture MIUR. Among her latest publications: Daniela Carpi ed., \"Bioethics and Biolaw Through Literature\", DeGruyter 2011; Daniela Carpi and Jeanne Gaakeer eds., \"Liminal Discourses. Sublime Tensions in Law and Literature\", DeGruyter, 2013; Daniela Carpi ed., \"The Concept of Equity in Law and Literature: An Interdisciplinary Assessment\", Winter, 2007; \"Practising Equity, Addressing Law: Equity in Law and Literature\", Winter, 2008; \"Why Plato? The Influence of Plato on twentieth-century English Literature\", Winter, 2005, and co-editet with Marett Leiboff: \"Fables of the Law.Fairy Tales in a Legal Context\". De Gruyter 2016,\n\nAdam Gearey is Reader in Law at Birkbeck School of Law, University of London. He has a BA (Hons-English/History) (University of York), M.A. Socio-Legal Studies (University of Sheffield), CPE/LSF (Manchester Polytechnic), PhD (Birkbeck College, University of London). He was appointed as a lecturer at Kent Law School in 1996, moving to the School of Law at Birkbeck in 1998. In 2001-2002, he was a visiting professor in the Faculty of Law at Makerere University, Uganda; and in 2003 a visiting professor at the University of Pretoria. He is currently a visiting scholar at The Center for Law and Society, University of California, Berkeley and a visiting professor at the University of Peace, Costa Rica. His present project concerns political justice.\n\nIn The Times Higher Education, Gearey commented on his work on James Joyce's chaotic novel, \"Finnegans Wake\", and ideas of law, stating I tried to trace the ways the account of the giving of the law in the Bible fed into the narratives of Finnegans Wake. Just as the Bible appropriated the Jewish Old Test-ament account of the law, Joyce's novel, in its turn, rewrote the Gospel narratives, to become a messianic announcement of the female messiah and a new law of love. These ideas could not have been thought without the encouragement of the \"critical legal theory\" scene. ..But it would be wrong to see this as a \"movement\". It is an impossible community of those who disagree as much as they agree. Leaning to broadly continental traditions of thought, to psychoanalysis, post-Marxism and feminism, there is a strong sense of sustained and creative dialogue in \"critical\" circles. The revolution in legal thought is still to come’.\n\nEric Heinze is Professor of Law & Humanities at the School of Law, Queen Mary, University of London. In \"The Concept of Injustice\" he presents a literary approach to reasoning about justice. He calls that standpoint ‘post-classical’, in contrast to a ‘classical’ Western tradition, dating back to Plato's \"Republic\", which assumes a static, logical opposition between the concepts of ‘justice’ and ‘injustice’. Heinze's ‘post-classical’ approach recognises the impossibility of theorising justice and injustice as mutually exclusive categories.\n\nCentral to Heinze's research is the thesis that law is constantly underpinned by necessary, yet conflicting and irreconcilable theories of its own legitimacy. Some of his research focuses on the problem of legitimacy with particular reference to concepts of ‘imperialism’ and ‘nationalism’, concepts which he presents not as fixed, but as malleable and often overlapping. His approach further examines language as both the defining yet also infinitely manipulated tool of law as the institution and justification of political power. Examining ancient and early modern literature, Heinze traces the demise of what he calls ‘unity’ theories of justice, and their progressive displacement by ‘measurement’ theories, which, he argues, become paramount within Western modernity.\n\nAllan Hutchinson is a professor at York University's Osgoode Hall Law School and served as associate dean from 1994 to 1996. Hutchinson is a legal theorist and has devoted a lot of time to examining the failure of law. He also believes there is no central or primary foundational interpretive method for interpreting the law. The main point of his work is the judging of \"an engaged game of rhetorical justification\" which the judge must interpret, such as a statute, a line of precedents, or the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. He has a nonfoundationalist perspective which searches for the truth that forms reality. Hutchinson says that method and medium must change, so self-creation becomes the engine and energy of social change. You can grasp life by living and this task cannot be completed by outside language or through language. Hutchinson argues that politically charged and unstable context shapes our understanding of legal rules. Hutchinson's understanding of truth confirms that law is politics. A nonfoundationalist account of law is compatible with a diverse range of political results. A definitive account of Hutchinson's legacy was published in \"The Journal Jurisprudence\", Vol 7, in the summer of 2010.\n\nIan Ward is a professor of law and degree programme director at Newcastle University Law School. He is also on the editorial board for \"Studies in Law and Literature.\" Ward received a BA from University of Keele in 1986, a Ph. D from University of Cambridge in 1989, an LLM from the University of Toronto in 1990 and a MSc from University of Leicester in 2010. Ward believes that students in both fields, law and literature, can benefit from studying rhetoric alongside law. His research lies in legal theory and public law among others. Ward has published numerous works dealing with law and literature and legal theory.\n\nIn his publication \"Law and Literature: Possibilities and Perspectives\", Ward discusses the future goals of the law and literature movement while exploring elements of law in famous pieces of literature. In chapter 1 of this publication, Ward describes law \"in\" literature as the process of examining \"the possible relevance of literary text, particularly those which present themselves as telling a legal story, as texts appropriate for study by legal scholars.\" He then sees law \"as\" literature as the process of seeking \"to apply the techniques of literary criticism to legal texts.\" He believes that the relationship between the two are complimentary. He states discussing the debate about the importance of the Law and Literature Movement shows \"its enduring strength.\"\n\nAnother advocate for the integration of legal studies with the serious examination of literary texts, Robin West has frequently turned to Kafka's \"The Trial\" to discuss the rule of law. As a critic of Richard Posner's more economic take on the law, she does not dismiss the implications made by authors in legal fictional texts. For example, when discussing Kafka, West asserts that:\nComments such as these show West's ideological stand on the power of literature as well as her personal philosophy of law. West's arguments tend to focus on the human condition as read in books as well as the individual submission to authority, and what she believes to be an apparent contradiction. She calls for scholars to interpret, create and critique narrative texts in order to broaden their understanding of the human condition, and the law's effect on it and the community as a whole. West believes in a so-called 'political, communal and ethical re-constitution', a mode of thinking that one might engage in when reading and critiquing texts, both fictional and legal. Because of this duality, West asserts, law and literature become more related and thus more valid in discussion when debating the implications of one or the other.\n\nThese views have caused her to be seen as in the same camp as James Boyd White, although some argue that she goes even further, by becoming more of a political writer than a legal and literary critic. In her book, \"Narrative, Authority and the Law\", West notably diverges from thinkers like Richard Weisberg and James Boyd White by stating that there should be less focus on the debate within the texts and instead a 'truly radical critique of power'. She expands by stating, \"By focusing on the distinctively imperative core of adjudication, instead of its interpretive gloss, we free up meaningful criticism of law.\"\n\nSuch assertions lead some to believe her goals are more political than scholarly in nature. West may be seen not only as a scholar of law and literature, but also as a member of the critical legal studies movement (CLS).\n\nMelanie Williams read Law at the University of Cambridge, graduating with a BA Hons in Law in 1988 (MA 1991). She has a PGCE and an MA in English Literature from the University of Sussex and is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy. She is Professor of Law at the School of Law, University of Exeter. Formerly, she was Professor and Reader of Law at Swansea University and prior to that Lecturer in Law at the University of Aberystwyth until 2003. Professor Williams’ research interests include Interdisciplinary Studies in Philosophy, Law and Literature, Law and Culture; approaches to Law and Ethics, Feminist and Socio-legal studies. She is an editorial board member with Law and Humanities (Hart); International Journal of Law in Context (CUP); Law, Culture and Humanities (Sage); Jurisprudence (Hart);‘Law and Literature’ series, DeGruyter, Berlin and New York.\n\nA review of Professor Williams book Empty Justice in the Entertainment and Sports Law Journal [2006] reads:\n‘Melanie Williams’s book is in part what its sub-title declares: a series of case studies dating from the end of the nineteenth century to the end of the twentieth, linking literary and philosophical texts to legal issues. It is also in part what its title declares: a peroration on the jurisprudential idea of ‘empty justice’, using literary texts as accessible ways into difficult concepts. What neither title nor sub-title declares is that this is first and foremost a work of feminist theory. Williams's goal has been to show (with doubters particularly in mind) ‘how pervasive feminist issues are for all persons and all belief systems’ (p. xxv).Williams wears her learning lightly, and the wealth of inter-woven illustrative examples, contextual details and outlines of theoretical debates really achieves its object of making feminist issues central, inevitable even. And she writes beautifully’.\n\nCarmelo Delgado Cintrón is a law professor at University of Puerto Rico where he teaches Law and Literature. Carmelo Delgado is an Academic founder of the Puerto Rican Academy o Jurisprudence and Legislation, the Academician of the Puerto Rican Academy of History and Academician of the Royal Spanish Academy. He has an extensive list of publications on law and literature and his main thesis is about how literary training should be required of all jurists.\n\nRichard Posner has played an important role in the law and economics movement. As the author of \"Law and Literature: A misunderstood Relationship\" (now in its third edition, titled simply \"Law and Literature\"), Posner is highly critical of the law and literature movement and the book helps to voice his more hard-lined interpretation of the law. The book can be seen as a reaction against the writings of Robin West, who has written substantially against Posner's economic take on legal interpretation. A powerful critic of the writings of White, Weisberg, and West, Posner sees literature as having no weight in the legal realm although he does hold the authors in high esteem. He writes, \"Although the writers we value have often put law into their writings, it does not follow that those writings are about law in any interesting way that a lawyer might be able to elucidate.\"\n\nPosner does not believe in the use of literary discourse in jurisprudential debate, and in colloquy has described West's analysis of literature in legal debate as \"particularly eccentric.\" Posner writes that \"law is subject matter rather than technique\", and that legal method is the method of choice in legal realms, not a literary one. To expand further, Posner believes literary works have no place in judicial debate because one can never truly contemplate the original meaning of the author, and that novels should only be considered in their contexts. He characterizes the discovery of laws in fiction as \"ancillary\" and asserts the main subject matter of a novel is always the human condition, and not the legal setting. From this perspective, the legal background created by Kafka and Albert Camus are simply that, background, and have no further meaning beyond the environment which they create.\n\nThis isn't to say that Posner doesn't think in literary terms-far from it. For instance he characterizes Albert Camus's \"The Stranger\", as the \"growth of self-awareness\" on the part of the hero, Meursault. Posner gives weight to such situations on personal levels and only on personal levels, yet dismisses any sort of legal implications of such situations as lacking in \"realism\". Such assertions and arguments have placed him in sharp contrast with Richard Weisberg, who has cited \"The Stranger\" numerous times, among other books. Posner sees literature's importance in legal studies only because they may help the lawyer grow as an individual and to develop character, but sees no value in them as social critiques of the era in which they were developed and written, as Law and Literature scholars might ascribe to them. Certainly he sees no value in them as sources of legal philosophy and reform.\n\nHighly critical of the notable Law and Literature scholars, Posner believes that such legal minds have taken literature \"too seriously\" and assigned them an unsubstantiated amount of weight in the expansion of legal knowledge and jurisprudential debate.\n\nRichard Delgado and Jean Stefancic were against White and his theory of certain famous legal cases in U.S. history and agree with Posner on several issues. Their theory is that the actual impact of contemporary literature on the substance of judicial opinion-making is limited because judges distinguish legal texts. According to Delgado and Stefancic, judges' moral positions are determined by normative social and political forces rather than by literature. They are firm believers of the critical race theory which is a school of sociological thought that emphasizes the socially constructed nature of race.\n\nliterature, Nijmegen, Wolf Legal Publishers, 2008, pp. 60–74.\nEdiçõesAlmedina, 2010.\nA. FranckeVerlag, 2007, p. 115-132.\npp. 257–278.\ndes Strafens / The Ethics of Punishment, Würzburg, Ergon, 2008, pp. 177–210.\nVictorian Age, Toronto, University of Toronto Press, 2009, pp. 199–232.\n/nachrichten/id/61658/.\n2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1160435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160435", "title": "Legal Electronic Data Exchange Standard", "text": "Legal Electronic Data Exchange Standard\n\nThe Legal Electronic Data Exchange Standard is a set of file format specifications intended to facilitate electronic data transmission in the legal industry. The phrase is abbreviated LEDES and is usually pronounced as \"leeds\". The LEDES specifications are maintained by the LEDES Oversight Committee (LOC), which was formed by the Law Firm and Law Department Services Group within PricewaterhouseCoopers. Members of the committee have included law firms, corporate legal departments, universities, and software vendors. The LOC was first informally created in 1995 to address e-billing issues and then incorporated as a California mutual-benefit nonprofit corporation in 2000.\n\nThe LOC currently maintains four sets of data elements and four data exchange format types. The four sets of data elements are: activity codes; expense codes; timekeeper classification codes; and Uniform Task-Based Management System codes. The four data exchange format types are: electronic billing (e-billing); budgeting; timekeeper attributes; and intellectual property matter management.\n\nThe electronic billing data exchange format types provide a standard data format for electronically transmitted invoices, typically from a law firm to a corporate client. The LEDES e-billing format currently has the following variations:\n\nThe other LEDES data exchange formats are as follows:\n\nIn April 2006, the UTBMS Update Initiative voted to merge into the LEDES Oversight Committee. The Uniform Task-Based Management System is a widely used system for coding legal work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12870646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12870646", "title": "Legal culture", "text": "Legal culture\n\nLegal cultures are described as being temporary outcomes of interactions and occur pursuant to a challenge and response paradigm. Analyses of core legal paradigms shape the characteristics of individual and distinctive legal cultures.\n“Comparative legal cultures are examined by a field of scholarship, which is situated at the line bordering comparative law and historical jurisprudence.” \n\nLegal cultures can be examined by reference to fundamentally different legal systems. However, such cultures can also be differentiated between systems with a shared history and basis which are now otherwise influenced by factors that encourage cultural change. Students learn about legal culture in order to better understand how the law works in society. This can be seen as the study of Law and Society. These studies are available at schools such as Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa.\n\nWestern legal culture is unified in the systematic reliance on legal constructs. Such constructs include corporations, contracts, estates, rights and powers. These concepts are not only nonexistent in primitive or traditional legal systems but they can also be predominately incapable of expression in those language systems which form the basis of such legal cultures.\n\nAs a general proposition, the concept of legal culture depends on language and symbols and any attempt to analyze non-western legal systems in terms of categories of modern western law can result in distortion attributable to differences in language. So while legal constructs are unique to classical Roman, modern civil and common law cultures, legal concepts or primitive and archaic law get their meaning from sensed experience based on facts as opposed to theory or abstract. Legal culture therefore in the former group is influenced by academics, learned members of the profession and historically, philosophers. The latter group’s culture is harnessed by beliefs, values and religion at a foundational level.\n\nTraditional law in Africa is based on natural justice and lacks abstract concepts. This is characteristic of cultures that have an absence of written language which is necessary to elaborate concepts into theory. The doctrines of traditional African law are based on social considerations whereby parties to disputes seek not declarations of right or wrong but rather they seek restitution of social relationships.\n\nThe trier of fact and law adjudicates between closely related people from communities as opposed to strangers in commerce. Judgments stress the importance of living together in generous, loving kindness, mutual helpfulness and reciprocity. Evidence suggests that ‘African law demonstrates that all men, because they live in society, have some theory of rules of justice which they believe arise from reason itself; [and Gluckman’s evidence] suggests that Africans may well have formulated, in embryonic form at least, a theory of natural justice coming from human kindness itself.’ \n\nThe Islamic legal system exemplifies law as part of a larger culture where the concepts of knowledge, right and human nature play a central role. A case study by Lawrence Rosen explains the anthropological, procedural and judicial discretion aspects of bringing a case to court in Sefrou, Morocco. The case study makes explicit those fundamentals in Islamic society that shape Islamic legal culture and differentiate this from western legal cultures.\n\nRigid procedural rules and strict court room decorum or etiquette which is entrenched in western legal cultures clears the way for a more natural process of dispute resolution. In Morocco, close attention is paid to social origins, connections and identity where these concepts influence a qadi’s (judge) judicial interrogation and discretion.\n\nWhile the systems of law found in the western world consist of conceptualisation and implementation that mimic the extrajudicial world only slightly, in the Islamic courts of Morocco, the culture of law being propounded reflects the overall culture of its people. This is attributable to the goals of law in Islamic society, which is not to hold state or religious power as supreme or to develop an exacting body of legal doctrine, but to restore relationships and then facilitate the resolution of disputes independently of rigid precedent.\n\nThe traditional focus between common law culture and civil law culture has been highlighted by court room procedure, whereby the former nurtures an adversarial environment and the latter an inquisitorial one. Indeed no system of court procedure can ever be purely adversarial or purely inquisitorial.\n\nIn fact France, which subscribes to a civil legal system, historically gave the judge a passive role and left the parties to engage in an accusatorial manner. Nonetheless the common law culture predominately consists of oral arguments where legal representors steer the case in search of justice and reinforcement of rights.\n\nThe use of a Jury in the common law as a judge of fact is unique when compared to civil law systems. The Jury are triers of fact in both civil and criminal cases and this reflects a particular culture of law; namely the direct involvement of society in the legal framework. In France a judge’s role as trier of law and fact is merely as an administrator without creating binding legal principle. Hence the civil law culture is more rational, orderly, authoritative and paternalistic.\n\nCommon law has a culture of judicial inventiveness and even flexibility. Enunciation of principle is not forever paramount but indeed a continuing flow of cases and statutes add to the ebb and flow of the law, whereby ‘case law represented the modern man’s realisation of his own limitations.’ Further differences include where a civilian lawyer speaks in terms of the law of nature while the common lawyer speaks to reason. It follows that the culture of these legal systems has been moulded by perceptions of justice and the means available to attain it.\n\nLegal culture can differ between countries despite their conformity to a similar if not identical legal system. Both the United States and England possess common law systems of law and yet each country embodies a distinctive legal culture. This has been attributable by contrasting both the institutions within the legal system and characteristics of the profession (judges, barristers and solicitors).\n\nAccording to Posner during 1996 there was about 15 times more American judges than English judges but only about 10 times more American lawyers than English lawyers. Posner suggests that English judges have more prestige than American judges and a related point is that the ratio of judges to lawyers is lower in England than the United States. The consequence of this is that the English common law system, as opposed to the American legal system, displays a legal culture of greater prestige and elitism not only in the judiciary but also those who are candidates for the judiciary.\n\nIn England, and other Commonwealth jurisdictions, barristers are apt candidates for judicial nomination. The reasons for this stem from the common law systems which have a culture to encourage, harness and capture high quality intellect and experience within a concentrated portion of non-judicial officers of the legal profession known as barristers (which includes and accounts for their subsequent appointments to higher ranking queens counsel and senior counsel).\n\nBarristers are engaged upon a solicitor's brief instead of direct engagement with the client. This insulation avoids lay persons being taken advantage of by unscrupulous lawyers which is evidently \"a big problem in the United States, where incompetent lawyers, and known to be such both by judges and by other lawyers, often wow naïve clients.\" \n\nThe cost of pursuing litigation influences the culture of each legal system in terms of what society perceives as the net benefit gained from the court and the profession. To litigate similar cases in England and the United States would cost approximately the same; however English courts are not as generous as their American counterparts in awarding damages, especially punitive damages. Therefore the net expected benefit of litigation being greater in the United States encourages a legal culture that is more litigious in nature than England.\n\nNational character is inherent in the legal institutions of the courts and parliament, their formation and their output in terms of legislation or judgments. For example it has been said that many factors have contributed to the litigiousness of the United States, including: the rights afforded to the people, a written constitution, immigrant origins of its population, racial and ethnic heterogeneity and the wealth and spoils of its population. To this end national character and history influence current legal culture.\n\nThe legal culture of China, as well as its social and economic culture, continues to undergo dramatic change since the People’s Republic of China's reforms of 1978. Transformation has occurred by legal modernisation whereby a rule of law has been suggested to replace the rule of man. The latter is a characteristic of the traditional rural Chinese society where unwritten rules, personal relationships and trust govern citizens' legal relationships; analogous to gemeinschaft. In the modern society of China, institutional, customary and legal reform (a rule of law that embodies universal rules uniformly enforced by a centralised and bureaucratic state) is necessary to govern legal relations; analogous to gesellschaft.\n\nDirect transplants of western legal systems or culture may not provide an adequate rule of law where the life of ordinary Chinese may be marginalised in favour of legal elite who use legal instruments for self-promotion. Furthermore, implanting western legal norms disregards the local culture and relations; thus potentially destroying significant cultural bonds and relationships in the rural community. The traditional rural Chinese legal culture which is premised on personal and informal relations faces erosion unless legal pluralism is promoted.\n\nA top down approach in analysing the legal culture of China suggests that both under Deng Xiaoping and Jiang Zemin, China is \"a country under rule by law, not rule of law.\" Evidence comes from post Mao-China, where law is seen as necessary for institutionalising and generalising ad hoc policies for economic reform and as maintaining party leadership.\n\nFurther problems with the Chinese legal culture include a piecemeal approach to law making with an imbalance between law and policy; denials of private law; neglect towards human rights and individual liberties; and poor enforcement of laws. According to Chen, the consensus in China among scholars is that the lack of democracy and rule of law are interdependent concepts whereby \"the rule of law is legitimate only if it is the product of democratic government.\" \n\nWhat is evident with the China experience is that legal culture is susceptible to change in pursuance to socio-economic and political forces. While such a change could be beneficial for portions of the society and international relations, traditional and established cultural methods face extinction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "299920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299920", "title": "Legal formalism", "text": "Legal formalism\n\nLegal formalism is both a descriptive theory and a normative theory of how judges should decide cases. In its descriptive sense, formalists believe that judges should reach their decisions by applying uncontroversial principles to the facts. Although the large number of decided cases implies a large number of principles, formalists believe that there is an underlying logic to these principles that is straightforward and which legal experts can readily discover. The ultimate goal of formalism would be to formalise the underlying principles in a single and determinate system that could be applied mechanically (hence the label 'mechanical jurisprudence'). Formalism has been called 'the official theory of judging'. It is the thesis to which legal realism is the antithesis.\n\nAs a normative theory, formalism is the view that judges should decide cases by the application of uncontroversial principles to the facts.\n\nFormalism remains one of the most influential and important theories of adjudication and has been called the thesis to which realism is the antithesis. Formalism sees adjudication as the uncontroversial application of accepted principles to known facts to derive the outcome in the manner of a deductive syllogism.\n\nFormalists believe that the relevant principles of law of a given area can be discerned by surveying the case law of that area. Christopher Columbus Langdell believed that the only resources needed to create a science of law was a law library.\n\nFormalism has been called an 'autonomous discipline', in reference to the formalist belief that judges require only the facts and the law, all normative issues such as morality or politics being irrelevant. If judges are seen to be simply applying the rules in a mechanical and uncontroversial manner, this protects judges from criticism. For this reason, formalism has been called 'the official theory of judging'.\n\nFormalists, contrary to Realists, take the judge at face-value, assuming that the facts and principles as recorded in a judge's reasons reflect the facts that the judge considered to be relevant, and the principles that the judge arrived at to reach the judgement. They therefore place little emphasis on the means by which a judge determines the facts.\n\nAs a normative theory, legal formalists argue that judges and other public officials should be constrained in their interpretation of legal texts, suggesting that investing the judiciary with the power to say what the law \"should\" be, rather than confining them to expositing what the law \"does\" say, violates the separation of powers. This argument finds its most eloquent expression in the Massachusetts Constitution of 1780, which provides that the judiciary \"shall never exercise the legislative and executive powers, or either of them; to the end [that Massachusetts' government] may be a government of laws, and not of men\". Formalism seeks to maintain that separation as a \"theory that law is a set of rules and principles independent of other political and social institutions\".\n\nLegal formalism can be contrasted to legal instrumentalism, a view associated with American legal realism. Instrumentalism is the view that creativity in the interpretation of legal texts is justified in order to assure that the law serves good public policy and social interests, although legal instrumentalists could also see the end of law as the promotion of justice or the protection of human rights. Legal formalists counter that giving judges authority to change the law to serve their own ideas regarding policy undermines the rule of law. This tension is especially interesting in common law, which depend on judicial precedent. The \"claim to fame\" of common law systems is that the task of developing and updating law is best done incrementally by courts that keep in close touch with social, economic, and technological realities than by political organs that, every so often, will attend to legal reforms. Thus legal realism or \"relationalism\" has been favored in some common law jurisdictions, where the kind of legal codification associated with civil law are virtually unknown.\n\nThe late United States Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia was noted for his formalist views about a variety of topics, particularly his view that the United States Constitution should be interpreted in accord with its original meaning and his view that statutes should be read in accord with their plain meaning.\n\nIn \"A Matter of Interpretation\", Scalia defended textualism — and, by extension, formalism — saying:\n\nScalia's strongest claim on Formalist credentials can be found in an essay entitled \"The Rule of Law as a Law of Rules\".\n\nFrederick Schauer, a professor at the University of Virginia School of Law, in 1988 published a law review article titled \"Formalism\" in \"The Yale Law Journal\". In it he urges scholars to rethink the \"contemporary aversion to formalism\" and states that his goal is to \"rescue formalism from conceptual banishment\". He argues formalism should be conceptually rethought, not in terms of merely whether it is a good or bad thing, but rather in terms of how language both can and should be used to restrict the power of decision-makers in the decision-making process.\n\nIn his essay \"Formal and informal in legal logic\", Jan Woleński contends that there are \"rhetorical functions of metalogical concepts that are used in legal discourse\", and hence the introduction of the informal into otherwise imperative logic. He reviews Jørgensen’s paradox to introduce deontic logic, and acknowledges this innovation by Georg Henrik von Wright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53504025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53504025", "title": "Legal syllogism", "text": "Legal syllogism\n\nLegal syllogism is a legal concept concerning the law and its application. It is based upon deductive reasoning applied for the sake of law, hence it is also called legal deduction or deductive legal reasoning.\n\nIn legal syllogism there are two premises, minor and major, and one conclusion.\n\nThe place of the major premise is taken by a legal norm (or rule). This norm (rule) may be derived from canonical text (text of statutes, constitutions, regulations, international treaties and agreements, ordinances, bylaws etc) or from a judicial precedent. In the latter case, it can be called \"ratio decidendi\" or ruling. In the main, it can be considered as a general expression which, in generic terms, states what one ought to do or ought not to do in a certain type of circumstances. \n\nThe facts of the case at hand (also called pending, instant, \"sub judice\", at bar or under argument) serve as the minor premise. These facts may be understood as all elements of the factual setting of the case at hand, i.e. the details of the events, things and persons which occurred in a case to which the rule/norm that constitutes the major premise is to be applied deductively.\n\nThe conclusion is formed by the legal consequence for the case at hand.\n\nIf the norm that forms the major premise is valid (binding in a given legal system) and the facts of the case at hand are proven or posited as true, the conclusion of legal syllogism which flows from subsuming these facts under this norm (rule) is supposed to be correct as well.\n\nIn that sense, legal syllogism can be deemed to be equally infallible as 'ordinary' ('logical') syllogism. Such a claim is, however, ill-founded and, in fact, subsumption of a concrete case under a general rule proves to be a value-laden and goal-oriented process. Neither is it 'logical', nor 'mechanical'. \n\n"}
{"id": "1390880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1390880", "title": "List of United States presidential vetoes", "text": "List of United States presidential vetoes\n\nThe phrase \"presidential veto\" does not appear in the United States Constitution, but Article I requires every bill, order, resolution or other act of legislation approved by the Congress of the United States to be presented to the President of the United States for their approval. After that is done, there are several scenarios in which a bill may or may not be enacted into law.\n\n\nThe list below contains many of the bills vetoed and pocket vetoed by Presidents.\nAlthough each case is unique and involves a plethora of influences, one general rule can be acknowledged: Presidents use their prerogative to veto legislation when such legislation does not represent their viewpoint or agenda.\n\nOccasionally, a President either publicly or privately threatens Congress with a veto to influence the content or passage of legislation. There is no record of what constitutes a \"veto threat\", or how many have been made over the years, but it has become a staple of Presidential politics and a sometimes effective way of shaping policy. A President may also warn Congress of a veto of a particular bill so as to persuade Congress not to waste time passing particular legislation or including certain provisions in a bill when the President is prepared to veto it.\n\n\"Source:\" \n\nThe following is an incomplete list of the dates and bills of each veto for each president:\n\nTwo vetoes:\n\nNo vetoes. The second President of the United States was the first not to exercise the veto.\n\nNo vetoes. Jefferson is the only two-term president never to have used the veto.\n\nFive regular vetoes, two pocket vetoes:\n\nOne veto:\n\nNo vetoes. Adams was the third and most recent president to never use the veto power while serving at least one complete term in office.\n\nTwelve vetoes:\n\nOne pocket veto:\n\nNo vetoes. Harrison died after four weeks in office. Congress was never in session during his tenure, and never presented any legislation for his approval.\n\nTen total vetoes, including four pocket vetoes:\n\nTwo regular vetoes, plus one pocket veto.\n\n\nNo vetoes.\n\nNo vetoes.\n\nNine vetoes:\n\nFour regular vetoes, plus three pocket vetoes.\n\nTwo regular vetoes, plus five pocket vetoes.\n\nAndrew Johnson was the most thwarted president as measured by the number of overrides: out of 21 regular vetoes, 15 were overridden; he also used 8 pocket vetoes. By fraction overridden, however, he comes in second: Pierce had a rate of 56%, compared to Johnson's 52%.\n\nNinety-three vetoes total, with forty-five regular vetoes and forty-eight pocket vetoes. Four were overridden.\n\nThirteen vetoes. Twelve regular. One pocket veto. One veto overridden \n\nNo vetoes. Garfield was the most recent President to have made no use of the veto power. He was only President, however, for six and a half months.\n\nPresident Arthur vetoed twelve bills, of which four were regular vetoes and eight were pocket vetoes. One was overridden.\n\n\n584 total vetoes, including 238 pocket vetoes (414 first term, 170 second term).\n\nGrover Cleveland vetoed more bills in his two terms than all other presidents to that date combined. Only Franklin D. Roosevelt, who had more than three complete terms in office to Cleveland's two, vetoed more. Strongly opposed to what he perceived as \"pork barrel\" spending, and favoring limited government, he vetoed more than 200 private bills granting pensions to individual Civil War veterans. Reacting to these vetoes, Congress passed a bill that would have granted a pension to any disabled veteran. He vetoed this bill as well. This is widely perceived to have been a factor in the defeat of his 1888 bid for re-election.\n\nIn addition to these, he also vetoed a bill that would have distributed seed grain to drought-stricken farmers in the American west, and bills increasing the monetary supply. He also refused to sign, but did not veto, the Wilson–Gorman Tariff Act.\n\nThirty-three regular vetoes, eleven pocket vetoes. Six were overridden.\n\nWilson wrote: \"The President is no greater than his prerogative of veto makes him; he is, in other words, powerful rather as a branch of the legislature than as the titular head of the Executive.\"\n\nHarding vetoed the Soldiers' Adjusted Compensation Act (soldiers' bonus) on 19 September 1922, arguing the country could not afford the cost during the postwar recession. Congress failed, by four votes, to override his veto.\n\nCoolidge vetoed the McNary–Haugen Farm Relief Bill because he thought its cost was too high.\n\n635 vetoes.\n\nFranklin Roosevelt vetoed more bills than any other president in history. This is partly because of the many new ideas for solutions to the problems caused by the Great Depression and World War II, and partly because he served three terms (he was elected to four). Grover Cleveland vetoed more bills per term.\n\n180 regular vetoes, 70 pocket vetoes.\nCongress overrode 12 of Truman's vetoes. One of the most notable was the Taft-Hartley Act, which weakened labor unions. Another was the McCarran Internal Security Act, which established the Subversive Activities Control Board to investigate suspected communist and/or fascist sympathizers.\n\nSixteen regular vetoes, fourteen pocket vetoes. None were overridden.\n\nLike President Kennedy before him, President Johnson made no public veto threats. His is the most recent example of an override-free administration.\n\n\nTwenty-six regular vetoes, seventeen pocket vetoes. Seven were overridden. There were no vetoes in the first session of the Ninety-first Congress.\n\n\nForty eight regular vetoes, eighteen pocket vetoes. Twelve were overridden. \n\nThis bill would have provided for payment, \"as a gratuity,\" of $45,482 to Mr. Burt and for similar payments of $36,750 each to the widow and son of Douglas E. Kennedy for injuries and other damages Mr. Burt and Mr. Kennedy sustained as a result of gunshot wounds inflicted by U.S. military personnel in the Dominican Republic in 1965. \nI considered carefully the merits of this case, but could not approve it. Equitable considerations growing out of governmental actions have traditionally been the basis for private relief awards where no legal remedy is available. But the record clearly establishes that no such considerations are present in this case. \nI urge that in the future Congress adhere to the traditional equity basis for awards, whether or not they have been recommended by the Court of Claims under Congressional reference procedures.\n\n\nCongress overrode two of Carter's vetoes. Not since 1952 had a Congress controlled by the president's own party overridden a veto. On 5 June 1980, Carter vetoed a bill that repealed a crude oil import fee of $4.62 per barrel. The same day, the House voted 335–34 to override Carter's veto. The Senate followed suit the next day by 68 votes to 10. Carter's own party (the Democrats) had a 59-seat majority (276–157) in the House, and an eight-seat majority (58–41) in the Senate. In August 1980, Congress overrode his veto of a veterans' health care bill, by votes of 401–5 in the House, and 85–0 in the Senate.\n\n\n\n\nTwelve vetoes, including one veto whose status is disputed (Bush claimed it was a pocket veto; the Senate considers it to have been a regular veto):\n\n\nTwelve vetoes, the status of five of which is disputed (Obama considered them pocket vetoes, but since he returned the parchments to Congress, the Senate considers them regular vetoes):\n\nTrump has yet to veto any legislation presented to him by Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18056704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18056704", "title": "List of supreme courts by country", "text": "List of supreme courts by country\n\nThis is a list— by country — of the highest court (supreme court) in each country. Some countries have more than one \"supreme\" court.\n\nAn asterisk (*) indicates that the court is not independent of either the legislature and/or executive of that country.\n\nThere are a number of international courts that are the highest courts of appeal for members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), European Union (EU), and some of the countries of the Commonwealth of Nations respectively. However, the members of those organisations do sometimes have high courts of their own and their jurisdiction may be limited: for example the EU's court of justice can only interpret EU law and treaties, domestic cases cannot be appealed.\n"}
{"id": "16812348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16812348", "title": "National Institute for Trial Advocacy", "text": "National Institute for Trial Advocacy\n\nThe National Institute for Trial Advocacy (referred to as \"NITA\") is a not for profit organization that was initially formed in 1969 in an effort to provide lawyers with better trial skills training, and was spurred on by criticisms within the judicial system of the apparent lack of trial preparation occurring within law schools. This initial group of law professors and lawyers worked with the intention of addressing this problem and came to the conclusion that learning-by-doing trial training was the best approach. This group spent two more years improving their trial material and in 1972 NITA's inaugural National Session was held at the University of Colorado in Boulder. This program brings together participants from all across the country who are taught through a learning by doing approach how to better represent their clients in the courtroom. The national session has been held every year since 1972 and NITA has since expanded its scope, holding public service trial training sessions in a variety of specialties across the country as well as other skills courses including deposition and courtroom technology skills.\n\n"}
{"id": "61358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61358", "title": "Oral law", "text": "Oral law\n\nAn oral law is a code of conduct in use in a given culture, religion or community application, by which a body of rules of human behaviour is transmitted by oral tradition and effectively respected, or the single rule that is orally transmitted.\n\nMany cultures have an oral law, while most contemporary legal systems have a formal written organisation. The oral tradition (from the Latin \"tradere\" = to transmit) is the typical instrument of transmission of the oral codes or, in a more general sense, is the complex of what a culture transmits of itself among the generations, \"from father to son\". This kind of transmission can be due to lack of other means, such as in illiterate or criminal societies, or can be expressly required by the same law.\n\nThere has been a continuous debate over oral versus written transmission, with the focus on the perceived higher reliability of written evidence, primarily based on the \"linear world of academia\" where only written down records are accepted. However, \"standard\" theories of orality and literacy have been proposed.\n\nFrom a legal point of view, an oral law can be:\nAn oral law, intended as a body of rules, can be admitted in jurisprudence as long as it shows some efficacy, therefore it needs that the law is public, the human action is evaluated by a judge (ordinarily producing a sentence according to the general interpretation of the law) and then a punishment has eventually to be put into effect. Some oral laws provide all these elements (for instance, some codes of conduct in use among criminal associations like the Mafia do have a well known law, a judge, a condemnation), while others usually miss some of them.\n\nAlthough the Hebrew term \"Torah\" is often translated as \"Law\", it can just as accurately be translated as \"Instruction\" or \"teaching\". Rabbinic Judaism maintains that the books of the Tanakh were transmitted in parallel with an oral tradition, as relayed by God to Moses and from him handed on to the scholarly and other religious leaders of each generation. Thus, in Judaism, the \"Written Instruction\" (\"Torah she-bi-khtav\" תורה שבכתב) comprises the Torah and the rest of the Tanakh; the \"Oral Instruction\" (\"Torah she-be'al peh\" תורה שבעל פה) was ultimately recorded in the Talmud (lit. \"Learning\") and Midrashim (lit. \"Interpretations\"). The interpretation of the Oral Torah is thus considered as the authoritative reading of the Written Torah. Further, Halakha (lit. \"The Path\", frequently translated as \"Jewish Law\") is based on a \"Written Instruction\" together with an \"Oral Instruction\". Jewish law and tradition is thus not based on a literal reading of the Tanakh, but on the combined oral and written tradition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29678048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29678048", "title": "Philosophy of human rights", "text": "Philosophy of human rights\n\nThe philosophy of human rights attempts to examine the underlying basis of the concept of human rights and critically looks at its content and justification. Several theoretical approaches have been advanced to explain how and why the concept of human rights developed.\n\nOne of the oldest Western philosophies on human rights is that they are a product of a natural law, stemming from different philosophical or religious grounds. Other theories hold that human rights codify moral behavior which is a human social product developed by a process of biological and social evolution (associated with Hume). Human rights are also described as a sociological pattern of rule setting (as in the sociological theory of law and the work of Weber). These approaches include the notion that individuals in a society accept rules from legitimate authority in exchange for security and economic advantage (as in Rawls) – a social contract. The two theories that dominate contemporary human rights discussion are the interest theory and the will theory. Interest theory argues that the principal function of human rights is to protect and promote certain essential human interests, while will theory attempts to establish the validity of human rights based on the unique human capacity for freedom.\n\nNatural law theories base human rights on a \"natural\" moral, religious or even biological order that is independent of transitory human laws or traditions.\n\nSocrates and his philosophic heirs, Plato and Aristotle, posited the existence of natural justice or natural right (δίκαιον φυσικόν \"dikaion physikon\"; Latin \"ius naturale\"). Of these, Aristotle is often said to be the father of natural law, although evidence for this is due largely to the interpretations of his work by Thomas Aquinas.\n\nThe development of this tradition of natural justice into one of natural law is usually attributed to the Stoics.\n\nSome of the early Church Fathers sought to incorporate the until then pagan concept of natural law into Christianity. Natural law theories have featured greatly in the philosophies of Thomas Aquinas, Francisco Suárez, Richard Hooker, Thomas Hobbes, Hugo Grotius, Samuel von Pufendorf, and John Locke.\n\nIn the 16th century, asked by the Spanish monarchs to investigate the legitimacy of claims to land dominion by the \"indios\" of Latin America, Francisco de Vitoria expounded a theory of natural rights, especially in his famous \"Relectio de Indis\".\n\nIn the 17th century Thomas Hobbes founded a contractualist theory of legal positivism beginning from the principle that man in the state of nature, which is to say without a \"commonwealth\" (a state) is in a state of constant war one with the other and thus in fear of his life and possessions (there being no property nor right without a sovereign to define it). Hobbes asserted natural law as how a rational human, seeking to survive and prosper, would act; the first principle of natural law being to seek peace, in which is self-preservation. Natural law (which Hobbes accepted was a misnomer, there being no law without a commonwealth) was discovered by considering humankind's natural interests, whereas previous philosophers had said that natural rights were discovered by considering the natural law. In Hobbes' opinion, the only way natural law could prevail was for human beings to agree to create a commonwealth by submitting to the command of a sovereign, whether an individual or an assembly of individuals. In this lay the foundations of the theory of a social contract between the governed and the governor.\n\nHugo Grotius based his philosophy of international law on natural law. He wrote that \"even the will of an omnipotent being cannot change or abrogate\" natural law, which \"would maintain its objective validity even if we should assume the impossible, that there is no God or that he does not care for human affairs.\" (\"De iure belli ac pacis\", Prolegomeni XI). This is the famous argument \"etiamsi daremus\" (\"non esse Deum\"), that made natural law no longer dependent on theology.\n\nJohn Locke incorporated natural law into many of his theories and philosophy, especially in \"Two Treatises of Government\". Locke turned Hobbes' prescription around, saying that if the ruler went against natural law and failed to protect \"life, liberty, and property,\" people could justifiably overthrow the existing state and create a new one.\n\nThe Belgian philosopher of law Frank Van Dun is one among those who are elaborating a secular conception of natural law in the liberal tradition. There are also emerging and secular forms of natural law theory that define human rights as derivative of the notion of universal human dignity.\n\n\"Dignity\" is a key term for the discussion of human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights does not justify its claims on any philosophical basis, but rather it simply appeals to human dignity.\n\nKarl Rahner discusses human dignity as it relates to freedom. Specifically, his ideas of freedom relate to human rights as an appeal to the freedom to communicate with the divine. As embodied individuals who can have this freedom and dignity threatened by external forces, the protection of this dignity takes on an appeal to protect human rights.\n\nThe term \"human rights\" has replaced the term \"natural rights\" in popularity, because the rights are less and less frequently seen as requiring natural law for their existence. For some, the debate on human rights remains thus a debate around the correct interpretation of Natural Law, and human rights themselves a positive, but reductionist, expression thereof\n\nThe English philosopher Thomas Hobbes suggested the existence of a hypothetical \"social contract\" where a group of free individuals agree for the sake of preservation to form institutions to govern them. They give up their natural complete liberty in exchange for protection from the Sovereign. This led to John Locke's theory that a failure of the government to secure rights is a failure which justifies the removal of the government, and was mirrored in later postulation by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his \"Du Contrat Social\" (The Social Contract).\n\nInternational equity expert Paul Finn has echoed this view:\n\nThe relationship between government and the governed in countries which follow the English law tradition is a fiduciary one. In equity law, a politician's fiduciary obligations are not only the duties of good faith and loyalty, but also include duties of skill and competence in managing a country and its people. Originating from within the Courts of Equity, the fiduciary concept exists to prevent those holding positions of power from abusing their authority. The fiduciary relationship between government and the governed arises from the governments ability to control people with the exercise of its power. In effect, if a government has the power to abolish any rights, it is equally burdened with the fiduciary duty to protect such an interest because it would benefit from the exercise of its own discretion to extinguish rights which it alone had the power to dispose of.\n\nThe Golden Rule, or the \"ethic of reciprocity\" states that one must do unto others as one would be treated themselves; the principle being that reciprocal recognition and respect of rights ensures that one's own rights will be protected. This principle can be found in all the world's major religions in only slightly differing forms, and was enshrined in the \"Declaration Toward a Global Ethic\" by the Parliament of the World's Religions in 1993.\n\nSoviet concept of human rights was different from conceptions prevalent in the West. According to Western legal theory, \"it is the individual who is the beneficiary of human rights which are to be asserted \"against\" the government\", whereas Soviet law declared that state is the source of human rights. Therefore, Soviet legal system regarded law as an arm of politics and courts as agencies of the government. Extensive extra-judiciary powers were given to the Soviet secret police agencies. The regime abolished Western rule of law, civil liberties, protection of law and guarantees of property. According to Vladimir Lenin, the purpose of socialist courts was \"not to eliminate terror ... but to substantiate it and legitimize in principle\".\n\nCrime was determined not as the infraction of law, but as any action which could threaten the Soviet state and society. For example, a desire to make a profit could be interpreted as a counter-revolutionary activity punishable by death. The liquidation and deportation of millions peasants in 1928–31 was carried out within the terms of Soviet Civil Code. Some Soviet legal scholars even asserted that \"criminal repression\" may be applied in the absence of guilt.\". Martin Latsis, chief of the Ukrainian Cheka explained: \"Do not look in the file of incriminating evidence to see whether or not the accused rose up against the Soviets with arms or words. Ask him instead to which class he belongs, what is his background, his education, his profession. These are the questions that will determine the fate of the accused. That is the meaning and essence of the Red Terror.\"\n\nThe purpose of public trials was \"not to demonstrate the existence or absence of a crime – that was predetermined by the appropriate party authorities – but to provide yet another forum for political agitation and propaganda for the instruction of the citizenry (see Moscow Trials for example). Defense lawyers, who had to be party members, were required to take their client's guilt for granted...\"\n\nThe philosopher John Finnis argues that human rights are justifiable on the grounds of their instrumental value in creating the necessary conditions for human well-being. Interest theories highlight the duty to respect the rights of other individuals on grounds of self-interest:\n\nThe biological theory considers the comparative reproductive advantage of human social behavior based on empathy and altruism in the context of natural selection.\nHuman security is an emerging school of thought which challenges the traditional, state-based conception of security and argues that a people-focused approach to security is more appropriate in the modern interdependent world and would be more effective in advancing the security of individuals and societies across the globe.\n\n\nAccording to the recommendation of human rights scholar Barrister Dr Mohammed Yeasin Khan LLB Honours, LLM, PhD, PGDL, Barrister-at-Law (Lincoln’s Inn), UK: ‘Right’ being synonymous of ‘legal’ and antonymous of both ‘wrong’ and ‘illegal’, every ‘right’ of any human person is ipso facto a ‘legal right’ which deserves protection of law and legal remedy irrespective of having been written into the law, constitution or otherwise in any country.\n\n\nAccording to Barrister Dr Mohammed Yeasin Khan: The only way ‘(a) to make the world terrorism and war free and also free from hunger, poverty, discrimination and exploitation; (b) to establish rule of law and economic, political and social justice; and (c) to confirm freedom of man, peace and development worldwide’ is protection and promotion human rights as ‘Ipso Facto Legal Rights’ and the unity of the world community in one and single theory of ‘man for man’ correlative, interdependent and ‘one to one-cum-one for other’ approach, namely, the ‘Man for Man Theory’ approach of world peace.\n\nThe idea of human rights is not without its critics. Jeremy Bentham, Edmund Burke, Friedrich Nietzsche and Karl Marx are examples of historical philosophers who criticised the notion of natural rights. Alasdair MacIntyre is a leading contemporary critic of human rights. His criticisms are discussed below.\n\nEdmund Burke was an 18th-century philosopher, political theorist and statesman largely associated with the school of conservatism. His views on natural rights are best articulated in \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\", which directly attacked the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen\" (1789) and its authors.\n\nA great deal of Burke’s uneasiness of the \"Declaration\" lies in the drafter’s abandonment of the existing establishment. For Burke, constitutional legitimacy was derived not from the Rousseauian doctrine of general will, but from a form of inherited wisdom. He thought that it was arrogant and limiting for the drafters of the \"Declaration\" to cast aside traditional notions that had stood the test of time. Although it may seem to the drafters that they had abandoned the shackles of tradition, for Burke, they had limited their findings to the narrow minded conception of one person or group. This is the grounding from which Burke’s attack of the \"Declaration\" is based.\n\nBurke did not deny the existence of natural rights; rather he thought that the a priori reasoning adopted by the drafters produced notions that were too abstract to have application within the framework of society. In stating that “the pretended right of these theorists are all extremes; and in a proportion as they are metaphysically true, they are morally and politically false”, Burke identified that abstract rights are meaningless without a societal framework:\n\nIn contrast to Locke, Burke did not believe the purpose of government was to protect pre-existing natural rights; he believed “the primitive rights of man undergo such a variety of refractions and reflections, that it becomes absurd to talk of them as if they continued in the simplicity of their original direction.” For Burke it was the government, as a result of long social evolution, that transformed the meaningless natural rights into the practical advantaged afforded to citizens.\n\nIt was not the rights themselves, as much as the level of abstraction and the placing of them above government which Burke found dangerous. He stated “those who pull down important ancient establishments, who wantonly destroy modes of administration, and public institutions… are the most mischievous, and therefore the wickedest of men”. For Burke politics had no simple answers, and definitely no overarching, universal maxims such as those expressed in the \"Declaration\". Rather the rights afforded to individuals were to be assessed in the context of the social framework. However, he acknowledged that the simplicity of the \"Declaration\" was attractive and feared its ability to undermine social order. Burke believed that the absolute nature of these principles of abstraction were inherently revolutionary; they were uncompromising and any derogation from the principles a reason to rise up in arms. This was a problem because;\n\nThe natural rights “Against which there can be no prescription; against these no agreements is binding” gave the revolutionaries the tools to destroy the very society that Burke believed afforded them with rights. In this way Burke thought the rights contained in the \"Declaration\" would lead to “the antagonist world of madness, discord, vice, confusion, and unavailing sorrow.”\n\nThe 18th-century Utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham criticised the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen\" in his text \"Anarchical Fallacies\". He famously asserted that the concept of natural rights was “nonsense upon stilts”. Bentham criticised the \"Declaration\" both for the language that it adopted and the theories it posited, stating; “Look to the letter, you find nonsense; look beyond the letter, you find nothing.”\n\nOne of the critiques Bentham levelled against the \"Declaration\" was its assertions of rights in the form of absolute and universal norms. He identified that absolute rights possessed by everyone equally are meaningless and undesirable. They lack meaning because if everyone has, for example, unbounded liberty, there is nothing precluding them from using that liberty to impinge on the liberty of another. In this way “human government and human laws” are required to give some bounds to rights in order for them to be realised. Even if advocates of absolute rights recognise this necessity, as the proponents of the \"Declaration\" did, Bentham argues that it is in vain. “It would be self-contradictory, because these rights are, in the same breath which their existence is declared, declared to be impresciptable; and impriscriptable… means nothing unless it excludes the interference of the laws.”\n\nIn addition to this contradiction, Bentham warned of the dangers of couching rights in absolute terms. A government that is able to protect every person’s right absolutely and equally is a utopian aspiration, but the \"Declaration\" couches it as the conditions for its legitimacy. “Against every government which fails in any degree of fulfilling these expectations, then, it is the professed object of this manifesto to excite insurrection.” Bentham does not deny that there are some laws that are morally wrong; his uneasiness is in easily justifying a revolutionary call to arms – with the violence, chaos and destruction associated with it – based on a repugnant law.\n\nOf the theoretical faults, Bentham thought that natural rights were a construction adopted to pursue the selfish aims of the drafters, of which no logical basis could be found. He acknowledged that it may be desirable to have rights, but “a reason for wishing that a certain right were established, is not that right; want is not supply; hunger is not bread.” To establish rights existed by virtue of laws enacted by a sovereign was logically sound, but to assert rights established by nature was not. “A natural right is a son that never had a father.”\n\nNot only did Bentham think that there was no logical basis for the theory of natural rights, but he believed that their individualistic approach was harmful to society.\n\nBentham thought that society was dependent upon people's ability to pursue the greater good, not just the short-term satisfaction of their own desires. The advancement of natural rights, which he saw as celebrating selfishness, was to provide the means to break down the social community that makes human life bearable.\n\nIn On the Jewish Question, Karl Marx criticized \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" as bourgeois ideology:\nand that:\n\nThus for Marx, liberal rights and ideas of justice are premised on the idea that each of us needs protection from other human beings. Therefore, liberal rights are rights of separation, designed to protect us from such perceived threats. Freedom on such a view, is freedom from interference. What this view denies is the possibility — according to Marx, the fact — that real freedom is to be found positively in our relations with other people. It is to be found in human community, not in isolation. So insisting on a regime of rights encourages us to view each other in ways which undermine the possibility of the real freedom we may find in human emancipation.\n\nMarxist critical theorist Slavoj Žižek argued that: \"liberal attitudes towards the other are characterized both by respect for otherness, openness to it, and an obsessive fear of harassment. In short, the other is welcomed insofar as its presence is not intrusive, insofar as it is not really the other. Tolerance thus coincides with its opposite. My duty to be tolerant towards the other effectively means that I should not get too close to him or her, not intrude into his space—in short, that I should respect his intolerance towards my over-proximity. This is increasingly emerging as the central human right of advanced capitalist society: the right not to be 'harassed', that is, to be kept at a safe distance from others.\" and \"universal human rights are effectively the right of white, male property-owners to exchange freely on the market, exploit workers and women, and exert political domination.\"\n\nBritish sociologist Robert Fine claims that the key to Marx’s argument was to rebut the radicalism Bauer espoused: a radicalism that not only denied the rights of Jews but at once trashed the rights of man and citizen as such. What Marx stood for in the Jewish Question as in his earlier writings more generally was a philosophy of right. Fine believes what Marx stood against was a spiritless radicalism that revealed its inhumanity not only through its hostility to Jews but also through its hostility to the idea of right.\" Moreover, Fine argued that Marx argued that the society that gives rise to the idea of rights is the same as that which gives rise to the commodity form. They are two sides of the same medal. It is a society based on production by independent producers whose contact with each other is mediated through the exchange of products on the market. These producers are formally free to produce what and how much they wish. They are formally equal in that no producer can force others to produce against their will or expropriate their products against their will. They are self-interested in that they are all entitled to pursue their own private interests regardless of what others think or do. Their contact with other producers takes the form of free and equal exchanges in which individuals exchange their property in return for the property of another and this exchange of unneeded things in return for useful things appears to be done for the mutual benefit of each party.\n\nFine also claims that for Marx, exchange relations appear to be formed among free and equal property owners who enter a voluntary contract in pursuit of their own self-interest. Fine cites what he believes to be Marx's point about how in exchange lies the clue to all modern conceptions of freedom and equal right:\n\nFurthermore, the parties to the exchange must place themselves in relation to one another as persons whose will resides in those objects and must behave in such a way that each does not appropriate the commodity of the other and alienate his own, except through an act to which both parties consent. Marx characterised this sphere of commodity exchange as ‘a very Eden of the innate rights of man’ – the realm of Freedom, Equality, Property and\nBentham:\n\nThus according to Robert Fine, Marx's basic criticism was that within political society people were seen as co-operative, while in their economic roles they were competitive, individualistic and egoistic. In short, the theory of rights expressed the division and alienation of human beings.\n\nAlasdair MacIntyre is a Scottish philosopher who has published a number of works in a variety of philosophical fields, including political philosophy, ethics and metaphysics. MacIntyre criticises the concept of human rights in After Virtue and he famously asserts that “there are no such rights, and belief in them is one with belief in witches and in unicorns.”\n\nMacIntyre argues that every attempt at justifying the existence of human rights has failed. The assertions by 18th century philosophers that natural rights are self-evident truths, he argues, are necessarily false as there are no such things as self-evident truths. He says that the plea 20th century philosophers made to intuition show a flaw in philosophical reasoning. MacIntyre then outlines that, although Dworkin is not wrong in asserting that the inability to demonstrate a statement does not necessitate its falsity, the same argument can be applied in relation to witches and unicorns.\n\nMacIntyre made this critique of human rights in the context of a wider argument about the failure of the Enlightenment to produce a coherent moral system. Philosophers of the enlightenment sought to cast aside the discredited notions of hierarchy and theology as justifications for morality. Instead, MacIntyre argues, the enlightenment placed the individual as the sovereign authority to dictate what is right and wrong. However allegiances to historical notions of morality remained and philosophers sought to find a secular and rational justification for existing beliefs. The problem, MacIntyre maintains, is that theological morality was developed to overcome defects in human nature; to posit an example of the ideal. Without this notion of ‘perfect humanity’ the only remaining foundation to build a moral theory on was the foundation of imperfect human nature. For MacIntyre, the result was a collection of moral stances, each claiming to have a rational justification and each disputing the findings of the rival notions.\n\nMacIntyre believes that a number of the moral debates that occur in society can be explained as a result of this failure of the “Enlightenment Project”. Human rights are an example of a moral belief, founded in previous theological beliefs, which make the false claim of being grounded in rationality. To illustrate how the principles lead to conflict, he gives the example of abortion; in this case the right of the mother to exercise control over her body is contrasted with the deprivation of a potential child to the right to life. Although both the right to liberty and the right to life are, on their own, considered morally acceptable claims, conflict arises when we posit them against each other.\n\nHenry of Ghent articulated the theory that every person has a property interest in their own body. John Locke uses the word property in both broad and narrow senses. In a broad sense, it covers a wide range of human interests and aspirations; more narrowly, it refers to material goods. He argues that property is a natural right and it is derived from labour. In addition, property precedes government and government cannot \"dispose of the estates of the subjects arbitrarily.\" To deny valid property rights according to Locke is to deny human rights. The British philosopher had significant impacts upon the development of the Government of the UK and was central to the fundamental founding philosophy of the United States. Karl Marx later critiqued Locke's theory of property in his \"Theories of Surplus Value\", seeing the beginnings of a theory of surplus value in Locke's works. In Locke's \"Second Treatise\" he argued that the right to own private property was unlimited as long as nobody took more than they could use without allowing any of their property to go to waste and that there were enough common resources of comparable quality available for others to create their own property. Locke did believe that some would be more \"industrious and rational\" than others and would amass more property, but believed this would not cause shortages. Though this system could work before the introduction of money, Marx argued in \"Theories of Surplus Value\" that Locke's system would break down and claimed money was a contradiction of the law of nature on which private property was founded.\n"}
{"id": "28072640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28072640", "title": "Political globalization", "text": "Political globalization\n\nPolitical globalization refers to the growth of the worldwide political system, both in size and complexity. That system includes national governments, their governmental and intergovernmental organizations as well as government-independent elements of global civil society such as international non-governmental organizations and social movement organizations. One of the key aspects of the political globalization is the declining importance of the nation-state and the rise of other actors on the political scene. The creation and existence of the United Nations has been called one of the classic examples of political globalization.\n\nPolitical globalization is one of the three main dimensions of globalization commonly found in academic literature, with the two other being economic globalization and cultural globalization.\n\nWilliam R. Thompson has defined it as \"the expansion of a global political system, and its institutions, in which inter-regional transactions (including, but certainly not limited to trade) are managed\". Valentine M. Moghadam defined it as \"an increasing trend toward multilateralism (in which the United Nations plays a key role), toward an emerging 'transnational state apparatus,' and toward the emergence of national and international nongovernmental organizations that act as watchdogs over governments and have increased their activities and influence\". Manfred B. Steger in turn wrote that it \"refers to the intensification and expansion of political interrelations across the globe\". The longer definition by Colin Crouch goes as follows: \"Political globalization refers to the growing power of institutions of global governance such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization (WTO). But it also refers to the spread and influence of international non-governmental organizations, social movement organizations and transnational advocacy networks operating across borders and constituting a kind of global civil society.\" Finally, Gerard Delanty and Chris Rumford define it as \"a tension between three processes which interact to produce the complex field of global politics: global geopolitics, global normative culture and polycentric networks.\"\n\nSalvatore Babones discussing sources used by scholars for studying political globalizations noted the usefulness of Europa World Year Book for data on diplomatic relationships between countries, publications of International Institute for Strategic Studies such as \"The Military Balance\" for matters of military, and US government publication \"Patterns of Global Terrorism\" for matters of terrorism.\n\nPolitical globalization is measured by aggregating and weighting data on the number of embassies and high commissioners in a country, the number of the country's membership in international organization, its participation in the UN peacekeeping missions, and the number of international treaties signed by said country. This measure has been used by Axel Dreher, Noel Gaston, Pim Martens Jeffrey Haynes and is available from the KOF institute at ETH Zurich\n\nLike globalization itself, political globalization has several dimensions and lends itself to a number of interpretations. It has been discussed in the context of new emancipatory possibilities, as well as in the context of loss of autonomy and fragmentation of the social world. Political globalization can be seen in changes such as democratization of the world, creation of the global civil society, and moving beyond the centrality of the nation-state, particularly as the sole actor in the field of politics. Some of the questions central to the discussion of the political globalization are related to the future of the nation-state, whether its importance is diminishing and what are the causes for those changes; and understanding the emergence of the concept of global governance. The creation and existence of the United Nations has been called one of the classic examples of political globalization. Political actions by non-governmental organizations and social movements, concerned about various topics such as environmental protection, is another example.\n\nDavid Held has proposed that continuing political globalization may lead to the creation of a world government-like cosmopolitan democracy, though this vision has also been criticized as too idealistic.\n\nThere is a heated debate over Political Globalization and Nation State. The question arises whether or not political globalization signifies the decline of the nation-state. Hyper globalists argue that globalization has engulfed today's world in such a way that state boundaries are beginning to lose significance. However, skeptics disregard this as naiveté, believing that the nation-state remains the supreme actor in international relations. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1113966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1113966", "title": "Punk ideologies", "text": "Punk ideologies\n\nPunk ideologies are a group of varied social and political beliefs associated with the punk subculture and punk rock. In its original incarnation, the punk subculture originated out of working class angst and the frustrations many youth were feeling about economic inequality and the bourgeois hypocrisy and neglect of working people and their struggles. It was primarily concerned with concepts such as poverty, egalitarianism, humanitarianism, anti-authoritarianism, anti-corporatism, anti-consumerism, anti-war, anti-media culture, anti-mainstream or mainstream media, anti-intellectualism, against selling out, anti-conservative, anti-nationalism, anti-corporate greed, anti-infatuation, against vagrancy laws, anti-racism, anti-sexism, gender equality, racial equality, civil rights, animal rights, eco-friendly, social rights, free-thought and non-conformity. One of its main tenets was a rejection of mainstream, corporate mass culture and its values. It continued to evolve its ideology as the movement spread throughout North America from its origins in England and New York and embrace a range anti-racist and anti-sexist belief systems. Punk ideologies range from left wing views (e.g., NOFX) to right wing beliefs (e.g., No Remorse) or apolitical (e.g., Misfits).\n\nPunk ideologies are usually expressed through punk rock music and lyrics, punk literature such as amateur fanzines, spoken word performances or recordings, punk fashion, or punk visual art. Some punks have participated in direct action, such as protest or demonstration disruption, political violence, ecotage, street barricades, squatting, pirate radio, off-grid energy, vandalism and public and business property destruction. Indirect action through counter-propaganda, protests or boycotts. They support and squat in urban and rural collective house's with held group funds in common. Punk fashion was originally an expression of nonconformity, as well as opposition to both mainstream culture and the status quo. Punk fashion often displays aggression, rebellion, and individualism. Some punks wear clothing or have tattoos that express sociopolitical messages. They stage Punk Rock Food Drives such as D.O.A's Unity for Freedom. Punk visual art also often includes political messages. Many punks wear second-hand clothing, partly as an anti-consumerist statement.\n\nAn attitude common in the punk subculture is the opposition to selling out, which refers to abandoning of one's values and/or a change in musical style toward pop and embracing anything in mainstream capitalist culture or more radio-friendly rock in exchange for wealth, status, or power. Selling out also has the meaning of adopting a more mainstream lifestyle and ideology. The issue of authenticity is important in the punk subculture—the pejorative term \"poseur\" is applied to those who associate with punk and adopt its stylistic attributes but are deemed not to share or understand the underlying values or philosophy.\n\nBecause anti-establishment attitudes are such an important part of the punk subculture, a network of independent record labels, venues and distributors has developed. Some punk bands have chosen to break from this independent system and work within the established system of major labels. The do it yourself (DIY) ideal is common in the punk scene, especially in terms of music recording and distribution, concert promotion, and photocopying magazines, posters and flyers. The expression DIY was coined by commentators after the fact.\n\nOn religious issues, punk is mostly atheist or agnostic, but some punk bands have promoted religions such as Christianity, Buddhism, Islam, the Rastafari movement or Krishna.\n\nThe following include some of the most common ideologies and philosophies within the punk subculture (in alphabetical order).\n\nThere is a complex and worldwide underground of punks committed to anarchism as a serious political ideology, sometimes termed \"peace punks\" or \"anarcho-punks.\" While some well-known punk bands such as the Sex Pistols and The Exploited had songs about anarchy, notably the Pistols' \"Anarchy in the UK\", they did not embrace anarchism as a disciplined ideology. As such, these bands are not considered part of the anarcho-punk scene.\n\nAnarcho-punks typically believe in direct action. Many anarcho-punks are pacifists (e.g. Crass and Discharge) and therefore believe in using non-violent means of achieving their aims. These include peaceful protest, squatting, graffiti, culture jamming, ecotage, freeganism, boycotting, civil disobedience, hacktivism and subvertising. Some anarcho-punks believe that violence or property damage is an acceptable way of achieving social change (e.g. Conflict). This manifests itself as rioting, vandalism, wire cutting, hunt sabotage, participation in Animal Liberation Front- or Earth Liberation Front-style activities, and in extreme cases, bombings. Notable anarchist punk artists include: Aus-Rotten, Dave Insurgent, Crass, Subhumans (British band), Colin Jerwood, and Dave Dictor.\n\nIn the 1980s, both straight edge hardcore punk in the United States and anarcho-punk in the United Kingdom became associated with animal rights. Consequently, vegetarianism and veganism became a feature of the punk subculture. This association continues on into the 21st century, as evidenced by the prominence of vegan punk events such as Fluff Fest in Europe.\n\nSome punks claim to be non-political, such as the band Charged GBH and the singer G.G. Allin, although some socio-political ideas have appeared in their lyrics. Some Charged GBH songs have discussed social issues, and a few have expressed anti-war views. G.G. Allin expressed a vague desire to kill the United States president and destroy the political system in his song \"Violence Now\". Punk subgenres that are generally apolitical include: glam punk, psychobilly, horror punk, punk pathetique, deathrock and pop punk. Many of the bands credited with starting the punk movement were decidedly apolitical, including The Dictators, Ramones (which featured staunch conservative Johnny Ramone alongside liberal activist Joey Ramone), New York Dolls, Television, Johnny Thunders & The Heartbreakers, and Richard Hell & The Voidoids.\n\nChristian punk is a subgenre of punk rock with some degree of Christian lyrical content. Some Christian punk bands are associated with the Christian music industry, while others reject that association. Ideologies within Christian punk vary, though a number of bands lean towards traditional left-wing politics, most prominently Crashdog, Ballydowse and The Psalters, the latter two of whom identified as Christian anarchists. Further examples of notable Christian punk bands include Altar Boys, The Crucified, Five Iron Frenzy, Flatfoot 56, and pop-punk band MxPx, who earned a gold record in 1998.\n\nA small number are conservative, rejecting leftist-anarchism, liberalism, communism and socialism in favor of conservatism. Notable conservative punks include Johnny Ramone, Forgotten Rebels, Billy Zoom, Joe Escalante, Bobby Steele, Duane Peters and Dave Smalley. Some Christian punk and hardcore bands have conservative political stances, in particular some of the NYHC bands.\n\nThe Filipino punk band the Wuds which was formed in the early 1980s is the first known punk band who composed songs dedicated to Hare Krishna movement. In the 1990s, some notable members of the New York hardcore scene, including Ray Cappo (Youth of Today, Shelter and other bands), John Joseph (Cro-Mags) and Harley Flanagan (Cro-Mags) converted to Hare Krishna. This led to trend within the western hardcore scene that became known as Krishnacore.\n\nTaqwacore is a punk subgenre centred on Islam, its culture and its interpretation. The Taqwacore scene is composed mainly of young Muslim artists living in the United States and other western countries, many of whom openly reject traditionalist interpretations of Islam. There is no definitive Taqwacore sound, and some bands incorporate styles including hip-hop, techno, and/or musical traditions from the Muslim world. Examples of Muslim punk bands include Alien Kulture, The Kominas and Secret Trial Five.\n\nLiberal punks were in the punk subculture from the beginning, and are mostly on the liberal left. Notable liberal punks (second wave, mid-1990s to 2000s) include: Joey Ramone, Fat Mike of NOFX, Ted Leo, Billie Joe Armstrong of Green Day, Crashdog, Dropkick Murphys, Hoxton Tom McCourt, Jared Gomes of Hed PE, Tim Armstrong of Rancid and Tim McIlrath of Rise Against. Some punks participated in the Rock Against Bush movement in the mid-2000s, in support of the Democratic Party candidate John Kerry.\n\nLibertarian punks advocate free market capitalism, a minimal government and private ownership of property. Joe Young of the band Antiseen, Exene Cervenka and Mojo Nixon have expressed support for libertarianism. Though originally a conservative, Michale Graves has shifted towards libertarianism in recent years.\n\nNazi punks have a white nationalist ideology that is closely related to that of white power skinheads. Ian Stuart Donaldson and his band Skrewdriver are credited with popularizing white power rock and hatecore (for its hateful lyrical themes), or Rock Against Communism. Nazi punks are different from early punks such as Sid Vicious and Siouxsie Sioux, who are believed to have incorporated Nazi imagery such as Swastikas for shock or comedy value.\n\nCentering on a belief in the abject lack of meaning and value to life, nihilism was a fixture in some early punk rock and protopunk. The Sex Pistols were central to the association of punk and nihilsm, with the \"Trouser Press Record Guide\" writing that their \"confrontational, nihilistic public image and rabidly nihilistic socio-political lyrics set the tone that continues to guide punk bands.\" However, researcher Neil Eriksen argues that though \"much of the critical realism [of punk rock] expresses cynicism and nihilism, it does serve to question existing relations in such a way that listeners are forced to think about what is being said\", so that overt rejection of meaning is primarily concerned with challenging existing values.\n\nThe Situationist International (SI) was an early influence on punk subculture in the United Kingdom. Started in continental Europe in the 1950s, the SI was an avant-garde political movement that sought to recapture the ideals of surrealist art and use them to construct new and radical social situations. Malcolm McLaren introduced situationist ideas to punk through his management of the band Sex Pistols. Vivienne Westwood, McLaren's partner and the band's designer/stylist, expressed situationist ideals through fashion that was intended to provoke a specific social response. 15% Pus and DUST, subversive 1990s Manchester bands, staged psycho-geographic walks around Hulme and created human collages from road signs as part of what became known as 'psycho-spectre.' Jamie Reid's distinctive album cover artwork was openly situationist.\n\nThe Clash were a blatantly political punk rock band, introducing socialism to the punk scene. Clash frontman Joe Strummer said of his socialist views \"I believe in socialism because it seems more humanitarian, rather than every man for himself and 'I'm alright jack' and all those asshole businessmen with all the loot. I made up my mind from viewing society from that angle. That's where I'm from and there's where I've made my decisions from. That's why I believe in socialism.\" Some of the original Oi! bands expressed a rough form of socialist working class populism — often mixed with patriotism. Many Oi! bands sang about unemployment, economic inequality, working class power and police harassment. In the 1980s, several notable British socialist punk musicians were involved with Red Wedge. Notable socialist punks include: Attila the Stockbroker, Billy Bragg, Bruce La Bruce, Garry Bushell (until the late 1980s), Chris Dean, Gary Floyd, Jack Grisham, Stewart Home, Dennis Lyxzén, Thomas Mensforth, Fermin Muguruza, Alberto Pla, Tom Robinson, Seething Wells, Paul Simmonds, Rob Tyner, Joe Strummer, Ian Svenonius, Mark Steel and Paul Weller (guitarist for British powerhouse, new wave band, The Jam). Neil Eriksen wrote in 1980: \"... we feel that elements of punk rock fulfill a revolutionary cultural function\".\n\nBernie Sanders, a democratic socialist running for president of the United States in 2016, was endorsed by various bands and musicians including Jello Biafra, Henry Rollins, Wayne Kramer, Mike Watt, Brian Baker, Keith Morris, Cheetah Chrome, Flea, Jesse Malin, Belinda Carlisle and Pussy Riot among others. In April 2016, a Richmond, VA artist named Mickael Broth, created a large mural of a Sanders which was inspired by a classic Circle Jerks logo. Sanders has also been credited as having a major impact on the east coast punk scene in the United States. In the early 1980s as mayor of Burlington, VT, Sanders fought a government ban on live music and had a major goal of building a youth center. That center became 242 Main Street, which is currently one of the United States longest running all-ages youth-run DIY punk venues.\n\nStraight edge, which originated in the Washington DC hardcore punk scene with Minor Threat song \"Straight Edge\" written by frontman Ian MacKaye and guitarist Brian Baker. Straight edge involves abstaining from alcohol, tobacco, and recreational drug use. Some who claim the title straight edge also abstain from caffeine, casual sex and meat. (Although the Washington DC straight-edge scene exhibited a fierce allegiance for Coca-Cola, with supporters rarely, if ever, seen drinking anything else in public.) Those more strict individuals may be considered part of the hardline subculture. Unlike the shunning of meat and caffeine, refraining from casual sex was without question a practice in the original straight edge lifestyle, but it has been overlooked in many of the later reincarnations of straight edge. For some, straight edge is a simple lifestyle preference, but for others it is a political stance. In many cases, it is a rejection of the perceived self-destructive qualities of punk and hardcore culture. MacKaye has often spoken out against others labeling themselves as being Straight edge, which was never his intentions for it being a label but it became a movement one in which he became annoyed with. Notable straight edgers: Tim McIlrath, CM Punk and Davey Havok.\n\nPunk ideologies have been criticized from outside and within. The Clash occasionally accused other contemporary punk acts of selling out, such as in their songs \"(White Man) In Hammersmith Palais\" and \"Death or Glory\". Crass's song \"White Punks on Hope\" criticized the late-1970s British punk scene in general and, among other things, accused Joe Strummer of selling out and betraying his earlier socialist principles. Their song \"Punk is Dead\" attacked corporate co-option of the punk subculture. Dead Kennedys frontman Jello Biafra wrote many songs, such as \" Nazi Punks Fuck Off\", criticizing aspects of the punk subculture: \"\"Punk ain't no religious cult\nPunk means thinking for yourself\nYou ain't hardcore cos you spike your hair...\"\n\nMisfit frontman Michale Graves, who cofounded the Conservative Punk website, argued that punks have become \"hippies with mohawks\". However, he has since distanced himself from conservatism.\n\nAuthor Jim Goad has been very critical of punk ideologies in many of his writings. In his essay \"The Underground is A Lie!\", Goad argued that many punks are hypocrites, and he claimed that many punks act poor while hiding the fact they come from middle to upper class backgrounds. In \"Farts from Underground\", Goad claimed that the DIY ethic never produces anything original, and it allows poor quality work to be championed.\n\nIn their book \"The Rebel Sell\", Joseph Heath and Andrew Potter argued that counterculture politics have failed, and that the punk understanding of society is flawed. They also argued that alternative and mainstream lifestyles ultimately have the same values.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6463575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6463575", "title": "Roman-Dutch law", "text": "Roman-Dutch law\n\nRoman-Dutch law (Dutch: \"Rooms-Hollands recht\", Afrikaans: \"Romeins-Hollandse reg\") is an uncodified, scholarship-driven, judge-made legal system based on Roman law as applied in the Netherlands in the 17th and 18th centuries. As such, it is a variety of the European continental civil law or \"ius commune\". While Roman-Dutch law was superseded by Napoleonic codal law in the Netherlands proper as early as the beginning of the 19th century, Roman-Dutch law is still applied by the courts of South Africa (and its neighbours Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe), Guyana, Indonesia, East Timor, and Sri Lanka. It was largely drawn upon by Scots law. It also had some minor impact on the laws of the American state of New York, especially in introducing the office of Prosecutor (\"schout-fiscaal\").\n\nRoman law was progressively abandoned during the early Middle Ages. The Theodosian Code and excerpts of latter-day imperial enactments (\"constitutiones\") were well known in the successor Germanic states and vital to maintaining the commonplace principle of folk-right which applied pre-existing Roman law to Roman provincials and Germanic law to Germans. The \"Breviary of Alaric\" and the \"Lex Gundobada Romana\" are two of the several hybrid Romano-Germanic law codes that incorporated much Roman legal material. However, because the fall of the Western Roman Empire preceded the drafting of the Justinianic Code, early Byzantine law was never influential in Western Europe. Also, much of this early law was superseded by later feudal law. Only canon law successfully retained any substantial amount of Roman law to be influential.\n\nInterest in the doctrines of Byzantine lawyers came when—around the year 1070—a copy of the \"Digest\" of Emperor Justinian I found its way into northern Italy. Scholars in the emerging University of Bologna, who previously had access to only a limited portion of the Justinianic code, sparked an intellectual rediscovery of Roman law through the teaching of law based on Byzantine law texts. Courts gradually applied Byzantine law—as taught in Bologna (and soon elsewhere)—first as law \"in subsidium\" to be applied when there was no local statute or custom in point, and later because judicial officers (judges, magistrates, assessors) felt that its refined legal concepts were more apt to solve complex cases than the customary laws of western and central Europe. This process, referred to as reception, took place in the Holy Roman Empire and the Mediterranean in the 13th-14th centuries, but was much slower to come to northern Europe (e.g., Saxony, Northern France, the Low Countries, Scandinavia).\n\nIn the 15th century, reception \"in complexu\" reached the Netherlands while it was associated with the Holy Roman Empire. While Italian lawyers (\"mos italicus\") were the first to contribute to the new Byzantine-based jurisprudence, in the 16th century, French humanistic doctrinal scholars (\"mos gallicus\") were most influential. In the 17th and 18th century, it was the Dutch who had the greatest influence. Members of the \"Hollandse Elegante School\" (“school of elegant jurisprudence”; 1500–1800) included Hugo Grotius, Johannes Voet, Ulrich Huber, Gerard Noodt, J. and F. van de Sande, and many others. These scholars managed to merge Roman law with legal concepts taken from traditional Dutch feudal customary law, especially from the province of Holland. The resulting mixture was predominantly Roman, but it contained some features which were characteristically Dutch: this hybrid is known as Roman-Dutch law. The Dutch applied their legal system in their colonial empire. In so doing, the distinctly Dutch branch of civil law (or \"ius commune\") came to be applied in far-flung places, e.g., the Dutch East Indies, Dutch West Indies, Cape Colony, and Dutch Ceylon.\n\nIn the Netherlands, Roman-Dutch law abruptly ended when, in 1809, the Dutch puppet state—the Kingdom of Holland—adopted the French Napoleonic Code, a different system but nonetheless a branch of civil law. Yet, in the then-Dutch colonies, French law was never introduced during or after the Napoleonic era. As a result, Roman-Dutch law has managed to survive, usually in a hybrid form mixed with English law, otherwise known as “Anglo-Dutch law”.\n\nThe Netherlands participated in international seminars and training programmes organized by international partner organisations, ranging from a two-day seminar to a two-week programme for different legal professionals around the world. Programmes have been developed for Surinam, Aruba, Sint Maarten and Indonesia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1460640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1460640", "title": "Secular state", "text": "Secular state\n\nA secular state is an idea pertaining to secularity, whereby a state is or purports to be officially neutral in matters of religion, supporting neither religion nor irreligion. A secular state also claims to treat all its citizens equally regardless of religion, and claims to avoid preferential treatment for a citizen from a particular religion/nonreligion over other religions/nonreligion. Secular states do not have a state religion (e.g. an established religion) or an equivalent, although the absence of an established state religion does not necessarily mean that a state is fully secular in all respects. For example, many secular states have religious references in their national anthems and flags.\n\nSecular states become secular either upon creation of the state (e.g. the United States of America), or upon secularization of the state (e.g. France or Nepal). Movements for \"laïcité\" in France and for the separation of church and state in the United States defined modern concepts of secularism. Historically, the process of secularizing states typically involves granting religious freedom, disestablishing state religions, stopping public funds being used for a religion, freeing the legal system from religious control, freeing up the education system, tolerating citizens who change religion or abstain from religion, and allowing political leadership to come to power regardless of their religious beliefs.\n\nIn France, Italy and Spain for example, official holidays for the public administration tend to be Christian feast days. Some have pagan roots dating from before Christianisation: All Saints' Day is pagan Halloween and Easter is named after the pagan goddess Eostre. Also any private school in France that contracts with Education Nationale gets the teachers salaried by the state, so most of Catholic school are in this case and they are the majority because of history but it's not an exclusive pass right and other religion or non religion school can contract this way. In some European states where secularism confronts monoculturalist philanthropy, some of the main Christian sects and sects of other religions depend on the state for some of the financial resources for their religious charities. It is common in corporate law and charity law to prohibit organized religion from using those funds to organize religious worship in a separate place of worship or for conversion; the religious body itself must provide the religious content, educated clergy and laypersons to exercise its own functions and may choose to devote part of their time to the separate charities. To that effect some of those charities establish secular organizations that manage part of or all of the donations from the main religion(s).\n\nReligious and non-religious organizations can apply for equivalent funding from the government and receive subsidies based on either assessed social results where there is indirect religious state funding, or simply the number of beneficiaries of those organisations. This resembles charitable choice in the United States. It is doubtful whether overt direct state funding of religions is in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights. Apparently this issue has not yet been decided at supranational level in ECtHR case law stemming from the rights in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which mandates non-discrimination in affording its co-listed basic social rights. Specifically, funding certain services would not accord with non-discriminatory state action.\n\nMany states that are nowadays secular in practice may have legal vestiges of an earlier established religion. Secularism also has various guises which may coincide with some degree of official religiosity. In the United Kingdom, the head of state is still required to take the Coronation Oath enacted in 1688, swearing to maintain the Protestant Reformed religion and to preserve the established Church of England. The UK also maintains seats in the House of Lords for 26 senior clergymen of the Church of England, known as the Lords Spiritual. Italy is a secular state since 1985 but still recognize a special status to the Catholic Church. The reverse progression can also occur, however; a state can go from a secular state to a religious state, as in the case of Iran where the secularized state of the Pahlavi dynasty was replaced by an Islamic Republic (list below). Nonetheless, the last 250 years has seen a trend towards secularism.\n\n\n Transcontinental country.\n States with limited recognition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23597414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597414", "title": "Seduction (tort)", "text": "Seduction (tort)\n\nThe tort of seduction was a civil wrong or tort in common law legal systems, and still exists in some jurisdictions. \n\nAn unmarried woman could sue on the grounds of seduction to obtain damages from her seducer, if her consent to sex was based upon his misrepresentation.\n\nInitially, the tort of seduction was a remedy for a father's property interest in his daughter's chastity. However, the damages to which the father would be entitled were based on the father's loss of the working services of a daughter, much as a master could sue if a third-party caused injury to his servant that rendered the servant unable to work, because she was \"seduced and debauched\" and became pregnant as a result of nonmarital sexual activity. The tort of seduction was one of the most common civil actions toward the end of the 19th century, and fathers were often successful before juries. \n\nIn the 20th century, the action was criticised as maintaining \"property interests in humans\", and the tort was recast to recognize personal injury to the woman, rather than solely deprivation of a father's property right. Most jurisdictions granted the victim (the wronged woman) the right to sue in her own name. (Fathers could still sue as well, on the ground that they had a moral interest in their daughters' chastity). The suing woman was \"usually but not always a virgin\".\n\nHistorically, the seduced female could not bring a suit herself. Rather, it would be brought by her father, acting under the legal fiction that the parent-child relationship falls under the master-servant relationship. However, if the daughter was a contracted servant, a suit could not be brought by her father against her master.\n\nProperty and civil rights is a provincial power in Canada, so all torts can vary by province.\n\nAn Act to make the remedy for cases of seduction more effectual, and to tender the fathers of illegitimate children liable for their support, was passed in Upper Canada on March 4, 1837. Amending traditional common law, it allowed fathers to sue their daughters' masters for the tort of seduction. It also held biological fathers liable for children conceived out of wedlock.\n\nThe Seduction Act was repealed in 1978.\n\nThe 1934 John Brownlee sex scandal revolved around a seduction suit.\n\nAn 1852 statute in Prince Edward Island allowed for a seduced woman to sue for herself with this tort., although damages were capped at 100 pounds. Manitoba and the North West Territories enacted similar legislation around the turn of the 19th century.\n\nIn the United States, the tort of seduction has been abolished in \"most states\". Fears of fraudulent suits, combined with a turn away from the view of property interests in persons, led to the enactment of \"heart balm\" statutes, abolishing causes of action for seduction, breach of promise, alienation of affection, criminal conversation, etc. in most states in the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "57691114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57691114", "title": "Strawman theory", "text": "Strawman theory\n\nStrawman theory (also called the Strawman illusion) is a pseudolegal theory prevalent in various movements such as sovereign citizen, tax protestor, freeman on the land, and the redemption movement. The theory holds that an individual has two personas, one of flesh and the other a separate legal personality (i.e., the \"strawman\"). The idea is that an individual’s debts, liabilities, taxes and legal responsibilities belong to the strawman rather than the physical individual. The strawman theory is recognized in law as a scam: The FBI considers anyone promoting it a likely fraudster. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers it a frivolous argument and fines people that use the theory on their Federal tax returns.\n\nStrawman theory traces its origins to the ancient Roman legal practice of \"capitis deminutio\" (\"decrease of head\"), a term used in Roman trials for the extinguishment of a person's former legal capacity. \"Capitis deminutio minima\" meant a person ceased to belong to a particular family, without loss of liberty or citizenship. \"Capitis deminutio media\" involved loss of citizenship and family, but not liberty. \"Capitis deminutio maxima\" involved loss of family, citizenship and liberty (\"i.e.\", a slave or a prisoner of war). Strawman theory commonly takes the term \"capitis deminutio\" spells it \"Capitis Diminutio\" and claims \"capitis diminutio maxima\" was represented by an individual’s name being written in capital letters. This led to the idea that individuals had a separate legal personality now called a \"strawman\".\n\nThe theory holds that an individual has two personas. One of them is a physical, tangible human being, and the other is the \"legal person\", often referred to as a legal fiction. When a baby is born in the U.S., a birth certificate is issued, and the parents apply for a Social Security number. Sovereigns say the government uses that birth certificate to set up a secret Treasury account which it funds with an amount ranging from $600,000 to $20 million, depending on the particular sovereign belief system. Hence, every newborn's rights are split between those held by the flesh-and-blood baby and the corporate shell account.\n\nProponents of the theory believe the evidence is found on the birth certificate. Because many certificates show all capitals to spell out a baby's name, JOHN DOE (under the Strawman theory) is the name of the \"straw man,\" and John Doe is the baby's \"real\" name. As the child grows, most legal documents will contain capital letters, which means that his state-issued driver's license, his marriage license, his car registration, his criminal court records, his cable TV bill, correspondence from the IRS, etc., pertain to his strawman and not his sovereign identity. In reality, the use of all capital letters is typically done to make certain statements clear and conspicuous, although this is not always the case.\n\nThe main use of strawman theory is in escaping and denying debts, liabilities and legal responsibility. Tax protestors, \"commercial redemption\" and \"get out of debt free\" scams claim that one’s debts and taxes are the responsibility of the strawman and not of the real person. They back this claim by misreading the legal definition of \"person\" and a misunderstanding of the distinction between a \"juridicial person\" and a \"natural person\". In accepted legal theory there is a difference between what is known as a \"natural person\" and that of a \"corporate person\". A \"corporate personhood\" applies to business, charities, governments and other recognized organisations. Courts recognize human beings as 'persons', not as a legal fiction joined to a flesh and blood human being but as one and the same. They have never recognized a right to distance oneself from one's person, or the ability to opt out of personhood.\n\nBelievers of the theory also extend it to law and legal responsibilities, claiming that only their strawman is required to adhere to statutory laws. They also claim that legal proceedings in are taken against strawmen rather than persons and when one appears in court they appear as representing their strawman. The justification for this is the false notion that governments cannot force anybody to do anything. A strawman therefore created which the adherent believes he or she is free to command. Proponents cite a misinterpretation of a passage in chapter 39 of King John's Magna Carta stating in part that, \"no freeman will be seized, dispossessed of his property, or harmed except by the law of the land”.\n\nFreemen believe that separating from their strawman or refusing to be identified as such enables escape from their various liabilities, responsibilities, and laws. This is typically attempted by denying they are a person in the same way as their strawman, or by writing their name in non-standard ways, using red ink, and placing finger prints on court documents.\n\nJudge Norman K. Moon found such tactics an unconvincing argument in 2013 when an individual named Brandon Gravatt tried to overturn a drug conviction and get out of prison. The case was summarily dismissed by the court.\n\nIt is impossible to dodge the law by insisting that an individual is different from his or her person. If a court can establish a person's identity, regardless of consent or cooperation, the court will engage in proceedings and sanctions against the individual. This is due to the legal principle known as \"Idem sonans\" (Latin for \"sounding the same\") which states that similar sounding names are just as valid in referring to a person. The earliest legal precedent is R v Davis in the United Kingdom in 1851.\n\n\"This is not an exhaustive list\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47349374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47349374", "title": "Taylor v Attorney-General", "text": "Taylor v Attorney-General\n\nTaylor v Attorney-General [2015] NZHC 1706 is a New Zealand High Court judgment which made a formal declaration that a statute that prohibited prisoners from voting is inconsistent with the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990. The action was brought by Arthur Taylor, a high-profile prison inmate. This was the first time a court had recognised that a formal declaration of inconsistency is an available remedy for statutory breaches of the Bill of Rights. Section 5 of the Bill of Rights Act states, \"Subject to section 4, the rights and freedoms contained in this Bill of Rights may be subject only to such reasonable limits prescribed by law as can be demonstrably justified in a free and democratic society.\" In his decision, Justice Heath declared that the Electoral (Disqualification of Sentenced Prisoners) Amendment Act 2010 which stripped all voting rights in general elections from prisoners was an unjustified limitation on the right to vote contained in s 12 of the Bill of Rights. The Court of Appeal upheld this decision after the Attorney-General appealed the jurisdiction of the courts to make declarations of inconsistency. \n\nJustice Heath summarised the background to the legal challenge being, \"As a result of an amendment made to the Electoral Act 1993 (the 1993 Act) in 2010, all prisoners incarcerated as a result of a sentence imposed after 16 December 2010 are barred from voting in a General Election.\" In response to disenfranchisement, five serving prisoners including career criminal Arthur Taylor \"sought a formal declaration from this Court that the prohibition is inconsistent with s 12(a) of the Bill of Rights\". Mr Taylor was not himself affected by the Amendment Act because he was serving a term exceeding three years’ imprisonment, and had therefore already lost his right to vote; however the other four applicants came within the ambit of the Act, and no question was raised about Taylor's standing. The Attorney-General in his 2010 report on the law, mandated by section 7 of the Bill of Rights Act requiring that any inconsistencies with a Bill of Rights right be brought to the attention of Parliament, had concluded, \"the blanket disenfranchisement of prisoners appears to be inconsistent with s 12 of the Bill of Rights Act and that it cannot be justified under s 5 of that Act\".\n\nPrior to the review proceeding to a substantive hearing the Attorney-General had tried unsuccessfully to have the challenge struck out on the grounds courts had no jurisdiction over this matter and that any relief given \"would breach the fundament principle of comity applying to the relationship between the judiciary and Parliament\".\n\nIn his judgment Justice Heath adopted the reasons given by the Attorney-General in his s 7 report to Parliament on the Electoral (Disqualification of Sentenced Prisoners) Amendment Act's inconsistency with the Bill of Rights Act. Reasons given by the Attorney-General in his report included that \"The objective of the Bill is not rationally linked to the blanket ban on prisoner voting. It is questionable that every person serving a sentence of imprisonment is necessarily a serious offender. People who are not serious offenders will be disenfranchised.\"\n\nJustice Heath added that there was also an inconsistency with the right to vote in that the law created an arbitrary disparity between those sentenced to imprisonment and those to home detention; \n\nAs a result, Justice Heath made a declaration mirroring the declaration the Attorney-General had made in his s 7 report;\n\nSection 80(1)(d) of the Electoral Act 1993 (as amended by the Electoral (Disqualification of Sentenced Prisoners) Amendment Act 2010) is inconsistent with the right to vote affirmed and guaranteed in s 12(a) of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990, and cannot be justified under s 5 of that Act.\n\nIn coming to his conclusion Justice Heath noted, This statement acted as a response to the Attorney-General's argument that the Court's jurisdiction was limited to indications of inconsistency as seen in \"Hansen\". In that case McGrath J stated that “a New Zealand Court must never shirk its responsibility to indicate, in any case where it concludes that the measure being considered is inconsistent with protected rights, that it has inquired into the possibility of there being an available rights-consistent interpretation [and] that none could be found”. Heath J held that this precedent for indications did not preclude a formal declaration being made when appropriate.\n\nThe Attorney-General appealed Heath J's decision, and the case was reconsidered by the Court of Appeal in May 2017. The central issue on appeal was whether the High Court should have made a declaration of inconsistency. The Court of Appeal reviewed both the jurisdiction of the courts to make such a declaration and its suitability in the circumstances, and affirmed the decision of the High Court. Furthermore, the Speaker of the House of Representatives challenged the use of parliamentary proceedings in the High Court decision, arguing that this was a breach of parliamentary privilege. The Court concluded that no such breach had occurred.\n\nThe Attorney-General argued that a declaration was not within the jurisdiction of the courts because it had not been expressly authorised by Parliament. He contended that the Declaratory Judgments Act 1908 had sufficiently covered the area, and that this effectively ruled out such a remedy at common law. The Court disagreed: it stated that the Declaratory Judgments Act did not exclude jurisdiction of the courts, and went on to establish multiple sources conferring jurisdiction.\n\nThe first source of jurisdiction considered by the Court was the Bill of Rights Act itself. The Bill of Rights does not expressly grant the power to make declarations, nor does it exclude such a power. The Attorney-General accepted that sections 2-6 of the Bill allow the courts to identify inconsistencies between protected rights and other statutes, but said that this is limited to simply making indications of incompatibility, not formal declarations. The Court did not accept this jurisdictional limit. It held that the Bill of Rights intended the courts to point out unjustified limitations on rights, and that to exclude declarations would be contrary to both this purpose and to New Zealand's obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Furthermore, a declaration would provide a domestic remedy prior to any available internationally. The Court cited \"Baigent’s Case\" in stating that it would make no sense for Parliament to contemplate that New Zealand citizens could seek redress from the United Nations Human Rights Committee, but not from their own courts.\n\nNext the Court turned to a number of cases that suggested the jurisdiction to make declarations should exist. \"Temese\" showed acceptance of such a possibility as early as 1992, supported by \"Baigent’s Case\" two years later. In \"Quilter v Attorney-General\", the Court held that the Marriage Act 1955 was an unjustified limitation on the right to freedom from discrimination of same sex couples. The Court in \"Quilter\" stated: \"… once Parliament has charged the Courts with the task of giving meaning and effect to the fundamental rights and freedoms affirmed in the Bill of Rights, it would be a serious error not to proclaim a violation if and when a violation is found to exist in the law.\" The Court of Appeal in \"Attorney-General v Taylor\" saw this as further acknowledgment of the jurisdiction to make a declaration. Subsequently, \"Zaoui v Attorney-General\" included an argument by the Crown that the Court did not have the jurisdiction to make a declaration of inconsistency, and although the High Court did not consider such a declaration appropriate in the circumstances, it acknowledged that the jurisdiction to do so clearly existed. Finally, the most recent case \"Hansen v R\" observed that: \"a major purpose of a Bill of Rights (entrenched or otherwise) is to prevent minority interests from being overridden by an oppressive or overzealous majority.\" These precedents were taken by the Court of Appeal as convincing support for the jurisdiction of declarations of inconsistency.\n\nFinally, the Court of Appeal supported the finding of Heath J that section 92J of the Human Rights Act 1993 shows a Parliamentary acceptance of a court's jurisdiction to make declarations of inconsistency. This section gives the Human Rights Review Tribunal the power to declare that an enactment is inconsistent with section 19 of the Bill of Rights, which protects the right to freedom from discrimination. In \"Taylor v Attorney-General\", Heath J stated that it would be difficult to comprehend that Parliament would confer this declaratory power on the Tribunal but not on a more senior court. This is reinforced by the fact that the statute also allows a right of appeal from the Tribunal to the High Court about such declarations. The Court of Appeal agreed with this reasoning.\n\nHaving determined that declarations of inconsistency are within the jurisdiction of the High Court, the Court of Appeal went on to consider when such declarations should be made. It stated that the remedy is one of discretion, and is not available as of right. In most cases an indication of incompatibility would suffice, rather than a formal declaration. However the Court accepted that there would certainly be times when a declaration should be used: \n\nThe Court held that in the case before them, a declaration was the appropriate remedy. The reasons for this were: the right to vote is an essential element of a free and democratic society; the limitation on this right was not justified; the legislature was aware of the inconsistency at the time of enactment; and there were no overseas developments that may cause Parliament to reconsider the Act independently. The Court of Appeal did state that Mr Taylor should not have been granted a declaration by himself because the Act in question did not affect him, but as the declaration was made in a single proceeding with joint plaintiffs who were affected, it was correct of the High Court to do so.\n\nThe Speaker of the House of Representatives raised a second challenge to the High Court's declaration by arguing that the High Court had breached parliamentary privilege. In coming to his decision, Heath J had examined the section 7 report before reaching the same conclusion, and the Speaker was concerned that he had effectively reviewed a parliamentary proceeding in doing so. This could be a breach of parliamentary privilege if the Court had questioned Parliament's treatment of the issues. However the Court of Appeal held that Heath J had not done so; he had merely described the parliamentary processes and noted the report's existence before coming to his own conclusion about the same subject matter. This was an acceptable purpose for using such material. The Court also noted that the same situation had occurred in \"Hansen v R\" by members of the Supreme Court. Therefore, this second challenge was also dispensed with, as parliamentary privilege had not been breached by the declaration.\n\nThis was the first time a court in New Zealand had recognised that a formal declaration of inconsistency is an available remedy for statutory breaches of the Bill of Rights. Arthur Taylor, in a recorded statement to Radio New Zealand after the verdict said, \"His Honour Justice Heath's very courageous decision strikes a strong blow for the rule of law, not only for prisoners, but all other New Zealanders, in upholding their fundamental rights against even the Parliament\". A declaration of inconsistency acts as a powerful vindication for those who have no other way of receiving remedy for breaches of their rights.\n\nThe other significant outcome of the decision that declarations of inconsistency are within the jurisdiction of the courts is that it acts as a powerful check on parliamentary sovereignty. In New Zealand Parliament is supreme, but this power of the courts to declare laws to be inconsistent places a burden on this supremacy, by requiring that Parliament uphold the fundamental rights of its citizens. It affirms the courts as “upholders of rights, standing between ordinary citizens and the might of Parliament.” \n\nThe extent of the significance of this case will depend on whether Parliament remedies the Act in question. A declaration of inconsistency does not invalidate the law, or force Parliament to change the offending statute accordingly. \"Taylor\" merely expresses that the courts have a “reasonable expectation that other branches of government, respecting the judicial function, will respond by reappraising the legislation and making any changes that are thought appropriate.” If Parliament chooses to enact a rights-consistent version of the Electoral (Disqualification of Sentenced Prisoners) Amendment Act then \"Taylor\" could mark the beginning of a major constitutional development in New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53261797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53261797", "title": "The Rowsell-Julyan-Keenan Commission", "text": "The Rowsell-Julyan-Keenan Commission\n\nThe Rowsell-Julyan-Keenan Commission was a Royal Commission in 1878. It was based on a report by Keenan, Julyan and Francis William Rowsell, the latter was made British commissioner of ceded Daira lands, Egypt, that year, and had been director of naval contracts, admiralty since 1873 and commissioner for inquiry relating to courts of justice 1873–4, and to Government of Malta 1877–8. \n\nThe reports dealt separately with the administrative, political, cultural and economic-fiscal problems, and suggested reforms which were required to secure the proper functioning of Malta's strategic facilities. From the resulting recommendations, the need for a modern fiscal system, which would increase local revenue through a more socially equitable system of taxation, was considered crucial for the process of modernising Malta. It also recommended in its report the Anglicisation of the educational and judicial systems. While the latter had to wait until the 20th century, teaching of the English language started to be enforced in State schools at the expense of Italian. In 1911, English overtook Italian as the secondary language after Maltese, spoken by 13.1% of the population vs. 11.5%. The Royal Commission's report also had significant political impact. Supporters and opponents organised themselves into a Reform and Anti-Reform parties which, apart from being the forerunners of the present day two main political parties in Malta, assumed respectively the anglophile and Italophile imprint (and also, subsequently, pro-colonial and anti-colonial policies) that were to characterise them for decades to come.\n\n"}
{"id": "52647644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52647644", "title": "Timeline of voting rights in the United States", "text": "Timeline of voting rights in the United States\n\nThis is a timeline of voting rights in the United States.\n\n\n\n\nWomen's suffrage in the United States"}
