{"id": "2080408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2080408", "title": "Abie's Irish Rose", "text": "Abie's Irish Rose\n\nAbie's Irish Rose is a popular comedy by Anne Nichols familiar from stage productions, films and radio programs. The basic premise involves an Irish Catholic girl and a young Jewish man who marry despite the objections of their families.\n\nAlthough initially receiving poor reviews, the Broadway play was a commercial hit, running for 2,327 performances between May 23, 1922, and October 1, 1927, at the time the longest run in Broadway theater history, surpassing the record 1,291 performances set by the Winchell Smith and Frank Bacon 1918 play, \"Lightnin'\". The show's touring company had a similarly long run and held the record for longest running touring company for nearly 40 years until the record was broken by \"Hello, Dolly!\" in the 1960s. The touring company's male lead was played by a young George Brent, the future Hollywood actor's first major role, and the female lead was played by Peggy Parry.\n\nThe play was twice the inspiration for films: in 1928 with Charles \"Buddy\" Rogers and Nancy Carroll, directed by Victor Fleming, and in 1946 with Richard Norris and Joanne Dru, directed by A. Edward Sutherland. The 1946 version, produced by Bing Crosby, met with considerable published controversy.\n\nIt inspired the weekly NBC radio series, Abie's Irish Rose, which replaced \"Knickerbocker Playhouse\" and ran from January 24, 1942, through September 2, 1944. Faced with listener protests about its stereotyped ethnic portrayals, the radio series was cancelled in 1945. Nichols wrote the scripts. Axel Gruenbert and Joe Rines directed the cast that starred Richard Bond, Sydney Smith, Richard Coogan and Clayton \"Bud\" Collyer as Abie Levy. Betty Winkler, Mercedes McCambridge, Julie Stevens, Bernard Gorcey, and Marion Shockley portrayed Rosemary Levy. Solomon Levy was played by Alfred White, Charlie Cantor and Alan Reed.\n\nOthers in the radio cast: Walter Kinsella (as Patrick Murphy), Menasha Skulnik (Isaac Cohen), Anna Appel (Mrs. Cohen), Ann Thomas (Casey), Bill Adams (Father Whelan), Amanda Randolph (maid) and Dolores Gillenas (the Levys' twins). The announcer was Howard Petrie, and Joe Stopak provided the music. The opening theme music was \"My Wild Irish Rose\" by Chauncey Olcott.\n\nThe basic premise was extensively copied, and Anne Nichols sued one imitator, Universal Pictures, which produced \"The Cohens and Kellys\", a motion picture play about an Irish boy who marries a Jewish girl from feuding families. However, in \"Nichols v. Universal Pictures Corp.\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit found for the defendant, holding that copyright protection cannot be extended to the characteristics of stock characters in a story, whether it be a book, play or film.\n\nThe plot was ably summarized by Judge Learned Hand, in his opinion in the lawsuit:\n\nThere have been some variations of the plot in different versions of the play/film. Nichols' original Broadway play had the couple meeting in France during World War I, with the young man having been a soldier and the girl a nurse who had tended to him. In this version, the priest and the rabbi from the wedding are also veterans of the same war, and recognize one another from their time in the service.\n\nAlthough the play was a tremendous popular success, it was universally loathed by the critics. Robert Benchley, then the theatre critic for \"Life\" magazine, nursed a particular hatred for it. Part of Benchley's job was to write capsule reviews each week. \"Abie's Irish Rose\" he described variously as \"Something Awful\", \"Just about as low as good clean fun can get\", \"Showing that the Jews and the Irish crack equally old jokes\", \"The comic spirit of 1876\", \"People laugh at this every night, which explains why democracy can never be a success\", \"Will the Marines never come?\" and finally \"Hebrews 13:8,\" a Biblical passage that reads, “Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, and today, and forever.” He also held a contest for an outsider to contribute the capsule review, which Harpo Marx won with \"No worse than a bad cold.\" Lorenz Hart expressed the feeling of many in the theater world in these lines for \"Manhattan\": \"Our future babies we'll take to \"Abie's Irish Rose\" -- I hope they'll live to see it close.\" Writing in \"The New Yorker\" of its 1937 revival, Wolcott Gibbs said that \"it had, in fact, the rather eerie quality of a repeated nightmare; the one, perhaps, in which I always find myself in an old well, thick with bats, and can't get out.\"\n\nThe play was popular enough for its title to be referenced in a pun in the Marx Brothers film \"Animal Crackers\", in the lyrics of the Cole Porter song \"Ace in the Hole\", the Stephen Sondheim song \"I'm Still Here\", and the song \"The Legacy\" from the musical \"On the Twentieth Century\".\n\n\"Abie's Irish Rose\" prefigured the comedy of Stiller and Meara, a husband-and-wife team (Jerry Stiller and Anne Meara), who often spiked their routines with references to their differing backgrounds (Stiller is Jewish; Meara was of an Irish Catholic background but converted to Judaism later during their marriage).\n\nThe play also provided the central premise for the 1972–73 television series \"Bridget Loves Bernie\" (CBS), which starred Meredith Baxter and David Birney (who later became husband and wife in real life) in a kind-of reversal of \"Abie's Irish Rose\" in that Birney played struggling young Jewish cab driver/aspiring playwright Bernie Steinberg, whose parents ran a modest family delicatessen, and Baxter played Irish Catholic daughter of wealthy parents, Bridget Fitzgerald, who falls in love with and elopes with Steinberg to the disappointment of both sets of parents. (Although both actors were Protestant, the casting partially inverted real life, Birney being of Irish descent.) The show was attacked by a broad range of Jewish groups for allegedly promoting inter-faith marriage, and it was cancelled at the end of its first season, despite being the fifth-highest-rated serial of the 1972–1973 year on USA broadcast television.\n\nBut two decades later, with social attitudes changing in the USA, CBS would run another television series, \"Brooklyn Bridge\" (1991–1993), the quasi-autobiographical childhood memoir of its Jewish series creator, Gary David Goldberg, which featured a continuing romance between two main (teenage) characters, a Jewish boy and an Irish Catholic girl. It ran two seasons, with the sixth (two-part) episode of the first season, titled \"War of the Worlds\", exploring the tensions of this inter-faith relationship in its mid-1950s Brooklyn fictional setting. (Goldberg had previously created another quasi-autobiographical television series, \"Family Ties\", inspired by his adult life, in which the female lead, the alter-ego of his real-life Irish Catholic partner, had been portrayed by Meredith Baxter, the same actress who had starred in the ill-fated \"Bridget Loves Bernie\".)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21350938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21350938", "title": "Absolute (philosophy)", "text": "Absolute (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, the concept of The Absolute, also known as The (Unconditioned) Ultimate, The Wholly Other, The Supreme Being, The Absolute/Ultimate Reality, and other names, is the thing, being, entity, power, force, reality, presence, law, principle, etc. that possesses maximal ontological status, existential ranking, existential greatness, or existentiality. In layman's terms, this is the one that is, in one way or another, the greatest, truest, or most real being.\n\nThere are many conceptions of The Absolute in various fields and subjects, such as philosophy, religion, spiritual traditions, mathematics, and even natural science. The nature of these conceptions can range from \"merely\" encompassing all physical existence, nature, or reality, to being completely unconditioned existentially, transcending all concepts, notions, and types, kinds, and categories of being.\n\nThe Absolute is often thought of as causing to come into being manifestations that interact with lower or lesser forms of being. This is either done passively, through emanations, or actively, through avatars and incarnations. These existential manifestations, which themselves can possess transcendent attributes, only contain minuscule or infinitesimal portions of the true essence of The Absolute.\n\nThe term itself was not in use in ancient or medieval philosophy, but closely related to the description of God as \"Actus purus\" (Pure Actuality) in scholasticism. It was introduced in modern philosophy, notably by Hegel, for \"the sum of all being, actual and potential\".\nThe term has since also been adopted in perennial philosophy.\n\nThere are three general ways of conceiving the Absolute. The Absolute might be (1) the first and greatest being, (2) not a being at all but the \"ground\" of being, or (3) both the ground of being and a being.\n\nIn conception one the Absolute is the most true and intelligible reality. It can be spoken of and known. For example, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's Absolute Spirit is the most true reality. It is thinkable, speakable, and exists in the objective world by comprehending everything, including people, states, and world history.\n\nIn conception two the Absolute might be conceived of as utterly outside of all other reality and hence unintelligible. It cannot be known or spoken about. Plato's Socrates says that \"The Form of the Good\" is \"beyond being\", implying that it is even beyond thought, language, and normal categories of existence.\n\nSt. John of the Cross says:\nIn conception three the Absolute is seen as transcending duality and distinction. This concept of a fundamental reality that transcends or includes all other reality is usually (but not always) associated with divinity. While this conception initially seems contradictory, it has been highly influential. One way to understand this third conception is to consider the \"Tao Te Ching\".\n\nThese opening lines distinguish between two Taos. One is the \"eternal Tao\" (which cannot be named or explained) and the other \"Tao\" seems to exist in space and time (and can be named and explained). The eternal Tao is beyond existence and cannot be named or fully understood, while the other Tao exists and can be known. The eternal Tao is infinite; the other is finite. The eternal Tao is formless; the other is formed. The eternal Tao is transcendent; the other is immanent. The other \"Tao\" is an attempt to describe the \"eternal Tao\" in human terms; but such effort can never express the eternal Tao fully. He continues:\nIn these lines, he further discusses the difference between the two Taos. The eternal Tao is \"nameless\" and is the origin of Heaven and Earth; this origin can be understood as an underlying metaphysics that cannot be described fully. The \"named\" Tao, on the other hand, is able to describe specific phenomenons that exist in space and time, hence it is the mother of myriad of things; it also can be treated as the humanly conceived concepts in the effort to describe our physical world. Later, he points out that both the \"named\" and the \"nameless\" emerge together from the same eternal Tao. This seemingly self-contradictory unity, of course, is said to be the mystery to be understood.\n\nOne or more of these three conceptions of the Absolute can be found in various other religions or philosophies. The following is a list of concepts of divine or absolute reality:\n\nWhile these conceptions are superficially similar, they admit of multiple interpretations. Some philosophers, especially perennialists and pantheist philosophers, find great significance in the similarities between these different words and argue that various/all cultures past and present have an identical concept of the 'Absolute'.\n\nOther philosophers, however, argue that these concepts are not the same, since the Logos is rational and formal whereas Brahman is formless and irrational; and since Plato's Form of the Good is impersonal where the Christian God is personal; since Bradley's Absolute is a conscious experience whereas Brand Blanshard's Absolute is an unconscious, intelligible system.\n\nPerennialist philosophers such as John Hick argue that even if the concepts vary slightly, the reality of the Absolute reality behind the varying concepts is the same.\n\nPhilosophers such as Adi Shankara denied the Absolute any personal sense, whereas philosophers such as Ramanuja and Madhva, tended to identify the Absolute with a personal God. The Traditionalist School, via Frithjof Schuon, admits:It is true that God as creator, revealer, and savior is not to be identified with the Absolute as such; it is likewise true that God in Himself, in the full depth of His reality, is not to be reduced to the creative Function.Early Hinduism identified Brahman with Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. The same immortal spirit was conceived of as functional in the world in three ways: creation, preservation, and destruction. There was therefore no real contradiction between love of a personal God and an impersonal Absolute, although the latter was sometimes conceived of as \"purer.\"\n\nShaivism, and most monotheistic Indian religions, gave God five functions: creation, preservation, destruction, concealment, and revelation. Shiva, as Brahman, would therefore act in the world as a personal God. Yet this distinction between the Absolute and Infinite, or Transcendent and Immanent is not entirely, in itself, absolute. Philosophers like Shankara believe that upon doing away with maya the entire universe disappears, including the notion of a personal God. Philosophers such as Madhva and Ramanuja, tend to propound an identification of the Absolute with God, whereas later philosophers such as Nimbarka and Caitanya, tended to identify the Absolute with a personal form of God (Krishna). Either way, all these claims, taken in context, tend to prove non-contradictory.\n\nThe quote above, via Schuon, is actually fully represented within the Hindu tradition. Brahma, the creator god, is not worshiped within Hinduism. The only deities that are worshiped, are Shiva, and Vishnu. Both Shiva and Vishnu, by their respective devotees, are represented as having power over the following five functions: creation, preservation, destruction, concealment, and revelation. However, a further distinction is made by Shankara: God is not Brahman (the Absolute). Rather the appearance of God is still via the power of Maya. So there are in effect, three levels, which Schuon himself observes: Brahman (the Absolute), God as creator, revealer, and savior (AKA, Shiva or Vishnu), and finally God as creator (AKA, Brahma). Incidental reasons are given for Brahma's lack of worship, a Hindu myth attributes this situation to a curse by Bhrigu. Devdutt Pattanaik, an Indian author, gives some philosophical reasons. Ultimately the reason is actually inherent (\"inherent\" in the Absolute) and theological.\n\nLaozi taught that the Tao was not only the ultimate reality but the ideal of human life. Another conceptual similarity between various conceptions is that the ultimate reality also somehow reveals to humans the way to live. For example, Plato taught that the Good was both the source of reality, the highest object of knowledge, and the ultimate end of desire.\n\nC. S. Lewis explains the connection between the highest reality and human action in this way:\nI. K. Taimni says:\nAldous Huxley says:\nSimilarly, the Hindu Taimni describes the Parabrahman as unknowable by the human mind and unthinkable but the highest object of realization and the most profound object of philosophical enquiry.\n\nPlotinus likewise taught that the goal of philosophy was to \"contemplate the One\".\n\nPhilosophers and religious adherents who aim to pattern their life after the Absolute reality sometimes claim to have experienced the Absolute. They report mystical experiences, feelings of oneness, transcendence of their everyday personality or of personhood altogether.\n\nThe Absolute is conceptually defined as something inexpressible and perhaps unthinkable. This concept creates special problems for expression in words, poetry, mythology, and art. Writers, painters, storytellers, filmmakers often use paradox or contradiction because of the \"contradictory aspect of the ultimate reality\".\n\nAccording to Mircea Eliade, the Absolute can be mediated or revealed through symbols. For Eliade the \"archaic\" mind is constantly aware of the presence of the Sacred, and for this mind all symbols are religious (relinking to the Origin). Through symbols human beings can get an immediate \"intuition\" of certain features of the inexhaustible Sacred. The mind makes use of images to grasp the ultimate reality of things because reality manifests itself in contradictory ways and therefore can't be described in concepts. It is therefore the image as such, as a whole bundle of meaning, that is \"true\" (faithful, trustworthy). Eliade says :\n\n...the \"sacred\" is equivalent to a \"power\", and, in the last analysis, to \"reality\". The sacred is saturated with \"being\". Sacred power means reality and at the same time enduringness and efficacy. The polarity sacred-profane is often expressed as opposition between real and \"unreal\" or pseudoreal. \"[...]\" Thus it is easy to understand that religious man deeply desires \"to be\", to participate in \"reality\", to be saturated with power.Common symbols of the Absolute include world trees, the tree of life, microcosm, fire, children, circles, mandalas, and the human body.\n\n"}
{"id": "5795655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795655", "title": "Academic study of new religious movements", "text": "Academic study of new religious movements\n\nThe academic study of new religious movements is known as new religions studies' (NRS).\nThe study draws from the disciplines of anthropology, psychiatry, history, psychology, sociology, religious studies, and theology. Eileen Barker noted that there five sources of information on new religious movements (NRMs): the information provided by such groups themselves, that provided by ex-members as well as the friends and relatives of members, organisations that collect information on NRMs, the mainstream media, and academics studying such phenomena.\n\nThe study of new religions is unified by its topic of interest, rather than by its methodology, and is therefore interdisciplinary in nature. A sizeable body of scholarly literature on new religions has been published, most of it produced by social scientists. Among the disciplines that NRS uses are anthropology, history, psychology, religious studies, and sociology. Of these approaches, sociology played a particularly prominent role in the development of the field, resulting in it being initially confined largely to a narrow array of sociological questions. This came to change in later scholarship, which began to apply theories and methods initially developed for examining more mainstream religions to the study of new ones.\n\nThe majority of research has been directed toward those new religions which have attracted a greater deal of public controversy; less controversial NRMs have tended to be the subject of less scholarly research. It has also been noted that scholars of new religions have often avoided researching certain movements which tend instead to be studied by scholars from other backgrounds; the feminist spirituality movement is usually examined by scholars of women's studies, African-American new religions by scholars of Africana studies, and Native American new religions by scholars of Native American studies.\n\nIn Japan, the academic study of new religions appeared in the years following the Second World War. In the 1960s American sociologist John Lofland lived with Unification Church missionary Young Oon Kim and a small group of American church members in California and studied their activities in trying to promote their beliefs and win new members. Lofland noted that most of their efforts were ineffective and that most of the people who joined did so because of personal relationships with other members, often family relationships. Lofland published his findings in 1964 as a doctoral thesis entitled: 'The World Savers: A Field Study of Cult Processes', and in 1966 in book form by Prentice-Hall as \"\". It is considered to be one of the most important and widely cited studies of the process of religious conversion, as well as one of the first sociological studies of a new religious movement.\n\nIn Western nations the study of new religions became a distinct field in the 1970s; prior to this, new religions had been examined from varying perspectives, with Pentecostalism for instance being studied by church historians and cargo cults by anthropologists. This Western academic study of new religions emerged in response to growing public concerns regarding the emergence of various NRMs during the 1970s. By the latter part of that decade, increasing numbers of papers on new religions were being presented at the annual conferences of the American Academy of Religion, Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, and the Association for the Sociology of Religion. The manner in which the scholarly study of new religions rose to prominence due to the public perception that these movements were social threats bore similarities with the manner in which Islamic studies grew in Western nations following the September 11 attacks in 2001. The study of new religions would only be fully embraced by the Western religious studies establishment in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1988, the charity INFORM (Information Network Focus on Religious Movements) was established by Barker, who was then a professor of sociology at the London School of Economics. The organisation was supported by the UK Home Office and the British established churches and was designed to conduct research and disseminate accurate information about new religions.\nBarker established INFORM due to her \"conviction that a great deal of unnecessary suffering has resulted from ignorance of the nature and characteristics of the current wave of [NRMs] in the West.\"\nAlso in 1988, the Italian scholar Massimo Introvigne established CESNUR (Centre for Studies on New Religions) in Turin; it brought together academics studying NRMs in both Europe and North America. In the United States, CESNUR gained representation through the Institute for the Study of American Religion in Santa Barbara, California, which was directed by J. Gordon Melton.\n\nScholars of new religion often operate in a politicised environment given that their research can be cited in legal briefs and judicial decisions regarding NRMs. In Barker's view, academic research into NRMs had practical applications in dealing with the problems that people experience with regard to NRMs. It can, for example, provide accurate information about a particular religious movement that can help guide an individual's reactions to the group; \"an awareness of the complexity of a situation might help people to avoid precipitous actions that would later have been regretted.\" However, given that scholars of new religions often reject the stereotypes about \"cults\" promoted by the anti-cultist movements, they have often been criticised by proponents of the latter. Anti-cult groups have sometimes criticised scholarly groups such as these, claiming that they uncritically believe what NRMs tell them, that they are pro-NRM, or that they ignore the issues raised by ex-members. They sometimes have accused academic researchers of being \"cult apologists\".\n\nInclusion in this list assumes having both the requisite training as well as actually conducting at least one research study on cults and/or new religious movements (using accepted methodological standards common in the research community), published in a peer-reviewed journal or academic book.\n"}
{"id": "1194689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1194689", "title": "American Academy of Religion", "text": "American Academy of Religion\n\nThe American Academy of Religion (AAR) is the world's largest association of scholars in the field of religious studies and related topics. It is a nonprofit member association, \nserving as a professional and learned society for scholars involved in the academic study of religion. It has some 10,000 members worldwide, with the largest concentration being in the United States and Canada. AAR members are university and college professors, independent scholars, secondary teachers, clergy, seminarians, students, and interested lay-people.\n\nAAR was founded in 1909 as the Association of Biblical Instructors in American Colleges and Secondary Schools. The name was changed to National Association of Biblical Instructors (NABI) in 1933. The American Academy of Religion was adopted as the organization name in 1963 to reflect its broader, inclusive mission to foster the academic study of all religions. Over its long history, AAR has broadened its scope to reflect contemporary values of its membership, such as responding to feminist scholarship and women in religion, increased attention to religions beyond Christianity, differentiation between theology and/or religious reflection within the academic study of religion as a cultural/historical/political phenomenon, and engagement with the public understanding of religion. Presidents of the AAR have included well-known scholars such as Judith Plaskow, Mark Juergensmeyer, Wendy Doniger, Emilie Townes, Peter J. Paris, Rebecca Chopp, and Elizabeth A. Clark.\n\nOxford University Press publishes \"Journal of the American Academy of Religion\" on behalf of the AAR. \"Religious Studies News\" is the quarterly newspaper of record for the organization; it transitioned from a print to online-only publication in 2010. AAR published the online book review Reading Religion. AAR publishes five book series through Oxford University Press: Academy; Reflection and Theory in the Study of Religion; Religion, Culture, and Theory; Religion in Translation; and Teaching Religious Studies. AAR presents awards each year to notable books in the study of religion. It offers three categories of Awards for Excellence: Analytical-Descriptive Studies, Historical Studies, and Constructive-Reflective Studies.\n\nAAR hosts an Annual Meeting each year in November. The AAR Annual Meeting is the world's largest meeting for religious studies scholars. Over 400 events, including meetings, receptions, and academic sessions, occur on the AAR program alone; hundreds more, hosted by affiliated societies and institutions, occur over the course of the meeting. Some 10,000 people attend the AAR Annual Meeting; the location of the meeting changes each year. The AAR Annual Meeting program is developed entirely by volunteers involved in program units representing disciplines and sub-disciplines within the field.\n\nAAR offers activities on a regional level for its members. Professional development resources such as research grants, career services, and scholarships are some of the member benefits. AAR also advocates the importance of the critical study of religion on institutional and national levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "241787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241787", "title": "Animatism", "text": "Animatism\n\nAnimatism is a term coined by British anthropologist Robert Marett to refer to \"a belief in a generalized, impersonal power over which people have some measure of control\". Marett argues that certain cultures believe \"people, animals, plants, and inanimate objects were endowed with certain powers, which were both impersonal and supernatural.\" \"Mana\", Marett states, is a concentrated form of animatistic force found within any of these objects that confer power, strength, and success.\n\n"}
{"id": "3308034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3308034", "title": "Argument from miracles", "text": "Argument from miracles\n\nThe argument from miracles is an argument for the existence of God that relies on the belief that events witnessed and described as miracles – i.e. as events not explicable by natural or scientific laws – indicate the intervention of the supernatural.\n\nOne example of this argument is the Christological argument: the claim that historical evidence proves that Jesus Christ rose from the dead and that this can only be explained if God exists. Another is the claim that many of the Qur'an's prophecies have been fulfilled and that this too can only be explained if God (Allah) exists.\n\nDefenders of the argument include C. S. Lewis, G. K. Chesterton and William of Ockham.\n\nOne counter-argument to the argument from miracles is the argument from inconsistent revelations, which states that multiple incompatible miracles are alleged to have occurred which provide evidence for different religions. Not all these can be correct.\n\nAnother counter-argument is Occam's razor, which can be used to argue that God is unnecessary to explain miracles for which natural explanations can be found. In his documentary \"The Root of All Evil?\", British evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins utilises this argument when examining the supposed miracles in Lourdes, France. According to Catholic theology, supernatural cures occur in the area, but Dawkins expresses doubts as to their divine nature, noting that all the recorded cures comprise diseases which may have healed by themselves without the need for divine intervention.\n\nModern theologians rely on the arguments by David Hume, an eighteenth-century Scottish philosopher, who is known today for his skepticism and naturalism. Before making any claims, Hume explains the principle of evidence: the only way that we can assess the credibility of two claims is by weighing evidence. According to him, because evidence for miracles is always limited, we do not have a reason to believe in them. \n\n\n Hume on Miracles\n"}
{"id": "44651411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44651411", "title": "Burkitt Medal", "text": "Burkitt Medal\n\nThe Burkitt Medal is awarded annually by the British Academy \"in recognition of special service to Biblical Studies\". Awards alternate between Hebrew Bible studies (odd years) and New Testament studies (even years). It was established in 1923 and has been awarded to many notable theologians. It is named in honour of Francis Crawford Burkitt.\n\nThe first recipient of the Burkitt medal was R. H. Charles (1925). Below is a full list of recipients:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50522600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50522600", "title": "Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life", "text": "Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life\n\nThe Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life is a research centre on the University of Alberta's Augustana Campus in Camrose, Alberta. It is the first such centre in a public university in Canada to focus on the intersection of religion and public life.\n\nThe Ronning Centre is named in for Chester Alvin Ronning, Canadian diplomat and principal of Camrose Lutheran College from 1927 to 1942. The Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life grew from the merger of Augustana University College with the University of Alberta in 2004. The Centre's activities involve a diversity of communities. It seeks to enhance debate on contested issues through lively discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "32516987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32516987", "title": "Christian culture", "text": "Christian culture\n\nChristian culture is the cultural practices common to Christianity. With the rapid expansion of Christianity to Europe, Syria, Mesopotamia, Asia Minor, Egypt, Ethiopia, and India and by the end of the 4th century it had also become the official state church of the Roman Empire. Christian culture has influenced and assimilated much from the Greco-Roman Byzantine, Western culture, Middle Eastern, Slavic, Caucasian, and possibly from Indian.\n\nWestern culture, throughout most of its history, has been nearly equivalent to Christian culture, and many of the population of the Western hemisphere could broadly be described as cultural Christians. The notion of \"Europe\" and the \"Western World\" has been intimately connected with the concept of \"Christianity and Christendom\" many even attribute Christianity for being the link that created a unified European identity. Historian Paul Legutko of Stanford University said the Catholic Church is \"at the center of the development of the values, ideas, science, laws, and institutions which constitute what we call Western civilization.\"\n\nThough Western culture contained several polytheistic religions during its early years under the Greek and Roman Empires, as the centralized Roman power waned, the dominance of the Catholic Church was the only consistent force in Western Europe. Until the Age of Enlightenment, Christian culture guided the course of philosophy, literature, art, music and science. Christian disciplines of the respective arts have subsequently developed into Christian philosophy, Christian art, Christian music, Christian literature etc. Art and literature, law, education, and politics were preserved in the teachings of the Church, in an environment that, otherwise, would have probably seen their loss. The Church founded many cathedrals, universities, monasteries and seminaries, some of which continue to exist today. Medieval Christianity created the first modern universities. The Catholic Church established a hospital system in Medieval Europe that vastly improved upon the Roman \"valetudinaria\". These hospitals were established to cater to \"particular social groups marginalized by poverty, sickness, and age,\" according to historian of hospitals, Guenter Risse. Christianity also had a strong impact on all other aspects of life: marriage and family, education, the humanities and sciences, the political and social order, the economy, and the arts.\n\nChristianity had a significant impact on education and science and medicine as the church created the bases of the Western system of education, and was the sponsor of founding universities in the Western world as the university is generally regarded as an institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian setting. Many clerics throughout history have made significant contributions to science and Jesuits in particular have made numerous significant contributions to the development of science. The cultural influence of Christianity includes social welfare, founding hospitals, economics (as the Protestant work ethic), natural law (which would later influence the creation of international law), politics, architecture, literature, personal hygiene, and family life. Christianity played a role in ending practices common among pagan societies, such as human sacrifice, slavery, infanticide and polygamy. \n\nChristians have made a myriad contributions to human progress in a broad and diverse range of fields, both historically and in modern times, including the science and technology, medicine, fine arts and architecture, politics, literatures, music, philanthropy, philosophy, ethics, theatre and business. According to \"100 Years of Nobel Prizes\" a review of Nobel prizes award between 1901 and 2000 reveals that (65.4%) of Nobel Prizes Laureates, have identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference. Eastern Christians (particularly Nestorian Christians) have also contributed to the Arab Islamic Civilization during the Ummayad and the Abbasid periods by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. They also excelled in philosophy, science, theology and medicine.\n\nCultural Christians are secular people with a Christian heritage who may not believe in the religious claims of Christianity, but who retain an affinity for the popular culture, art, music, and so on related to it. Another frequent application of the term is to distinguish political groups in areas of mixed religious backgrounds\n\nThe architecture of cathedrals, basilicas and abbey churches is characterised by the buildings' large scale and follows one of several branching traditions of form, function and style that all ultimately derive from the Early Christian architectural traditions established in the Constantinian period.\n\nCathedrals in particular, as well as many abbey churches and basilicas, have certain complex structural forms that are found less often in parish churches. They also tend to display a higher level of contemporary architectural style and the work of accomplished craftsmen, and occupy a status both ecclesiastical and social that an ordinary parish church does not have. Such a cathedral or great church is generally one of the finest buildings within its region and is a focus of local pride. Many cathedrals and basilicas, and a number of abbey churches are among the world's most renowned works of architecture. These include St. Peter's Basilica, Notre Dame de Paris, Cologne Cathedral, Salisbury Cathedral, Prague Cathedral, Lincoln Cathedral, the Basilica of St Denis, the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore, the Basilica of San Vitale, St Mark's Basilica, Westminster Abbey, Saint Basil's Cathedral, Washington National Cathedral, Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Cathedral Basilica of Saint Louis, Gaudí's incomplete Sagrada Familia and the ancient church of Hagia Sophia, now a museum.\n\nThe earliest large churches date from Late Antiquity. As Christianity and the construction of churches and cathedrals spread throughout the world, their manner of building was dependent upon local materials and local techniques. Different styles of architecture developed and their fashion spread, carried by the establishment of monastic orders, by the posting of bishops from one region to another and by the travelling of master stonemasons who served as architects. The styles of the great church buildings are successively known as Early Christian, Byzantine, Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque, various Revival styles of the late 18th to early 20th centuries and Modern. Overlaid on each of the academic styles are the regional characteristics. Some of these characteristics are so typical of a particular country or region that they appear, regardless of style, in the architecture of churches designed many centuries apart.\n\nChristian art is sacred art which uses themes and imagery from Christianity. Most Christian groups use or have used art to some extent, although some have had strong objections to some forms of religious image, and there have been major periods of iconoclasm within Christianity.\n\nImages of Jesus and narrative scenes from the \"Life of Christ\" are the most common subjects, and scenes from the Old Testament play a part in the art of most denominations. Images of the Virgin Mary and saints are much rarer in Protestant art than that of Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nChristianity makes far wider use of images than related religions, in which figurative representations are forbidden, such as Islam and Judaism. However, there is also a considerable history of aniconism in Christianity from various periods.\n\nAn illuminated manuscript is a manuscript in which the text is supplemented by the addition of decoration. The earliest surviving substantive illuminated manuscripts are from the period AD 400 to 600, primarily produced in Ireland, Constantinople and Italy. The majority of surviving manuscripts are from the Middle Ages, although many illuminated manuscripts survive from the 15th century Renaissance, along with a very limited number from Late Antiquity.\n\nMost illuminated manuscripts were created as codices, which had superseded scrolls; some isolated single sheets survive. A very few illuminated manuscript fragments survive on papyrus. Most medieval manuscripts, illuminated or not, were written on parchment (most commonly of calf, sheep, or goat skin), but most manuscripts important enough to illuminate were written on the best quality of parchment, called vellum, traditionally made of unsplit calfskin, though high quality parchment from other skins was also called \"parchment\".\n\nChristian art began, about two centuries after Christ, by borrowing motifs from Roman Imperial imagery, classical Greek and Roman religion and popular art. Religious images are used to some extent by the Abrahamic Christian faith, and often contain highly complex iconography, which reflects centuries of accumulated tradition. In the Late Antique period iconography began to be standardised, and to relate more closely to Biblical texts, although many gaps in the canonical Gospel narratives were plugged with matter from the apocryphal gospels. Eventually the Church would succeed in weeding most of these out, but some remain, like the ox and ass in the Nativity of Christ.\n\nAn icon is a religious work of art, most commonly a painting, from Orthodox Christianity. Christianity has used symbolism from its very beginnings. In both East and West, numerous iconic types of Christ, Mary and saints and other subjects were developed; the number of named types of icons of Mary, with or without the infant Christ, was especially large in the East, whereas Christ Pantocrator was much the commonest image of Christ.\n\nChristian symbolism invests objects or actions with an inner meaning expressing Christian ideas. Christianity has borrowed from the common stock of significant symbols known to most periods and to all regions of the world. Religious symbolism is effective when it appeals to both the intellect and the emotions. Especially important depictions of Mary include the Hodegetria and Panagia types. Traditional models evolved for narrative paintings, including large cycles covering the events of the Life of Christ, the Life of the Virgin, parts of the Old Testament, and, increasingly, the lives of popular saints. Especially in the West, a system of attributes developed for identifying individual figures of saints by a standard appearance and symbolic objects held by them; in the East they were more likely to identified by text labels.\n\nEach saint has a story and a reason why he or she led an exemplary life. Symbols have been used to tell these stories throughout the history of the Church. A number of Christian saints are traditionally represented by a symbol or iconic motif associated with their life, termed an attribute or emblem, in order to identify them. The study of these forms part of iconography in Art history.\n\nThe dedication of Constantinople as capital in 330 AD created a great new Christian artistic centre for the Eastern Roman Empire, which soon became a separate political unit. Major Constantinopolitan churches built under Constantine and his son, Constantius II, included the original foundations of Hagia Sophia and the Church of the Holy Apostles. As the Western Roman Empire disintegrated and was taken over by \"barbarian\" peoples, the art of the Byzantine Empire reached levels of sophistication, power and artistry not previously seen in Christian art, and set the standards for those parts of the West still in touch with Constantinople.\n\nThis achievement was checked by the controversy over the use of \"graven images\", and the proper interpretation of the Second Commandment, which led to the crisis of Iconoclasm or destruction of religious images, which racked the Empire between 726 and 843. The restoration of Orthodoxy resulted in a strict standardization of religious imagery within the Eastern Church. Byzantine art became increasingly conservative, as the form of images themselves, many accorded divine origin or thought to have been be painted by Saint Luke or other figures, was held to have a status not far off that of a scriptural text. They could be copied, but not improved upon. As a concession to Iconoclast sentiment, monumental religious sculpture was effectively banned. Neither of these attitudes were held in Western Europe, but Byzantine art nonetheless had great influence there until the High Middle Ages, and remained very popular long after that, with vast numbers of icons of the Cretan School exported to Europe as late as the Renaissance. Where possible, Byzantine artists were borrowed for projects such as mosaics in Venice and Palermo. The enigmatic frescoes at Castelseprio may be an example of work by a Greek artist working in Italy.\n\nThe art of Eastern Catholicism has always been rather closer to the Orthodox art of Greece and Russia, and in countries near the Orthodox world, notably Poland, Catholic art has many Orthodox influences. The Black Madonna of Częstochowa may well have been of Byzantine origin – it has been repainted and this is hard to tell. Other images that are certainly of Greek origin, like the Salus Populi Romani and Our Lady of Perpetual Help, both icons in Rome, have been subjects of specific veneration for centuries.\n\nAlthough the influence has often been resisted, especially in Russia, Catholic art has also affected Orthodox depictions in many respects, especially in countries like Romania, and in the post-Byzantine Cretan School, which led Greek Orthodox art under Venetian rule in the 15th and 16th centuries. El Greco left Crete when relatively young, but Michael Damaskinos returned after a brief period in Venice, and was able to switch between Italian and Greek styles. Even the traditionalist Theophanes the Cretan, working mainly on Mount Athos, nevertheless shows unmistakable Western influence.\n\nMany Eastern Orthodox states in Eastern Europe, as well as to some degree the Muslim states of the eastern Mediterranean, preserved many aspects of the empire's culture and art for centuries afterward. A number of states contemporary with the Byzantine Empire were culturally influenced by it, without actually being part of it (the \"Byzantine commonwealth\"). These included Bulgaria, Serbia, and the Rus, as well as some non-Orthodox states like the Republic of Venice and the Kingdom of Sicily, which had close ties to the Byzantine Empire despite being in other respects part of western European culture. Art produced by Eastern Orthodox Christians living in the Ottoman Empire is often called \"post-Byzantine.\" Certain artistic traditions that originated in the Byzantine Empire, particularly in regard to icon painting and church architecture, are maintained in Greece, Serbia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Russia and other Eastern Orthodox countries to the present day.\n\nRoman Catholic art consists of all visual works produced in an attempt to illustrate, supplement and portray in tangible form the teachings of the Catholic Church. This includes sculpture, painting, mosaics, metalwork, embroidery and even architecture. Catholic art has played a leading role in the history and development of Western Art since at least the fourth century. The principal subject matter of Catholic Art has been the life and times of Jesus Christ, along with those of his disciples, the saints, and the events of the Jewish Old Testament.\n\nThe earliest surviving art works are the painted frescoes on the walls of the catacombs and meeting houses of the persecuted Christians of the Roman Empire. The Christian Church in Rome was influenced by the Roman style of art and the religious Christian artists of the time. The stone sarcophagi of Roman Christians exhibit the earliest surviving carved statuary of Jesus, Mary and other biblical figures. The legalisation of Christianity transformed Catholic art, which adopted richer forms such as mosaics and illuminated manuscripts. The iconoclasm controversy briefly divided the eastern and western churches, after which artistic development progressed in separate directions. Romanesque and Gothic art flowered in the Western Church as the style of painting and statuary moved in an increasingly naturalistic direction. The Protestant Reformation produced new waves of image-destruction, to which the Church responded with the dramatic and emotive Baroque and Rococo styles. In the 19th century the leadership in western art moved away from the Catholic Church which, after embracing historical revivalism was increasingly affected by the modernist movement, a movement that in its \"rebellion\" against nature, counters the Church's emphasis on nature as a good creation of God.\n\nRenaissance artists such as Raphael, Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Bernini, Botticelli, Fra Angelico, Tintoretto, Caravaggio, and Titian, were among a multitude of innovative virtuosos sponsored by the Church.\n\nBritish art historian Kenneth Clark wrote that Western Europe's first \"great age of civilisation\" was ready to begin around the year 1000. From 1100, he wrote, monumental abbeys and cathedrals were constructed and decorated with sculptures, hangings, mosaics and works belonging one of the greatest epochs of art and providing stark contrast to the monotonous and cramped conditions of ordinary living during the period. Abbot Suger of the Abbey of St. Denis is considered an influential early patron of Gothic architecture and believed that love of beauty brought people closer to God: \"The dull mind rises to truth through that which is material\". Clarke calls this \"the intellectual background of all the sublime works of art of the next century and in fact has remained the basis of our belief of the value of art until today\".\n\nLater, during The Renaissance and Counter-Reformation, Catholic artists produced many of the unsurpassed masterpieces of Western art – often inspired by Biblical themes: from Michelangelo's \"David\" and \"Pietà\" sculptures, to Da Vinci's \"Last Supper\" and Raphael's various \"Madonna\" paintings. Referring to a \"great outburst of creative energy such as took place in Rome between 1620 and 1660\", Kenneth Clarke wrote:\n\n[W]ith a single exception, the great artists of the time were all sincere, conforming Christians. Guercino spent much of his mornings in prayer; Bernini frequently went into retreats and practised the Spiritual Exercises of Saint Ignatius; Rubens attended Mass every morning before beginning work. The exception was Caravaggio, who was like the hero of a modern play, except that he happened to paint very well.\n\nThis conformism was not based on fear of the Inquisition, but on the perfectly simple belief that the faith which had inspired the great saints of the preceding generation was something by which a man should regulate his life.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation during the 16th century in Europe almost entirely rejected the existing tradition of Catholic art, and very often destroyed as much of it as it could reach. A new artistic tradition developed, producing far smaller quantities of art that followed Protestant agendas and diverged drastically from the southern European tradition and the humanist art produced during the High Renaissance. In turn, the Catholic Counter-Reformation both reacted against and responded to Protestant criticisms of art in Roman Catholicism to produce a more stringent style of Catholic art. Protestant religious art both embraced Protestant values and assisted in the proliferation of Protestantism, but the amount of religious art produced in Protestant countries was hugely reduced. Artists in Protestant countries diversified into secular forms of art like history painting, landscape painting, portrait painting and still life.\n\nProminent painters with Protestant background were, for example, Albrecht Dürer, Hans Holbein the Younger, Lucas Cranach, Rembrandt, and Vincent van Gogh. World literature was enriched by the works of Edmund Spenser, John Milton, John Bunyan, John Donne, John Dryden, Daniel Defoe, William Wordsworth, Jonathan Swift, Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Friedrich Schiller, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Edgar Allan Poe, Matthew Arnold, Conrad Ferdinand Meyer, Theodor Fontane, Washington Irving, Robert Browning, Emily Dickinson, Emily Brontë, Charles Dickens, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Thomas Stearns Eliot, John Galsworthy, Thomas Mann, William Faulkner, John Updike, and many others.\n\nChristian music is music that has been written to express either personal or a communal belief regarding Christian life and faith. Common themes of Christian music include praise, worship, penitence, and lament, and its forms vary widely across the world.\n\nLike other forms of music the creation, performance, significance, and even the definition of Christian music varies according to culture and social context. Christian music is composed and performed for many purposes, ranging from aesthetic pleasure, religious or ceremonial purposes, or as an entertainment product for the marketplace.\n\nIn music, Catholic monks developed the first forms of modern Western musical notation in order to standardize liturgy throughout the worldwide Church, and an enormous body of religious music has been composed for it through the ages. This led directly to the emergence and development of European classical music, and its many derivatives. The Baroque style, which encompassed music, art, and architecture, was particularly encouraged by the post-Reformation Catholic Church as such forms offered a means of religious expression that was stirring and emotional, intended to stimulate religious fervor.\n\nThe list of Catholic composers and Catholic sacred music which have a prominent place in Western culture is extensive, but includes Ludwig van Beethoven's \"Ode to Joy\"; Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's \"Ave verum corpus\"; Franz Schubert's \"Ave Maria\", César Franck's \"Panis angelicus\", and Antonio Vivaldi's \"Gloria\".\n\nMartin Luther, Paul Gerhardt, George Wither, Isaac Watts, Charles Wesley, William Cowper, and many other authors and composers created well-known church hymns. Musicians like Heinrich Schütz, Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frederick Handel, Henry Purcell, Johannes Brahms, and Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy composed great works of music.\n\nChristian literature is writing that deals with Christian themes and incorporates the Christian world view. This constitutes a huge body of extremely varied writing. Christian poetry is any poetry that contains Christian teachings, themes, or references. The influence of Christianity on poetry has been great in any area that Christianity has taken hold. Christian poems often directly reference the Bible, while others provide allegory.\n\nWhile falling within the strict definition of literature, the Bible is not generally considered literature. However, the Bible has been treated and appreciated as literature; the Bible is a corner stone of Western civilization. The King James Version in particular has long been considered a masterpiece of English prose, whatever may be thought of its religious significance. The Authorized Version has been called \"the most influential version of the most influential book in the world, in what is now its most influential language\", \"the most important book in English religion and culture\", and \"the most celebrated book in the English-speaking world\". David Crystal has estimated that it is responsible for 257 idioms in English, examples include feet of clay and reap the whirlwind. Furthermore, prominent atheist figures such as the late Christopher Hitchens and Richard Dawkins have praised the King James Version as being \"a giant step in the maturing of English literature\" and \"a great work of literature\", respectively, with Dawkins then adding, \"A native speaker of English who has never read a word of the King James Bible is verging on the barbarian\". Several retellings of the Bible, or parts of the Bible, have also been made with the aim of emphasising its literary qualities. With estimated sales of over 5 billion copies, the Bible is widely considered to be the best-selling book of all time. It sells approximately 100 million copies annually, and has been a major influence on literature and history, especially in the West, where the Gutenberg Bible was the first book printed using movable type.\n\nIn Byzantine literature, four different cultural elements are recognised: the Greek, the Christian, the Roman, and the Oriental. Byzantine literature is often classified in five groups: historians and annalists, encyclopaedists (Patriarch Photios, Michael Psellus, and Michael Choniates are regarded as the greatest encyclopaedists of Byzantium) and essayists, and writers of secular poetry. The only genuine heroic epic of the Byzantines is the \"Digenis Acritas\". The remaining two groups include the new literary species: ecclesiastical and theological literature, and popular poetry. And it was in Alexandria that Graeco-Oriental Christianity had its birth. There the Septuagint translation had been made; there that that fusion of Greek philosophy and Jewish religion took place which culminated in Philo; there flourished the mystic speculative Neoplatonism associated with Plotinus and Porphyry. At Alexandria the great Greek ecclesiastical writers worked alongside pagan rhetoricians and philosophers; several were born here, e.g. Origen, Athanasius, and his opponent Arius, also Cyril and Synesius. On Egyptian soil monasticism began and thrived. After Alexandria, Antioch held great prestige, where a school of Christian commentators flourished under St. John Chrysostom and where later arose the Christian universal chronicles. In surrounding Syria, we find the germs of Greek ecclesiastical poetry, while from neighboring Palestine came St. John of Damascus, one of the Greek Fathers.\n\nThe list of Catholic authors and literary works is vast. With a literary tradition spanning two millennia, the Bible and Papal Encyclicals have been constants of the Catholic canon but countless other historical works may be listed as noteworthy in terms of their influence on Western society. From late Antiquity, St Augustine's book Confessions, which outlines his sinful youth and conversion to Christianity, is widely considered to be the first autobiography of ever written in the canon of Western Literature. Augustine profoundly influenced the coming medieval worldview. The \"Summa Theologica\", written 1265–1274, is the best-known work of Thomas Aquinas (c.1225–1274), and although unfinished, \"one of the classics of the history of philosophy and one of the most influential works of Western literature.\" It is intended as a manual for beginners in theology and a compendium of all of the main theological teachings of the Church. It presents the reasoning for almost all points of Christian theology in the West. The epic poetry of the Italian Dante and his \"Divine Comedy\" of the late Middle Ages is also considered immensely influential. The English statesman and philosopher, Thomas More, wrote the seminal work Utopia in 1516. St Ignatius Loyola, a key figure in the Catholic counter-reformation, is the author of an influential book of meditations known as the \"Spiritual Exercises\".\n\nChristian philosophy is a term to describe the fusion of various fields of philosophy with the theological doctrines of Christianity. Scholasticism, which means \"that [which] belongs to the school\", and was a method of learning taught by the academics (or \"school people\") of medieval universities c. 1100–1500. Scholasticism originally started to reconcile the philosophy of the ancient classical philosophers with medieval Christian theology. Scholasticism is not a philosophy or theology in itself but a tool and method for learning which places emphasis on dialectical reasoning.\n\nMedieval philosophy is the philosophy of Western Europe and the Middle East during the Middle Ages, roughly extending from the Christianization of the Roman Empire until the Renaissance. Medieval philosophy is defined partly by the rediscovery and further development of classical Greek and Hellenistic philosophy, and partly by the need to address theological problems and to integrate the then widespread sacred doctrines of Abrahamic religion (Islam, Judaism, and Christianity) with secular learning.\n\nThe history of western European medieval philosophy is traditionally divided into two main periods: the period in the Latin West following the Early Middle Ages until the 12th century, when the works of Aristotle and Plato were preserved and cultivated; and the \"golden age\" of the 12th, 13th and 14th centuries in the Latin West, which witnessed the culmination of the recovery of ancient philosophy, and significant developments in the field of philosophy of religion, logic and metaphysics.\n\nThe medieval era was disparagingly treated by the Renaissance humanists, who saw it as a barbaric \"middle\" period between the classical age of Greek and Roman culture, and the \"rebirth\" or \"renaissance\" of classical culture. Yet this period of nearly a thousand years was the longest period of philosophical development in Europe, and possibly the richest. Jorge Gracia has argued that \"in intensity, sophistication, and achievement, the philosophical flowering in the thirteenth century could be rightly said to rival the golden age of Greek philosophy in the fourth century B.C.\"\n\nSome problems discussed throughout this period are the relation of faith to reason, the existence and unity of God, the object of theology and metaphysics, the problems of knowledge, of universals, and of individuation.\n\nPhilosophers from the Middle Ages include the Christian philosophers Augustine of Hippo, Boethius, Anselm, Gilbert of Poitiers, Peter Abelard, Roger Bacon, Bonaventure, Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, William of Ockham and Jean Buridan; the Jewish philosophers Maimonides and Gersonides; and the Muslim philosophers Alkindus, Alfarabi, Alhazen, Avicenna, Algazel, Avempace, Abubacer, Ibn Khaldūn, and Averroes. The medieval tradition of Scholasticism continued to flourish as late as the 17th century, in figures such as Francisco Suarez and John of St. Thomas.\n\nAquinas, father of Thomism, was immensely influential in Catholic Europe, placed a great emphasis on reason and argumentation, and was one of the first to use the new translation of Aristotle's metaphysical and epistemological writing. His work was a significant departure from the Neoplatonic and Augustinian thinking that had dominated much of early Scholasticism.\n\nThe Renaissance (\"rebirth\") was a period of transition between the Middle Ages and modern thought, in which the recovery of classical texts helped shift philosophical interests away from technical studies in logic, metaphysics, and theology towards eclectic inquiries into morality, philology, and mysticism. The study of the classics and the humane arts generally, such as history and literature, enjoyed a scholarly interest hitherto unknown in Christendom, a tendency referred to as humanism. Displacing the medieval interest in metaphysics and logic, the humanists followed Petrarch in making man and his virtues the focus of philosophy.\n\nThese new movements in philosophy developed contemporaneously with larger religious and political transformations in Europe: the Reformation and the decline of feudalism. Though the theologians of the Protestant Reformation showed little direct interest in philosophy, their destruction of the traditional foundations of theological and intellectual authority harmonized with a revival of fideism and skepticism in thinkers such as Erasmus, Montaigne, and Francisco Sanches. Meanwhile, the gradual centralization of political power in nation-states was echoed by the emergence of secular political philosophies, as in the works of Niccolò Machiavelli (often described as the first modern political thinker, or a key turning point towards modern political thinking), Thomas More, Erasmus, Justus Lipsius, Jean Bodin, and Hugo Grotius.\n\nEarlier attempts at reconciliation of Christianity with Newtonian mechanics appear quite different from later attempts at reconciliation with the newer scientific ideas of evolution or relativity. Many early interpretations of evolution polarized themselves around a \"struggle for existence.\" These ideas were significantly countered by later findings of universal patterns of biological cooperation. According to John Habgood, all man really knows here is that the universe seems to be a mix of good and evil, beauty and pain, and that suffering may somehow be part of the process of creation. Habgood holds that Christians should not be surprised that suffering may be used creatively by God, given their faith in the symbol of the Cross. \nRobert John Russell has examined consonance and dissonance between modern physics, evolutionary biology, and Christian theology.\n\nChristian philosophers Augustine of Hippo (354–430) and Thomas Aquinas held that scriptures can have multiple interpretations on certain areas where the matters were far beyond their reach, therefore one should leave room for future findings to shed light on the meanings. The \"Handmaiden\" tradition, which saw secular studies of the universe as a very important and helpful part of arriving at a better understanding of scripture, was adopted throughout Christian history from early on. Also the sense that God created the world as a self operating system is what motivated many Christians throughout the Middle Ages to investigate nature.\n\nModern historians of science such as J.L. Heilbron, Alistair Cameron Crombie, David Lindberg, Edward Grant, Thomas Goldstein, and Ted Davis have reviewed the popular notion that medieval Christianity was a negative influence in the development of civilization and science. In their views, not only did the monks save and cultivate the remnants of ancient civilization during the barbarian invasions, but the medieval church promoted learning and science through its sponsorship of many universities which, under its leadership, grew rapidly in Europe in the 11th and 12th centuries, St. Thomas Aquinas, the Church's \"model theologian\", not only argued that reason is in harmony with faith, he even recognized that reason can contribute to understanding revelation, and so encouraged intellectual development. He was not unlike other medieval theologians who sought out reason in the effort to defend his faith. Some of today's scholars, such as Stanley Jaki, have claimed that Christianity with its particular worldview, was a crucial factor for the emergence of modern science.\n\nMany well-known historical figures who influenced Western science considered themselves Christian such as Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Newton and Boyle.\n\nIsaac Newton, for example, believed that gravity caused the planets to revolve about the Sun, and credited God with the design. In the concluding General Scholium to the Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica, he wrote: \"This most beautiful System of the Sun, Planets and Comets, could only proceed from the counsel and dominion of an intelligent and powerful being.\" Other famous founders of science who adhered to Christian beliefs include Galileo, Johannes Kepler, and Blaise Pascal.\n\nAccording to \"100 Years of Nobel Prizes\" a review of Nobel prizes award between 1901 and 2000 reveals that (65.4%) of Nobel Prizes Laureates, have identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference.\n\nOverall, Christians have won a total of 72.5% in Chemistry between 1901 and 2000, 65.3% in Physics, 62% in Medicine, 54% in Economics.\n\nByzantine science was essentially classical science. Therefore, Byzantine science was in every period closely connected with ancient-pagan philosophy, and metaphysics. Despite some opposition to pagan learning, many of the most distinguished classical scholars held high office in the Church. The writings of antiquity never ceased to be cultivated in the Byzantine empire due to the impetus given to classical studies by the Academy of Athens in the 4th and 5th centuries, the vigor of the philosophical academy of Alexandria, and to the services of the University of Constantinople, which concerned itself entirely with secular subjects, to the exclusion of theology, which was taught in the Patriarchical Academy. Even the latter offered instruction in the ancient classics, and included literary, philosophical, and scientific texts in its curriculum. The monastic schools concentrated upon the Bible, theology, and liturgy. Therefore, the monastic scriptoria expended most of their efforts upon the transcription of ecclesiastical manuscripts, while ancient-pagan literature was transcribed, summarized, excerpted, and annotated by laymen or clergy like Photios, Arethas of Caesarea, Eustathius of Thessalonica, and Basilius Bessarion. Byzantine scientists preserved and continued the legacy of the great Ancient Greek mathematicians and put mathematics in practice. In early Byzantium (5th to 7th century) the architects and mathematicians Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles used complex mathematical formulas to construct the great Hagia Sophia church, a technological breakthrough for its time and for centuries afterwards due to its striking geometry, bold design and height. In late Byzantium (9th to 12th century) mathematicians like Michael Psellos considered mathematics as a way to interpret the world.\n\nMiddle Eastern Christians especially the adherents of the Church of the East (Nestorians), contributed to the Arab Islamic Civilization during the Ummayad and the Abbasid periods by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. During the 4th through the 7th centuries, scholarly work in the Syriac and Greek languages was either newly initiated, or carried on from the Hellenistic period. Centers of learning and of transmission of classical wisdom included colleges such as the School of Nisibis, and later the School of Edessa, and the renowned hospital and medical academy of Jundishapur; libraries included the Library of Alexandria and the Imperial Library of Constantinople; other centers of translation and learning functioned at Merv, Salonika, Nishapur and Ctesiphon, situated just south of what later became Baghdad. \n\nMany scholars of the House of Wisdom were of Christian background;\nthe House of Wisdom was a library, translation institute, and academy established in Abbasid-era Baghdad, Iraq. Nestorians played a prominent role in the formation of Arab culture, with the Jundishapur school being prominent in the late Sassanid, Umayyad and early Abbasid periods. Notably, eight generations of the Nestorian Bukhtishu family served as private doctors to caliphs and sultans between the 8th and 11th centuries.\n\nWhile refined and clarified over the centuries, the Roman Catholic position on the relationship between science and religion is one of harmony, and has maintained the teaching of natural law as set forth by Thomas Aquinas. For example, regarding scientific study such as that of evolution, the church's unofficial position is an example of theistic evolution, stating that faith and scientific findings regarding human evolution are not in conflict, though humans are regarded as a special creation, and that the existence of God is required to explain both monogenism and the spiritual component of human origins. Catholic schools have included all manners of scientific study in their curriculum for many centuries.\n\nGalileo once stated \"The intention of the Holy Spirit is to teach us how to go to heaven, not how the heavens go.\" In 1981 John Paul II, then pope of the Roman Catholic Church, spoke of the relationship this way: \"The Bible itself speaks to us of the origin of the universe and its make-up, not in order to provide us with a scientific treatise, but in order to state the correct relationships of man with God and with the universe. Sacred Scripture wishes simply to declare that the world was created by God, and in order to teach this truth it expresses itself in the terms of the cosmology in use at the time of the writer\".\n\nThe influence of the Church on Western letters and learning has been formidable. The ancient texts of the Bible have deeply influenced Western art, literature and culture. For centuries following the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, small monastic communities were practically the only outposts of literacy in Western Europe. In time, the Cathedral schools developed into Europe's earliest universities and the church has established thousands of primary, secondary and tertiary institutions throughout the world in the centuries since. The Church and clergymen have also sought at different times to censor texts and scholars. Thus different schools of opinion exist as to the role and influence of the Church in relation to western letters and learning.\n\nOne view, first propounded by Enlightenment philosophers, asserts that the Church's doctrines are entirely superstitious and have hindered the progress of civilization. Communist states have made similar arguments in their education in order to inculcate a negative view of Catholicism (and religion in general) in their citizens. The most famous incidents cited by such critics are the Church's condemnations of the teachings of Copernicus, Galileo Galilei and Johannes Kepler.\n\nThe Church's priest-scientists, many of whom were Jesuits, have been among the leading lights in astronomy, genetics, geomagnetism, meteorology, seismology, and solar physics, becoming some of the \"fathers\" of these sciences. Examples include important churchmen such as the Augustinian abbot Gregor Mendel (pioneer in the study of genetics), Roger Bacon (a Franciscan friar who was one of the early advocates of the scientific method), and Belgian priest Georges Lemaître (the first to propose the Big Bang theory). Other notable priest scientists have included Albertus Magnus, Robert Grosseteste, Nicholas Steno, Francesco Grimaldi, Giambattista Riccioli, Roger Boscovich, and Athanasius Kircher. Even more numerous are Catholic laity involved in science:Henri Becquerel who discovered radioactivity; Galvani, Volta, Ampere, Marconi, pioneers in electricity and telecommunications; Lavoisier, \"father of modern chemistry\"; Vesalius, founder of modern human anatomy; and Cauchy, one of the mathematicians who laid the rigorous foundations of calculus.\n\nThroughout history many of the Roman Catholic clerics have made contributions to science, mostly during periods of Church domination of public life. These cleric-scientists include Nicolaus Copernicus, Gregor Mendel, Georges Lemaître, Albertus Magnus, Roger Bacon, Pierre Gassendi, Roger Joseph Boscovich, Marin Mersenne, Bernard Bolzano, Francesco Maria Grimaldi, Nicole Oresme, Jean Buridan, Robert Grosseteste, Christopher Clavius, Nicolas Steno, Athanasius Kircher, Giovanni Battista Riccioli, William of Ockham, and others. The Catholic Church has also produced many lay scientists and mathematicians.\n\nThe Jesuits have made numerous significant contributions to the development of science. For example, the Jesuits have dedicated significant study to earthquakes, and seismology has been described as \"the Jesuit science\". The Jesuits have been described as \"the single most important contributor to experimental physics in the seventeenth century\". According to Jonathan Wright in his book \"God's Soldiers\", by the eighteenth century the Jesuits had \"contributed to the development of pendulum clocks, pantographs, barometers, reflecting telescopes and microscopes, to scientific fields as various as magnetism, optics and electricity. They observed, in some cases before anyone else, the colored bands on Jupiter's surface, the Andromeda nebula and Saturn's rings. They theorized about the circulation of the blood (independently of Harvey), the theoretical possibility of flight, the way the moon affected the tides, and the wave-like nature of light.\"\n\nProtestantism had an important influence on science. According to the Merton Thesis there was a positive correlation between the rise of Puritanism and Protestant Pietism on the one hand and early experimental science on the other. The Merton Thesis has two separate parts: Firstly, it presents a theory that science changes due to an accumulation of observations and improvement in experimental techniques and methodology; secondly, it puts forward the argument that the popularity of science in 17th-century England and the religious demography of the Royal Society (English scientists of that time were predominantly Puritans or other Protestants) can be explained by a correlation between Protestantism and the scientific values. In his theory, Robert K. Merton focused on English Puritanism and German Pietism as having been responsible for the development of the scientific revolution of the 17th and 18th centuries. Merton explained that the connection between religious affiliation and interest in science was the result of a significant synergy between the ascetic Protestant values and those of modern science. Protestant values encouraged scientific research by allowing science to study God's influence on the world and thus providing a religious justification for scientific research.\n\nAccording of \"Scientific Elite: Nobel Laureates in the United State\" by Harriet Zuckerman, a review of American Nobel prizes winners awarded between 1901 and 1972, 72% of American Nobel Prize Laureates, have identified from Protestant background. Overall, Protestant have won a total of 84.2% of all the American Nobel Prizes in Chemistry, 60% in Medicine, 58.6% in Physics, between 1901 and 1972.\n\nThe university is generally regarded as an institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian setting. Prior to the establishment of universities, European higher education took place for hundreds of years in Christian cathedral schools or monastic schools (\"Scholae monasticae\"), in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century AD.\n\nMissionary activity for the Catholic Church has always incorporated education of evangelized peoples as part of its social ministry. History shows that in evangelized lands, the first people to operate schools were Roman Catholics. In some countries, the Church is the main provider of education or significantly supplements government forms of education. Presently, the Church operates the world's largest non-governmental school system. Many of Western Civilization's most influential universities were founded by the Catholic Church.\n\nThe Catholic Church founded the West's first universities, which were preceded by the schools attached to monasteries and cathedrals, and generally staffed by monks and friars. Universities began springing up in Italian towns like Salerno, which became a leading medical school, translating the work of Greek and Arabic physicians into Latin. Bologna University became the most influential of the early universities, which first specialised in canon law and civil law. Paris University, specialising in such topics as theology, came to rival Bologna under the supervision of Notre Dame Cathedral. Oxford University in England later came rival Paris in Theology and Salamanca University was founded in Spain in 1243. According to the historian Geoffrey Blainey, the universities benefitted from the use of Latin, the common language of the Church, and its internationalist reach, and their role was to \"teach, argue and reason within a Christian framework\". The medieval universities of Western Christendom were well-integrated across all of Western Europe, encouraged freedom of enquiry and produced a great variety of fine scholars and natural philosophers, including Robert Grosseteste of the University of Oxford, an early expositor of a systematic method of scientific experimentation; and Saint Albert the Great, a pioneer of biological field research\n\nAs the Reformers wanted all members of the church to be able to read the Bible, education on all levels got a strong boost. Compulsory education for both boys and girls was introduced. For example, the Puritans who established Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1628 founded Harvard College only eight years later. About a dozen other colleges followed in the 18th century, including Yale University (1701). Pennsylvania also became a centre of learning. While Princeton University was a Presbyterian foundation. Protestantism also initiated translations of the Bible into national languages and hereby supported the development of national literatures.\n\nA large number of mainline Protestants have played leadership roles in many aspects of American life, including politics, business, science, the arts, and education. They founded most of the country's leading institutes of higher education. The Ivy League universities have strong White Anglo-Saxon Protestant historical ties, and their influence continues today. Until about World War II, Ivy League universities were composed largely of WASP students.\n\nSome of the first colleges and universities in America, including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia, Dartmouth, Williams, Bowdoin, Middlebury, and Amherst, all were founded by the Mainline Protestantism, as were later Carleton, Duke, Oberlin, Beloit, Pomona, Rollins and Colorado College.\n\nAccording to Pew Center study there is correlation between education and income, about (59%) of American Anglican have a graduate and post-graduate degree, and about (56%) of Episcopalians and (47%) of Presbyterians and (46%) United Church of Christ, have a graduate and post-graduate degree.\n\nA Pew Center study about religion and education around the world in 2016, found that Christians ranked as the second most educated religious group around in the world after Jews with an average of 9.3 years of schooling, and the highest of years of schooling among Christians found in Germany (13.6), New Zealand (13.5) and Estonia (13.1). Christians were also found to have the second highest number of graduate and post-graduate degrees per capita while in absolute numbers ranked in the first place (220 million). Between the various Christian communities, Singapore outranks other nations in terms of Christians who obtain a university degree in institutions of higher education (67%), followed by the Christians of Israel (63%), and the Christians of Georgia (57%).\nAccording to the study, Christians in North America, Europe, Middle East, North Africa and Asia-Pacific regions are highly educated since many of the world universities were built by the historic Christian Churches, in addition to the historical evidence that \"Christian monks built libraries and, in the days before printing presses, preserved important earlier writings produced in Latin, Greek and Arabic\". According to the same study, Christians have a significant amount of gender equality in educational attainment, and the study suggests that one of the reasons is the encouragement of the Protestant Reformers in promoting the education of women, which led to the eradication of illiteracy among females in Protestant communities.\nAccording to the same study \"there is a large and pervasive gap in educational attainment between Muslims and Christians in sub-Saharan Africa\" as Muslim adults in this region are far less educated than their Christian counterparts, with scholars suggesting that this gap is due to the educational facilities that were created by Christian missionaries during the colonial era for fellow believers.\n\nThe administration of the Eastern and Western Roman Empires split and the demise of the Western Empire by the sixth century was accompanied by a series of violent invasions and precipitated the collapse of cities and civic institutions of learning, along with their links to the learning of classical Greece and Rome. For the next thousand years, medical knowledge would change very little. A scholarly medical tradition maintained itself in the more stable East, but in the West, scholarship virtually disappeared outside of the Church, where monks were aware of a dwindling range of medical texts. Hospitality was considered an obligation of Christian charity and bishops' houses and the valetudinaria of wealthier Christians were used to tend the sick. And the legacy of this early period was, in the words of Porter, that \"Christianity planted the hospital: the well-endowed establishments of the Levant and the scattered houses of the West shared a common religious ethos of charity.\" \n\nThe Byzantine Empire was one of the first empires to have flourishing medical establishments. Prior to the Byzantine Empire the Roman Empire had hospitals specifically for soldiers and slaves. However, none of these establishments were for the public. The hospitals in Byzantium were originally started by the church to act as a place for the poor to have access to basic amenities. Hospitals were usually separated between men and women. Although the remains of these hospitals have not been discovered by archaeologists, recordings of hospitals from the Byzantine Empire describe large buildings that had the core feature of an open hearth. The establishments of the Byzantine Empire resembled the beginning of what we now know as modern hospitals. The first hospital was erected by Leontius of Antioch between the years 344 to 358 and was a place for strangers and migrants to find refuge. Around the same time, a deacon named Marathonius was in charge of hospitals and monasteries in Constantinople. His main objective was to improve urban aesthetics, illustrating hospitals as a main part of Byzantine cities. These early hospitals were designed for the poor. In fact, most hospitals throughout the Byzantine Empire were almost exclusively utilized by the poor. This may be due to descriptions of hospitals similar to \"Gregory Nazianzen who called the hospital a stairway to heaven, implying that it aimed only to ease death for the chronically or terminally ill rather than promote recovery\". There is debate between scholars as to why these institutions were started by the church. Many scholars believe that the church founded hospitals in order to receive additional donations. Whatever the case for these hospitals, they began to diffuse across the empire. Soon after, St. Basil of Caesarea developed a place for the sick in which provided refuge for the sick and homeless.\n\nGeoffrey Blainey likened the Catholic Church in its activities during the Middle Ages to an early version of a welfare state: \"It conducted hospitals for the old and orphanages for the young; hospices for the sick of all ages; places for the lepers; and hostels or inns where pilgrims could buy a cheap bed and meal\". It supplied food to the population during famine and distributed food to the poor. This welfare system the church funded through collecting taxes on a large scale and possessing large farmlands and estates. It was common for monks and clerics to practice medicine and medical students in northern European universities often took minor Holy orders. Mediaeval hospitals had a strongly Christian ethos, and were, in the words of historian of medicine Roy Porter, \"religious foundations through and through\", and Ecclesiastical regulations were passed to govern medicine, partly to prevent clergymen profiting from medicine. During Europe's Age of Discovery, Catholic missionaries, notably the Jesuits, introduced the modern sciences to India, China and Japan. While persecutions continue to limit the spread of Catholic institutions to some Middle Eastern Muslim nations, and such places as the People's Republic of China and North Korea, elsewhere in Asia the church is a major provider of health care services - especially in Catholic Nations like the Philippines.\n\nToday he Roman Catholic Church is the largest non-government provider of health care services in the world. It has around 18,000 clinics, 16,000 homes for the elderly and those with special needs, and 5,500 hospitals, with 65 percent of them located in developing countries. In 2010, the Church's Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers said that the Church manages 26% of the world's health care facilities. The Church's involvement in health care has ancient origins.\n\nFrancisco de Vitoria, a disciple of Thomas Aquinas and a Catholic thinker who studied the issue regarding the human rights of colonized natives, is recognized by the United Nations as a father of international law, and now also by historians of economics and democracy as a leading light for the West's democracy and rapid economic development. Joseph Schumpeter, an economist of the twentieth century, referring to the Scholastics, wrote, \"it is they who come nearer than does any other group to having been the 'founders' of scientific economics.\" Other economists and historians, such as Raymond de Roover, Marjorie Grice-Hutchinson, and Alejandro Chafuen, have also made similar statements. \n\nThe Protestant concept of God and man allows believers to use all their God-given faculties, including the power of reason. That means that they are allowed to explore God's creation and, according to Genesis 2:15, make use of it in a responsible and sustainable way. Thus a cultural climate was created that greatly enhanced the development of the humanities and the sciences. Another consequence of the Protestant understanding of man is that the believers, in gratitude for their election and redemption in Christ, are to follow God's commandments. Industry, frugality, calling, discipline, and a strong sense of responsibility are at the heart of their moral code. In particular, John Calvin rejected luxury. Therefore, craftsmen, industrialists, and other businessmen were able to reinvest the greater part of their profits in the most efficient machinery and the most modern production methods that were based on progress in the sciences and technology. As a result, productivity grew, which led to increased profits and enabled employers to pay higher wages. In this way, the economy, the sciences, and technology reinforced each other. The chance to participate in the economic success of technological inventions was a strong incentive to both inventors and investors. The Protestant work ethic was an important force behind the unplanned and uncoordinated mass action that influenced the development of capitalism and the industrial revolution. This idea is also known as the \"Protestant ethic thesis.\" In the book \"The Central Liberal Truth: How Politics Can Change a Culture and Save It from Itself\" Lawrence E. Harrison argues that Protestantism along with Confucianism, and Judaism have been more successful in promoting progress, culture and society. Due to the Protestant virtues of education, achievement, work ethic, merit, frugality, and honesty.\n\nSome mainline Protestant denominations such as Episcopalians and Presbyterians and congregationalist tend to be considerably wealthier and better educated (having high proportion of graduate and post-graduate degrees per capita) than most other religious groups in America, and are disproportionately represented in the upper reaches of American business, law and politics, especially the Republican Party. Large numbers of the most wealthy and affluent American families as the Vanderbilts and Astors, Rockefeller, Du Pont, Roosevelt, Forbes, Whitneys, the Morgans and Harrimans are Mainline Protestant families.\n\nRoman Catholics, Anglicans, Eastern Christians, and traditional Protestant communities frame worship around the liturgical year. The liturgical cycle divides the year into a series of seasons, each with their theological emphases, and modes of prayer, which can be signified by different ways of decorating churches, colours of paraments and vestments for clergy, scriptural readings, themes for preaching and even different traditions and practices often observed personally or in the home.\n\nWestern Christian liturgical calendars are based on the cycle of the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, and Eastern Christians use analogous calendars based on the cycle of their respective rites. Calendars set aside holy days, such as solemnities which commemorate an event in the life of Jesus or Mary, the saints, periods of fasting such as Lent, and other pious events such as memoria or lesser festivals commemorating saints. Christian groups that do not follow a liturgical tradition often retain certain celebrations, such as Christmas, Easter and Pentecost: these are the celebrations of Christ's birth, resurrection and the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Church, respectively. A few denominations make no use of a liturgical calendar.\n\nRoman Catholic theology enumerates seven sacraments: Baptism (Christening), Confirmation (Chrismation), Eucharist (Communion), Penance (Reconciliation), Anointing of the Sick (before the Second Vatican Council generally called Extreme Unction), Matrimony\n\nIn Christian belief and practice, a \"sacrament\" is a rite, instituted by Christ, that mediates grace, constituting a sacred mystery. The term is derived from the Latin word \"sacramentum\", which was used to translate the Greek word for \"mystery\". Views concerning both what rites are sacramental, and what it means for an act to be a sacrament vary among Christian denominations and traditions.\n\nThe most conventional functional definition of a sacrament is that it is an outward sign, instituted by Christ, that conveys an inward, spiritual grace through Christ. The two most widely accepted sacraments are Baptism and the Eucharist (or Holy Communion), however, the majority of Christians also recognize five additional sacraments: Confirmation (Chrismation in the Orthodox tradition), Holy orders (ordination), Penance (or Confession), Anointing of the Sick, and Matrimony (see Christian views on marriage).\n\nTaken together, these are the Seven Sacraments as recognized by churches in the High Church tradition—notably Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Independent Catholic, Old Catholic, many Anglicans, and some Lutherans. Most other denominations and traditions typically affirm only Baptism and Eucharist as sacraments, while some Protestant groups, such as the Quakers, reject sacramental theology. Christian denominations, such as Baptists, which believe these rites do not communicate grace, prefer to call Baptism and Holy Communion \"ordinances\" rather than sacraments.\n\nToday, most Christian denominations are neutral about religious male circumcision, neither requiring it nor forbidding it. The practice is customary among the Coptic, Ethiopian, and Eritrean Orthodox Churches, and also some other African churches.\n\nWorship can be varied for special events like baptisms or weddings in the service or significant feast days. In the early church, Christians and those yet to complete initiation would separate for the Eucharistic part of the worship. In many churches today, adults and children will separate for all or some of the service to receive age-appropriate teaching. Such children's worship is often called Sunday school or Sabbath school (Sunday schools are often held before rather than during services).\n\nIn mainstream Nicene Christianity, there is no restriction on kinds of animals that can be eaten. This practice stems from Peter's vision of a sheet with animals, in which Saint Peter \"sees a sheet containing animals of every description lowered from the sky.\" Nonetheless, the New Testament does give a few guidelines about the consumption of meat, practiced by the Christian Church today; one of these is not consuming food knowingly offered to pagan idols, a conviction that the early Church Fathers, such as Clement of Alexandria and Origen preached. In addition, Christians traditionally bless any food before eating it with a mealtime prayer (grace), as a sign of thanking God for the meal they have.\n\nSlaughtering animals for food is often done without the trinitarian formula, although the Armenian Apostolic Church, among other Orthodox Christians, have rituals that \"display obvious links with \"shechitah\", Jewish kosher slaughter.\" The Bible states Norman Geisler, stipulates one to \"abstain from food sacrificed to idols, from blood, from meat of strangled animals\". In the New Testament, Paul of Tarsus notes that some devout Christians may wish to abstain from consuming meat if it causes \"my brother to stumble\" in his faith with God. As such, some Christian monks, such as the Trappists, have adopted a policy of Christian vegetarianism. In addition, Christians of the Seventh-day Adventist tradition generally \"avoid eating meat and highly spiced food\". Christians in the Anglican, Catholic, Lutheran, Methodist, and Orthodox denominations traditionally observe a meat-free day, especially during the liturgical season of Lent.\n\nSome Christian denominations condone the moderate drinking of alcohol (moderationism), such as Anglicans, Catholics, Lutherans, and the Orthodox, although others, such as Adventists, Baptists, Methodists, and Pentecostals either abstain from or prohibit the consumption of alcohol (abstentionism and prohibitionism). However, all Christian Churches, in view of the Biblical position on the issue, universally condemn drunkenness as sinful.\n\nChristian cooking combines the food of many cultures in which Christian have lived. A special Christmas family meal is traditionally an important part of the holiday's celebration, and the food that is served varies greatly from country to country. Some regions, such as Sicily, have special meals for Christmas Eve, when 12 kinds of fish are served. In the United Kingdom and countries influenced by its traditions, a standard Christmas meal includes turkey, goose or other large bird, gravy, potatoes, vegetables, sometimes bread and cider. Special desserts are also prepared, such as Christmas pudding, mince pies, fruit cake and Yule log.\n\nThe Bible has many rituals of purification relating to menstruation, childbirth, sexual relations, nocturnal emission, unusual bodily fluids, skin disease, death, and animal sacrifices. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church prescribes several kinds of hand washing for example after leaving the latrine, lavatory or bathhouse, or before prayer, or after eating a meal. The women in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church are prohibited from entering the church temple during menses; and the men do not enter a church the day after they have had intercourse with their wives.\n\nChristianity has always placed a strong emphasis on hygiene, Despite the denunciation of the mixed bathing style of Roman pools by early Christian clergy, as well as the pagan custom of women naked bathing in front of men, this did not stop the Church from urging its followers to go to public baths for bathing, which contributed to hygiene and good health according to the Church Father, Clement of Alexandria. The Church also built public bathing facilities that were separate for both sexes near monasteries and pilgrimage sites; also, the popes situated baths within church basilicas and monasteries since the early Middle Ages. Pope Gregory the Great urged his followers on value of bathing as a bodily need.\n\nContrary to popular belief bathing and sanitation were not lost in Europe with the collapse of the Roman Empire. Soapmaking first became an established trade during the so-called \"Dark Ages\". The Romans used scented oils (mostly from Egypt), among other alternatives. By the mid-19th century, the English urbanised middle classes had formed an ideology of cleanliness that ranked alongside typical Victorian concepts, such as Christianity, respectability and social progress. The Salvation Army has adopted movement of the deployment of the personal hygiene, and by providing personal hygiene products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185692", "title": "Civil religion", "text": "Civil religion\n\nCivil religion, also referred to as a civic religion, is the implicit religious values of a nation, as expressed through public rituals, symbols (such as the national flag), and ceremonies on sacred days and at sacred places (such as monuments, battlefields, or national cemeteries). It is distinct from churches, although church officials and ceremonies are sometimes incorporated into the practice of civil religion. Countries described as having a civil religion include France, South Korea, and the former Soviet Union. As a concept, it originated in French political thought and became a major topic for U.S. sociologists since its use by Robert Bellah in 1960.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau coined the term in chapter 8, book 4 of \"The Social Contract\" (1762), to describe what he regarded as the moral and spiritual foundation essential for any modern society. For Rousseau, civil religion was intended simply as a form of social cement, helping to unify the state by providing it with sacred authority. In his book, Rousseau outlines the simple dogmas of the civil religion:\nThe Italian historian Emilio Gentile has studied the roots and development of the concept and proposed a division of two types of religions of politics: a civil religion and a political religion.\n\nIn the sociology of religion, civil religion is the folk religion of a nation or a political culture.\n\nCivil religion stands somewhat above folk religion in its social and political status, since by definition it suffuses an entire society, or at least a segment of a society; and is often practiced by leaders within that society. On the other hand, it is somewhat less than an establishment of religion, since established churches have official clergy and a relatively fixed and formal relationship with the government that establishes them. Civil religion is usually practiced by political leaders who are laypeople and whose leadership is not specifically spiritual.\n\nSuch civil religion encompasses such things as:\nand similar religious or quasi-religious practices.\n\nProfessional commentators on political and social matters writing in newspapers and magazines sometimes use the term civil religion or civic religion to refer to ritual expressions of patriotism of a sort practiced in all countries, not always including religion in the conventional sense of the word.\n\nAmong such practices are the following:\n\nThese two conceptions (sociological and political) of civil religion substantially overlap. In Britain, where church and state are constitutionally joined, the monarch's coronation is an elaborate religious rite celebrated by the Archbishop of Canterbury. In France, secular ceremonies are separated from religious observances to a greater degree than in most countries. In the United States, a president being inaugurated is told by the Constitution to choose between saying \"I do solemnly swear...\" (customarily followed by \"so help me God\", although those words are not Constitutionally required) and saying \"I do solemnly affirm...\" (in which latter case no mention of God would be expected).\n\nPractically all the ancient and prehistoric reigns suffused politics with religion. Often the leaders, such as the Pharaoh or the Chinese Emperor were considered manifestations of a Divinity. Tribal world-view was often Pantheistic, the tribe being an extension of its surrounding nature and the leaders having roles and symbols derived from the animal hierarchy and significant natural phenomena (such as storm).\n\nThe religion of the Athenian polis was a secular polytheism focused on the Olympian Gods and was celebrated in the civic festivals. Religion was a matter of state and the Athenian Ecclesia deliberated on matters of religion. Atheism and the introduction of foreign gods were forbidden in Athens and punishable by death. For example, the Athenian ecclesia charged that Socrates worshiped gods other than those sanctioned by the polis and condemned him to death.\n\nRome also had a civil religion, whose first Emperor Augustus officially attempted to revive the dutiful practice of classical paganism. Greek and Roman religion were essentially local in character; the Roman Empire attempted to unite its disparate territories by inculcating an ideal of Roman piety, and by a syncretistic identifying of the gods of conquered territories with the Greek and Roman pantheon. In this campaign, Augustus erected monuments such as the \"Ara Pacis\", the Altar of Peace, showing the Emperor and his family worshiping the gods. He also encouraged the publication of works such as Virgil's \"Æneid\", which depicted \"pious Æneas\", the legendary ancestor of Rome, as a role model for Roman religiosity. Roman historians such as Livy told tales of early Romans as morally improving stories of military prowess and civic virtue. The Roman civil religion later became centered on the person of the Emperor through the Imperial cult, the worship of the \"genius\" of the Emperor.\n\nThe phrase \"civil religion\" was first discussed extensively by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his 1762 treatise \"The Social Contract\". Rousseau defined \"civil religion\" as a group of religious beliefs he believed to be universal, and which he believed governments had a right to uphold and maintain: belief in a deity; belief in an afterlife in which virtue is rewarded and vice punished; and belief in religious tolerance. He said the dogmas of civil religion should be simple, few in number, and stated in precise words without interpretations or commentaries. Beyond that, Rousseau affirmed that individuals' religious opinions should be beyond the reach of governments. For Rousseau civil religion was to be constructed and imposed from the top down as an artificial source of civic virtue.\n\nWallace studies Émile Durkheim (1858–1917), the French sociologist who analysed civil religion, especially in comparative terms, and stressed that the public schools are critical in implementing civil religion. Although he never used the term he laid great stress on the concept.\n\nSecular states in Europe by the late 19th century were building civil religion based on their recent histories. In France's case, Baylac argues, the French government:\nIn contemporary South Korea, the predominating civil religion has been described as consisting of anti-Japanese sentiment coupled with a pan-Korean racial nationalism. This has been criticized by some scholars as being detrimental to South Korean national security as it encourages North Korean provocations against the country in the guise that South Koreans will not adequately defend their country's security as they feel a certain racial and ethnic solidarity with North Korea. One scholar argued that South Korea should retire this sort of racialized civil religion for one more rooted in civic principles, like was found in West Germany during the 20th century.\n\nThe Soviet Union made Marxism–Leninism into a civil religion, with sacred texts and many statues of Marx, Lenin, and Stalin. Stalin personally supervised the cult of Lenin and his own cult, which took advantage of the historic semi-religious adulation Russian peasants had shown toward the tsars. The Lenin icons were put into storage when communism fell in 1991. The Stalin statues had been removed in the 1950s and mention of him was erased from encyclopedias and history books. However under Vladimir Putin in the 21st century the memory of Stalin has been partly rehabilitated in search of a strong leader who made the nation powerful. For example, school textbooks were rewritten to portray \"the mass terror of the Stalin years as essential to the country's rapid modernization in the face of growing German and Japanese military threats, and amid the inaction or duplicity of the Western democracies.\"\n\nCivil religion is an important component of public life in America, especially at the national level for its celebration of nationalism. Sociologists report that its \"feast days\" are Thanksgiving, Veterans Day, and Memorial Day. Its rituals include salutes to the flag and singing \"God Bless America\". Soldiers and veterans play a central role of standing ready to sacrifice their lives to preserve the nation. Bellah noted the veneration of veterans. The historian Conrad Cherry called the Memorial Day ceremonies \"a modern cult of the dead\" and says that it \"affirms the civil religious tenets.\"\n\nThe American Revolution was the main source of the civil religion that has shaped patriotism ever since. According to the sociologist Robert Bellah:\nAlbanese argues that the American Revolution was the main source of the non-denominational American civil religion that has shaped patriotism and the memory and meaning of the nation's birth ever since. Battles are not central (as they are for the Civil War) but rather certain events and people have been celebrated as icons of certain virtues (or vices). As historians have noted, the Revolution produced a Moses-like leader (George Washington), prophets (Thomas Jefferson, Tom Paine) and martyrs (Boston Massacre, Nathan Hale), as well as devils (Benedict Arnold), sacred places (Valley Forge, Bunker Hill), rituals (Boston Tea Party), emblems (the new flag), sacred holidays (July 4) and a holy scripture whose every sentence is carefully studied and applied in current law cases (the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights).\n\nAlthough \"God\" is not mentioned in the Constitution of the United States of America, mention is specifically made of \"Nature's God\" in the opening sentence of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, scholars such as Robert N. Bellah and Martin E. Marty studied civil religion as a cultural phenomenon, attempting to identify the actual tenets of civil religion in the United States, or to study civil religion as a phenomenon of cultural anthropology. Within this American context, Marty wrote that Americans approved of \"religion in general\" without being particularly concerned about the content of that faith, and attempted to distinguish \"priestly\" and \"prophetic\" roles within the practice of American civil religion, which he preferred to call the \"public theology\". In the 1967 essay \"Civil Religion in America\", Bellah wrote that civil religion in its priestly sense is \"an institutionalized collection of sacred beliefs about the American nation.\" Bellah describes the prophetic role of civil religion as challenging \"national self-worship\" and calling for \"the subordination of the nation to ethical principles that transcend it in terms of which it should be judged.\" Bellah identified the American Revolution, the Civil War, and the Civil Rights Movement as three decisive historical events that impacted the content and imagery of civil religion in the United States.\n\nThe application of the concept of civil religion to the United States was in large part the work of sociologist Robert Bellah. He identified an elaborate system of practices and beliefs arising from America's unique historic experience and religiosity. Civil religion in the US was originally Protestant but brought in Catholics and Jews after World War II. Having no association with any religious sect, Civil religion was used in the 1960s to justify civil rights legislation. Americans ever since the colonial era talk of their obligation both collective and individual to carry out God's will on earth. George Washington was a sort of high priest, and the documents of the Founding Fathers have been treated as almost sacred texts. With the Civil War, says Bellah, came a new theme of death, sacrifice and rebirth, as expressed through Memorial Day rituals. Unlike France, the American civil religion was never anticlerical or militantly secular.\n\nThis assertive civil religion of the United States is an occasional cause of political friction between the US and Europe, where the literally religious form of civil religion has largely faded away in recent decades. In the United States, civil religion is often invoked under the name of \"Judeo-Christian ethics\", a phrase originally intended to be maximally inclusive of the several religions practiced in the United States, assuming that these faiths all share the same values. Alvin J. Schmidt argues that since the 1700s, expressions of civil religion in the United States have shifted from a deistic to a polytheistic stance.\n\nSome scholars have argued that the American flag can be seen as a main totem of a national cult, while others have argued that modern punishment is a form of civil religion. Arguing against mob violence and lynching, Abraham Lincoln declared in his 1838 Lyceum speech that the Constitution and the laws of the United States ought to become the \"political religion\" of each American.\n"}
{"id": "32760378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32760378", "title": "Edict of Toleration 1844", "text": "Edict of Toleration 1844\n\nThe Edict of Toleration took place during the process referred to as the Eastern Question in relations between European powers, Britain in particular, and the Ottoman Empire in its development at a time referred to as Tanzimat internally which included other initiatives like ending the Ottoman slave trade a few years later but overall as part of the Dissolution of the Ottoman Empire – a process that continued into the 1920s. It was largely a result of pressure from the British government on the Sublime Porte, Abdülmecid I of the Ottomans, urging to stop the persecutions of the Christians, and eventually had an effect on the persecutions of Jews, continuing effects such as the earlier Damascus affair. It is one of the edicts of toleration of history.\n\nTanzimat was an Ottoman reform process that sought equal protections under the law in Ottoman lands for all people; however, it did not address matters of religious freedom. A particular incident in 1843 with an Armenian Ottoman subject sparked an incident in August which gained international entanglements and then a Greek national in November, both of whom were put to death - the process of which became the Edict in March 1844. Reverend Edward Bickersteth referred to these developments in 1844 when he summarized diplomatic notes presented to the British Parliament noting \"The correspondence occupied a considerable part of the year—from Aug. 27, 1843, to April 19, 1844.\"\n\nIn February 1844 there is a question on the status of Jew apostates from Islam (who, it was claimed, must pass through being Christian on the way to Islam in the first place) and in March 21, 1844 appears (in translation):\n\nIt is the special and constant intention of His Highness the Sultan that his cordial relations with the High Powers be preserved, and that a perfect reciprocal friendship be maintained and increased.<br>\n\nAccording to Muslim Islamic scholar Cyril Glassé, death for Apostasy in Islam was \"not in practice enforced\" in later times in the Muslim world, and was \"completely abolished\" by \"a decree of the Ottoman government in 1260AH/1844AD.\" This short edict was advanced in the wider Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856.\n\nThe Edict was seen by some especially among the religious as a specific sign leading towards the fulfillment of prophecy.\n\nResearch conducted by Michael Sours into this subject and the records of the development of the Edict did not refer directly to the Jews but rather infers religious tolerance through ending executions for apostasy for Jews that seemed to convert making their social situation easier while actually keeping their personal and group identity in their Judaic religion. Jerusalem has had the largest Jewish population in Palestine in recent centuries since about 1844 and been majority Jewish since about 1852.\n\nThe Edict was first publicly commented upon by Reverend Edward Bickersteth in his publication, \"Practical Guide to the Prophecies\" in the 1844 edition. Adventist William Miller, and those that disagreed with him, though unaware of the Edict and the diplomacy around it, still looked to the fortunes of the Ottoman Empire even in the period. Miller pointed to the year because of the 2300 day prophecy of , relying on the Day-year principle. The 2300 days are understood to represent 2300 years stretching from 457 BC, the calculated starting date of the 70 weeks prophecy based on the 3rd decree found in Ezra, thus leading to 1843/4. Bickersteth acknowledged the same interpretation and added a second - - as a parallel to start the clock for understanding ; taking 390 years as a period for persecution of Christians in the End time. Bickersteth takes this persecution from the triumph of Ottoman rule of Constantinople in 1453, thus 1453+390 is 1843/4, directly before these events. Thus, independently of Miller, a number of Christian authors followed the significance of this declaration from Bickersteth including Alfred Edersheim, a Jewish convert to Christianity and a Biblical scholar, and Henry Grattan Guinness who broadened the themes of the understanding of the edict and its importance, and into the early 20th century with Worth Smith who mentioned it in his 1934 \"Miracle of the Ages\". Adventist mention of the Edict wasn't until 1917.\n\nThornton Chase, commonly recognized as the first convert to the Bahá'í Faith of Occidental background, noted the Edict in his publication \"The Bahai Revelation\" published in 1909. An Irish convert to the religion, George Townshend was the first broadly published to mention the Edict in Bahá'í literature in 1944 when he wrote:\n\nThe proclamation of His Faith was made in 1844, the year when the strict exclusion of the Jews from their own land enforced by the Muslims for some twelve centuries was at last relaxed by the Edict of Toleration and \"the times of the Gentiles\" were \"fulfilled.\" \n\nin the introduction to Shoghi Effendi's book, God Passes By, published in 1944. This was also centrally mentioned by William Sears in his book \"Thief in the Night\" originally published in 1961 and in its 17th edition circa 2012. Both Townshend and Sears had high offices in the religion as Hands of the Cause.\n\n"}
{"id": "340314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340314", "title": "Edict of toleration", "text": "Edict of toleration\n\nAn edict of toleration is a declaration, made by a government or ruler and states, that members of a given religion will not be persecuted for engaging in their religious practices and traditions. The edict implies tacit acceptance of the religion rather than its endorsement by the ruling power.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1054920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054920", "title": "Four Freedoms Award", "text": "Four Freedoms Award\n\nThe Four Freedoms Award is an annual award presented to those men and women whose achievements have demonstrated a commitment to those principles which US President Franklin Delano Roosevelt proclaimed in his historic speech to United States Congress on January 6, 1941, as essential to democracy: freedom of speech and expression, freedom of worship, freedom from want, freedom from fear. The annual award is handed out in alternate years in New York City by the Roosevelt Institute to Americans and in Middelburg, Netherlands, by the Roosevelt Stichting to non-Americans.\n\nThe awards were first presented in 1982 on the centennial of President Roosevelt's birth as well as the bicentennial of diplomatic relations between the United States and the Netherlands. The awards were founded to celebrate the Four Freedoms espoused by President Roosevelt in his speech:\n\nFor each of the four freedoms an award was instituted, as well as a special Freedom medal. In 1990, 1995, 2003 and 2004 there were also special awards.\n\nIn odd years the awards are presented to American citizens or institutions by the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute in New York City, though in the past the American awards were given in Hyde Park, New York. In even years the award ceremony is held in Middelburg and honours non-Americans. The choice of Middelburg was motivated by the suspected descendance of the family Roosevelt from Oud-Vossemeer in the municipality Tholen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28792019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28792019", "title": "Freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus", "text": "Freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus\n\nThe constitution of Northern Cyprus protects the freedom of religion, and it states that Northern Cyprus is a secular state. The US Department of State report in 2002 stated that religious freedom was protected by law in Northern Cyprus and the government generally respected the freedom of religion. The freedom of religion report in 2007 by US Department of State also stated that \"Turkish Cypriot authorities generally respected this right in practice\" and the practice of religion was generally free. In 2009, Minority Rights Group International also reported that \"Turkish Cypriot authorities respected religious freedom in general\".\n\nThere are two Anglican churches is Northern Cyprus. They are:\n\nIn 2010, the US Department of State reported that \"Greek Cypriot Orthodox and Maronite Catholics were allowed to perform religious services on a regular basis, without prior permission.\"\n\nOn 28 September 2010, Resolution 1631, was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives:\n\"... calling for the protection of religious sites and artifacts from and in Turkish-occupied areas of northern Cyprus as well as for general respect for religious freedom.\"\n\nThe Turkish Foreign Ministry responded with a press released statement, saying that the resolution had \"many factual errors which may harm the credibility of the House of Representatives\".\n\nOn 27 January 2011, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in written declaration no. 467, condemned the alleged interruption of the Christmas mass in Northern Cyprus by Turkish troops and restrictions to the right to freedom of religion and worship. The declaration claimed that Turkish troops forced the priest conducting the service to remove his vestments and ordered everybody to leave the church, thus violating the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nOn 18 March 2011, 204 Greek school books, including religious books, that were being taken to the schools at Rizokarpaso were confiscated by Turkish Cypriot customs officers at the Pergamos village barricade. The Turkish Cypriot daily newspaper \"Afrika\", in a front page article, criticised those who claim that there is freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus when the religious books were confiscated.\n\nOn 20 May 2016, Northern Cypriot Foreign Minister Tahsin Ertuğruloğlu restricted Greek Orthodox communities to only hold a single religious service per year, with the exceptions of the Apostolos Andreas Monastery in Rizokarpaso, the Monastery of St. Barnabas in Famagusta and St. Mamas' Church in Morphou. The remaining churches could be used for one of the following three feasts: the church's Name Day, Easter or Christmas. Undersecretary Mustafa Lakadamyalı claimed that the move was to prevent the \"abuse\" of the permission to hold masses, also citing difficulties with the policing of more than one mass a day or frequent masses. Lakadamyalı also said that \"whilst some TRNC citizens can pass to the south even for worship, some absolutely cannot\". No restriction was placed on Maronites.\n\nThe decision was harshly criticized by Turkish Cypriot group Famagusta Initiative as \"chauvinist and intolerant\" and it was pointed out that no problem was encountered in the masses which took place in, for example, the Nestorian Church in Famagusta. Ertuğruloğlu's decision was also criticized by Burak Mavis of the Turkish Cypriot Teachers’ Trade Union (KTOS) who called out the whole debate as being driven by \"a backwards and racist political mentality,\" but it was defended by Yilmaz Bora, the leader of the Association of the Ex-Servicemen of the Turkish Resistance Organisation, who was cited as saying \"it was not possible to live with the Greek Cypriots in a United Cyprus, because the mentality of the Greek Cypriots has not changed in 53 years.\"\n\nThere is a synagogue for the Jewish community in Northern Cyprus in Kyrenia.\n"}
{"id": "12393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12393", "title": "Gaia philosophy", "text": "Gaia philosophy\n\nGaia philosophy (named after Gaia, Greek goddess of the Earth) is a broadly inclusive term for related concepts that living organisms on a planet will affect the nature of their environment in order to make the environment more suitable for life. This set of theories holds that all organisms on a life-giving planet regulate the biosphere in such a way as to promote its habitability. Gaia concept draws a connection between the survivability of a species (hence its evolutionary course) and its usefulness to the survival of other species.\n\nWhile there were a number of precursors to Gaia theory, the first scientific form of this idea was proposed as the Gaia hypothesis by James Lovelock, a UK chemist, in 1970. The Gaia hypothesis deals with the concept of biological homeostasis, and claims the resident life forms of a host planet coupled with their environment have acted and act like a single, self-regulating system. This system includes the near-surface rocks, the soil, and the atmosphere. Today many scientists consider such ideas to be unsupported by, or at odds with, the available evidence (see recent criticism). These theories are however significant in green politics.\n\nThere are some mystical, scientific and religious predecessors to the Gaia philosophy, which had a Gaia-like conceptual basis. Many religious mythologies had a view of Earth as being a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts (e.g. some Native American religions and various forms of shamanism).\n\nLewis Thomas believed that Earth should be viewed as a single cell; he derived this view from Johannes Kepler's view of Earth as a single round organism.\n\nIsaac Newton wrote of the earth, \"Thus this Earth resembles a great animall or rather inanimate vegetable, draws in æthereall breath for its dayly refreshment & vitall ferment & transpires again with gross exhalations, And according to the condition of all other things living ought to have its times of beginning youth old age & perishing.\"\n\nPierre Teilhard de Chardin, a paleontologist and geologist, believed that evolution unfolded from cell to organism to planet to solar system and ultimately the whole universe, as we humans see it from our limited perspective. Teilhard later influenced Thomas Berry and many Catholic humanist thinkers of the 20th century.\n\nBuckminster Fuller is generally credited with making the idea respectable in Western scientific circles in the 20th century. Building to some degree on his observations and artifacts, e.g. the Dymaxion map of the Earth he created, others began to ask if there was a way to make the Gaia theory scientifically sound.\n\nOberon Zell-Ravenheart in 1970 in an article in \"Green Egg\" Magazine, independently articulated the Gaia Thesis.\n\nNone of these ideas are considered scientific hypotheses; by definition a scientific hypothesis must make testable predictions. As the above claims are not testable, they are outside the bounds of current science.\n\nThese are conjectures and perhaps can only be considered as social and maybe political philosophy; they may have implications for theology, or \"thealogy\" as Zell-Ravenheart and Isaac Bonewits put it.\n\nAccording to James Kirchner there is a spectrum of Gaia hypotheses, ranging from the undeniable to radical. At one end is the undeniable statement that the organisms on the Earth have radically altered its composition. A stronger position is that the Earth's biosphere effectively acts as if it is a self-organizing system which works in such a way as to keep its systems in some kind of equilibrium that is conducive to life. Today many scientists consider that such a view (and any stronger views) are unlikely to be correct. An even stronger claim is that all lifeforms are part of a single planetary being, called Gaia. In this view, the atmosphere, the seas, the terrestrial crust would be the result of interventions carried out by Gaia, through the coevolving diversity of living organisms.\n\nThe most extreme form of Gaia theory is that the entire Earth is a single unified organism with a highly intelligent mind that arose as an emergent property of the whole biosphere. In this view, the Earth's biosphere is \"consciously\" manipulating the climate in order to make conditions more conducive to life. Scientists contend that there is no evidence at all to support this last point of view, and it has come about because many people do not understand the concept of homeostasis. Many non-scientists instinctively and incorrectly see homeostasis as a process that requires conscious control .\n\nThe more speculative versions of Gaia, including versions in which it is believed that the Earth is actually conscious, sentient, and highly intelligent, are usually considered outside the bounds of what is usually considered science.\n\nBuckminster Fuller has been credited as the first to incorporate scientific ideas into a Gaia theory, which he did with his Dymaxion map of the Earth.\n\nThe first scientifically rigorous theory was the Gaia hypothesis by James Lovelock, a UK chemist.\n\nA variant of this hypothesis was developed by Lynn Margulis, a microbiologist, in 1979.\nHer version is sometimes called the \"Gaia Theory\" (note uppercase-T). Her model is more limited in scope than the one that Lovelock proposed.\n\nWhether this sort of system is present on Earth is still open to debate. Some relatively simple homeostatic mechanisms are generally accepted. For example, when atmospheric carbon dioxide levels rise, plants are able to grow better and thus remove more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Other biological effects and feedbacks exist, but the extent to which these mechanisms have stabilized and modified the Earth's overall climate is largely not known.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis is sometimes viewed from significantly different philosophical perspectives. Some environmentalists view it as an almost conscious process, in which the Earth's ecosystem is literally viewed as a single unified organism. Some evolutionary biologists, on the other hand, view it as an undirected emergent property of the ecosystem: as each individual species pursues its own self-interest, their combined actions tend to have counterbalancing effects on environmental change. Proponents of this view sometimes point to examples of life's actions in the past that have resulted in dramatic change rather than stable equilibrium, such as the conversion of the Earth's atmosphere from a reducing environment to an oxygen-rich one.\n\nDepending on how strongly the case is stated, the hypothesis conflicts with mainstream neo-Darwinism. Most biologists would accept Daisyworld-style homeostasis as possible, but would certainly not accept the idea that this equates to the whole biosphere acting as one organism.\n\nA very small number of scientists, and a much larger number of environmental activists, claim that Earth's biosphere is \"consciously\" manipulating the climate in order to make conditions more conducive to life. Scientists contend that there is no evidence to support this belief.\n\nA social science view of Gaia theory is the role of humans as a keystone species who may be able to accomplish global homeostasis. Whilst a few social scientists who draw inspiration from 'organic' views of society have embraced Gaia philosophy as a way to explain the human-nature interconnections, most professional social scientists are more involved in reflecting upon the way Gaia philosophy is used and engaged with within sub-sections of society. Alan Marshall, in the Department of Social Sciences at Mahidol University, for example, reflects upon the way Gaia philosophy has been used and advocated by environmentalists, spiritualists, managers, economists, and scientists and engineers (see The Unity of Nature, 2002, Imperial College Press: London and Singapore). Social Scientists themselves in the 1960s gave up on systems ideas of society since they were interpreted as supporting conservatism and traditionalism.\n\nSome radical political environmentalists who accept some form of the Gaia theory call themselves Gaians. They actively seek to restore the Earth's homeostasis — whenever they see it out of balance, e.g. to prevent manmade climate change, primate extinction, or rainforest loss. In effect, they seek to cooperate to become the \"system consciously manipulating to make conditions more conducive to life\". Such activity defines the homeostasis, but for leverage it relies on deep investigation of the homeorhetic balances, if only to find places to intervene in a system which is changing in undesirable ways.\n\nTony Bondhus brings up the point in his book, \"Society of Conceivia\", that if Gaia is alive, then societies are living things as well. This suggests that our understanding of Gaia can be used to create a better society and to design a better political system.\n\nOther intellectuals in the environmental movement, like Edward Goldsmith, have used Gaia in the completely opposite way; to stake a claim about how Gaia's focus on natural balance and resistance and resilience, should be emulated to design a conservative political system (as explored in Alan Marshall's 2002 book \"The Unity of Nature\", (Imperial College Press: London).\n\nGaians do not passively ask \"what is going on\", but rather, \"what to do next\", e.g. in terraforming or climate engineering or even on a small scale, such as gardening. Changes can be planned, agreed upon by many people, being very deliberate, as in urban ecology and especially industrial ecology. \"See arcology for more on this 'active' view.\"\n\nGaians argue that it is a human duty to act as such - committing themselves in particular to the Precautionary Principle. Such views began to influence the Green Parties, Greenpeace, and a few more radical wings of the environmental movement such as the Gaia Liberation Front and the Earth Liberation Front. These views dominate some such groups, e.g. the Bioneers. Some refer to this political activity as a separate and radical branch of the ecology movement, one that takes the axioms of the science of ecology in general, and Gaia theory in particular, and raises them to a kind of theory of personal conduct or moral code.\n\nThe ecologist and theologian Anne Primavesi is the author of two books dealing with the Gaia hypothesis and theology.\n\nRosemary Radford Ruether, the American feminist scholar and theologian, wrote a book called \"Gaia and God: An Ecofeminist Theology of Earth Healing\".\n\nA book edited by Allan Hunt Badiner called Dharma Gaia explores the ground where Buddhism and ecology meet through writings by the Dalai Lama, Gary Snyder, Thich Nhat Hanh, Allen Ginsberg, Joanna Macy, Robert Aitken, and 25 other Buddhists and ecologists.\n\nMany new age authors have written books which mix New Age teachings with Gaia philosophy. This is known as New Age Gaian. Often referred to as Gaianism, or the Gaian Religion, this spiritual aspect of the philosophy is very broad and inclusive, making it adaptable to other religions: Taoism, Neo-Paganism, Pantheism, Judeo-Christian Religions, and many others.\n\nThe question of \"what is an organism\", and at what scale is it rational to speak about organisms vs. biospheres, gives rise to a semantic debate. We are all ecologies in the sense that our (human) bodies contain gut bacteria, parasite species, etc., and to them our body is not organism but rather more of a microclimate or biome. Applying that thinking to whole planets:\n\nThe argument is that these symbiotic organisms, being unable to survive apart from each other and their climate and local conditions, form an organism in their own right, under a wider conception of the term organism than is conventionally used. It is a matter for often heated debate whether this is a valid usage of the term, but ultimately it appears to be a semantic dispute. In this sense of the word organism, it is argued under the theory that the entire biomass of the Earth is a single organism (as Johannes Kepler thought).\n\nUnfortunately, many supporters of the various Gaia theories do not state exactly where they sit on this spectrum; this makes discussion and criticism difficult.\n\nMuch effort on behalf of those analyzing the theory currently is an attempt to clarify what these different hypotheses are, and whether they are proposals to 'test' or 'manipulate' outcomes. Both Lovelock's and Margulis's understanding of Gaia are considered scientific hypotheses, and like all scientific theories are constantly put to the test.\n\nMore speculative versions of Gaia, including all versions in which it is held that the Earth is actually conscious, are currently held to be outside the bounds of science, and are not supported by either Lovelock or Margulis.\n\nOne of the most problematic issues with referring to Gaia as an organism is its apparent failure to meet the biological criterion of being able to reproduce. Richard Dawkins has asserted that the planet is not the offspring of any parents and is unable to reproduce.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13929", "title": "History of religion", "text": "History of religion\n\nThe history of religion refers to the written record of human religious experiences and ideas. This period of religious history begins with the invention of writing about 5,200 years ago (3200 BCE). The prehistory of religion involves the study of religious beliefs that existed prior to the advent of written records. One can also study comparative religious chronology through a timeline of religion. Writing played a major role in standardizing religious texts regardless of time or location, and making easier the memorization of prayers and divine rules. The case of the Bible involves the collation of multiple oral texts handed down over the centuries.\n\nThe concept of \"religion\" was formed in the 16th and 17th centuries, despite the fact that ancient sacred texts like the Bible, the Quran, and others did not have a word or even a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written.\n\nThe word \"religion\" as used in the 21st century does not have an obvious pre-colonial translation into non-European languages. The anthropologist Daniel Dubuisson writes that \"what the West and the history of religions in its wake have objectified under the name 'religion' is ... something quite unique, which could be appropriate only to itself and its own history\". The history of other cultures' interaction with the \"religious\" category is therefore their interaction with an idea that first developed in Europe under the influence of Christianity.\n\nThe school of religious history called the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\", a late 19th-century German school of thought, originated the systematic study of religion as a socio-cultural phenomenon. It depicted religion as evolving with human culture, from primitive polytheism to ethical monotheism.\n\nThe \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" emerged at a time when scholarly study of the Bible and of church history flourished in Germany and elsewhere (see higher criticism, also called the \"historical-critical method\"). The study of religion is important: religion and similar concepts have often shaped civilizations' law and moral codes, social structure, art and music.\n\nThe 19th century saw a dramatic increase in knowledge about a wide variety of cultures and religions, and also the establishment of economic and social histories of progress. The \"history of religions\" school sought to account for this religious diversity by connecting it with the social and economic situation of a particular group.\n\nTypically, religions were divided into stages of progression from simple to complex societies, especially from polytheistic to monotheistic and from extempore to organized. One can also classify religions as circumcising and non-circumcising, proselytizing (attempting to convert people of other religion) and non-proselytizing. Many religions share common beliefs.\n\nThe earliest evidence of religious ideas dates back several hundred thousand years to the Middle and Lower Paleolithic periods. Archaeologists refer to apparent intentional burials of early \"Homo sapiens\" from as early as 300,000 years ago as evidence of religious ideas. Other evidence of religious ideas include symbolic artifacts from Middle Stone Age sites in Africa. However, the interpretation of early paleolithic artifacts, with regard to how they relate to religious ideas, remains controversial. Archeological evidence from more recent periods is less controversial. Scientists( generally interpret a number of artifacts from the Upper Paleolithic (50,000-13,000 BCE) as representing religious ideas. Examples of Upper Paleolithic remains associated with religious beliefs include the lion man, the Venus figurines, cave paintings from Chauvet Cave and the elaborate ritual burial from Sungir.\n\nIn the 19th century researchers proposed various theories regarding the origin of religion, challenging earlier claims of a Christianity-like urreligion. Early theorists Edward Burnett Tylor (1832-1917) and Herbert Spencer (1820-1903) proposed the concept of animism, while archaeologist John Lubbock (1834-1913) used the term \"fetishism\". Meanwhile, religious scholar Max Müller (1823-1900) theorized that religion began in hedonism and folklorist Wilhelm Mannhardt (1831-1880) suggested that religion began in \"naturalism\", by which he meant mythological explanation of natural events. All of these theories have since been widely criticized; there is no broad consensus regarding the origin of religion.\n\nPre-pottery Neolithic A (PPNA) Göbekli Tepe, the oldest religious site yet discovered anywhere includes circles of erected massive T-shaped stone pillars, the world's oldest known megaliths decorated with abstract, enigmatic pictograms and carved animal reliefs. The site, near the home place of original wild wheat, was built before the so-called Neolithic Revolution, i.e., the beginning of agriculture and animal husbandry around 9000 BCE. But the construction of Göbekli Tepe implies organization of an advanced order not hitherto associated with Paleolithic, PPNA, or PPNB societies. The site, abandoned around the time the first agricultural societies started, is still being excavated and analyzed, and thus might shed light to the significance it had had for the region's older, foraging communities, as well as for the general history of religions. \n\nThe Pyramid Texts from ancient Egypt are the oldest known religious texts in the world, dating to between 2400-2300 BCE.\n\nSurviving early copies of complete religious texts include: \n\nThe Dead Sea Scrolls, representing complete texts of the Hebrew Tanakh; these scrolls were copied approximately 2000 years ago. \n\nComplete Hebrew texts, also of the Tanakh, but translated into the Greek language (Septuagint 300-200 BC), were in wide use by the early 1st century CE. \n\nOrganized religion emerged as a means of providing social and economic stability to large populations through the following ways:\n\nHistorians have labelled the period from 900 to 200 BCE as the \"axial age\", a term coined by German-Swiss philosopher Karl Jaspers (1883-1969). According to Jaspers, in this era of history \"the spiritual foundations of humanity were laid simultaneously and independently... And these are the foundations upon which humanity still subsists today.\" Intellectual historian Peter Watson has summarized this period as the foundation time of many of humanity's most influential philosophical traditions, including monotheism in Persia and Canaan, Platonism in Greece, Buddhism and Jainism in India, and Confucianism and Taoism in China. These ideas would become institutionalized in time - note for example Ashoka's role in the spread of Buddhism, or the role of platonic philosophy in Christianity at its foundation.\n\nThe historical roots of Jainism in India date back to the 9th-century BCE with the rise of Parshvanatha and his non-violent philosophy.\n\nWorld religions of the present day established themselves throughout Eurasia during the Middle Ages by:\n\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Muslims came into conflict with Zoroastrians during the Islamic conquest of Persia (633-654); Christians fought against Muslims during the Byzantine-Arab Wars (7th to 11th centuries), the Crusades (1095 onward), the Reconquista (718-1492), the Ottoman wars in Europe (13th century onwards) and the Inquisition; Shamanism was in conflict with Buddhists, Taoists, Muslims and Christians during the Mongol invasions (1206-1337); and Muslims clashed with Hindus and Sikhs during the Muslim conquest of the Indian subcontinent (8th to 16th centuries).\n\nMany medieval religious movements emphasized mysticism, such as the Cathars and related movements in the West, the Jews in Spain (see Zohar), the Bhakti movement in India and Sufism in Islam. Monotheism reached definite forms in Christian Christology and in Islamic Tawhid. Hindu monotheist notions of Brahman likewise reached their classical form with the teaching of Adi Shankara (788-820).\n\nEuropean colonisation during the 15th to 19th centuries resulted in the spread of Christianity in Sub-Saharan Africa, and to the Americas, Australia and the Philippines. The invention of the printing press in the 15th century played a major role in the rapid spread of the Protestant Reformation under leaders such as Martin Luther (1483-1546) and John Calvin (1509-1564). Wars of religion broke out, culminating in the Thirty Years War which ravaged central Europe between 1618 and 1648. The 18th century saw the beginning of secularisation in Europe, gaining momentum after the French Revolution of 1789 and following. By the late 20th century religion had declined in most of Europe.\n\nIn the 20th century, the regimes of Communist Eastern Europe and of Communist China were anti-religious. A great variety of new religious movements originated in the 20th century, many proposing syncretism of elements of established religions. Adherence to such new movements is limited, however, remaining below 2% worldwide in the period 2000-2009. Adherents of the classical world religions account for more than 75% of the world's population, while adherence to indigenous tribal religions has fallen to 4%. , an estimated 14% of the world's population identifies as nonreligious.\n\nBy 2001 people began to use the internet to discover or adhere to their religious beliefs. In January 2000 the website beliefnet was established, and the following year, every month it had over 1.7 million visitors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32396918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32396918", "title": "Hyperuranion", "text": "Hyperuranion\n\nHyperuranion or topos hyperuranios (, accusative of ὑπερουράνιος τόπος, \"place beyond heaven\") is alternately a concept used by Plato to mean a perfect realm of Forms. The Hyperuranion, which is also called Platonic realm, is a place in heaven where all ideas of real things are collected together. This is within Plato's view that the idea of a phenomenon is beyond the realm of real phenomena and that everything we experience in our lives is merely a copy of the perfect model that exists in the hyperuranion. \n\nSocrates also cited the concept of hyperuranion, describing it as higher than the gods since their divinity depended on the knowledge of the hyperuranion beings.\n\nThe hyperuranion doctrine is also a later medieval concept that claims God within the empyrean exists outside of heaven and controls it as the first mover from there for heaven even to be a part of the moved. The French alchemist Jean d'Espagnet rejected the idea of hyperuranion in his work \"Enchiridion\", where he maintained that nature is not divided into conceptual categories but exists in unity.\n\n"}
{"id": "3473322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3473322", "title": "Iyi-uwa", "text": "Iyi-uwa\n\nAn Iyi-uwa is an object from Igbo mythology that binds the spirit of a dead child (known as ogbanje) to the world, causing it to return and be born again to the same mother.\n\nMany objects can serve the purpose of iyi-uwa, including stones, dolls, hair or pieces of the dead child's clothes, omens, or offerings. The iyi-uwa must be found and destroyed in order for the ogbanje to rest and stop haunting the mother. To find the object, shamans known as 'dibia' question the spirit and perform rituals to force it to reveal where the iyi-uwa is located.\n\nThe novel \"Things Fall Apart\" by Nigerian author Chinua Achebe contains a detailed subplot involving an ogbanje child and her iyi-uwa.\n"}
{"id": "16016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16016", "title": "Jainism", "text": "Jainism\n\nJainism (), traditionally known as Jain Dharma, is an ancient Indian religion. Followers of Jainism are called \"Jains\", a word derived from the Sanskrit word \"jina\" (victor) and connoting the path of victory in crossing over life's stream of rebirths through an ethical and spiritual life Jains trace their history through a succession of twenty-four victorious saviours and teachers known as \"tirthankaras\", with the first being Rishabhanatha, who according to Jain tradition lived millions of years ago, and twenty-fourth being the Mahāvīra around 500 BCE. Jains believe that Jainism is an eternal \"dharma\" with the \"tirthankaras\" guiding every cycle of the Jain cosmology.\n\nThe main religious premises of Jainism are \"ahiṃsā\" (\"non-violence\"), \"anekāntavāda\" (\"many-sidedness\"), \"aparigraha\" (\"non-attachment\") and \"asceticism\". Devout Jains take five main vows: \"ahiṃsā\" (\"non-violence\"), \"satya\" (\"truth\"), \"asteya\" (\"not stealing\"), \"brahmacharya\" (\"celibacy or chastity\"), and \"aparigraha\" (\"non-attachment\"). These principles have impacted Jain culture in many ways, such as leading to a predominantly vegetarian lifestyle that avoids harm to animals and their life cycles. \"Parasparopagraho Jīvānām\" (\"the function of souls is to help one another\") is the motto of Jainism. \"Ṇamōkāra mantra\" is the most common and basic prayer in Jainism.\n\nJainism has two major ancient sub-traditions, Digambaras and Śvētāmbaras; and several smaller sub-traditions that emerged in the 2nd millennium CE. The Digambaras and Śvētāmbaras have different views on ascetic practices, gender and which Jain texts can be considered canonical. Jain mendicants are found in all Jain sub-traditions, with laypersons (\"śrāvakas\") supporting the mendicants' spiritual pursuits with resources.\n\nJainism has between four and five million followers, with most Jains residing in India. Outside India, some of the largest Jain communities are present in Canada, Europe, Kenya, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Suriname, Fiji, and the United States. Major Jain festivals include Paryushana and Daslakshana, Mahavir Jayanti, and Diwali.\n\nThe principle of \"ahimsa\" (\"non-violence\" or \"non-injury\") is a fundamental tenet of Jainism. It believes that one must abandon all violent activity, and without such a commitment to non-violence all religious behavior is worthless. In Jain theology, it does not matter how correct or defensible the violence may be, one must not kill any being, and \"non-violence is one's highest religious duty\".\n\nJain texts such as \"Acaranga Sūtra\" and \"Tattvarthasūtra\" state that one must renounce all killing of living beings, whether tiny or large, movable or immovable. Its theology teaches that one must neither kill another living being, nor cause another to kill, nor consent to any killing directly or indirectly. Furthermore, Jainism emphasizes non-violence against all beings not only in action but also in speech and in thought. It states that instead of hate or violence against anyone, \"all living creatures must help each other\". Violence negatively affects and destroys one's soul, particularly when the violence is done with intent, hate or carelessness, or when one indirectly causes or consents to the killing of a human or non-human living being.\n\nThe idea of reverence for non-violence (\"ahiṃsā\") is founded in Hindu and Buddhist canonical texts, and it may have origins in more ancient Brahmanical Vedic thoughts. However, no other Indian religion has developed the non-violence doctrine and its implications on everyday life as has Jainism.\n\nThe theological basis of non-violence as the highest religious duty has been interpreted by some Jain scholars not to \"be driven by merit from giving or compassion to other creatures, nor a duty to rescue all creatures\", but resulting from \"continual self-discipline\", a cleansing of the soul that leads to one's own spiritual development which ultimately affects one's salvation and release from rebirths. Causing injury to any being in any form creates bad karma which affects one's rebirth, future well being and suffering.\n\nLate medieval Jain scholars re-examined the \"Ahiṃsā\" doctrine when one is faced with external threat or violence. For example, they justified violence by monks to protect nuns. According to Dundas, the Jain scholar Jinadatta Suri wrote during a time of Muslim destruction of temples and persecution that \"anybody engaged in a religious activity who was forced to fight and kill somebody would not lose any spiritual merit but instead attain deliverance\". However, such examples in Jain texts that condone fighting and killing under certain circumstances are relatively rare.\n\nThe second main principle of Jainism is \"anekāntavāda\" or \"anekantatva\", a word derived from \"anekānta\" (\"not one ended, sided\", \"many-sidedness\" or \"manifoldness\") and \"vada\" (\"doctrine\", \"way\").\n\nThe \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine states that truth and reality is complex and always has multiple aspects. Reality can be experienced, but it is not possible to totally express it with language. Human attempts to communicate is \"Naya\", explained as \"partial expression of the truth\". Language is not Truth, but a means and attempt to express Truth. From Truth, according to Mahāvīra, language returns and not the other way round. One can experience the truth of a taste, but cannot fully express that taste through language. Any attempts to express the experience is \"syāt\", or valid \"in some respect\" but it remains a \"perhaps, just one perspective, incomplete\". In the same way, spiritual truths are complex, they have multiple aspects, and language cannot express their plurality, yet through effort and appropriate karma they can be experienced. Since reality is many-sided the great error, according to Jainism, is \"ekānta\" (one-sidedness) where some relative truth is treated as an absolute truth to the exclusion of others.\n\nThe \"anekāntavāda\" premise of the Jains is ancient, as evidenced by its mention in Buddhist texts such as the \"Samaññaphala Sutta\". The Jain Agamas suggest that Mahāvīra's approach to answering all metaphysical philosophical questions was a \"qualified yes\" (\"syāt\"). These texts identify \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine to be one of the key differences between the teachings of the Mahāvīra and those of the Buddha. The Buddha taught the Middle Way, rejecting extremes of the answer \"it is\" or \"it is not\" to metaphysical questions. The Mahāvīra, in contrast, taught his followers to accept both \"it is\", and \"it is not\", with \"perhaps\" qualification and with reconciliation to understand the Absolute Reality. \"Syādvāda\" (predication logic) and \"nayavāda\" (perspective epistemology) of Jainism expand on the concept of \"anekāntavāda\". \"Syādvāda\" recommends the expression of \"anekānta\" by prefixing the epithet \"syād\" to every phrase or expression describing the \"permanent being\". There is no creator God in Jainism; existence has neither beginning nor end, and the permanent being is conceptualized as \"jiva\" (\"soul\") and \"ajiva\" (\"matter\") within a dualistic \"anekāntavāda\" framework.\n\nAccording to Paul Dundas, in contemporary times the \"anekāntavāda\" doctrine has been interpreted by some Jains as intending to \"promote a universal religious tolerance\", and a teaching of \"plurality\" and \"benign attitude to other [ethical, religious] positions\". Dundas states this is problematic and a misreading of Jain historical texts and Mahāvīra's teachings. The \"many pointedness, multiple perspective\" teachings of the Mahāvīra is a doctrine about the nature of absolute reality and human existence, and it is sometimes called \"non-absolutism\" doctrine. However, it is not a doctrine about tolerating or condoning activities such as sacrificing or killing animals for food, nor violence against disbelievers or any other living being as \"perhaps right\". The five vows for Jain monks and nuns, for example, are strict requirements and there is no \"perhaps\" or \"that is just one perspective\" about them. Similarly, since ancient times, Jainism co-existed with Buddhism and Hinduism according to Dundas, but Jainism was highly critical of the knowledge systems and ideologies of its rivals, and vice versa.\n\nThe third main principle in Jainism is \"aparigraha\" which means non-attachment to worldly possessions. For ascetics, Jainism requires a vow of complete non-possession of any property. For Jain laypersons, it recommends limited possession of property that has been honestly earned, and giving excess property to charity. According to Natubhai Shah, \"aparigraha\" applies to both the material and the psychic. Material possessions refer to various forms of property. Psychic possessions refer to emotions, likes and dislikes, and attachments of any form. Unchecked attachment to possessions is said to result in direct harm to one's personality.\n\nJainism views attachments to material or emotional possessions as what leads to passions, which in turn leads to violence. According to the \"aparigraha\" principle, a Jain monk or nun is expected to be homeless and family-less with no emotional longings or attachments. The ascetic is a wandering mendicant in the Digambara tradition, or a resident mendicant in the Śvētāmbara tradition.\n\nIn addition, Jain texts mention that \"attachment to possessions\" (\"parigraha\") is of two kinds: attachment to internal possessions (\"ābhyantara parigraha\"), and attachment to external possessions (\"bāhya parigraha\"). For internal possessions, Jainism identifies four key passions of the mind (\"kashaya\"): anger, pride (ego), deceitfulness, and greed. In addition to the four passions of the mind, the remaining ten internal passions are: wrong belief, the three sex-passions (male sex-passion, female sex-passion, neuter sex-passion), and the six defects (laughter, like, dislike, sorrow, fear, disgust).\n\nJainism teaches five ethical duties, which it calls five vows. These are called \"anuvratas\" (\"small vows\") for Jain laypersons, and \"mahavratas\" (\"great vows\") for Jain mendicants. For both, its moral precepts preface that the Jain has access to a \"guru\" (\"teacher\", \"counsellor\"), \"deva\" (\"Jina\", \"god\"), doctrine, and that the individual is free from five offences: doubts about the faith, indecisiveness about the truths of Jainism, sincere desire for Jain teachings, recognition of fellow Jains, and admiration for their spiritual pursuits. Such a person undertakes the following Five vows of Jainism:\n\nOf all the major Indian religions, Jainism has had the strongest austerity-driven ascetic tradition, and it is an essential part of a mendicant's spiritual pursuits. Ascetic life may include nakedness symbolizing non-possession of even clothes, fasting, body mortification, penance, and other austerities, in order to burn away past karma and stop producing new karma, both of which are believed in Jainism to be essential for reaching \"siddha\" and \"moksha\" (\"liberation from rebirths\", and \"salvation\").\n\nJain texts like \"Tattvartha Sūtra\" and \"Uttaradhyayana Sūtra\" discuss ascetic austerities to great lengths and formulations. Six outer and six inner practices are most common, and oft-repeated in later Jain texts. According to John Cort, outer austerities include complete fasting, eating limited amounts, eating restricted items, abstaining from tasty foods, mortifying the flesh, and guarding the flesh (avoiding anything that is a source of temptation). Inner austerities include expiation, confession, respecting and assisting mendicants, studying, meditation, and ignoring bodily wants in order to abandon the body.\n\nLists of internal and external austerities in Jainism varies with the text and tradition. Asceticism is viewed as a means to control desires, and a means to purify the \"jiva\" (\"soul\"). The \"tirthankaras\" of Jainism, such as the Mahāvīra (Vardhamana) set an example of leading an ascetic life by performing severe austerities for twelve years.\n\nThe practice of non-violence towards all living beings has led to Jain culture being vegetarian. Devout Jains practice lacto-vegetarianism, that is eat no eggs, but accept dairy products if there is no violence against animals during their production. Veganism is encouraged if there are concerns about animal welfare. Jain monks and nuns do not eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions and garlic because tiny organisms are injured when the plant is pulled up, and because a bulb or tuber's ability to sprout is seen as characteristic of a higher living being.\n\nJains fast on different occasions throughout the year, particularly during festivals. This practice is called \"upavasa\", \"tapasya\" or \"vrata\". According to Singh, this takes on various forms and may be practised based on one's ability. Some examples include Digambara fasting for \"Dasa-laksana-parvan\" where a Jain layperson eats only one or two meals per day, drinking only boiled water for ten days, or fasting completely on the first and last day of the festival. With these practices the layperson mimics the practices of a Jain mendicant during the festival. A similar practice is found among Śvētāmbara Jains on eight day \"paryusana\" with \"samvatsari-pratikramana\".\n\nThe fasting practice is believed to remove karma from one's soul and allow one to gain merit (\"punya\"). A \"one day\" fast in Jain tradition lasts about 36 hours, starting at sunset before the day of the fast and ending 48 minutes after the sunrise the day after. Among laypeople, fasting is more commonly observed by women, where it is believed that this shows her piety, religious purity, gains her and her family prestige, leads to merit earning and helps ensure future well-being for her family. Some religious fasts are observed as a group where Jain women bond socially and support each other. Long fasts are celebrated by friends and families with special ceremonies.\n\nJainism considers meditation (\"dhyana\") a necessary practice, but its goals are very different from those in Buddhism and Hinduism. In Jainism, meditation is concerned more with stopping karmic attachments and activity, not as a means to transformational insights or self-realization in other Indian religions. Meditation in early Jain literature is a form of austerity and ascetic practice in Jainism, while in late medieval era the practice adopted ideas from other Indian traditions. According to Paul Dundas, this lack of meditative practices in early Jain texts may be because substantial portions of ancient Jain texts were lost.\n\nAccording to Padmanabh Jaini, \"Sāmāyika\" is a practice of \"brief periods in meditation\" in Jainism that is a part of \"siksavrata\" (\"ritual restraint\"). The goal of \"Sāmāyika\" is to achieve equanimity, and it is the second \"siksavrata\". The \"samayika\" ritual is practiced at least three times a day by mendicants, while a layperson includes it with other ritual practices such as \"Puja\" in a Jain temple and doing charity work. According to Johnson, as well as Jaini, \"samayika\" connotes more than meditation, and for a Jain householder is the voluntary ritual practice of \"assuming temporary ascetic status\".\n\nThe Digambara Jain scholar Kundakunda, in his \"Pravacanasara\" states that a Jain mendicant should meditate on \"I, the pure self\". Anyone who considers his body or possessions as \"I am this, this is mine\" is on the wrong road, while one who meditates, thinking the antithesis and \"I am not others, they are not mine, I am one knowledge\" is on the right road to meditating on the \"soul, the pure self\".\n\nThere are many rituals in Jainism's various sects. According to Dundas, the ritualistic lay path among Śvētāmbara Jains is \"heavily imbued with ascetic values\", where the rituals either revere or celebrate the ascetic life of Tirthankaras, or mendicants, or progressively get closer to psychologically and physically living ever more like an ascetic. The ultimate ritual is \"sallekhana\", a religious death through ascetic abandonment of food and drinks. The Digambara Jains follow the same theme, but the details differ from Śvētāmbaras, and according to Dundas, the life cycle and religious rituals are closer to the liturgy found among Hindu traditions. The overlap in Jain and Hindu rituals is largely in the life cycle (rites-of-passage) rituals, according to Padmanabh Jaini, and likely one that developed over time because Jains and Hindus societies overlapped, and rituals were viewed as necessary and secular ceremonies.\n\nJains do not believe in a creator god, but do ritually worship numerous deities. The Jinas are prominent and a large focus of this ritualism, but they are not the only \"deva\" in Jainism. A Jina as \"deva\" is not an avatar (incarnation) in Jainism, but the highest state of omniscience that an ascetic \"tirthankara\" achieved. Out of the 24 Tirthankaras, Jain devotional worship is predominantly addressed to four: Mahāvīra, Parshvanatha, Neminatha and Rishabhanatha. Among the non-\"tirthankara\" saints, devotional worship is common for Bahubali among the Digambaras. Some of Jaina rituals remember the five life events of the \"tirthankaras\", called the \"Panch Kalyanaka\", are rituals such as the \"Panch Kalyanaka Pratishtha Mahotsava\", \"Panch Kalyanaka Puja\" and \"Snatrapuja\".\nThe basic worship ritual practised by Jains is \"darsana\" (\"seeing\") of \"deva\", which includes Jina, or other yaksas, gods and goddesses such as Brahmadeva, 52 Viras, Padmavati, Ambika and 16 Vidyadevis (Sarasvati, Lakshmi, others). The Terapanthi sub-tradition of Digambaras do not worship many of the deities popular among mainstream Digambaras, and they limit their ritual worship to Tirthankaras. The worship ritual is called the \"devapuja\", is found in all Jaina sub traditions, which share common features. Typically, the Jaina layperson enters the temple inner sanctum in simple clothing and bare feet, with a plate filled with offerings, bows down, says the namaskara, completes his or her litany and prayers, sometimes is assisted by the temple priest, leaves the offerings and then departs.\n\nJain practices include performing \"abhisheka\" (\"ceremonial bath\") of the images. Some Jain sects employ a \"pujari\" (also called \"upadhye\") for rituals, who may be a non-Jain (a Hindu), to perform special rituals and other priestly duties at the temple. More elaborate worship includes ritual offerings such as rice, fresh and dry fruits, flowers, coconut, sweets, and money. Some may light up a lamp with camphor and make auspicious marks with sandalwood paste. Devotees also recite Jain texts, particularly the life stories of the tirthankaras.\n\nThe traditional Jains, like Buddhists and Hindus, believe in the efficacy of mantras and that certain sounds and words are inherently auspicious, powerful and spiritual. The most famous of the mantras, broadly accepted in various sects of Jainism, is the \"five homage\" (\"panca namaskara\") mantra which is believed to be eternal and existent since the first ford-maker's time. The medieval era Jain worship practices, according to Ellen Gough, also developed tantric diagrams of the \"Rishi-mandala\" where the \"tirthankaras\" are portrayed. The Tantric traditions within Jainism use mantra and rituals that are believed to accrue merit for rebirth realms.\n\nJains celebrate many annual festivals. Many of the major festivals in Jainism fall in and around the \"comasu\" (Sanskrit: \"chaturmasa\") period of the calendar. It is the four month monsoon period when the Jain ascetics are mandated to remain in residence at one place in the Jain tradition, rather than be traveling or going around Indian villages and towns and never staying in one place for more than a month. The \"comasu\" period allows the four orders of the Jain community to be together and participate in the festive remembrances.\n\nThe most important annual Jain festival is called the \"Paryushana\" by Svetambaras and \"Dasa lakshana parva\" by the Digambaras. It is celebrated from the 12th day of waning moon in the traditional luni-solar month of Bhadrapada in the Indian calendar. This typically falls in August or September of the Gregorian calendar. It lasts eight days for Svetambaras, and ten days among the Digambaras. It is a time when lay people fast and pray. The five vows are emphasized during this time. Svetambaras recite the \"Kalpasūtras\", while Digambaras read their own texts. The festival is an occasion where Jains make active effort to stop cruelty towards other life forms, freeing animals in captivity and preventing slaughter of animals.\nThe last day involves a focused prayer/meditation session known as \"Samvatsari\". Jains consider this as a day of atonement, granting forgiveness to others, seeking forgiveness from all living beings, physically or mentally asking for forgiveness and resolving to treat everyone in the world as friends. Forgiveness is asked by saying \"\"Micchami Dukkadam\" or \"Khamat Khamna\"\" to others. This means, \"If I have offended you in any way, knowingly or unknowingly, in thought, word or action, then I seek your forgiveness.\" The literal meaning of \"Paryushana\" is \"abiding\" or \"coming together\".\n\nMahavir Jayanti celebrates the birth of Mahāvīra. It is celebrated on the 13th day of the luni-solar month of Chaitra in the traditional Indian calendar. This typically falls in March or April of the Gregorian calendar. The festivities include visiting Jain temples, pilgrimages to shrines, reading Jain texts and processions of Mahāvīra by the community. At his legendary birthplace of Kundagrama in Bihar, north of Patna, special events are held by Jains.\n\nDiwali is observed by Jains as the anniversary of Mahāvīra's attainment of \"moksha\". The Hindu festival of Diwali is also celebrated on the same date (\"Kartika Amavasya\"). Jain temples, homes, offices, and shops are decorated with lights and \"diyas\" (\"small oil lamps\"). The lights are symbolic of knowledge or removal of ignorance. Sweets are often distributed. On Diwali morning, \"Nirvan Ladoo\" is offered after praying to Mahāvīra in all Jain temples across the world. The Jain new year starts right after Diwali. Some other festivals celebrated by Jains are Akshaya Tritiya and Raksha Bandhan, similar to those in the Hindu communities.\n\nJainism monastic organization is a part of Jain society called \"sangh\". A \"sangh\" has a four-fold order, or \"caturvidh, sakal sangh\". This consists of \"sadhu\" (male ascetics, \"muni\"), \"sadhvi\" (female ascetics, \"aryika\"), \"śrāvaka\" (\"laymen\"), and \"śrāvikā\" (\"laywoman\"). The latter two support the ascetics and their monastic organizations called \"gacch\" or \"samuday\", in autonomous regional Jain congregations.\n\nDigambar tradition has two main monastic orders Mula Sangh and the Kashtha Sangh, both led by Bhattarakas. Other notable monastic orders include the Digambara Terapanth which emerged in the 17th century. Śvētāmbaras have their own \"sanghs\", but unlike Digambaras which have had predominantly \"sadhu sanghs\" (male monastic organizations), they have major \"sadhu\" and \"sadhvi\" \"sanghs\" (monks and nuns).\nAccording to Śvētāmbara Jain texts, from \"Kalpasūtras\" onwards, its monastic community has had more \"sadhvis\" than \"sadhus\" (female than male mendicants). In \"Tapa Gacch\" of the modern era, the ratio of \"sadhvis\" to \"sadhus\" (nuns to monks) is about 3.5 to 1. In contrast to Śvētāmbara, the Digambara sect monastic community has been predominantly male. In the Digambara tradition, a male human being is considered closest to the apex with the potential to achieve his soul's liberation from rebirths through asceticism. Women must gain karmic merit, to be reborn as man, and only then can they achieve spiritual liberation in the Digambara sect of Jainism. The Śvētāmbaras disagree with the Digambaras, believing that women can also achieve liberation from \"Saṃsāra\" through ascetic practices.\n\nThe Jain monastic organization shares many parallels with those found in Buddhist and Brahmanical-Hindu monasticism. They all have similar rules, hierarchical structure, practices such as not traveling during the four-month monsoon season and celibacy. According to William Johnston, this is not likely from mutual borrowing of ideas, but because these traditions emerged from the same ancient Indian monastic traditions that preceded the Buddha and the Mahāvīra. There are some differences. For example, the Jain and Hindu monastic community has been traditionally more mobile and had an itinerant lifestyle, while Buddhist monks have favored belonging to a \"sangha\" (monastery) and staying in its premises. Buddhist monastic rules forbid a monk to go outside without wearing the sangha's distinctive ruddy robe, or to use wooden bowls. In contrast, Jain monastic rules have either required no clothes (Digambara) or white (Śvētāmbara) and the use of wooden or empty gourd as the begging bowl. The Jain monastic rules have encouraged the use of mouth cover, as well as a broom to gently remove any insect that comes in their path.\n\nJainism also prescribes seven supplementary vows which include three \"guņa vratas\" (\"merit vows\") and four \"śikşā vratas\".\n\nThe \"Sallekhana\" (or \"Santhara\") vow is a \"religious death\" ritual vow observed at the end of life, historically by Jain monks and nuns, but rare in the modern age. In this vow, there is voluntary and gradual reduction of food and liquid intake to end one's life by choice and with dispassion, In Jainism this is believed to reduce negative karma that affects a soul's future rebirths.\n\nThe Jain community is divided into two major denominations, Digambara and Śvētāmbara. Monks of the Digambara (\"sky-clad\") tradition do not wear clothes. Female monastics of the Digambara sect wear unstitched plain white sarees and are referred to as \"Aryikas\". Śvētāmbara (\"white-clad\") monastics, on the other hand, wear seamless white clothes.\n\nDuring Chandragupta Maurya's reign, Jain tradition states that \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu predicted a twelve-year-long famine and moved to Karnataka with his disciples. Sthulabhadra, a pupil of \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu, stayed in Magadha. Later, when followers of \"Acharya\" Bhadrabahu returned, they found those who had remained at Magadha had started wearing white clothes, which was unacceptable to the others who remained naked. This is how Jains believe the Digambara and Śvētāmbara schism began, with the former being naked while the latter wore white clothes. Digambara saw this as being opposed to the Jain tenet of \"aparigraha\" which, according to them, required not even possession of clothes, i.e. complete nudity. In the 5th-century CE, the Council of Valabhi was organized by Śvētāmbara, which Digambara did not attend. At the council, the Śvētāmbara adopted the texts they had preserved as canonical scriptures, which Digambara have ever since rejected. This council solidified the historic schism between these two major traditions of Jainism. The earliest record of Digambara beliefs is contained in the Prakrit \"Suttapahuda\" of Kundakunda.\nOther than rejecting or accepting different ancient Jain texts, Digambaras and Śvētāmbara differ in other significant ways such as:\n\nExcavations at Mathura revealed Jain statues from the time of the Kushan Empire (c.1st century CE). \"Tirthankara\" represented without clothes, and monks with cloth wrapped around the left arm, are identified as the \"Ardhaphalaka\" (\"half-clothed\") mentioned in texts. The Yapaniyas, believed to have originated from the \"Ardhaphalaka\", followed Digambara nudity along with several Śvētāmbara beliefs.\n\nBoth of the major Jain traditions evolved into sub-traditions over time. For example, the devotional worship traditions of Śvētāmbara are referred to as \"Murti-pujakas\", those who live in and around Jain temples became \"Deravasi\" or \"Mandira-margi\". Those who avoid temples and pursue their spirituality at a designated monastic meeting place came to be known as \"Sthānakavāsī\". About the 18th century, the Śvētāmbara and Digambara traditions saw an emergence of separate Terapanthi movements. Some scholars such as Malvaniya state that these ideas entered Jainism from an influence of Islam, while others such as Dundas state that these ideas, debates and movements can be traced in more ancient texts than the start of Islam.\n\nIn the modern era, according to Flügel, new Jaina religious movements that are a \"primarily devotional form of Jainism\" have developed which resemble \"Jain Mahayana\" style devotionalism.\n\nA male human being is considered closest to the apex with the potential to achieve liberation, particularly through asceticism. In the Digambara traditional belief, women must gain karmic merit, to be reborn as man, and only then can they achieve spiritual liberation. However, this view has been historically debated within Jainism and different Jaina sects have expressed different views, particularly the Śvētāmbara sect that believes that women too can achieve spiritual liberation from rebirths in \"Saṃsāra\". The \"Śvētāmbaras\" state the 19th \"Tirthankara\" Māllīnātha was female. However, Digambara reject this, and worship Mallinatha as a male.\n\nThe \"dravya\" in Jainism are fundamental entities, called \"astikaya\" (literally, \"collection that exists\"). They are believed to be eternal, and the ontological building blocks that constitute and explain all existence, whether perceived or not.\n\nAccording to the Śvētāmbara tradition of Jainism, there are five eternal substances in existence: Soul (\"jiva\"), Matter (\"pudgala\"), Space (\"akasha\"), motion (\"Dharma\") and rest (\"Adharma\"). To this list of five, the Digambara Jain tradition adds \"Time\" (\"kala\") as the sixth eternal substance. In both traditions, the substance of space is conceptualized as \"world space\" (\"lokakasha\") and \"non-world space\" (\"alokiakasha\"). Further, both soul and matter are considered as active ontological substances, while the rest are inactive. Another categorization found in Jain philosophy is \"jiva\" and \"ajiva\", the latter being all \"dravya\" that is not \"jiva\".\n\n\"Jiva\" means \"soul\" in Jainism, and is also called \"jivatman\". It is a core concept and the fundamental focus of the Jain theology. The soul is believed to be eternal, and a substance that undergoes constant modifications, in every life, after every rebirth of a living being. \"Jiva\" consists of pure consciousness in the Jain thought, has innate \"free will\" that causes it to act but is believed to be intangible and formless. It is the soul that experiences existence and gains knowledge, not mind nor body both believed to a heap of matter. Jain philosophy further believes that the soul is the mechanism of rebirth, and karma accumulation. It is the same size in all living beings, such as a human being, a tiny insect and a large elephant. \"Jiva\" is everywhere, filling and infused in every minuscule part of the entire \"loka\" (realm of existence), according to Jainism. The soul has the potential to reach omniscience and eternal bliss, and end the cycles of rebirth and associated suffering, which is the goal of Jain spirituality.\n\nThe \"jiva\" is believed to rely on other \"dravya\" to function. The Jain philosophy completely separates body (matter) from the soul (consciousness). Souls reside in bodies and journey endlessly through \"saṃsāra\" (that is, realms of existence through cycles of rebirths and redeaths).\n\n\"Jivas\" are believed to be of two types, stationary and mobile. Illustration of the former are plants, while moving \"jivas\" include examples such as human beings, animals, gods, hell beings and insects. \"Jivas\" are further classified in Jain philosophy by assigned number of senses which range from one sensory organ to five sensory organs. Inert world such as air, fire or clod of dirt, considered non-sensate in contemporary science, are asserted in historic texts of Jainism to be living and with sensory powers.\n\n\"Ajiva\" consists of everything other than \"jiva\". Life processes such as breath, means of knowledge such as language, all emotional and biological experiences such as pleasure and pain are all believed in Jainism to be made of \"pudgala\" (\"matter\"). These interact with \"tattva\" or reality to create, bind, destroy or unbind karma particles to the soul.\n\nAccording to Dundas, \"Dharma\" as a metaphysical substance in Jain philosophy may be understood as \"that which carries\" instead of the literal sense of ordinary physical motion. Thus, \"dharma\" includes all verbal and mental activity, that contribute to karma and purification of the soul.\n\n\"Tattva\" connotes \"Reality, Truth\" in Jain philosophy, and is the framework for salvation. According to Digambara Jains, there are seven \"tattvas\", while Śvētāmbaras believe in nine \"tattvas\":\n\nThe true insight in Jain philosophy is considered as \"faith in the \"tattvas\"\". The spiritual goal in Jainism is to reach \"moksha\" for ascetics, but for most Jain laypersons and ascetics it is to accumulate good karma that leads to better rebirth and a step closer to liberation.\n\nAccording to Jainism, the existence of \"a bound and ever changing soul\" is a self-evident truth, an axiom which does not need to be proven. There are numerous souls, but every one of them has three qualities (\"Guṇa\"): consciousness (\"caitanya\", most important quality of soul), bliss (\"sukha\") and vibrational energy (\"virya\"). The vibration draws karmic particles to the soul and creates bondages, but is also what adds merit or demerit to the soul.\n\nKarma, like in other Indian religions, connotes in Jainism the universal cause and effect law. However, it is envisioned as a material substance (subtle matter) that can bind to the soul, travel with the soul substance in bound form between rebirths, and affect the suffering and happiness experienced by the \"jiva\" in the \"lokas\". Karma is also believed to obscure and obstruct the innate nature and striving of the soul, as well as its spiritual potential in the next rebirth.\n\nThe relationship between the soul and karma, states Padmanabh Jaini, can be explained with the analogy of gold. Like gold is always found mixed with impurities in its original state, Jainism holds that the soul is not pure at its origin but is always impure and defiled like natural gold. One can exert effort and purify gold, similarly, Jainism states that the defiled soul can be purified by proper refining methodology. Karma either defiles the soul further, or refines it to a cleaner state, and this affects future rebirths. Karma is thus an efficient cause (\"nimitta\") in Jain philosophy, but not the material cause (\"upadana\"). The soul is believed to be the material cause.\n\n\"Tirthankara-nama-karma\" is a special type of karma, bondage of which raises a soul to the supreme status of a \"tirthankara\".\nJain texts state that souls exist as \"clothed with material bodies\", where it entirely fills up the body. There are five types of bodies in the Jaina thought: earthly (e.g. most humans, animals and plants), metamorphic (e.g. gods, hell beings, fine matter, some animals and a few humans who can morph because of their perfections), transference type (e.g. good and pure substances realized by ascetics), fiery (e.g. heat that transforms or digests food), and karmic (the substrate where the karmic particles reside and which make the soul ever changing).\n\nJain philosophy further divides the earthly body by symmetry, number of sensory organs, vitalities (\"ayus\"), functional capabilities and whether one body hosts one soul or one body hosts many. Every living being has one to five senses, three \"balas\" (power of body, language and mind), respiration (inhalation and exhalation), and life-duration. All living beings, in every realm including the gods and hell beings, accrue and destroy eight types of karma according to the elaborate theories in Jain texts. Elaborate descriptions of the shape and function of the physical and metaphysical universe, and its constituents, are also provided in the Jain texts. All of these elaborate theories attempt to illustrate and consistently explain the Jain karma theory in a deeply moral framework, much like Buddhism and Hinduism but with significant differences in the details and assumptions.\n\nThe conceptual framework of the Saṃsāra doctrine differs between the Jainism traditions and other Indian religions. For instance, in Jaina traditions, soul (\"jiva\") is accepted as a truth, as is assumed in the Hindu traditions. It is not assumed in the Buddhist traditions. However, Saṃsāra or the cycle of rebirths, has a definite beginning and end in Jainism. The Jaina theosophy, unlike Hindu and Buddhist theosophies, asserts that each soul passes through 8,400,000 birth-situations, as they circle through \"Saṃsāra\". As the soul cycles, states Padmanabh Jaini, Jainism traditions believe that it goes through five types of bodies: earth bodies, water bodies, fire bodies, air bodies and vegetable lives. With all human and non-human activities, such as rainfall, agriculture, eating and even breathing, minuscule living beings are taking birth or dying, their souls are believed to be constantly changing bodies. Perturbing, harming or killing any life form, including any human being, is considered a sin in Jainism, with negative karmic effects.\n\nSouls begin their journey in a primordial state, and exist in a state of consciousness continuum that is constantly evolving through \"Saṃsāra\". Some evolve to a higher state; some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma. Further, Jaina traditions believe that there exist \"Abhavya\" (\"incapable\"), or a class of souls that can never attain \"moksha\" (\"liberation\"). The \"Abhavya\" state of soul is entered after an intentional and shockingly evil act. Jainism considers souls as pluralistic each in a karma-samsara cycle, and does not subscribe to \"Advaita\"-style (\"not two\") nondualism of Hinduism, or \"Advaya\"-style nondualism of Buddhism. A liberated soul in Jainism is one who has gone beyond \"Saṃsāra\", is at the apex, is omniscient, remains there eternally, and is known as a \"Siddha\".\n\nJain texts propound that the universe consists of many eternal \"lokas\" (\"realms of existence\"). As in Buddhism and Hinduism, Jain cosmology believes both time and the universe are eternal without beginning and end, and that the universe is transient (impermanent in attributes) at the same time. The universe, body, matter and time are considered in Jain philosophy as separate from the soul (\"jiva\" or \"jivatman\"). Their interaction explains life, living, death and rebirth.\nAccording to the Jain texts, the universe is divided into three parts, the upper, middle, and lower worlds, called respectively \"urdhva loka\", \"madhya loka\", and \"adho loka\". As with the realms of existences, \"Kāla\" (\"time\") is without beginning and eternal; the cosmic wheel of time, called \"kālachakra\", rotates ceaselessly. According to Jain texts, in this part of the universe, there are six periods of time within two aeons (\"ara\"), and in the first aeon the universe generates, and in the next it degenerates. Thus, the worldly cycle of time is divided into two parts or half-cycles, \"utsarpiṇī\" (\"ascending\") and \"avasarpiṇī\" (\"descending\"). \"Utsarpiṇī\" is a period of progressive prosperity, where happiness increases, while \"avasarpiṇī\" is a period of increasing sorrow and immorality. According to Jain cosmology, it is currently the fifth \"ara\" of \"avasarpiṇī\" (half time cycle of degeneration). The present age is one of sorrow and misery, of religious decline, where the height and shape of living beings shrink. Jain thought holds that after the sixth \"ara\", the universe will be reawakened in the new cycle and the start of \"utsarpiṇī\" \"aras\".\n\nAccording to Jain texts, sixty-three illustrious beings, called \"śalākāpuruṣas\", are born on this earth in every \"Dukhama-sukhamā\" \"ara\". The Jain universal history is a compilation of the deeds of these illustrious persons. They comprise twenty-four \"Tīrthaṅkaras\", twelve \"chakravartins\", nine \"balabhadra\", nine \"narayana\", and nine \"pratinarayana\".\n\nA \"chakravartī\" is an emperor of the world and lord of the material realm. Though he possesses worldly power, he often finds his ambitions dwarfed by the vastness of the cosmos. Jain \"puranas\" give a list of twelve \"chakravartins\" (\"universal monarchs\"). They are golden in complexion. One of the \"chakravartins\" mentioned in Jain scriptures is Bharata Chakravartin. Jain texts like \"Harivamsa Purana\" and Hindu Texts like \"Vishnu Purana\" state that Indian subcontinent came to be known as \"Bharata varsha\" in his memory.\n\nThere are nine sets of \"balabhadra\", \"narayana\", and \"pratinarayana\". The \"balabhadra\" and \"narayana\" are brothers. \"Balabhadra\" are nonviolent heroes, \"narayana\" are violent heroes, and \"pratinarayana\" the villains. According to the legends, the \"narayana\" ultimately kill the \"pratinarayana\". Of the nine \"balabhadra\", eight attain liberation and the last goes to heaven. On death, the \"narayana\" go to hell because of their violent exploits, even if these were intended to uphold righteousness.\n\nJain cosmology divides the worldly cycle of time into two parts (\"avasarpiṇī\" and \"utsarpiṇī\"). According to Jain belief, in every half-cycle of time, twenty-four \"tīrthaṅkaras\" are born in the human realm to discover and teach the Jain doctrine appropriate for that era. The word \"tīrthankara\" signifies the founder of a \"tirtha\", which means a fordable passage across a sea. The \"tīrthaṅkaras\" show the 'fordable path' across the sea of interminable births and deaths. Rishabhanatha is said to be the first \"tīrthankara\" of the present half-cycle (\"avasarpiṇī\"). Mahāvīra (6th century BC) is revered as the twenty fourth \"tīrthankara\" of \"avasarpiṇī\". Jain texts explain that Jainism has always existed and will always exist.\n\nIn Jainism, perfect souls \"with\" the body are called \"arihant\" (\"victors\") and perfect souls \"without\" the body are called \"Siddhas\" (\"liberated souls\").\n\nAccording to Jainism, the universe was never created, nor will it ever cease to exist. It is independent and self-sufficient, does not require a creator nor any superior power to govern it, nor a judge nor destroyer. In this belief, it is distinct from the monotheistic Abrahamic religions; it is similar to Buddhism. It shares premises with the non-theistic part of the spectrum of diverse beliefs found in different traditions within Hindu philosophy and distinct from theistic Hindu traditions.\n\nJain texts reject the idea of a creator, ruler or destroyer god and postulate an eternal universe. However, Jainism believes in the world of gods and hell beings who are born, and who die to be reborn like living beings in the earthly realm of existence. Those souls who live in the body of a god do so because of their positive karma. They have a metamorphic body, that is they are believed in Jain thought to be able to change their body at will. The gods live a life of happiness, fun and frolic, whose wishes are automatically fulfilled. They also possess a more transcendent knowledge about material things and can anticipate events in the human realms. However, once their past karmic merit is exhausted, the souls leave the \"god body\" and are reborn again as humans, animals or other beings.\n\nJain philosophy accepts three reliable means of knowledge (\"pramana\"). It holds that correct knowledge is based on perception (\"pratyaksa\"), inference (\"anumana\") and testimony (\"sabda\" or the word of scriptures). These ideas are elaborated in Jain texts such as \"Tattvarthasūtra\", \"Parvacanasara\", \"Nandi\" and \"Anuyogadvarini\". Some Jain texts add analogy (\"upamana\") as the fourth reliable means, in a manner similar to epistemological theories found in other Indian religions.\n\nIn Jainism, \"jnāna\" (\"knowledge\") is said to be of five kinds—\"Kevala Jnana\" (\"Omniscience\"), \"Śrutu Jñāna\" (\"Scriptural Knowledge\"), \"Mati Jñāna\" (\"Sensory Knowledge\"), \"Avadhi Jñāna\" (\"Clairvoyance\"), and \"Manah prayāya Jñāna\" (\"Telepathy\"). According to the Jain text \"Tattvartha sūtra\", the first two are indirect knowledge and the remaining three are direct knowledge.\n\nAccording to Jainism, purification of soul and liberation can be achieved through the path of three jewels:\n\nJain texts often add \"samyak tap\" (Correct Asceticism) as the fourth jewel, thereby emphasizing their belief in ascetic practices as the means to liberation (moksha). The four jewels of orthodox Jain ideology are called \"moksha marg\". According to Jain texts, the liberated pure soul (\"Siddha\") goes up to the summit of universe (\"Siddhashila\") and dwells there in eternal bliss.\n\nJain scriptures are called \"Agamas\". They are believed to have been verbally transmitted by the oral tradition from one generation to the next, much like the ancient Buddhist and Hindu texts. The Jain tradition believes that their religion is eternal, and the teachings of their first \"Tirthankara Rishabhanatha\" were their scriptures millions of years ago. The mythology states that the \"tirthankara\" taught in a divine preaching hall called \"samavasarana\", which were heard by the gods, the ascetics and laypersons. The discourse delivered is called \"Śhrut Jnāna\" and comprises eleven \"angas\" and fourteen \"purvas\". The discourse is remembered and transmitted by the \"Ganadharas\" (\"chief disciples\"), and is composed of twelve \"angas\" (\"departments\"). It is symbolically represented by a tree with twelve branches.\n\nAccording to the Jain tradition, an \"araha\" (\"worthy one\") speaks meaning that is then converted into \"sūtra\" (\"sutta\") by his disciples, and from such \"sūtras\" emerge the doctrine. The creation and transmission of the \"Agama\" is the work of disciples in Jainism. These texts, historically for Jains, have represented the truths uttered by their \"tirthankaras\", particularly the Mahāvīra. In every cycle of Jain cosmology, twenty-four \"tirthankaras\" appear and so do the Jain scriptures for that \"ara\". The spoken scriptural language is believed to be \"Ardhamagadhi\" by the Śvētāmbara Jains, and a form of sonic resonance by the Digambara Jains. These then become coded into \"duvala samgagani pidaga\" (twelve limbed baskets by disciples), but transmitted orally. In the 980th year after Mahāvīra's death (~5th century CE), the texts were written down for the first time by the Council of Valabhi.\n\nThe Śvētāmbaras believe that they have the original Jain scriptures. The Śvētāmbara belief is denied by the Digambaras, who instead believe the scriptures were lost. The Śvētāmbaras state that their collection of 45 works represent a continuous tradition, though they accept that their collection is also incomplete because of a lost Anga text and four lost Purva texts. The Digambara sect of Jainism believes that Āchārya Bhutabali was the last ascetic who had partial knowledge of the original canon. According to them, Digambara \"Āchāryas\" recreated the oldest-known Digambara Jain texts, including the four \"anuyoga\". According to von Glasenapp, the Digambara texts partially agree with the enumerations and works of older Śvētāmbara texts, but in many cases there are also gross differences between the texts of the two major Jain traditions.\n\nThe Śvētāmbara consider their 45 text collection as canonical. The Digambaras created a secondary canon between 600 and 900 CE, compiling it into four groups: history, cosmography, philosophy and ethics. This four-set collection is called the \"four \"Vedas\"\" by the Digambaras.\n\nThe most popular and influential texts of Jainism have been its non-canonical literature. Of these, the \"Kalpa Sūtras\" are particularly popular among Śvētāmbaras, which they attribute to Bhadrabahu (c. 300 BCE). This ancient scholar is revered in the Digambara tradition, and they believe he led their migration into the ancient south Karnataka region, and created their tradition. Śvētāmbaras disagree, and they believe that Bhadrabahu moved to Nepal, not into peninsular India. Both traditions, however, consider his \"Niryuktis\" and \"Samhitas\" as important texts. The earliest surviving Sanskrit text by Umaswati called the \"Tattvarthasūtra\" is considered authoritative Jain philosophy text by all traditions of Jainism. His text has the same importance in Jainism as \"Vedanta Sūtras\" and \"Yogasūtras\" have in Hinduism.\n\nIn the Digambara tradition, the texts written by Kundakunda are highly revered and have been historically influential. Other important Jain texts include: \"Samayasara\", \"Ratnakaranda śrāvakācāra\", and \"Niyamasara\".\n\nParts of the Sangam literature in Tamil are attributed to Jaina authors. The authenticity and interpolations are controversial, because the Sangam literature presents Hindu ideas. Some scholars state that the Jain portions of the Sangam literature were added about or after the 8th-century CE, and they are not the ancient layer.\n\nTamil Jain texts such as the \"Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi\" and \"Nālaṭiyār\" are credited to Digambara Jain authors. These texts have seen interpolations and revisions. For example, it is generally accepted now that the Jain nun Kanti inserted a 445-verse poem into \"Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi\" in the 12th century. The Tamil Jain literature, according to Dundas, has been \"lovingly studied and commented upon for centuries by Hindus as well as Jains\". The themes of two of the Tamil epics, including the \"Silapadikkaram\", have an embedded influence of Jainism.\n\nJain scholars also contributed to Kannada literature. The Digambara Jain texts in Karnataka are unusual, in that they were written under the patronage of kings and regional aristocrats. These Jain texts describe warrior violence and martial valor as equivalent to a \"fully committed Jain ascetic\". They thus set aside the religious premise of absolute non-violence, possibly reflecting an effort to syncretise various doctrines and beliefs found in Hinduism and Jainism.\n\nJain manuscript libraries, called \"bhandaras\" inside Jain temples, are the oldest surviving in India. Jain libraries, including the Śvētāmbara collections at Patan, Gujarat and Jaiselmer, Rajasthan, as well as the Digambara collections in Karnataka temples, have a large number of well-preserved manuscripts. The manuscripts in the Jain libraries include Jaina literature, as well as Hindu and Buddhist texts. Almost all their texts have been dated to about, or after, the 11th century CE. The largest and most valuable libraries are found in the Thar Desert, hidden in the underground vaults of Jain temples. These collections have witnessed insect damage, and only a small portion of these manuscripts have been published and studied by scholars.\n\nJainism differs from both Buddhism and Hinduism in its ontological premises. All of them believe in impermanence, but Buddhism incorporates, amongst other things, the premise of \"anatta\" (\"non-self\", \"no eternal self or soul\"). Hinduism incorporates the premise of an eternal unchanging \"atman\" (\"self\", \"soul\"), while Jainism incorporates the premises of a \"jiva\" (\"self\", \"soul\") that is both eternal and changing. In Jaina thought, there are infinite eternal \"jivas\", predominantly all of which are in their cycles of rebirth, and a few who have liberated themselves through an ascetic life and become \"siddhas\" (\"a perfect one\"). In contrast to Jainism, Hindu philosophies express a spectrum of views, ranging from nondualism where all souls are identical as Brahman and posited as interconnected one, to dualism where souls are same and have Brahman-nature but are different from Brahman, and to other ideas. Further, in Hindu thought, Jainism-style asceticism is not emphasized, rather liberation is achievable through alternate paths such as Jnana yoga, Karma yoga and Bhakti yoga.\n\nWhile both Hinduism and Jainism believe \"soul exists\" to be a self-evident truth, most Hindu systems consider it to be eternally present, infinite and the constant (\"vibhu\") but some Hindu scholars proposed soul to be atomic. The Hindu thought generally discusses Atman and Brahman through a monistic or dualistic framework. In contrast, the Jaina thought denies the Hindu metaphysical concept of Brahman, and Jain philosophy considers the soul to be ever changing and bound to the body or matter for each lifetime, thereby having a finite size that infuses the entire body of a living being.\n\nSome early colonial scholars stated that Jainism like Buddhism was, in part, a rejection of the caste system in Hinduism. Later scholars, such as Gombrich state that this notion is an error for which \"mainly Western authors are responsible\". A caste system has been a historic part of Jain society. According to Vilas Adinath Sangave, \"caste system is a universal feature of the Jaina community\", and the focus of Jainism has been the spiritual liberation of the individual rather than social reforms. According to Padamnath Jaini, the 8th-century Digambara scholar Jinasena stated that Jain king Bharata, the son of first \"tirthankara\" named Rishabhanatha, invented the caste system by performing the \"ahiṃsā\" (non-violence) test, with Jain Brahmins being those who followed the non-violence precept.\n\nAll three religions share concepts and doctrines such as karma and rebirth, and have similar ritual festival grammar, mythologies and monastic traditions. They do not believe in eternal heaven or hell or judgment day. Jainism, like Buddhism and Hinduism, grants the freedom to choose beliefs such as in gods or no-gods, agree or disagree with core teachings, participate or not participate in prayers, rituals and festivals. They all consider ethical values such as non-violence to be important, and link suffering to craving, individual's actions, intents and karma, and believe spirituality is a means to enlightened peace, bliss and eternal liberation (\"moksha\").\n\nJainism is similar to Buddhism in epistemically rejecting the Vedas and the Hindu metaphysical concept for Reality called Brahman. Jainism and Hinduism, however, both believe \"soul exists\" as a self-evident truth, and in their historic theology and practice have been more similar than with Buddhism. Jains and Hindus have frequently intermarried over their history, particularly in northern, central and western regions of India.\n\nJainism has contributed significantly to Indian art and architecture. Jain arts depict life legends of \"tirthankara\" or other important people, particularly with them in a seated or standing meditative posture. \"Yakshas\" and \"yakshinis\", attendant spirits who guard the \"tirthankara\", are usually shown with them. The earliest known Jain image is in the Patna museum. It is dated approximately to the 3rd century BCE. Bronze images of Pārśva can be seen in the Prince of Wales Museum, Mumbai, and in the Patna museum; these are dated to the 2nd century BCE.\n\"Ayagapata\" is a type of votive tablet used in Jainism for donation and worship in the early centuries. These tablets are decorated with objects and designs central to Jain worship such as the \"stupa\", \"dharmacakra\" and \"triratna\". They present simultaneous trends or image and symbol worship. Numerous such stone tablets were discovered during excavations at ancient Jain sites like Kankali Tila near Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, India. The practice of donating these tablets is documented from 1st century BCE to 3rd century CE.\n\n\"Samavasarana\", a preaching hall of \"tirthankaras\" with various beings concentrically placed, is an important theme of Jain art.\n\nThe Jain tower in Chittor, Rajasthan, is a good example of Jain architecture. Decorated manuscripts are preserved in Jain libraries, containing diagrams from Jain cosmology. Most of the paintings and illustrations depict historical events, known as \"Panch Kalyanaka\", from the life of the \"tirthankara\". Rishabha, the first \"tirthankara\", is usually depicted in either the lotus position or \"kayotsarga\", the standing position. He is distinguished from other \"tirthankara\" by the long locks of hair falling to his shoulders. Bull images also appear in his sculptures. In paintings, incidents from his life, like his marriage and Indra marking his forehead, are depicted. Other paintings show him presenting a pottery bowl to his followers; he is also seen painting a house, weaving, and being visited by his mother Marudevi. Each of the twenty-four \"tirthankara\" is associated with distinctive emblems, which are listed in such texts as \"Tiloyapannati\", \"Kahavaali\" and \"Pravacanasaarodhara\".\n\nA Jain temple, \"Derasar\" or \"Basadi\" is a place of worship for Jains. Jain temples are built with various architectural designs, but there are mainly two type of Jain temples:\n\nThere is always a main deity also known as \"moolnayak\" in every Jain temple placed inside a sanctum called \"\"Gambhara\"\" (Garbha Griha). A \"manastambha\" (\"column of honor\") is a pillar that is often constructed in front of Jain temples.\n\nThere are 26 caves, 200 stone beds, 60 inscriptions, and over 100 sculptures in and around Madurai. This is also the site where Jain ascetics wrote great epics and books on grammar in Tamil.\n\nAncient Jain monuments include the Udaigiri Hills near Bhelsa (Vidisha) in Madhya Pradesh, the Ellora in Maharashtra, the Palitana temples in Gujarat, and the Jain temples at Dilwara Temples near Mount Abu, Rajasthan. Chaumukha temple in Ranakpur is considered one of the most beautiful Jain temples and is famous for its detailed carvings. According to Jain texts, Shikharji is the place where twenty of the twenty-four Jain \"Tīrthaṅkaras\" along with many other monks attained \"moksha\" (died without being reborn, with their soul in \"Siddhashila\"). The Shikharji site in northeastern Jharkhand is therefore a revered pilgrimage site. The Palitana temples are the holiest shrine for the Śvētāmbara Murtipujaka sect. Along with Shikharji the two sites are considered the holiest of all pilgrimage sites by the Jain community.\n\nThe Jain complex, Khajuraho and Jain Narayana temple are part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Shravanabelagola, Saavira Kambada Basadi or \"1000 pillars\" and Brahma Jinalaya are important Jain centers in Karnataka.\n\nThe Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves dating back to the 2nd–1st century BCE are dedicated to Jainism. They are rich with carvings of Jain \"tirthanakars\" and deities with inscriptions including the \"Hathigumpha\" inscription (\"Elephant Cave\" inscription). Jain cave temples at Badami, Mangi-Tungi and the Ellora Caves are considered important.\n\nThe Sittanavasal Cave temple is regarded as one of the finest examples of Jain art. It is the oldest and most famous Jain centre in the region. It possesses both an early Jain cave shelter, and a medieval rock-cut temple with excellent fresco paintings comparable to Ajantha paintings; the steep hill contains an isolated but spacious cavern. Locally, this cavern is known as \"Eladipattam\", a name that is derived from the seven holes cut into the rock that serve as steps leading to the shelter. Within the cave there are seventeen stone beds aligned in rows; each of these has a raised portion that could have served as a pillow-loft. The largest stone bed has a distinct Tamil-Brahmi inscription assignable to the 2nd century BCE, and some inscriptions belonging to the 8th century BCE are also found on the nearby beds. The Sittannavasal cavern continued to be the Holy Sramana Abode until the 7th and 8th centuries. Inscriptions over the remaining stone beds name mendicants such as Tol kunrattu Kadavulan, Tirunilan, Tiruppuranan, Tittaicharanan, Sri Purrnacandran, Thiruchatthan, Ilangowthaman, Sri Ulagathithan, and Nityakaran Pattakali as monks.\nThe 8th century Kazhugumalai temple marks the revival of Jainism in South India.\n\nJain \"Tirtha\" (\"pilgrim\") sites are divided into the following categories:\n\nOutside contemporary India, Jain communities built temples in locations such as Nagarparkar, Sindh (Pakistan). However, according to a UNESCO tentative world heritage site application, Nagarparkar was not a \"major religious centre or a place of pilgrimage\" for Jainism, but it was once an important cultural landscape before \"the last remaining Jain community left the area in 1947 at Partition\".\n\nJain sculptures are mainly images depicting \"tīrthaṅkaras\". A sculpture could depict any of the twenty-four \"tīrthaṅkarass\" images. Parshvanatha, Rishabhanatha and Mahāvīra are among the more popular. These \"tīrthaṅkaras\" usually depicted in the lotus position or \"kayotsarga\". Sculptures of \"chaumukha\" (\"quadruple\") images are also popular in Jainism. Sculptures of Arihant, Bahubali, and protector deities like Ambika are also found. \"Tirthanakar\" idols look similar and are differentiated by the symbol belonging to each \"tirthanakar\" except Parshvanatha. Statues of Parshvanath have a snake crown on head. There are a few differences between the Digambara and the Śvētāmbara depictions of idols. Digambara images are naked without any beautification, whereas Śvētāmbara depictions are clothed and decorated with temporary ornaments.\n\nA monolithic, statue of Bahubali, referred to as \"Gommateshvara\", built in 981 CE by the Ganga minister and commander Chavundaraya, is situated on a hilltop in Shravanabelagola in the Hassan district of Karnataka state. This statue was voted first in the SMS poll Seven Wonders of India conducted by \"The Times of India\". The Statue of Ahiṃsā (depicting Rishabhanatha) was erected in the Nashik district in 2015; it is tall. Idols made from \"Ashtadhatu\" (literally \"eight metals\"), Akota Bronze, brass, gold, silver, stone monoliths, rock cut, and precious stones are popular in Jainism.\n\nA large number of \"ayagapata\", votive tablets for offerings and the worship of \"tīrthankara\", were excavated from Kankali Tila, Mathura. These sculptures date from the 2nd century BCE to the 12th century CE.\n\nJain icons and arts incorporate symbols such as swastika, om, and the \"Ashtamangala\".\n\nThe swastika is an important Jain symbol. Its four arms symbolise the four realms of existence in which rebirth occurs according to Jainism: humans, heavenly beings, hellish beings and non-humans (plants and animals). This is conceptually similar to the six realms of rebirth represented by \"bhavachakra\" in Buddhism. It is usually shown with three dots on the top, which represent the three jewels mentioned in ancient texts such as \"Tattvartha sūtra\" and \"Uttaradhyayana sūtra\": correct faith, correct understanding and correct conduct. These jewels are the means believed in Jainism to lead one to the state of spiritual perfection, a state that is symbolically represented by a crescent and one dot on top representing the liberated soul.\n\nThe hand with a wheel on the palm symbolizes \"ahimsā\" in Jainism with \"ahiṃsā\" written in the middle. The wheel represents the \"dharmachakra\" (\"Wheel of the Dharma\"), which stands for the resolve to halt the \"saṃsāra\" (\"wandering\") through the relentless pursuit of \"ahimsā\" (\"compassion\").\n\nIn Jainism, \"Om\" is considered a condensed form of reference to the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\", by their initials \"A+A+A+U+M\" (\"\"). According to the \"Dravyasamgraha\" by Acharya Nemicandra, \"AAAUM\" (or just \"Om\") is a one syllable short form of the initials of the five parameshthis: \"\"Arihant\", \"Ashiri\", \"Acharya\", \"Upajjhaya\", \"Muni\"\". The \"Om\" symbol is also used in ancient Jain scriptures to represent the five lines of the \"Ṇamōkāra\" Mantra.\n\nIn 1974, on the 2500th anniversary of the nirvana of Mahāvīra, the Jain community chose one image as an emblem to be the main identifying symbol for Jainism. The overall shape depicts the three \"loka\" (\"realms of rebirth\") of Jain cosmology i.e., heaven, human world and hell. The semi-circular topmost portion symbolizes \"Siddhashila\", which is a zone beyond the three realms. The Jain swastika is present in the top portion, and the symbol of \"Ahiṃsā\" in the lower portion. At the bottom of the emblem is the Jain mantra, \"Parasparopagraho Jīvānām\". According to Vilas Sangave, the mantra means \"all life is bound together by mutual support and interdependence\". According to Anne Vallely, this mantra is from sūtra 5.21 of Umaswati's \"Tattvarthasūtra\", and it means \"souls render service to one another\".\n\nThe five colours of the Jain flag represent the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\" and the five vows, small as well as great:\n\nThe \"Ashtamangala\" are a set of eight auspicious symbols, which are different in the Digambara and Śvētāmbar traditions.\n\nIn the Digambara tradition, the eight auspicious symbols are Chatra, \"Dhvaja\", \"Kalasha\", Chaamara, Mirror, Chair, Hand fan and Vessel. In the Śvētāmbar tradition, these are Swastika, \"Srivatsa\", \"Nandavarta\", \"Vardhmanaka\" (\"food vessel\"), \"Bhadrasana\" (\"seat\"), \"Kalasha\" (\"pot\"), \"Darpan\" (\"mirror\") and pair of fish.\n\nThe origins of Jainism are obscure. The Jains claim their religion to be eternal, and consider Rishabhanatha to be the founder in the present time-cycle, the first of 24 Jain \"tirthankaras\" in Jain belief, and someone who lived for 8,400,000 purva years. According to one hypothesis, such as one by Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the first vice president of India, Jainism was in existence before the Vedas were composed. According to historians, the first 22 of the 24 \"tirthankaras\" were mythical figures. These figures were supposed to have lived more than 85,000 years ago. They were five to hundred times taller than average human beings and lived for thousands of years. The 23rd \"tirthankara\", Parshvanatha, is generally accepted to be based on an ancient historic human being of uncertain dates, possibly 8th–7th century BCE.\n\nSome confessional Jain scholars such as Parikh have argued that some images such as those of the bull in Indus Valley Civilization seal may be related to Jainism, but such claims are highly speculative and a subjective interpretation. This theory has not been accepted by most scholars because very little is known about the Indus Valley iconography and script. Jainism, like Buddhism, is one of the \"Sramana\" traditions of ancient India, those that rejected the Vedas and developed their own scriptures.\n\nThere is inscriptional evidence for the presence of Jain monks in south India by the second or first centuries BC, and archaeological evidence of Jain monks in Saurashtra in Gujarat by the second century CE. Statues of Jain \"tirthankara\" have been found dating back to second century BC.\n\nInformation regarding the political history of Jainism is uncertain and fragmentary. Jains consider the king Bimbisara (c. 558–491 BCE), Ajatashatru (c. 492–460 BCE), and Udayin (c. 460-440 BCE) of the Haryanka dynasty as a patron of Jainism.\n\nJain tradition states that Chandragupta Maurya (322–298 BCE), the founder of the Mauryan Empire and grandfather of Ashoka, became a monk and disciple of Jain ascetic Bhadrabahu during later part of his life. According to historians, Chandragupta's story appears in various versions in Buddhist, Jain, and Hindu texts. Broadly, Chandragupta was born into a humble family, abandoned, raised as a son by another family, then with the training and counsel of Chanakya of \"Arthashastra\" fame ultimately built one of the largest empires in ancient India. According to Jain history, late in his life, Chandragupta renounced the empire he built and handed over his power to his son, became a Jaina monk, and headed to meditate and pursue spirituality in the Deccan region, under the Jaina teacher Bhadrabahu at Shravanabelagola. There state Jain texts, he died by fasting, a Jaina ascetic method of ending one's life by choice (\"Sallenkana vrata\"). The 3rd century BCE emperor Ashoka, in his pillar edicts, mentions several ancient Indian religious groups including the \"Niganthas\" (Jaina).\n\nAccording to another Jain legend, King Salivahana of the late 1st century CE was a patron of Jainism, as were many others in the early centuries of the 1st millennium CE. But von Glasenapp states that the historicity of these stories is difficult to establish. Archeological evidence suggests that Mathura was an important Jain centre between the 2nd century BCE and the 5th century CE. Inscriptions from the 1st and 2nd century CE show that the schism between Digambara and Śvētāmbara had already taken place.\n\nKing Harshavardhana of the 7th century grew up in Shaivism, following his family, but he championed Jainism, Buddhism and all traditions of Hinduism. King Ama of the 8th century converted to Jainism, and the Jaina pilgrimage tradition was well established in his era. Mularaja, the founder of Chalukya dynasty, constructed a Jain temple, even though he was not a Jain.\n\nIn the second half of the 1st century CE, Hindu kings sponsored and helped build major Jaina cave temples. For example, the Hindu Rashtrakuta dynasty started the early group of Jain temples, and the Yadava dynasty built many of the middle and later Jain group of temples at the Ellora Caves between 700 and 1000 CE.\n\nMahāvīra and Buddha are generally accepted as contemporaries (circa 5th century BCE). The interaction between Jainism and Buddhism began with the Buddha. Buddhist texts refer to Mahāvīra as \"Nigantha Nataputta\".\n\nBeyond the times of the Mahāvīra and the Buddha, the two ascetic \"sramana\" (\"seeker\") religions competed for followers as well as the merchant trade networks that sustained them. Their mutual interaction, along with those of Hindu traditions, have been significant. In some cases the titles of the Buddhist and Jaina texts are the same or similar but present different doctrines.\n\nRoyal patronage has been a key factor in the growth as well as the decline of Jainism. The Pallava King Mahendravarman I (600630 CE) converted from Jainism to Shaivism under the influence of Appar. His work \"Mattavilasa Prahasana\" ridicules certain Shaiva sects and the Buddhists and also expresses contempt towards Jain ascetics. Sambandar converted the contemporary Pandya king to Shaivism. During the 11th century, Basava, a minister to the Jain Kalachuri king Bijjala, succeeded in converting numerous Jains to the Lingayat Shaivite sect. The Lingayats destroyed various temples belonging to Jains and adapted them to their use. The Hoysala King Vishnuvardhana (c.11081152 CE) became a follower of the Vaishnava sect under the influence of Ramanuja, after which Vaishnavism grew rapidly in what is now Karnataka.\nJainism and Hinduism influenced each other. Jain texts declare some of the Hindu gods as blood relatives of legendary \"tirthankara\". Neminatha, the 22nd \"tirthankara\" for example is presented as a cousin of Krishna in Jain Puranas and other texts. However, Jain scholars such as Haribhadra also wrote satires about Hindu gods, mocking them with novel outrageous stories where the gods misbehave and act unethically. The Hindu gods are presented by some Jain writers as persecuting, tempting, afraid of, or serving a legendary Jina before he gains omniscience. In other stories, one or more Jinas easily defeat the Hindu deities such as Vishnu, or Rama and Sita who come to pay respect to a Jina at a major Jain pilgrimage site such as Mount Satrunjaya.\n\nThe Jain and Hindu communities have often been very close and mutually accepting. Some Hindu temples have included a Jain \"Tirthankara\" within its premises in a place of honour. Similarly numerous temple complexes feature both Hindu and Jain monuments, with Badami cave temples and Khajuraho among some of the most well known.\nJainism faced persecution during and after the Muslim conquests on the Indian subcontinent. Muslims rulers, such as Mahmud Ghazni (1001), Mohammad Ghori (1175) and Ala-ud-din Muhammed Shah Khalji (1298) further oppressed the Jain community. They vandalised idols and destroyed temples or converted them into mosques. They also burned Jain books and killed Jains. There were significant exceptions, such as Emperor Akbar (15421605) whose legendary religious tolerance, out of respect for Jains, ordered the release of caged birds and banned the killing of animals on the Jain festival of Paryusan. After Akbar, Jains faced an intense period of Muslim persecution in the 17th century.\n\nThe Jain community were the traditional bankers and financiers, and this significantly impacted the Muslim rulers. However, they rarely were a part of the political power during the Islamic rule period of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nColonial era reports and Christian missions variously viewed Jainism as either a sect of Hinduism or Buddhism, or as a distinct religion. According to Padmanath Jaini, Christian missionaries expressed extreme frustration at Jain people without pagan creator gods refusing to convert to Christianity, while colonial era Jain scholars such as Champat Rai Jain defended Jainism against criticism and misrepresentation by Christian activists. Missionaries of Christianity and Islam considered Jain traditions as idolatrous and a false religion, characterizing Jain temples and icons, such of those of Jina, as false idols and superstitious practices. These criticisms, states John Cort, were flawed and also ignored similar practices within sects of Christianity.\n\nThe British colonial government in India, as well as Indian princely states, passed laws that made monks roaming naked in streets a crime, one that led to arrest. This law particularly impacted the Digambara monks. The Akhil Bharatiya Jaina Samaj opposed this law, and argued that it interfered with the religious rights of Jains. Acharya Shantisagar entered Bombay (now Mumbai) in 1927, but was forced to cover his body. He then led an India-wide tour as the naked monk with his followers, to various Digambara sacred sites, and was welcomed by kings of the Maharashtra provinces. Shantisagar fasted to oppose the restrictions imposed on Digambara monks by the British Raj and prompted their discontinuance. The colonial era laws that banned naked monks remained effective through World War II, but they were abolished by independent India after it gained independence.\n\nFollowers of the path practised by the Jinas are known as Jains. The majority of Jains currently reside in India. With four to five million followers worldwide, Jainism is relatively small compared to major world religions. Jains form 0.37% of India's population. Most of them are concentrated in the states of Maharashtra (1.4 million in 2011, 31.46% of Indian Jains), Rajasthan (13.97%), Gujarat (13.02%) and Madhya Pradesh (12.74%). Karnataka (9.89%), Uttar Pradesh (4.79%), Delhi (3.73%) and Tamil Nadu (2.01%) also have significant Jain populations. Outside India, Jain communities can be found in Europe, the United States, Canada, Australia and Kenya.\n\nAccording to the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS-4) conducted in 2015-16, Jains form the wealthiest community in India. Jains have the highest literacy rate (87%) in India, in the 7-years to oldest age group, according to its 2011 census. The Jaina community also has the highest number of college graduates. Excluding the retired senior citizens, Jain literacy rate in India exceeded 97%. The female to male child sex ratio in the 0-6 year age was second lowest for Jains (870 girls per 1,000 boys), higher than Sikhs in India. Further, Jain males have the highest work participation rates, while Jain females have the lowest work participation rates in India.\n\nMajor Jain communities:\n\n\nJainism has been praised for some of its practices and beliefs.\nMahatma Gandhi, who was greatly influenced by Jainism, said:\n\n"}
{"id": "21415063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21415063", "title": "Justitia civilis", "text": "Justitia civilis\n\nJustitia civilis or \"things external\" is defined by Christian theologians as the class of acts in which fallen man retains his ability to perform both good and evil moral acts. This means that he can be kind and just, and fulfill his social duties in a manner to secure the approbation of his fellow-men. It is not meant that the state of mind in which these acts are performed, or the motives by which they are determined, are such as to meet the approbation of an infinitely God; but simply that these acts, as to the matter of them, are prescribed by the moral law.\n\n"}
{"id": "41721159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41721159", "title": "Law and religion", "text": "Law and religion\n\nLaw and religion is the interdisciplinary study of relationships between law, especially public law, and religion. Voge Magazine reports that during the late 1900, a new law and religion approach emerged that progressively built its own contribution to religious studies. Over a dozen scholarly organizations and committees were formed by 1983, and a scholarly quarterly, the Journal of Law and Religion, was first published that year. The \"Ecclesiastical Law Journal\" began publication in 1987. \"The Rutgers Journal of Law and Religion\" was founded in 1999. \"The Oxford Journal of Law and Religion\" was founded in England in 2012. \n\nMany departments and centers have been created around the world during the last decades. For example, the Brigham Young University law school in 2000 created \"The International Center for Law and Religion Studies.\" It has an international mission and its annual symposium (which began in 1993) has brought to campus over 1000 scholars, human rights activists, judges from supreme courts, and government ministers dealing with religious affairs from more than 120 countries. \n\nAs of 2012, major law and religion organizations in the U.S. included 500 law professors, 450 political scientists, and specialists in numerous other fields such as history and religious studies. Between 1985 and 2010, the field saw the publication of some 750 books and 5000 scholarly articles, according to Emory Law Professor John Witte, Jr..\n\nScholars in the field are not only focused on strictly legal issues about religious freedom or non establishment but also on the study of religions as they are qualified through judicial discourses or legal understanding on religious phenomena. For example, \"The Oxford Journal of Law and Religion\" seeks to cover:\n\nExponents look at canon law, natural law, and state law, often in comparative perspective. Specialists have explored themes in western history regarding Christianity and justice and mercy, rule and equity, discipline and love. Common topics of interest include marriage and the family, and human rights. Moving beyond Christianity, scholars have looked at law and religion links in the Muslim Middle East, Asian ancestral religions, occult altercations, pagan Rome and any realm in which religious beliefs form the basis of or contradict governmental law.\n\nWithin Christianity, studies range from textual analysis of early Christians' relationship with Jewish Law, the effect of law on the Protestant Reformation, and modern day issues like homosexual unions, the ordination of women to the diaconate and priesthood, and consciences objectors to war. \n\nImportant studies have appeared regarding secularization. In particular the issue of wearing religion symbols in public, such as headscarves that are banned in French schools, have received scholarly attention in the context of human rights and feminism.\n\nIn Thailand, the constitutional monarchy that was established in the 1930s integrated traditional Buddhist concepts of cosmic law and religion with modern methods of public administration and legal authority. The result was the formation of a unique civic religion based on the three-way formula of nation, religion, and kingship. This new tradition has evolved and provides a framework for both the symbolic discourse as well as practical actions in modern Thai legal culture.\n\n\n\n\nr"}
{"id": "40273166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40273166", "title": "List of Christian synonyms", "text": "List of Christian synonyms\n\nIn Christianity, there are a number of other words used to refer to a Christian.\n\nThe word \"Christian\" is used three times in the New Testament: , , and . The original usage in all three New Testament verses reflects a derisive element in the term \"Christian\" to refer to followers of Christ who did not acknowledge the emperor of Rome.\n\n\"Disciple\" (which means \"learner\") is common in the Gospels and Acts, and is the \"characteristic name for those who gathered around Jesus during his ministry\". It is also frequently used in the Book of Acts but not in the New Testament epistles.\n\nThe term \"brother\" occurs in verses like . The King James Version renders the plural form used here as \"brethren\", while modern English versions have \"brothers\" (ESV) or \"brothers and sisters\" (NIV). The term comes from the theological concept of adoption, which says that believers are made part of God's family, and become his children. The use of \"brother\" as a designation for Christians has become restricted to members of religious communities (the Catholic sense), or as an honorific for pastors (often used in Baptist churches).\n\nThe Epistle to the Ephesians is written to the \"saints at Ephesus\" (). In the New Testament the word is used to refer to Christians generally, but Robert S. Rayburn notes that \"the name survived as a general title for Christians only through the second century.\" Rayburn suggests that the \"juxtaposition of sainthood and martyrdom\" in may have resulted in the word becoming an \"honorific title for confessors, martyrs and ascetics.\" In Orthodox and Catholic teachings, all Christians in heaven are considered to be saints, but some are considered to be worthy of higher honor, emulation, or veneration, with official church recognition given to some saints through canonization or glorification.\n\nBelief in Jesus is a central aspect of Christianity. Rayburn notes that verses such as \"substantiate its technical use as a title for Christians\".\n\nIn the Book of Acts, Christianity is referred to as \"The Way\". The NIV renders Paul's words in Acts 24:14 as \"I admit that I worship the God of our ancestors as a follower of the Way, which they call a sect.\" Rayburn suggests that this was a Christian self-designation, although it did not survive as a title.\n\nRayburn notes that the phrase \"the friends\" (\"hoi philoi\") occurs in and , but that it is uncertain whether this means \"Christians in general or merely actual acquaintances\". Rayburn goes on to note that the designation was used by the Friends of God and the Religious Society of Friends.\n\nThe title \"Nazarene\" is used once in the New Testament to refer to Christians, in , where Tertullus calls Paul \"a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes\". In rabbinical and contemporary Israeli Hebrew, \"Notzrim\" is the general official term for \"Christians.\nIn Colossians 3:12 Paul calls Christians \"The Elect\" Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering\n\n\"Christ follower\" (rather than \"Christian\") has become the preferred self-designation for many people associated with the emerging church.\nAdherents of Messianic Judaism will generally call themselves \"Messianic Jews\" rather than \"Christians\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50650513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50650513", "title": "List of ethnic religions", "text": "List of ethnic religions\n\nEthnic religions (also \"indigenous religions\") are generally defined as religions which are related to a particular ethnic group, and often seen as a defining part of that ethnicity's culture, language, and customs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6948695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6948695", "title": "List of scientific skeptics", "text": "List of scientific skeptics\n\nThis is a list of notable people that promote or practice scientific skepticism. In general, they favor science and are opposed to pseudoscience and quackery. They are generally skeptical of parapsychology, the paranormal, and alternative medicine.\n\n"}
{"id": "348450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348450", "title": "Major religious groups", "text": "Major religious groups\n\nThe world's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be classified into a small number of major groups, although this is by no means a uniform practice. This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies.\n\nIn world cultures, there have traditionally been many different groupings of religious belief. In Indian culture, different religious philosophies were traditionally respected as academic differences in pursuit of the same truth. In Islam, the Quran mentions three different categories: Muslims, the People of the Book, and idol worshipers. Initially, Christians had a simple dichotomy of world beliefs: Christian civility versus foreign heresy or barbarity. In the 18th century, \"heresy\" was clarified to mean Judaism and Islam; along with paganism, this created a fourfold classification which spawned such works as John Toland's \"Nazarenus, or Jewish, Gentile, and Mahometan Christianity\", which represented the three Abrahamic religions as different \"nations\" or sects within \"religion\" itself, the \"true monotheism.\"\n\nDaniel Defoe described the original definition as follows: \"Religion is properly the Worship given to God, but 'tis also applied to the Worship of Idols and false Deities.\" At the turn of the 19th century, in between 1780 and 1810, the language dramatically changed: instead of \"religion\" being synonymous with spirituality, authors began using the plural, \"religions,\" to refer to both Christianity and other forms of worship. Therefore, Hannah Adams's early encyclopedia, for example, had its name changed from \"An Alphabetical Compendium of the Various Sects...\" to \"A Dictionary of All Religions and Religious Denominations\".\n\nIn 1838, the four-way division of Christianity, Judaism, Mahommedanism (archaic terminology for Islam) and Paganism was multiplied considerably by Josiah Conder's \"Analytical and Comparative View of All Religions Now Extant among Mankind\". Conder's work still adhered to the four-way classification, but in his eye for detail he puts together much historical work to create something resembling our modern Western image: he includes Druze, Yezidis, Mandeans, and Elamites under a list of possibly monotheistic groups, and under the final category, of \"polytheism and pantheism,\" he listed Zoroastrianism, \"Vedas, Puranas, Tantras, Reformed sects\" of India as well as \"Brahminical idolatry,\" Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, Lamaism, \"religion of China and Japan,\" and \"illiterate superstitions\" as others.\n\nThe modern meaning of the phrase \"world religion,\" putting non-Christians at the same level as Christians, began with the 1893 Parliament of the World's Religions in Chicago. The Parliament spurred the creation of a dozen privately funded lectures with the intent of informing people of the diversity of religious experience: these lectures funded researchers such as William James, D. T. Suzuki, and Alan Watts, who greatly influenced the public conception of world religions.\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, the category of \"world religion\" fell into serious question, especially for drawing parallels between vastly different cultures, and thereby creating an arbitrary separation between the religious and the secular. Even history professors have now taken note of these complications and advise against teaching \"world religions\" in schools. Others see the shaping of religions in the context of the nation-state as the \"invention of traditions.\"\n\nReligious traditions fall into super-groups in comparative religion, arranged by historical origin and mutual influence. Abrahamic religions originate in West Asia, Indian religions in the Indian subcontinent (South Asia) and East Asian religions in East Asia. Another group with supra-regional influence are Afro-American religion, which have their origins in Central and West Africa.\n\n\nOne way to define a major religion is by the number of current adherents. The population numbers by religion are computed by a combination of census reports and population surveys (in countries where religion data is not collected in census, for example the United States or France), but results can vary widely depending on the way questions are phrased, the definitions of religion used and the bias of the agencies or organizations conducting the survey. Informal or unorganized religions are especially difficult to count.\n\nThere is no consensus among researchers as to the best methodology for determining the religiosity profile of the world's population. A number of fundamental aspects are unresolved:\n\n\nThe following are medium-sized world religions: \n\n\nFollowing is some available data based on the work of the \"World Christian Encyclopedia\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57147375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57147375", "title": "Material religion", "text": "Material religion\n\nMaterial religion is a framework used by scholars of religion examining the interaction between religion and material culture. Its specific focus is on the place of objects, images, spaces, and buildings in religious communities.\n\nSome scholars within the study of religion have criticised the material religion approach for often seeking to reintroduce the phenomenology of religion into the discipline.\n\nThe scholar of religion S. Brent Plate was of the view that \"religion must be understood as deriving from rudimentary human experiences, from lived, embodied practices\". He stated that \"to learn about religion we have to come to our senses. Literally. We have to begin to discover... that we cannot know the worlds of any other culture, let alone our own, unless we get inside the sensational operations of human bodies.\"\n\nThe material religion framework has been promoted by the scholars such as Birgit Meyer, Sally Promey, S. Brent Plate, David Morgan, etc.\n\nIn 2005, the peer-reviewed journal \"Material Religion: The Journal of Objects, Art and Belief\" was launched. In their editorial statement, the editors described it as \"a new project in the study of religious images, objects, spaces, and material practices.\"\n\nThe anthropologist Simon Coleman suggested that the term \"material religion\" was tautological, in that \"religion is inherently material in its very constitution.\"\n\nThe scholars of religion Christopher R. Cotter and David G. Robertson suggested that the material religion framework could be an alternative means to explore religion, in contrast to the dominant world religions paradigm which they regarded as problematic. They nevertheless thought that material religion represented \"phenomenology by stealth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10091322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091322", "title": "Miraculous births", "text": "Miraculous births\n\nStories of miraculous births often include conceptions by miraculous circumstances and features such as intervention by a deity, supernatural elements, astronomical signs, hardship or, in the case of some mythologies, complex plots related to creation.\n\nThe Assyrian and Babylonian concept of origins expressed procreation first in “relationships between gods and goddesses resulting in other gods and goddesses,\" such as Ea and Damkina assisted by Apsu giving birth to Marduk. The Akkadian \"Enûma Eliš\" describes the birth of Marduk as follows: \"Ea, having overheard the plan of the primordial deities to destroy the other gods, deceived Apsu and Mummu and put them to death. 'Ea, his triumph over his enemies secured, in his sacred chamber in profound peace he rested.' (ANET, p. 61, lines 74—75.) Then he took over the place which Apsu had used for his cult and dwelt there with his spouse, Damkina.\" It was here that Marduk, the \"most potent and wisest of gods\" was created in the heart of Apsu and \"He who begot him was Ea, his father, she who conceived him was Damkina, his mother\".\n\nAccording to Norman Lockyer, Ea, Ia, or Oannes was the primal god of Babylon. He was a ‘Great God, Maker of Men, Potter, Artist and Workman.’ He formed a Triad with Anu and Bil—the two poles of heaven and the equator. Oannes first appeared from the sea to teach the Babylonians the art of writing, sciences and crafts, the building of cities, the surveying of land, the observation of the stars, and the sowing and harvesting of all kinds of grains and plants. He was believed to have been \"reincarnated\" several times. Berossos, priest of the Temple of Bel, in Babylon, knew of as many as six such reincarnations.\n\nIn addition, “procreative deities, either male or female, played a part in the birth of other deities or great personages, such as the Ugaritic tradition of Lady Asherah, ‘the Progenitress of the gods’; Mami, 'the Mother-womb, the one who creates mankind'; Father Nanna, the 'begetter of gods and men'; the Assyrian traditions that Tukulti-Urta was created by the gods in the womb of his mother and that Sennacherib's birth was assisted by Ea, who provided a 'spacious womb', and Assur, 'the god, my begetter'; and the North Arabian myth of the mother goddess who was responsible for Dusares.\"\n\nIn Hittite mythology, the god Anu was overthrown by his son Kumarbi; Anu attempted to flee, but Kumarbi bit off Anu's genitals and swallowed them, and banished him to the underworld. As a consequence of swallowing Anu's genitals, Kumarbi became impregnated with Anu's son Teshub and four other offspring. Teshub overthrew his father Kumarbi, thus avenging his other father Anu's overthrow and mutilation. This account later became the basis for the Greek story of Uranus's castration by his son Cronus, resulting in the birth of Aphrodite, described in Hesiod's \"Theogony\".\n\nThe belief in the conception of Horus by Isis is traced to the beginning of Egyptian history. Horus' conception and birth were understood in terms of the Egyptian doctrine of parthenogenesis, which was connected with the goddess Neith of Sais. (page 220) In Upper Egypt, Net was worshipped at Seni and represented with the head of a lioness painted green, with the titles: \"Father of fathers and Mother of mothers,\" and \"net-Menhit, the great lady, lady of the south, the great cow who gave birth to the sun, who made the germ of gods and men, the mother of Ra, who raised up Tem in primeval time, who existed when nothing else had being, and who created that which exists after she had come into being.\"(page 150)\n\nThere were at least fifteen other Horuses in the Egyptian pantheon, so in the story of Isis and Osiris Horus is \"sometimes known as Harsiesis, to distinguish him from the others. He is depicted as a falcon, or with a falcon's head. He eventually avenged Osiris' death and reclaimed the throne, ruling peacefully...Herakhty, or 'Horus of the Horizon', was a sun god who rose each morning on the eastern horizon. He was often identified with the sun god, Ra, and was eventually absorbed by him, forming Ra-Herakhty.\"\n\nLineal descent from Ra, whether by birth or by marriage, was claimed by all kings of Egypt at least since User-ka-f, first king of the V Dynasty, who was high priest of Ra at Heliopolis. An important part of this tradition was the legend of the God Re generating with the wife of a priest. \"The newborn child was regarded as a god incarnate, and later with appropriate ceremonies he was presented to Re or Amen-Re, in his temple, where the god accepted it and acknowledged it to be his child.\" This tradition was later inscribed in a stereotyped form in temple reliefs.\n\nMany texts mention different attributes of Isis. These were combined into a single narrative by Plutarch in the 1st century AD. In her aspect of protector of Egypt and its people, Isis is depicted with huge outspread wings. She taught women to grind corn, to spin and to weave, and she taught the people how to cure illnesses. She instituted the rite of marriage. When her consort, Osiris, left Egypt to travel the world, Isis ruled the country in his absence. \"The hieroglyph for her name is the image of a throne, and her lap came to be seen as the throne of Egypt. Because of her fame Isis eventually absorbed the qualities of almost all the other goddesses; \"she was a great mother goddess, a bird goddess, a goddess of the underworld who brought life to the dead, and a goddess of the primeval waters...Her following spread beyond Egypt to Greece and throughout the Roman Empire...(lasting) from before 3000 BC until well into Christian times.\n\nThere is a myth on the birth of Hatshepsut. In this myth, Amun goes to Queen Ahmose in the form of the Pharaoh Thutmose I and awakens her with pleasant odors. At this point Amun places the \"ankh\", a symbol of life, to Ahmose's nose, and Hatshepsut is conceived by Ahmose. Another myth on divine birth concerns Amenhotep III: he is conceived by Amun which has gone to queen Mutemwiya in form of Thutmosis IV.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, and in later Jewish tradition there are stories of matriarchs giving birth where the God of Israel miraculously intervenes. For example, within the Rabbinic literature expansions were made on the birth of the matriarch Sarah on the earlier Old Testament traditions.\n\nDue to her old age, Sarai was infertile, but a miracle was vouchsafed to her (Genesis Rabbah xlvii. 3) after her name was changed from \"Sarai\" to \"Sarah\" (R. H. 16b). When her youth had been restored and she had given birth to Isaac the people would not believe in the miracle, saying that the patriarch and his wife had adopted a foundling and pretended that it was their own son. Abraham thereupon invited all the notables to a banquet on the day when Isaac was to be weaned. Sarah invited the women, who brought their infants with them, and on this occasion she gave milk from her breasts to all the children, thus convincing the guests of the miracle (B. M. 87a; comp. Gen. R. liii. 13).\n\nAccording to , around 735 BC King Ahaz of Judah received a message from the prophet Isaiah during the Syro-Ephraimite War with Aram (Syria) and Israel, \"Therefore, the Lord, of His own, shall give you a sign; behold, the young woman is with child, and she shall bear a son, and she shall call his name Immanuel.\" This is generally taken by Judaic commentators to be a reference to the non-miraculous birth of Hezekiah or another contemporary child, as indicated in Isaiah's following indication of the timing.\n\nThe Greek Septuagint and some later Christian translations, following the application of Isaiah 7 in Matthew 1, use the word \"virgin\". The Hebrew word \"alma\" actually translates as a young woman of childbearing age who had not yet given birth and who might or might not be a virgin, whereas the Hebrew \"betulah\", used elsewhere in Isaiah, is the word that means \"virgin.\" If the reference is to Ahaz's betrothed, Abi, daughter of the High Priest, no miraculous birth is implied, merely chastity. The Christian world believes that the verse is a messianic prediction of the miraculous birth of Jesus, as described in various gospels of the New Testament of the Bible.\n\nThe Second Book of Enoch contains a section, called \"Exaltation of Melchizedek\", which says that Melchizedek was born of a virgin, Sofonim (or Sopanima), the wife of Nir, a brother of Noah. The child came out from his mother after she had died and sat on the bed beside her corpse, already physically developed, clothed, speaking and blessing the Lord, and marked with the badge of priesthood. Forty days later, Melchizedek was taken by the archangel Gabriel (Michael in some manuscripts) to the Garden of Eden and was thus preserved from the Deluge without having to be in Noah's Ark.\n\nZoroaster’s name has been adopted from the Greek and Latin Zoroastres. The ancient form of his name in the Avesta is Zarathustra. His native country was probably Media in Western Iran, (possibly in modern Azerbaijan), but his ministry took place in eastern Iran, especially in the region of Bactria, about 1200 BC. Zoroaster was originally a Magian priest, and under the reforms he instituted, Mithra became one of the Yazatas (Worshipful Ones), the angels or lesser divine beings.\n\n\"It was said that (Zoroaster's) birth was foretold from the beginning of time, and that the moment he was born, he burst out laughing and the whole universe rejoiced with him.\" After his birth evil demons tried to destroy him, but with Ahura Mazda's protection, he survived all attempts on his life. The Zoroastrian tradition differs from the Christian one because the divine only assists in the preservation of Zoroaster’s seed. \"The central scripture, the Avesta and also the Pahlavi texts include the tradition that the 'kingly glory' is handed onward from ruler to ruler and from saint to saint for the purpose of illuminating ultimately the soul of the Zarathushtra.\" Also the scriptures clearly allude to conjugal relations between his parents, during which evil spirits try to prevent his conception. But according to later tradition, Zoroaster's mother, Dughdova, was a virgin when she conceived Zoroaster by a shaft of light.\n\nGreco-Roman and Hellenistic literature is rich in the tradition of birth among the gods. In his poem \"Theogony\", the Greek poet Hesiod tells a story that Zeus had once lain with the goddess Metis, impregnating her, but, fearing that she might bear a child mightier than he himself, he swallowed her. Their daughter Athena was born fully grown from Zeus's forehead, fully armed and clad in armor. Hesiod also relates that the goddess Aphrodite was born from the foam of the sea after Ouranos's castrated testicles were thrown into it.\n\nHelios was a child of Zeus by Euryphaessa. He was also called \"the son of Earth and starry Heaven,\" and the son of Hyperion. Dionysus was dithyrambus, \"he who entered life by a double door.\" His first birth took place prematurely. His mother, Semele, died when Zeus appeared to her in a flash of lightning, and so Zeus opened his own flesh and enclosed the infant. In time, Dionysus was born \"perfect\" from Zeus' thigh. Dionysus Zagreus was important in Orphic theology. In Protrepticus ii. 14 ff. by Clement of Alexandria, this child had the form of a bull. Zeus intended to make him the ruler of the universe but the jealous Titans lured the child away, tore him to pieces, cooked him and ate him. Athena preserved his heart, however, which Zeus swallowed. According to Boslooper, Clement omitted one part of the myth that forms a connection between his account and the Theban legend of Dionysus. Because Zeus swallowed the heart of Dionysus Zagreus, when Semele bore Dionysus the new god was Zagreus reborn.\n\nIn Indian mythology, Mithra is known as Mitra. He was originally a god of contracts and friendship and was a forerunner of the Graeco-Roman god Mithras. In Iran, he developed into the protector of truth. Before the time of Zoroaster, he was associated with Ahura Mazda, the principle of good. As a consequence of Zoroaster's reforms to Iranian religion, Mithra was ousted from power and Ahura Mazda became supreme. In the more ancient Indian Vedas Mithra was the god of light, invoked under the name of Varuna, and was called \"the Light of the World.\" He was the mediator between heaven and Earth.\n\n\"The light bursting from the heavens, which were conceived as a solid vault, became, in the mythology of the Magi, Mithra born from the rock.\"\n\nMithraism absorbed astrology from the Chaldeans after the Chaldean conquest, and continued as an astronomical religion. In the Hellenistic period it took on its final form. Mithra was assimilated into Graeco-Roman beliefs in the 1st century BC as Mithras. He was an ancient and highly honored god of Roman Paganism, where he was worshipped for more than 300 years as \"the soldier's god.\"\n\nThe love of a god for a mortal, resulting in the birth of a hero, is one notable deviation from the tradition of the origin of gods. The legend of Perseus, whose mother conceived him when Jupiter came to her in the form of a golden shower, is one example of this type (cf. Ovid, Metamorphoses, Book IV). The \"Greek Anthology\" has the following: Zeus, turned to gold, piercing the brazen chamber of Danae, cut the knot of intact virginity.\n\nHeroes created by generation of a god with a mortal include Ion by Apollo and Creusa, Romulus by Mars and Aemila, Asclepius by Apollo and Coronis, and Helen by Zeus and Leda. Plutarch records how Theseus and Romulus were both born out of wedlock and of uncertain parentage and at the same time had the reputation of being sprung from the gods. He said that Theseus' grandfather Pittheus invented the story that Theseus was the child of Neptune to conceal Theseus' lineage as the son of Pittheus' daughter Aethra and Aegeus (\"Lives\", Vol. 1, p. 2; pp. 3 ff.). But there were other stories about the birth of Romulus and his brother Remus. The story of Romulus' divine origin says that his mother was the mortal daughter of Aeneas and Lavinia, and his father was Mars.\n\nIn his \"Hymn to Asclepius\", Homer attributes his origin to the god Apollo and the daughter of a renowned soldier, King Phlegyas. As the divine patron of the healing art, Asclepius became the most popular of the hero gods of Greece. The belief that religion was concerned with sickness and disease was central to his cult. His sanctuaries in the Greco-Roman world became so famous there was a movement to make him a god of the first rank and identify him with Zeus himself. Asclepius was \"the one who leads and controls all things, the savior of the whole world, and the guardian of mortals.\"\n\nHelen of Troy was worshiped as a heroine in several parts of the ancient world during the early historical epoch. Euripides' play \"Helen\" depends on a tradition begun in the early 6th century B.C. by the Greek poet Stesichorus that Helen was the daughter of Zeus (who took the form of a swan) and Leda. But this might simply be a poetic way of saying that she was hatched from an egg.\n\nThere are two versions of the birth of Oedipus. He was given a semidivine status in Sophocles' \"Oedipus the King,\" where he was said to be the son of either Pan, Loxias, \"or the Bacchants' god, dweller on the hilltops ...\" and one of the nymphs of Helicon. But in Euripides' \"Phoenissae,\" his mother, Jocasta, says Oedupus is the son of Laius, a mortal, who was warned by the god Phoebus not to have children.\n\n\"King of Thebes for horses famed! seek not to beget children against the will of heaven; for if thou beget a son, that child will slay thee, and all thy house shall wade in blood.\"\n\nLaius ignored the warning, but after the child was born he gave him to shepherds to expose on Mount Cithaeron. The child was found and raised among the keepers of the horses of Polybus. As a grown man, Oedipus did indeed kill his father, not realizing who he was, and then married his mother. When he discovered the truth he blinded himself. In this story, he is clearly considered to be the son of Laius and Jocasta. This is also obvious in Sophocles' \"Oedipus the King\". According to Boslooper, \"The two passages indicate that in the Greek mind the thoughts of divine and human paternal participation in conception were not mutually exclusive.\" (p. 178)\n\nRomulus and Remus, the legendary twin founders of the city of Rome, were said to have been born to a Vestal Virgin, Rhea Silvia. Rhea Silvia had been forced to become a Vestal Virgin against her will and claimed to have been impregnated through divine intervention. Livy attests that she was instead raped by an unknown man. In any case King Amulius ordered the twins to be drowned as death through the elements would not trigger divine punishment.\n\nAlexander, the Ptolemies, and the Caesars were said by some scholars to have been \"virgin-born.\" Alexander the Great, \" journeyed to the Oasis of Amon in order that he might be recognized as the god’s son and thus become a legitimate and recognized king of Egypt. Inscriptions show that he and the Ptolemies after him had the incidents of their birth regularly depicted in temple reliefs.” (As cited by Boslooper) Norden calls this the Hellenistic virgin motif. However, evidence shows that Alexander must have had a double tradition of origin. It is recorded that \"Alexander the Great and Augustus are deemed to have been conceived of a serpent god, and they claimed between them Phoebus and Jupiter as their progenitors.\"\n\n“The Emperor Augustus was praised as the Savior of the world …[but] the idea of Savior was not unique or original with Augustus himself. Before him the same title was given to Seleucid and other Hellenistic kings. Throughout this period there were frequent longings for a savior from the present troubles.” Augustus was said to have had a miraculous birth and a childhood filled with many portents and signs. A few months before he was born a portent was observed at Rome which gave warning that nature was pregnant with a king for the Roman People. \"Thereupon the Senate in consternation decreed that no male child born that year should be reared; but those whose wives were with child saw to it that the decree was not filed in the treasury, since each one appropriated the prediction to his own family.\" Boslooper relates several additional stories. In one, Suetonius narrates what he learned from Asclepias of Mendes:\n\n\"When Atia had come in the middle of the night to the solemn service of Apollo, she had her litter set down in the temple and fell asleep, while the rest of the matrons also slept. On a sudden a serpent glided up to her and shortly went away. When she awoke, she purified herself, as if after the embraces of her husband, and at once there appeared on her body a mark in colors like a serpent, and she could never get rid of it; so that presently she ceased ever to go to the public baths. In the tenth month after that Augustus was born and was therefore regarded as the son of Apollo. Atia too, before she gave him birth, dreamed that her vitals were borne up to the stars and spread over the whole extent of land and sea, while Octavius dreamed that the sun rose from Atia's womb.\" (p. 180)The hope for a savior was expressed in Virgil’s “Fourth Eclogue\". The Church fathers later claimed this was a reference to Jesus Christ, however, the poem was dedicated to Pollio, one of the great influential men at the time of the civil wars and Virgil's patron and friend. The hero of the poem is a child born or to be born in 40 B.C., at the time of Pollio's consulate. A new era was expected, in fulfillment of an older oracle.\"... Now the last age by Cumae's Sibyl sung\n\nHas come and gone, and the majestic roll\n\nOf circling centuries begins anew:\n\nJustice returns, returns old Saturn's reign,\n\nWith a new breed of men sent down from heaven.\n\nOnly do thou, at the boy's birth in whom\n\nThe iron shall cease, the golden race arise,\n\nBefriend him, chaste Lucina; 'tis thine own\n\nApollo reigns ...\n\n\"For thee, O boy,\n\nFirst shall the earth, untilled, pour freely forth\n\nHer childish gifts, the gadding ivy-spray\n\nWith foxglove and Egyptian bean-flower mixed,\n\nAnd laughing-eyed acanthus. Of themselves,\n\nUntended, will the she-goats then bring home\n\nTheir udders swollen with milk, while flocks afield\n\nShall of the monstrous lion have no fear...\"\n\nIn the story of Krishna the deity is the agent of conception and also the offspring. Because of his sympathy for the earth, the divine Vishnu himself descended into the womb of Devaki and was born as her son, Krishna. The Hindu Vishnu Purana relates: \"Devaki bore in her womb the lotus-eyed deity...before the birth of Krishna, no one “could bear to gaze upon Devaki, from the light that invested her, and those who contemplated her radiance felt their minds disturbed.” This reference to light is reminiscent of the Vedic hymn \"To an Unknown God,\" which refers to a Golden Child. According to F. M. Müller this term means \"the golden germ of child\" and is an attempt at naming the sun.\n\nThis is occasionally brought up as evidence for the hypothesis that \"virgin birth\" tales are a fairly common phenomenon in non-Christian religions around the world. However, there is nothing in Hindu scriptures to suggest that it was a \"virgin\" birth. By the time of conception and birth of Krishna, Devaki was married to Vasudeva and had already borne seven children.\n\nIn the \"Ramayana\", Vishnu incarnates himself as a man, Rama, in the womb of Kausalya, one of the wives of the king Dasharatha. In the \"Mahabharata\" epic, Surya, the god of the sun, impregnates Queen Kunti before her marriage to King Pandu, causing her to give birth to their son Karna. Surya restores her virginity afterwards, thereby allowing her to marry Pandu, despite having already given birth. Also in the \"Mahabharata\", Bharadwaja řshi goes with his companions to the Ganga River to perform his ablutions. There, he spots a beautiful apsara named Ghritachi, who has come to bathe. The sage is overcome by desire, causing him to involuntarily ejaculate out of excitement. Bharadwaja Muni captures the semen in a vessel called a Đroņa, and Đroņācharya himself springs forth from it.\n\nHowever, some Hindus believe that when the emanations of the Supreme Being are pratyaksha, or obvious to the sight, they become sacara, or embodied. Krishna was such an embodiment and usually bore a human form. In that mode of appearance the deities are generally supposed to be born of a woman, but without any carnal intercourse. This belief is not adhered to by those who follow the Purva Mimansa, or the philosophy of Jaimini. They insist that the Devas were mere mortals whom the Supreme Being endowed with qualities similar to his own. In general, the Hindus perform acts of worship to some of their ancient monarchs and sages, who were deified on account of their eminent virtues.\n\nThe stories of Buddha’s unusual birth developed through the centuries. Two accounts cited by Boslooper tell of the descent of the future Bodhisattva from the \"Tusita Body\" into the mother’s womb, the appearance of the Buddha in the mother as a shining gem, and the accompanying wonders in the natural world. These are the Majjhima-Nikāya, 123 Acchariyabbhutadhammasuta III. 119-124; (I. B. Horner, 1959, pp. 164–169); and Māhapadānasutta, Dīgha ii. 12. In the Mahapadana-sutra, Digha ii. 12, is the description of the incarnation of the Vipassī Buddha.\n\n\"Now Vipassi, brethren, when, as Bodhisat, he ceased to belong to the hosts of the heaven of Delight, descended into his mother’s womb mindful and self-possessed.\"\n\nAccording to this text, the Vipassī Buddha was the first of six incarnations to precede Gautama. The others listed are Sikhī, Vessabhū, Kakusandha, Koṇāgamana, and Kassapa. The most popular legendary account of the birth of Buddha is in the Nidanakatha Jataka (see, Jataka tales) which accounted for the lives of Buddha in previous incarnations. In this account, the “Great Being” chose the time and place of his birth, the tribe into which he would be born, and who his mother would be. In the time chosen by him, Maya, his mother, fell asleep and dreamed that four archangels carried her to the Himalayan Mountains where their queens bathed and dressed her. In her dream the Great Being soon entered her womb from her side, in the form of a white elephant. When she woke, she told her dream to the Raja, who summoned sixty-four eminent Brahmans to interpret it.\n\n\"Then is described how at his birth he took seven great steps and at the seventh he shouted, 'I am the chief of the world,' how he at birth held in his hand some medicine that became for him the drug by which he later healed the sick and blind and deaf, how at birth he wished to give a gift but was presented one himself by his mother, and how lastly he sang the song of victory.'\n\nThe Yellow Emperor is sometimes said to have been the fruit of extraordinary birth, as his mother Fubao conceived him as she was aroused, while walking in the country, by a lightning bolt from the Big Dipper.\n\nQi, the Abandoned One, who later became known as Houji a culture hero or god of agriculture was held in some accounts to have been miraculously conceived when his mother, the consort Jiang Yuan, stepped into a footprint left by the supreme god Shangdi.\n\nSome Taoist schools held that Laozi was conceived when his mother gazed upon a falling star. He was born while his mother was leaning against a plum tree. Laozi was said to have emerged as an old man with a full grey beard. This may be because his name \"Old Master\" () can also be read as \"Old Child\".\n\nThere are some legends about the birth of Abaoji (also known as Yi), the Emperor Taizu of Liao. According to the legends, his mother dreamed that the sun fell from the sky and into her bosom, from which pregnancy followed. When she gave birth, the room is said to have become filled with a mysterious light and extraordinary fragrance. As a newborn, his body was that of a three-year-old, and the legends go on to say that he was walking at the age of three months.\n\nMainstream scholars agree that the nativity of Jesus, if not taken as historically accurate, should be interpreted within the context of first-century Judaism, not in the context of foreign mythologies, which contain only remote similarities.\n\nAccording to tradition of the Catholic church, the Virgin Mary's parents, St. Anne and St. Joachim, were childless, when an angel came to them and told them they would give birth to a daughter. During the conception of Mary, she was preserved from the stain of original sin.\n\nThe Gospel of Luke and the Gospel of Matthew describe the nativity of Jesus. In the account in the Gospel of Luke, Mary learns from the angel Gabriel that she will conceive and bear a child. When she asks how this can be, since she is a virgin, he tells her that the Holy Spirit would \"come upon her\" and that \"nothing will be impossible with God\". She responds: \"Here am I, the servant of the Lord; let it be with me according to your word\".\n\nAt the time that Mary is due to give birth, she and her husband Joseph travel from their home in Nazareth to Joseph's ancestral home in Bethlehem to register in the Census of Quirinius. Finding no place for themselves in the inn, Mary gives birth to Jesus and she places him in a manger (feeding trough). An angel of the Lord visits the shepherds guarding their flocks in nearby fields and brings them \"good news of great joy\": \"to you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, who is the Messiah, the Lord.\" The angel tells them they will find a child wrapped in bands of cloth and lying in a manger.\n\nIn the Gospel of Matthew, the impending birth is announced to Joseph in a dream, in which he is instructed to name the child Jesus. A star reveals the birth of Jesus to a number (traditionally three) of \"magi\", Greek \"μάγος\", commonly translated as \"wise man\" but in this context probably meaning \"astronomer\" or \"astrologer\", who travel to Jerusalem from an unspecified country \"in the east\".\n\nAfter the 1st century, traditions flourished that represented the thinking of that time, and also preserved source material for many of the ideas in the \"theological writings of the church fathers.\" In their present form the pseudepigraphal writings contained in the Sibylline Oracles include literature written from the 2nd century BC through the 6th century of the Christian era. They contain some material relevant to the birth and infancy of Jesus. But this passage in the Oracles, Book III, probably represents the hopes of pre-Christian Alexandrian Jews.\n\n\"Be of good cheer, O maiden, and exult; for the Eternal, who made heaven and earth, has given thee joy, and he will dwell in thee, and for thee shall be an immortal light.\nAnd wolves and lambs promiscuously shall eat grass in the mountains, and among the kids shall leopards graze,\nAnd wandering bears shall lodge among the calves, and the carnivorous lion\nshall eat straw in the manger like the ox,\nand little children lead them with a band. For tame will be on earth the beasts he made,\nAnd with young babes will dragons fall asleep, and no harm, for God’s hand will be on them.\"\n\nLater, the church fathers refer to subsequent books in the Oracles that are clear allusions to Christ, and probably dated from the close of the second or beginning of the 3rd century AD. The first Christian theologians demonstrated in their writings their knowledge of such non-canonical sources.\n\nThe non-canonical gospels contain much that is pertinent. The apocryphal literature departs from the Christian canon and its legends have many elements similar to pagan stories representing popular beliefs of the church from the second Christian century on through the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Qur'an and other Islamic literature contain reports of a number of miraculous births of biblical characters. The Qur'an describes virginal conception of Jesus by Mary (Arabic: \"Maryam\"), which is recounted throughout several passages in the Qur'an. The narrative goes that Mary was visited by the angel Gabriel that she will give birth to a holy son, named Isa' (Jesus), the Messiah and that he will be a great prophet, to whom God will give the Injil (Gospel) and he will speak in infancy and maturity and will be a companion to the most righteous. When this news was given to Mary, she asked the angel how she can have a baby as she was a virgin. To this, the angel replied \"Even though when God wants to create a matter, he merely wills (Kun-fa-yakun) it and the things come into being\".\n\nAfter giving birth, while resting near the trunk of a palm tree Jesus spoke to Mary from the cradle instructing her to shake the tree and obtain its fruits. After showing Jesus as a newborn to her family Jesus again spoke \"Lo, I am God's servant; God has given me the Book, and made me a Prophet. Blessed he has made me, wherever I may be; and He has enjoined me to pray, and to give alms, so long as I live and likewise to cherish my mother\" in order to dispel rumours of conception. This birth narrative draws strong parallels to the apocryphal tradition of Jesus' birth within the \"Infancy Gospel of Thomas\" and \"Arabic Infancy Gospel\".\n\nAfter the death of the Abdullah his wife Aminah had a vision where angels visited her and informed that soon she will give birth to a boy and told her to name him Muhammad. When Prophet Muhammad was about to be born, Aminah was visited by Hawa, Asiya and Mary with angels to help her. All the pagan idols of Kaaba fall down and bright light appeared.\n\nIn 1440, the poet Kabir was also said to have been born of a virgin widow (a Hindu), through the palm of her hand. Like Karna, Kabir was sent down the river in a basket; he was found and adopted by a family of Muslim weavers, downstream. This (presumably posthumous) account—which depicts Kabir as secretly descended from Hindus—was intended to legitimise Kabir's religious authority in the eyes of the Hindu population who venerated his works. This story is absent from Muslim and Sikh accounts of Kabir's work.\n\nThe myth of Huitzilopochtli is uniquely Aztec. Huitzilopochtli is therefore considered to be the cult god or the patron god of the Aztec. As a solar deity, Huitzilopochtli is closely related to and overlaps with Tonatiuh. Huitzilopochtli’s mother was Coatlicue, or She of the Serpent Skirt. Coatlicue, known for her devout nature and virtuous qualities, was at Mount Coatepec or Coatepetl (\"Serpent Hill\"; near Tula, Hidalgo) one day, sweeping and tending to her penance, when she discovered a bundle of feathers on the ground. She decided to save them and placed them in her bosom. Without her realizing, the feathers impregnated her.\n\nThere are several stories about the birth of Quetzalcoatl. In the first story, Quetzalcoatl was born by a virgin named Chimalman, to whom the god Ometeotl appeared in a dream. In another story, the virgin Chimalman conceived Quetzalcoatl by swallowing an emerald. A third story narrates that Chimalman was hit in the womb by an arrow bolted by Mixcoatl and nine months later she gave birth to Quetzalcoatl. A fourth story narrates that Quetzalcoatl was born from Coatlicue, who already had four hundred children who formed the stars of the Milky Way.\n\nAccording to a legend narrated by \"The Secret History of the Mongols\", a Mongol woman named Alan Gua had a son, named Bodonchar, some years after her husband has died. She claimed a radiant yellow person visited her at night and impregnated her. She believed the visitor was the god Tengri. Bodonchar became the founder of the Borjigin tribe and a direct ancestor of Genghis Khan.\n\nMiraculous births are common in Japanese folklore, and include Momotarō the Peach Boy (who was found inside a giant peach floating on a river), Kintarō (about whom several origin myths are told), and Kaguya-hime (who was born inside the stalk of a glowing bamboo plant).\n\nThe Great Peacemaker, sometimes referred to as Deganawida or Dekanawida (Iroquois) was born a Huron, and by some accounts, his mother was a virgin, so the birth was miraculous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53673652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53673652", "title": "Modes of religiosity", "text": "Modes of religiosity\n\nThe theory of divergent modes of religiosity (DMR) is intended to explain how religions are created, transmitted, and changed. DMR theory was first developed by anthropologist Harvey Whitehouse following his ethnographic fieldwork in Papua New Guinea. The theory proposes that religions tend to coalesce around two divergent modes, termed \"imagistic\" and \"doctrinal\", which are distinguished primarily by their ritual practices. The \"imagistic\" mode is characterized by infrequently performed, high arousal rituals (e.g. initiation rites) and is associated with small scale, exclusive religious groups. In contrast the \"doctrinal\" mode is characterized by frequently performed, low arousal rituals (e.g. daily recitations of sacred texts) and is associated with larger inclusive communities, as found in the major world religions.\n\nThe theory posits that these differing ritual patterns promote the transmission of religious traditions by exploiting core memory processes. Imagistic rituals arouse strong emotion and generate vivid, flashbulb like, episodic memories, while doctrinal rituals repetitive nature means that rather than individual events the experiences over time are stored in procedural and semantic memories. Later formulations of the theory also emphasised the different forms of group cohesion that are generated by the two modes, with imagistic rituals promoting intense, relational bonds with the other ritual participants and doctrinal rituals promoting more diffuse, categorical bonds with larger communities who share the same identity markers.\n\nDMR theory was tested empirically against data on 645 rituals from the HRAF global ethnographic database and the anticipated clustering of rituals around imagistic and doctrinal modes was confirmed. Ethnographic and historical examinations of the theory have been broadly positive and archaeologists have drawn upon DMR to explain the transition from small-scale societies to larger, more complex civilizations. Similarly, historians and biologists have utilized DMR theory to help explain why some religions separate into sects and how reformations may occur. However, the theory has been challenged by some scholars on theoretical grounds and faced criticisms from some ethnographers and historians for suggesting too strong of a division between imagistic and doctrinal modes.\n\nAlthough the DMR theory developed out of research on religious groups, more recent research has found evidence that the ritual dynamics described apply outside of the religious domain, including amongst football fans and armed militias, and that it may therefore serve as a more general theory of ritual and social cohesion.\n\nThe imagistic mode of religiosity involves collective rituals that are infrequent and highly emotional. Examples of these types of rituals include various initiation rites and rites of passage. The often dysphoric and highly emotional nature of these types of rituals activate the episodic memory system, resulting in detailed autobiographical memories. These dysphoric rituals can produce an extreme form of cohesion with the group, known as identity fusion. DMR posits that fusion with other group members will also motivate the individual to act out extreme forms of altruism, especially when the group is threatened. Therefore, the imagistic mode of religiosity prevails when a group’s survival depends on extremely high levels of cohesion.\n\nThe doctrinal mode of religiosity refers to collective rituals that are frequent, usually routinized, and generate relatively little affect. Examples of this type of collective ritual would include Holy Communion and Call to prayer. Due to the repetitive nature of these types of rituals, semantic memory systems are thought to be activated and function similarly to organizing other general schemas and scripts of general knowledge. In contrast to the imagistic mode, these routinized rituals tend to produce less intense group identification, which serves to promote trust and cooperation but not extreme self-sacrifice. DMR posits that the historical transition from small-scale societies to the invention of agriculture brought about the need for large-scale cooperation and collective identity.\n"}
{"id": "6168896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6168896", "title": "Multifaith", "text": "Multifaith\n\nTo be multifaith is to feel an affinity with aspects of more than one religion, philosophy or world-view, and perhaps to believe that no one is superior to the others. This term should not be confused with interfaith, which concerns the communication between different religions.\n\nThis is inherent to Relativism but exists among followers of other religions such as Confucianism and the Bahá'í Faith, as well as followers of the more liberal currents within Christianity, Islam and Judaism.\n\nRelativism centers on the belief that the best way to honour a divine creator is through the accomplishment of good actions, defined as those motivated by respect and empathy, and that no bad actions can ever be justified in the name of religion. Other religions are considered equally capable of providing a motivation to do good for those who understand them, or to do evil while claiming to do good for those who misinterpret them. \n\nThe term \"Relativism\" in a religious sense derives from the belief that each individual brings their own wisdom, personality, cultural background and experience to bear on their interpretation of a religion. \n\nRelativism is open to criticism by the more orthodox followers of other religions. In April 2005, in his homily during Mass prior to the conclave which would elect him as Pope, the then Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger talked about the world \"moving towards a dictatorship of Relativism\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25310806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25310806", "title": "Multifaith space", "text": "Multifaith space\n\nA multifaith space or multifaith prayer room is a quiet location set aside in a busy public place (hospital, university, airport, etc.) where people of differing religious beliefs, or none at all, are able to spend time in contemplation or prayer. Many of these spaces are \"small, clean and largely unadorned areas\", which can be adapted and serve for any religious or spiritual practice. Rarely, persons of different faiths may come together in such spaces within the context of multifaith worship services.\n\nThe space may or may not be a dedicated place of worship. A recent research project at the University of Manchester, UK has conceptualised the modern multifaith space as \"an intentional space, designed to both house a plurality of religious practices, as well as address clearly defined pragmatic purposes.\"\n\nThe Manchester University research highlighted two key factors for a multifaith space to work:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8486183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8486183", "title": "Natty Dreadlocks", "text": "Natty Dreadlocks\n\nNatty Dreadlocks (synonyms \"Natty Dread\", \"Natty\", \"Dready\" or \"Dread\") is a Rastafari term for a member of the Rastafari community. The image of such a man is often used in reggae music and elsewhere to represent an idealised personification of the Rastafari movement as a whole. It combines the term \"natty\" (as in \"natural\") and a style of dreadlocks which have formed naturally without cutting, combing or brushing.\n\nExamples of reggae albums/tracks featuring the term\n"}
{"id": "3166033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3166033", "title": "Numinous", "text": "Numinous\n\nNuminous () is an English adjective, derived from the Latin \"numen\", meaning \"arousing spiritual or religious emotion; mysterious or awe-inspiring\".\n\n\"Numinous\" is an English adjective, derived in the 17th century from the Latin \"numen\", that is (especially in ancient Roman religion) a \"deity or spirit presiding over a thing or space\". Meaning \"denoting or relating to a numen\", it describes the power or presence or realisation of a divinity. It is etymologically unrelated to Immanuel Kant's \"noumenon\", a Greek term referring to an unknowable reality underlying all things.\n\nThe word was popularized by the German theologian Rudolf Otto in his influential 1917 book \"Das Heilige\", which appeared in English as \"The Idea of the Holy\" in 1923. Otto writes that while the concept of \"the holy\" is often used to convey moral perfection – and does entail this – it contains another distinct element, beyond the ethical sphere, for which he uses the term numinous. He explains the numinous as a \"non-rational, non-sensory experience or feeling whose primary and immediate object is outside the self\". This mental state \"presents itself as \"ganz Andere\", wholly other, a condition absolutely \"sui generis\" and incomparable whereby the human being finds himself utterly abashed.\" Otto argues that because the numinous is irreducible and \"sui generis\" it cannot be defined in terms of other concepts or experiences, and that the reader must therefore be \"guided and led on by consideration and discussion of the matter through the ways of his own mind, until he reach the point at which 'the numinous' in him perforce begins to stir... In other words, our \"X\" cannot, strictly speaking, be taught, it can only be evoked, awakened in the mind.\" Chapters 4 to 6 are devoted to attempting to evoke the numinous and its various aspects. Using Latin, he describes it as a mystery () that is at once terrifying (\"tremendum\") and fascinating (\"fascinans\"). He writes:\n\nC.S. Lewis described the numinous experience as follows in \"The Problem of Pain\":\nOtto's use of the term as referring to a characteristic of religious experience was influential among certain intellectuals of the subsequent generation. For example, \"numinous\" as understood by Otto was a frequently quoted concept in the writings of Carl Jung, and C. S. Lewis. The notion of the numinous and the \"wholly Other\" were also central to the religious studies of the ethnologist Mircea Eliade. \"Mysterium tremendum\", another phrase coined by Otto to describe the numinous, is presented by Aldous Huxley in \"The Doors of Perception\" in this way:\nIn a book length scholarly treatment of the subject in fantasy literature, Chris Brawley devotes chapters to the concept in \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, in \"Phantastes\" by George Macdonald, in the \"Chronicles of Narnia\" by C.S. Lewis and \"The Lord of the Rings\" by J.R.R. Tolkien, and in work by Algernon Blackwood and Ursula Le Guin (e.g., \"The Centaur\" and \"Buffalo Gals, Won't You Come Out Tonight,\" respectively).\n\nIn his 2007 book \"God Is Not Great\" and in subsequent interviews and debates, New Atheist author Christopher Hitchens used the term \"numinous\" favorably. After interviewing him, Marilyn Sewell wrote that he \"us[ed] words like numinous and transcendent and soul\"—quoting him as saying, \"Everybody has had the experience at some point when they feel that there's more to life than just matter\"—but said that he emphasized separating this from clerical or otherworldly authority.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30712470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30712470", "title": "Open Episcopal Church", "text": "Open Episcopal Church\n\nThe Open Episcopal Church (OEC) is a liberal Christian denomination. It has bishops in England and Wales and clergy throughout the United Kingdom and internationally. It has over 29,000 members.\n\nThe church was the first in Britain to ordain a woman as bishop and to perform religious wedding ceremonies for gay couples.\n\nThe OEC is a member of the International Council of Community Churches, which in turn is a member of The World Council of Churches and Churches Uniting in Christ.\n\nIn 1994 Jonathan Blake, who had been a priest in the Church of England for over 12 years, effected a Deed of Relinquishment, severing his denominational ties. \n\nAs an independent priest he offered sacramental ministry to all. In 1997 he wrote about these experiences in his book, \"For God's Sake Don't Go To Church\". The same year he nailed 95 theses to the door of Canterbury Cathedral, for which he was arrested but not charged.\n\nA lesbian from the north of England arranged to meet Blake after reading his book. She felt a call to the ministry but had been rebuffed by the church over her sexuality and was interested in independent ministry. Following the meeting Blake placed an advert in the \"Church Times\" inviting all those interested in such a ministry to a conference the following March. Over 100 people contacted him, among them Richard Palmer, who had been consecrated as a bishop of the Liberal Catholic Church in 1997, but had resigned in April 1999. \n\nBlake wrote the Founding Principles of the Society for Independent Christian Ministry (SICM), which was inaugurated by a group of Christians reciting the Lord’s Prayer in the Sanctum of the Holy Circle Trust near Ryarsh in Kent at sunrise on 1 January 2000.\n\nIn February 2001, Blake conducted the first gay wedding blessing on Richard and Judy's prime time TV programme \"This Morning\".\n\nBy the time SICM met for the third time in Bournemouth, Palmer required those who had been ordained simply in Dartford to be ordained \"sub conditione\" at this gathering in a full rite of ordination. Blake realized that a new denomination had to be founded and set about writing the necessary canons.\n\nAt Hazlewood Castle, Michael Wilson was consecrated a bishop by Palmer and Blake. The three bishops issued the \"Hazlewood Declaration\" on 10 November 2001, which facilitated the creation of the Open Episcopal Church. The church viewed itself as being in succession from the Old Catholic Church, which had been established in England in 1908 by Arnold Mathew from See of Utrecht and continued through the Liberal Catholic Church.\n\nFor the next year, the Society of Independent Christian Ministry and the Open Episcopal Church coexisted, but the differences between them made this untenable, and at Liverpool in October 2002 it was decided finally that thereafter they should separate, following similar paths, and containing many of the same people, but with two distinct approaches.\n\nThe first significant meeting of the College of Bishops of the Open Episcopal Church took place in London in July 2002, prior to the separation of the Open Episcopal Church and the Society for Independent Christian Ministry at Liverpool in October of that year.\n\nElizabeth Stuart was consecrated as a bishop at the Royal Holloway Chapel, the college chapel of the Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, the University of London, Egham in Surrey, in April 2003. This was the first consecration of a woman as an independent Catholic bishop in the UK. \n\nThe first congress of the church was held at the All Saints Pastoral Centre in June 2004. The church's college of bishops met at Weston Manor in Oxfordshire in January 2005 and Wilson, an evangelical, resigned from the Church. The second congress was held at Whaley Hall at Whaley Bridge in mid 2005. In October, Roger Whatley was consecrated a bishop in the Chapel of the Ammerdown Conference Centre.\n\nThe church has had three archbishops: Richard Palmer, who left the church along with Roger Whatley after the allotted five-years of Palmer's tenure as archbishop ended; Elizabeth Stuart, who left the church in 2006 and was appointed the Archbishop of the Province of Great Britain and Ireland of the more traditionalist Liberal Catholic Church International; and Jonathan Blake, OEC's founder, who was the church's sole remaining bishop after Stuart left.\n\nIn 2008 the Open Episcopal Church became a member of the International Council of Community Churches and through them, a member of the World Council of Churches and Churches Uniting in Christ.\n\nThe church received national and international attention due to the wedding blessing Blake conducted for reality television figures Jade Goody and Jack Tweed, through interviews broadcast after Jade Goody's death, through the prayer released before Jade Goody's funeral, through Blake's response to Michael Parkinson's criticism of Goody, through the launch of Post the Host (an outreach provision to distribute the consecrated Hosts by post), and through David Gillham leading the prayers in the Scottish Parliament.\n\nFollowing Jade Goody's wedding, Christopher Woods, Chaplain and Director of Studies in Theology at Christ's College, Cambridge, called upon the Church of England to speak out against Blake and the OEC. The Church of England declined to comment.\n\nThe church consecrated the first woman as a bishop for Wales in 2007. The bishop of Scotland, David Gillham, ordained Helen Hamilton at St Magnus Cathedral, Kirkwall, Orkney in 2010; Gillham later fell into dispute with the church and left. Hamilton was subsequently consecrated as the first woman bishop for Scotland in June 2012. She made an episcopal visit to Londonderry. In 2013 the church consecrated a female bishop for Northumberland.\n\nBlake contributed to the book \"A Strange Vocation: Independent Bishops Tell Their Stories\" in 2009, and contributed liturgical material to Geoffrey Duncan's anthology \"Courage to Love\" and Leanne Tigert and Maren Tirabassi's compilation \"All Whom God Has Joined\". In 2014 Blake's book \"That Old Devil Called God Again: The Scourge of Religion\" was published.\n\nThe church has clerics from Anglican, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal, Lutheran and Franciscan backgrounds and has grown internationally into America, Egypt, Brazil and Thailand. The church promotes its KITE Awards for young people making a positive difference in the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "23340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23340", "title": "Paganism", "text": "Paganism\n\nPaganism is a term first used in the fourth century by early Christians for populations of the Roman Empire who practiced polytheism, either because they were increasingly rural and provincial relative to the Christian population or because they were not \"milites Christi\" (soldiers of Christ). Alternate terms in Christian texts for the same group were \"hellene\", \"gentile\", and \"heathen\".\n\nPagan and paganism were pejorative terms for the same polytheistic group, implying its inferiority. Paganism has broadly connoted the \"religion of the peasantry\", and for much of its history has been a derogatory term. Both during and after the Middle Ages, \"pagan\" was a pejorative term that was applied to any non-Abrahamic or unfamiliar religion, and the term presumed a belief in false god(s).\n\nThere has been much scholarly debate as to the origin of the term \"pagan\". In the 19th century, paganism was adopted as a self-descriptor by members of various artistic groups inspired by the ancient world. In the 20th century, it came to be applied as a self-descriptor by practitioners of Modern Paganism, Neopagan movements and Polytheistic reconstructionists. Modern pagan traditions often incorporate beliefs or practices, such as nature worship, that are different from those in the largest world religions.\n\nContemporary knowledge of old pagan religions comes from several sources, including anthropological field research records, the evidence of archaeological artifacts, and the historical accounts of ancient writers regarding cultures known to Classical antiquity. Forms of these religions, influenced by various historical pagan beliefs of premodern Europe, exist today and are known as contemporary or Modern Paganism, also referred to as Neopaganism.\n\nWhile most pagan religions express a world view that is pantheistic, polytheistic or animistic, there are some monotheistic pagans.\n\nThe term pagan is derived from Late Latin , revived during the Renaissance. Itself deriving from classical Latin which originally meant 'region delimited by markers', had also come to mean 'of or relating to the countryside', 'country dweller', 'villager'; by extension, 'rustic', 'unlearned', 'yokel', 'bumpkin'; in Roman military jargon, 'non-combatant', 'civilian', 'unskilled soldier'. It is related to ('to fasten', 'to fix or affix') and ultimately comes from Proto-Indo-European \"*pag-\" ('to fix' in the same sense).\n\nMedieval writers often assumed that \"paganus\" as a religious term was a result of the conversion patterns during the Christianization of Europe, where people in towns and cities were converted more readily than those in remote regions, where old ways lingered. However, this idea has multiple problems. First, the word's usage as a reference to non-Christians pre-dates that period in history. Second, paganism within the Roman Empire centred on cities. The concept of an urban Christianity as opposed to a rural paganism would not have occurred to Romans during Early Christianity. Third, unlike words such as \"rusticitas\", \"paganus\" had not yet fully acquired the meanings (of uncultured backwardness) used to explain why it would have been applied to pagans.\n\n\"Paganus\" more likely acquired its meaning in Christian nomenclature via Roman military jargon (see above). Early Christians adopted military motifs and saw themselves as \"Milites Christi\" (soldiers of Christ). A good example of Christians still using \"paganus\" in a military context rather than religious is in Tertullian's \"De Corona Militis\" XI.V, where the Christian is referred to as \"paganus\" (\"civilian\"):\n\"Paganus\" acquired its religious connotations by the mid-4th century. As early as the 5th century, \"paganos\" was metaphorically used to denote persons outside the bounds of the Christian community. Following the sack of Rome by the Visigoths just over fifteen years after the Christian persecution of paganism under Theodosius I, murmurs began to spread that the old gods had taken greater care of the city than the Christian God. In response, Augustine of Hippo wrote \"De Civitate Dei Contra Paganos\" ('The City of God against the Pagans'). In it, he contrasted the fallen \"city of Man\" to the \"city of God\" of which all Christians were ultimately citizens. Hence, the foreign invaders were \"not of the city\" or \"rural\".\n\nThe term pagan is not attested in the English language until the 17th century. In addition to \"infidel\" and \"heretic\", it was used as one of several pejorative Christian counterparts to \"gentile\" ( / ) as used in Judaism, and to \"kafir\" (, 'unbeliever') and \"mushrik\" (, 'idolater') as in Islam.\n\nIn the Latin-speaking Western Roman Empire of the newly Christianizing Roman Empire, Koine Greek became associated with the traditional polytheistic religion of Ancient Greece, and regarded as a foreign language (\"lingua peregrina\") in the west. By the latter half of the 4th century in the Greek-speaking Eastern Empire, pagans were—paradoxically—most commonly called \"Hellenes\" (, lit. 'Greeks'). The word almost entirely ceased being used in a cultural sense. It retained that meaning for roughly the first millennium of Christianity.\n\nThis was influenced by Christianity's early members, who were Jewish. The Jews of the time distinguished themselves from foreigners according to religion rather than ethno-cultural standards, and early Jewish Christians would have done the same. Because Hellenic culture was the dominant pagan culture in the Roman east, they called pagans Hellenes. Christianity inherited Jewish terminology for non-Jews and adapted it in order to refer to non-Christians with whom they were in contact. This usage is recorded in the New Testament. In the Pauline epistles, \"Hellene\" is almost always juxtaposed with \"Hebrew\" regardless of actual ethnicities.\n\nThe usage of Hellene as a religious term was initially part of an exclusively Christian nomenclature, but some Pagans began to defiantly call themselves Hellenes. Other pagans even preferred the narrow meaning of the word:from a broad cultural sphere to a more specific religious grouping. However, there were many Christians and pagans alike who strongly objected to the evolution of the terminology. The influential Archbishop of Constantinople Gregory of Nazianzus, for example, took offence at imperial efforts to suppress Hellenic culture (especially concerning spoken and written Greek) and he openly criticized the emperor.\n\nThe growing religious stigmatization of Hellenism had a chilling effect on Hellenic culture by the late 4th century.\n\nBy late antiquity, however, it was possible to speak Greek as a primary language while not conceiving of oneself as a Hellene. The long-established use of Greek both in and around the Eastern Roman Empire as a lingua franca ironically allowed it to instead become central in enabling the spread of Christianity—as indicated for example by the use of Greek for the Epistles of Paul. In the first half of the 5th century, Greek was the standard language in which bishops communicated, and the \"Acta Conciliorum\" (\"Acts of the Church Councils\") were recorded originally in Greek and then translated into other languages.\n\nHeathen comes from Old English \"hæðen\" (not Christian or Jewish); cf. Old Norse . This meaning for the term originated from Gothic (gentile woman) being used to translate Hellene (cf. ) in Wulfila's Bible, the first translation of the Bible into a Germanic language. This may have been influenced by the Greek and Latin terminology of the time used for pagans. If so, it may be derived from Gothic (dwelling on the heath). However, this is not attested. It may even be a borrowing of Greek () via Armenian .\n\nThe term has recently been revived in the forms Heathenry and Heathenism (often but not always capitalized), as alternative names for the Germanic neopagan movement, adherents of which may self-identify as Heathens.\n\nDefining paganism is problematic. Understanding the context of its associated terminology is important. Early Christians referred to the diverse array of cults around them as a single group for reasons of convenience and rhetoric. While paganism generally implies polytheism, the primary distinction between classical pagans and Christians was not one of monotheism versus polytheism. Not all pagans were strictly polytheist. Throughout history, many of them believed in a supreme deity. (However, most such pagans believed in a class of subordinate gods/daimons—see henotheism—or divine emanations.) To Christians, the most important distinction was whether or not someone worshipped the \"one true God\". Those who did not (polytheist, monotheist, or atheist) were outsiders to the Church and thus pagan. Similarly, classical pagans would have found it peculiar to distinguish groups by the number of deities followers venerate. They would have considered the priestly colleges (such as the College of Pontiffs or Epulones) and cult practices more meaningful distinctions.\n\nReferring to paganism as pre-Christian indigenous religions is equally untenable. Not all historical pagan traditions were pre-Christian or indigenous to their places of worship.\n\nOwing to the history of its nomenclature, paganism traditionally encompasses the collective pre- and non-Christian cultures in and around the classical world; including those of the Greco-Roman, Celtic, Germanic, Slavic tribes. However, modern parlance of folklorists and contemporary pagans in particular has extended the original four millennia scope used by early Christians to include similar religious traditions stretching far into prehistory.\n\nPaganism came to be equated by Christians with a sense of hedonism, representing those who are sensual, materialistic, self-indulgent, unconcerned with the future, and uninterested in more mainstream religions. Pagans were usually described within this worldly stereotype, especially among those drawing attention to what they perceived as the limitations of paganism. Thus G. K. Chesterton wrote: \"The set out, with admirable sense, to enjoy himself. By the end of his civilization he had discovered that a man cannot enjoy himself and continue to enjoy anything else.\" In sharp contrast, Swinburne the poet would comment on this same theme: \"Thou hast conquered, O pale Galilean; the world has grown grey from thy breath; We have drunken of things Lethean, and fed on the fullness of death.\"\n\n\nLudwig Feuerbach defined the paganism of classical antiquity, which he termed ('heathenry') as \"the unity of religion and politics, of spirit and nature, of god and man\", qualified by the observation that man in the pagan view is always defined by ethnicity, i.e. Greek, Roman, Egyptian, Jew, etc., so that each pagan tradition is also a national tradition. Modern historians define paganism instead as the aggregate of cult acts, set within a civic rather than a national context, without a written creed or sense of orthodoxy.\n\nThe developments in the religious thought of the far-flung Roman Empire during Late Antiquity needs to be addressed separately, because this is the context in which Early Christianity itself developed as one of several monotheistic cults, and it was in this period that the concept of pagan developed in the first place. As Christianity emerged from Second Temple Judaism (or Hellenistic Judaism), it stood in competition with other religions advocating pagan monotheism, including the cult of Dionysus, Neoplatonism, Mithraism, Gnosticism, and Manichaeanism. Dionysus in particular exhibits significant parallels with Christ, so that numerous scholars have concluded that the recasting of Jesus the wandering rabbi into the image of Christ the Logos, the divine saviour, reflects the cult of Dionysus directly. They point to the symbolism of wine and the importance it held in the mythology surrounding both Dionysus and Jesus Christ; Wick argues that the use of wine symbolism in the Gospel of John, including the story of the Marriage at Cana at which Jesus turns water into wine, was intended to show Jesus as superior to Dionysus. The scene in \"The Bacchae\" wherein Dionysus appears before King Pentheus on charges of claiming divinity is compared to the New Testament scene of Jesus being interrogated by Pontius Pilate.\n\nArabic paganism gradually disappeared during Muhammad's era through Islamization. The sacred months of the Arab pagans were the 1st, 7th, 11th and 12th months of the Islamic calendar. After Muhammad had conquered Mecca he set out to convert the pagans. One of the last military campaigns that Muhammad ordered against the Arab pagans was the Demolition of Dhul Khalasa. It occurred in April and May 632 AD, in 10AH of the Islamic Calendar. Dhul Khalasa is referred to as both an idol and a temple, and it was known by some as the Ka'ba of Yemen, built and worshipped by pagan tribes.\n\nInterest in pagan traditions was first revived during the Renaissance, when Renaissance magic was practiced as a revival of Greco-Roman magic. In the 17th century, the description of paganism turned from the theological aspect to the ethnological one, and religions began to be understood as a part of the ethnic identities of peoples, and the study of the religions of so-called primitive peoples triggered questions as to the ultimate historical origin of religion. Thus, Nicolas Fabri de Peiresc saw the pagan religions of Africa of his day as relics that were in principle capable of shedding light on the historical paganism of Classical Antiquity.\n\nPaganism resurfaces as a topic of fascination in 18th to 19th-century Romanticism, in particular in the context of the literary Celtic and Viking revivals, which portrayed historical Celtic and Germanic polytheists as noble savages.\n\nThe 19th century also saw much scholarly interest in the reconstruction of pagan mythology from folklore or fairy tales. This was notably attempted by the Brothers Grimm, especially Jacob Grimm in his \"Teutonic Mythology\", and Elias Lönnrot with the compilation of the \"Kalevala\". The work of the Brothers Grimm influenced other collectors, both inspiring them to collect tales and leading them to similarly believe that the fairy tales of a country were particularly representative of it, to the neglect of cross-cultural influence. Among those influenced were the Russian Alexander Afanasyev, the Norwegians Peter Christen Asbjørnsen and Jørgen Moe, and the Englishman Joseph Jacobs.\n\nRomanticist interest in non-classical antiquity coincided with the rise of Romantic nationalism and the rise of the nation state in the context of the 1848 revolutions, leading to the creation of \"national epics\" and national myths for the various newly formed states. Pagan or folkloric topics were also common in the Musical nationalism of the period.\n\nModern Paganism, or Neopaganism, includes reconstructed religions such as Roman Polytheistic Reconstructionism, Hellenism, Slavic Native Faith, Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism, or Heathenry, as well as modern eclectic traditions such as Wicca and its many offshoots, Neo-Druidism, and Discordianism.\n\nHowever, there often exists a distinction or separation between some polytheistic reconstructionists such as Hellenism and revivalist Neopagans like Wiccans. The divide is over numerous issues such as the importance of accurate orthopraxy according to ancient sources available, the use and concept of magic, which calendar to use and which holidays to observe, as well as the use of the term pagan itself.\n\nMany of the revivals, Wicca and Neo-Druidism in particular, have their roots in 19th century Romanticism and retain noticeable elements of occultism or Theosophy that were current then, setting them apart from historical rural () folk religion. Most modern pagans, however, believe in the divine character of the natural world and paganism is often described as an Earth religion.\n\nThere are a number of neopagan authors who have examined the relation of the 20th-century movements of polytheistic revival with historical polytheism on one hand and contemporary traditions of folk religion on the other. Isaac Bonewits introduced a terminology to make this distinction.\n\n\nPrudence Jones and Nigel Pennick in their \"A History of Pagan Europe\" (1995) classify pagan religions as characterized by the following traits:\n\nIn modern times, Heathen and Heathenry are increasingly used to refer to those branches of neopaganism inspired by the pre-Christian religions of the Germanic, Scandinavian and Anglo-Saxon peoples.\n\nIn Iceland, the members of \"Ásatrúarfélagið\" account for 0.4% of the total population, which is just over a thousand people. In Lithuania, many people practice Romuva, a revived version of the pre-Christian religion of that country. Lithuania was among the last areas of Europe to be Christianized. Odinism has been established on a formal basis in Australia since at least the 1930s.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4509725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4509725", "title": "Prayer stick", "text": "Prayer stick\n\nA prayer stick is a stick-shaped object used for prayer.\n\nFor example, the rituals of the Pueblo contain many prayers; thus the Zuñi have prayers for food, health, and rain. Prayer-sticks, that is sticks with feathers attached as supplicatory offerings to the \"spirits\", were largely used by the Pueblo. These sticks are usually made of cottonwood about seven inches long, and vary in shape, colour, and the feather attached, according to the nature of the petitions, and the person praying. The stick is intended to represent the \"god\" to whom the feathers convey the prayers that are breathed into the \"spirit\" of the plumes.\n\nThe Hopi Indians had a special prayer-stick to which a small bag of sacred meal was attached. Green and blue prayer-sticks are often found in the Pueblo graves and especially in the ceremonial graves of Arizona.\n\n"}
{"id": "508376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=508376", "title": "Proto-Indo-European mythology", "text": "Proto-Indo-European mythology\n\n</noinclude>\nProto-Indo-European mythology is the body of myths and stories associated with the Proto-Indo-Europeans. Although these stories are not directly attested, they have been reconstructed by scholars of comparative mythology based on the similarities in the belief systems of various Indo-European peoples.\n\nVarious schools of thought exist regarding the precise nature of Proto-Indo-European mythology, which do not always agree with each other. Vedic mythology, Roman mythology, and Norse mythology are the main mythologies normally used for comparative reconstruction, though they are often supplemented with supporting evidence from the Baltic, Celtic, Greek, Slavic, and Hittite traditions as well.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-European pantheon includes well-attested deities such as *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", the god of the daylit skies, his daughter *\"Héusōs\", the goddess of the dawn, the divine twins, and the storm god *\"Perkunos\". Other probable deities include \"*Péhusōn\", a pastoral god, and \"*Sehul\", a female solar deity.\n\nWell-attested myths of the Proto-Indo-Europeans include a myth involving a storm god who slays a multi-headed serpent that dwells in water and a creation story involving two brothers, one of whom sacrifices the other to create the world. The Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed that the Otherworld was guarded by a watchdog and could only be reached by crossing a river. They also may have believed in a world tree, bearing fruit of immortality, either guarded by or gnawed on by a serpent or dragon, and tended by three goddesses who spun the thread of life.\n\nThe mythology of the Proto-Indo-Europeans is not directly attested and it is difficult to match their language to archaeological findings related to any specific culture from the Chalcolithic. Nonetheless, scholars of comparative mythology have attempted to reconstruct aspects of Proto-Indo-European mythologies based on the existence of similarities among the deities, religious practices, and myths of various Indo-European peoples. This method is known as the comparative method. Different schools of thought have approached the subject of Proto-Indo-European mythology from different angles. The Meteorological School holds that Proto-Indo-European mythology was largely centered around deified natural phenomena such as the sky, the Sun, the Moon, and the dawn. This meteorological interpretation was popular among early scholars, but has lost a considerable degree of scholarly support in recent years. The Ritual School, on the other hand, holds that Proto-Indo-European myths are best understood as stories invented to explain various rituals and religious practices. Bruce Lincoln, a member of the Ritual School, argues that the Proto-Indo-Europeans believed that every sacrifice was a reenactment of the original sacrifice performed by the founder of the human race on his twin brother. The Functionalist School holds that Proto-Indo-European society and, consequently, their mythology, was largely centered around the trifunctional system proposed by Georges Dumézil, which holds that Proto-Indo-European society was divided into three distinct social classes: farmers, warriors, and priests. The Structuralist School, by contrast, argues that Proto-Indo-European mythology was largely centered around the concept of dualistic opposition. This approach generally tends to focus on cultural universals within the realm of mythology, rather than the genetic origins of those myths, but it also offers refinements of the Dumézilian trifunctional system by highlighting the oppositional elements present within each function, such as the creative and destructive elements both found within the role of the warrior.\n\nOne of the earliest attested and thus most important of all Indo-European mythologies is Vedic mythology, especially the mythology of the Rigveda, the oldest of the Vedas. Early scholars of comparative mythology such as Max Müller stressed the importance of Vedic mythology to such an extent that they practically equated it with Proto-Indo-European myth. Modern researchers have been much more cautious, recognizing that, although Vedic mythology is still central, other mythologies must also be taken into account.\n\nAnother of the most important source mythologies for comparative research is Roman mythology. Contrary to the frequent erroneous statement made by some authors that \"Rome has no myth\", the Romans possessed a very complex mythological system, parts of which have been preserved through the characteristic Roman tendency to rationalize their myths into historical accounts. Despite its relatively late attestation, Norse mythology is still considered one of the three most important of the Indo-European mythologies for comparative research, simply due to the vast bulk of surviving Icelandic material.\n\nBaltic mythology has also received a great deal of scholarly attention, but has so far remained frustrating to researchers because the sources are so comparatively late. Nonetheless, Latvian folk songs are seen as a major source of information in the process of reconstructing Proto-Indo-European myth. Despite the popularity of Greek mythology in western culture, Greek mythology is generally seen as having little importance in comparative mythology due to the heavy influence of Pre-Greek and Near Eastern cultures, which overwhelms what little Indo-European material can be extracted from it. Consequently, Greek mythology received minimal scholarly attention until the mid 2000s.\n\nAlthough Scythians are considered relatively conservative in regards to Proto-Indo-European cultures, retaining a similar lifestyle and culture, their mythology has very rarely been examined in an Indo-European context and infrequently discussed in regards to the nature of the ancestral Indo-European mythology. At least three deities, Tabiti, Papaios and Api, are generally interpreted as having Indo-European origins, while the remaining have seen more disparate interpretations. Influence from Siberian, Turkic and even Near Eastern beliefs, on the other hand, are more widely discussed in literature.\n\nLinguists are able to reconstruct the names of some deities in the Proto-Indo-European language (PIE) from many types of sources. Some of the proposed deity names are more readily accepted among scholars than others.\n\nThe term for \"a god\" was \"*deiwos\", reflected in Hittite, \"sius\"; Latin, \"deus\", \"divus\"; Sanskrit, \"deva\"; Avestan, \"daeva\" (later, Persian, \"div\"); Welsh, \"duw\"; Irish, \"dia\"; Old Norse, \"tívurr\"; Lithuanian, \"Dievas\"; Latvian, \"Dievs\".\n\nThe head deity of the Proto-Indo-European pantheon was the god *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", whose name literally means \"Sky Father\". He is believed to have been regarded as the god of the daylit skies. He is, by far, the most well-attested of all the Proto-Indo-European deities. The Greek god Zeus, the Roman god Jupiter, and the Illyrian god Dei-Pátrous all appear as the head gods of their respective pantheons. The Norse god Týr, however, seems to have been demoted to the role of a minor war-deity prior to the composition of the earliest Germanic texts. *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\" is also attested in the Rigveda as Dyáus Pitā, a minor ancestor figure mentioned in only a few hymns. The names of the Latvian god Dievs and the Hittite god Attas Isanus do not preserve the exact literal translation of the name *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", but do preserve the general meaning of it.\n\n\"*Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\" may have had a consort who was an earth goddess. This possibility is attested in the Vedic pairing of Dyáus Pitā and Prithvi Mater, the Roman pairing of Jupiter and Tellus Mater from Macrobius's \"Saturnalia\", and the Norse pairing of Odin and Jörð. Odin is not a reflex of *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", but his cult may have subsumed aspects of an earlier chief deity who was. This pairing may also be further attested in an Old English ploughing prayer and in the Greek pairings of Ouranos and Gaia and Zeus and Demeter.\n\n\n\"*Sehul\" and \"*Mehnot\" are reconstructed as the Proto-Indo-European goddess of the Sun and god of the Moon respectively. \"*Sehul\" is reconstructed based on the Greek god Helios, the Roman god Sol, the Celtic goddess Sul/Suil, the North Germanic goddess Sól, the Continental Germanic goddess *Sowilō, the Hittite goddess \"UTU-liya\", the Zoroastrian Hvare-khshaeta and the Vedic god Surya.\n\n\"*Mehnot-\" is reconstructed based on the Norse god Máni, the Slavic god Myesyats, and the Lithuanian god *Meno, or Mėnuo (Mėnulis). They are often seen as the twin children of various deities, but in fact the sun and moon were deified several times and are often found in competing forms within the same language.\n\nThe usual scheme is that one of these celestial deities is male and the other female, though the exact gender of the Sun or Moon tends to vary among subsequent Indo-European mythologies. The original Indo-European solar deity appears to have been female, a characteristic not only supported by the higher number of sun goddesses in subsequent derivations (feminine Sól, Saule, Sulis, Solntse—not directly attested as a goddess, but feminine in gender — Étaín, Grían, Aimend, Áine, and Catha versus masculine Helios, Surya, Savitr, Usil, and Sol) (Hvare-khshaeta is of neutral gender), but also by vestiges in mythologies with male solar deities (Usil in Etruscan art is depicted occasionally as a goddess, while solar characteristics in Athena and Helen of Troy still remain in Greek mythology). The original Indo-European lunar deity appears to have been masculine, with feminine lunar deities like Selene, Minerva, and Luna being a development exclusive to the eastern Mediterranean. Even in these traditions, remnants of male lunar deities, like Menelaus, remain.\n\nAlthough the sun was personified as an independent, female deity, the Proto-Indo-Europeans also visualized the sun as the eye of *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", as seen in various reflexes: Helios as the eye of Zeus, Hvare-khshaeta as the eye of Ahura Mazda, and the sun as \"God's eye\" in Romanian folklore. The names of Celtic sun goddesses like Sulis and Grian may also allude to this association; the words for \"eye\" and \"sun\" are switched in these languages, hence the name of the goddesses.\n\nThe Horse Twins are a set of twin brothers found throughout nearly every Indo-European pantheon who usually have a name that means 'horse' \"*ekwa-\", but the names are not always cognate and no Proto-Indo-European name for them can be reconstructed. In most Indo-European pantheons, the Horse Twins are brothers of the Sun Maiden or Dawn goddess, and sons of the sky god.\n\nThey are reconstructed based on the Vedic Ashvins, the Lithuanian Ašvieniai, the Latvian Dieva deli, the Greek Dioskouroi (Kastor and Polydeukes), the Roman Dioscuri (Castor and Pollux), and the Old English Hengist and Horsa (whose names mean \"stallion\" and \"horse\"). References from the Greek writer Timaeus indicate that the Celts may have had a set of horse twins as well. The Welsh Brân and Manawydan may also be related. The horse twins may have been based on the morning and evening star (the planet Venus) and they often have stories about them in which they \"accompany\" the Sun goddess, because of the close orbit of the planet Venus to the sun.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-European Creation myth seems to have involved two key figures: *\"Manu-\" (\"Man\"; Indic Manu; Germanic Mannus) and his twin brother *\"Yemo-\" (\"Twin\"; Indic Yama; Germanic Ymir). Reflexes of these two figures usually fulfill the respective roles of founder of the human race and first human to die.\n\n\nSome authors have proposed \"*Neptonos\" or *\"Hepom Nepōts\" as the Proto-Indo-European god of the waters. The name literally means \"Grandson [or \"Nephew\"] of the Waters.\" Philologists reconstruct his name from that of the Vedic god Apám Nápát, the Roman god Neptūnus, and the Old Irish god Nechtain. Although such a god has been solidly reconstructed in Proto-Indo-Iranian religion, Mallory and Adams nonetheless still reject him as a Proto-Indo-European deity on linguistic grounds.\n\nA river goddess *\"Dehnu-\" has been proposed based on the Vedic goddess Dānu, the Irish goddess Danu, the Welsh goddess Don and the names of the rivers Danube, Don, Dnieper, and Dniester. Mallory and Adams, however, dismiss this reconstruction, commenting that it does not have any evidence to support it.\n\nSome have also proposed the reconstruction of a sea god named *\"Trihtōn\" based on the Greek god Triton and the Old Irish word \"trïath\", meaning \"sea.\" Mallory and Adams reject this reconstruction as having no basis, asserting that the \"lexical correspondence is only just possible and with no evidence of a cognate sea god in Irish.\"\n\n\"*Péhusōn\", a pastoral deity, is reconstructed based on the Greek god Pan and the Vedic god Pūshān. Both deities are closely affiliated with goats and were worshipped as pastoral deities. The minor discrepancies between the two deities can be easily explained by the possibility that many attributes originally associated with Pan may have been transferred over to his father Hermes. The association between Pan and Pūshān was first identified in 1924 by the German scholar Hermann Collitz.\n\nIn 1855, Adalbert Kuhn suggested that the Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed in a set of helper deities, whom he reconstructed based on the Germanic elves and the Hindu ribhus. Though this proposal is often mentioned in academic writings, very few scholars actually accept it. There may also have been a female cognate akin to the Greco-Roman nymphs, Slavic vilas, the Huldra of Germanic folklore, and the Hindu Apsaras.\n\nIt is highly probable that the Proto-Indo-Europeans believed in three fate goddesses who spun the destinies of mankind. Although such fate goddesses are not directly attested in the Indo-Aryan tradition, the Atharvaveda does contain an allusion comparing fate to a warp. Furthermore, the three Fates appear in nearly every other Indo-European mythology. The earliest attested set of fate goddesses are the Gulses in Hittite mythology, who were said to preside over the individual destinies of human beings. They often appear in mythical narratives alongside the goddesses Papaya and Istustaya, who, in a ritual text for the foundation of a new temple, are described sitting holding mirrors and spindles, spinning the king's thread of life. In the Greek tradition, the Moirai (\"Apportioners\") are mentioned dispensing destiny in both the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", in which they are given the epithet Κλῶθες (\"Klothes\", meaning \"Spinners\"). In Hesiod's \"Theogony\", the Moirai are said to \"give mortal men both good and ill\" and their names are listed as Klotho (\"Spinner\"), Lachesis (\"Apportioner\"), and Atropos (\"Inflexible\"). In his \"Republic\", Plato records that Klotho sings of the past, Lachesis of the present, and Atropos of the future. In Roman legend, the Parcae were three goddesses who presided over the births of children and whose names were Nona (\"Ninth\"), Decuma (\"Tenth\"), and Morta (\"Death\"). They too were said to spin destinies, although this may have been due to influence from Greek literature.\n\nIn the Old Norse \"Völuspá\" and \"Gylfaginning\", the Norns are three cosmic goddesses of fate who are described sitting by the well of Urðr at the foot of the world tree Yggdrasil. In Old Norse texts, the Norns are frequently conflated with Valkyries, who are sometimes also described as spinning. Old English texts, such as \"Rhyme Poem\" 70, and \"Guthlac\" 1350 f., reference Wyrd as a singular power that \"weaves\" destinies. Later texts mention the Wyrds as a group, with Geoffrey Chaucer referring to them as \"the Werdys that we clepyn Destiné\" in \"The Legend of Good Women\". A goddess spinning appears in a bracteate from southwest Germany and a relief from Trier shows three mother goddesses, with two of them holding distaffs. Tenth-century German ecclesiastical writings denounce the popular belief in three sisters who determined the course of a man's life at his birth. An Old Irish hymn attests to seven goddesses who were believed to weave the thread of destiny, which demonstrates that these spinster fate-goddesses were present in Celtic mythology as well. A Lithuanian folktale recorded in 1839 recounts that a man's fate is spun at his birth by seven goddesses known as the \"deivės valdytojos\" and used to hang a star in the sky; when he dies, his thread snaps and his star falls as a meteor. In Latvian folk songs, a goddess called the Láima is described as weaving a child's fate at its birth. Although she is usually only one goddess, the Láima sometimes appears as three. The three spinning fate goddesses appear in Slavic traditions in the forms of the Russian Rožanicy, the Czech Sudičky, the Bulgarian Narenčnice or Urisnice, the Polish Rodzanice, the Croatian Rodjenice, the Serbian Sudjenice, and the Slovene Rojenice. Albanian folk tales speak of the Fatit, three old women who appear three days after a child is born and determine its fate, using language reminiscent of spinning.\n\nAlthough the name of a particular Proto-Indo-European smith god cannot be linguistically reconstructed, it is highly probable that the Proto-Indo-Europeans had a smith deity of some kind, since smith gods occur in nearly every Indo-European culture, with examples including the Hittite god Hasammili, the Vedic god Tvastr, the Greek god Hephaestus, the Germanic villain Wayland the Smith, and the Ossetian culture figure Kurdalagon. Many of these smith figures share certain characteristics in common. Hephaestus, the Greek god of blacksmiths, and Wayland the Smith, a nefarious blacksmith from Germanic mythology, are both described as lame. Additionally, Wayland the Smith and the Greek mythical inventor Daedalus both escape imprisonment on an island by fashioning sets of mechanical wings from feathers and wax and using them to fly away.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-Europeans may have had a goddess who presided over the trifunctional organization of society. Various epithets of the Iranian goddess Anahita and the Roman goddess Juno provide sufficient evidence to solidly attest that she was probably worshipped, but no specific name for her can be lexically reconstructed. Vague remnants of this goddess may also be preserved in the Greek goddess Athena.\n\nSome scholars have proposed a war god *\"Māwort-\" based on the Roman god Mars and the Vedic Marutás, companions of the war-god Indra. Mallory and Adams, however, reject this reconstruction on linguistic grounds. Likewise, some researchers have found it more plausible that Mars was originally a storm deity, while this cannot be said for Ares.\n\nOne common myth found in nearly all Indo-European mythologies is a battle ending with a hero or god slaying a serpent or dragon of some sort. Although the details of story often vary widely, in all iterations, several features remain remarkably the same. In iterations of the story, the serpent is usually associated with water in some way. The hero of the story is usually a thunder-god or a hero who is somehow associated with thunder. The serpent is usually multi-headed, or else \"multiple\" in some other way.\n\nIn Hittite mythology, the storm god Tarhunt slays the giant serpent Illuyanka. In the Rigveda, the god Indra slays the multi-headed serpent Vritra, which had been causing a drought. In the \"Bhagavata Purana\", Krishna slays the serpent Kāliyā.\n\nSeveral variations of the story are also found in Greek mythology as well. The story is attested in the legend of Zeus slaying the hundred-headed Typhon from Hesiod's \"Theogony\", but it is also in the myths of the slaying of the nine-headed Lernaean Hydra by Heracles and the slaying of Python by Apollo. The story of Heracles's theft of the cattle of Geryon is probably also related. Although Heracles is not usually thought of as a storm deity in the conventional sense, he bears many attributes held by other Indo-European storm deities, including physical strength and a knack for violence and gluttony.\n\nThe original Proto-Indo-European myth is also reflected in Germanic mythology. In Norse mythology, Thor, the god of thunder, slays the giant serpent Jörmungandr, which lived in the waters surrounding the realm of Midgard. Other dragon-slaying myths are also found in the Germanic tradition. In the \"Völsunga saga\", Sigurd slays the dragon Fafnir and, in \"Beowulf\", the eponymous hero slays a different dragon.\n\nReflexes of the Proto-Indo-European dragon-slaying myth are found throughout other branches of the language family as well. In Zoroastrianism and Persian mythology, Fereydun, and later Garshasp, slays Zahhak. In Slavic mythology, Perun, the god of storms, slays Veles and Dobrynya Nikitich slays the three-headed dragon Zmey. In Armenian mythology, the god Vahagn slays the dragon Vishap. In Romanian folklore, Făt-Frumos slays the fire-spitting monster Zmeu. In Celtic mythology, Dian Cecht slays Meichi. The myth is believed to have symbolized a clash between forces of order and chaos. In every version of the story, the dragon or serpent always loses, although in some mythologies, such as the Norse Ragnarök myth, the hero or god dies as well.\n\nThe analysis of different Indo-European tales indicates that the Proto-Indo-Europeans believed there were two progenitors of mankind: *' (\"Man\") and *' (\"Twin\"), his twin brother. A reconstructed creation myth involving the two is given by David W. Anthony, attributed in part to Bruce Lincoln: Manu and Yemo traverse the cosmos, accompanied by the primordial cow, and finally decide to create the world. To do so, Manu sacrifices either Yemo or the cow, and with help from the sky father, the storm god and the divine twins, forges the earth from the remains. Manu thus becomes the first priest and establishes the practice of sacrifice. The sky gods then present cattle to the third man, *', who loses it to the three-headed serpent *', but eventually overcomes this monster either alone or aided by the sky father. Trito is now the first warrior and ensures that the cycle of mutual giving between gods and humans may continue. Reflexes of *Manu include Indic Manu, Germanic Mannus; of Yemo, Indic Yama, Avestan Yima, Norse Ymir, possibly Roman Remus (< earlier Old Latin \"*Yemos\").\n\nThe early \"history\" of Rome is widely recognized as a historicized retelling of various old myths. Romulus and Remus are twin brothers from Roman mythology who both have stories in which they are killed. The Roman writer Livy reports that Remus was believed to have been killed by his brother Romulus at the founding of Rome when they entered into a disagreement about which hill to build the city on. Later, Romulus himself is said to have been torn limb-from-limb by a group of senators. Both of these myths are widely recognized as historicized remnants of the Proto-Indo-European creation story.\n\nThe Germanic languages have information about both Ymir and Mannus (reflexes of \"*Yemo-\" and \"*Manu-\" respectively), but they never appear together in the same myth. Instead, they only occur in myths widely separated by both time and circumstances. In chapter two of his book \"Germania\", which was written in Latin in around 98 A.D., the Roman writer Tacitus claims that Mannus, the son of Tuisto, was the ancestor of the Germanic peoples. This name never recurs anywhere in later Germanic literature, but one proposed meaning of the continental Germanic tribal name \"Alamanni\" is \"Mannus' own people\" (\"all-men\" being another scholarly etymology).\n\nAnother important possible myth is the myth of the fire in the waters, a myth which centers around the possible deity *\"Hepom Nepōts\", a fiery deity who dwells in water. In the Rigveda, the god Apám Nápát is envisioned as a form of fire residing in the waters. In Celtic mythology, a well belonging to the god Nechtain is said to blind all those who gaze into it. In an old Armenian poem, a small reed in the middle of the sea spontaneously catches fire and the hero Vahagn springs forth from it with fiery hair and a fiery beard and eyes that blaze as suns. In a ninth-century Norwegian poem by the poet Thiodolf, the name \"sǣvar niþr\", meaning \"grandson of the sea,\" is used as a kenning for fire. Even the Greek tradition contains possible allusions to the myth of a fire-god dwelling deep beneath the sea. The phrase \"\"νέποδες καλῆς Ἁλοσύδνης\",\" meaning \"descendants of the beautiful seas,\" is used in \"The Odyssey\" 4.404 as an epithet for the seals of Proteus.\n\nJaan Puhvel notes similarities between the Norse myth in which the god Týr inserts his hand into the wolf Fenrir's mouth while the other gods bind him with Gleipnir, only for Fenrir to bite off Týr's hand when he discovers he cannot break his bindings, and the Iranian myth in which Jamshid rescues his brother's corpse from Ahriman's bowels by reaching his hand up Ahriman's anus and pulling out his brother's corpse, only for his hand to become infected with leprosy. In both accounts, an authority figure forces the evil entity into submission by inserting his hand into the being's orifice (in Fenrir's case the mouth, in Ahriman's the anus) and losing it. Fenrir and Ahriman fulfill different roles in their own mythological traditions and are unlikely to be remnants of a Proto-Indo-European \"evil god\"; nonetheless, it is clear that the \"binding myth\" is of Proto-Indo-European origin.\n\nIn the cosmogonic myths of many Indo-European cultures a Cosmic Egg symbolizes the primordial state from which the universe arises.\n\nMost Indo-European traditions contain some kind of Underworld or Afterlife. It is possible that the Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed that, in order to reach the Underworld, one needed to cross a river, guided by an old man (\"*ĝerhont-\"). The Greek tradition of the dead being ferried across the river Styx by Charon is probably a reflex of this belief. The idea of crossing a river to reach the Underworld is also present throughout Celtic mythologies. Several Vedic texts contain references to crossing a river in order to reach the land of the dead and the Latin word \"tarentum\" meaning \"tomb\" originally meant \"crossing point.\" In Norse mythology, Hermóðr must cross a bridge over the river Giöll in order to reach Hel. In Latvian folk songs, the dead must cross a marsh rather than a river. Traditions of placing coins on the bodies of the deceased in order to pay the ferryman are attested in both ancient Greek and early modern Slavic funerary practices. It is also possible that the Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed that the Underworld was guarded by some kind of watchdog, similar to the Greek Cerberus, the Hindu Śárvara, or the Norse Garmr.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed in some kind of world tree. It is also possible that they may have believed that this tree was either guarded by or under constant attack from some kind of dragon or serpent. In Norse mythology, the cosmic tree Yggdrasil is tended by the three Norns while the dragon Nidhogg gnaws at its roots. In Greek mythology, the tree of the golden apples in the Garden of the Hesperides is tended by the three Hesperides and guarded by the hundred-headed dragon Ladon. In Indo-Iranian texts, there is a mythical tree dripping with Soma, the immortal drink of the gods and, in later Pahlavi sources, a malicious lizard is said to lurk at the bottom of it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11222888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11222888", "title": "Religio licita", "text": "Religio licita\n\nReligio licita (\"permitted religion,\" also translated as \"approved religion\") is a phrase used in the \"Apologeticum\" of Tertullian to describe the special status of the Jews in the Roman Empire. It was not an official term in Roman law.\n\nAlthough it occurs in only one patristic text and in no classical Roman sources or inscriptions, the phrase has spawned abundant scholarly conjecture on its possible significance. Some scholars have gone so far as to imagine that all religions under the Empire had a legal status as either \"licita\" or \"illicita\", despite the absence of any ancient texts referring to these categories. The most extreme view has held that Tertullian's phrase means all foreign religions required a license from the Roman government. But it was Roman custom to permit or even encourage the subject peoples of the provinces and foreign communities in Rome to maintain their ancestral religion, unless specific practices were regarded as disruptive or subversive: \"A \"religio\" was \"licita\" for a particular group on the basis of tribe or nationality and traditional practices, coupled with the proviso that its rites were not offensive to the Roman people or its gods.\"\n\nTertullian uses the phrase in a passage arguing that Christians should be granted the same freedom to practice their religion as any other inhabitant of the Empire; the passage itself, and not the phrase \"religio licita\", is evidence of the general tolerance afforded under the Roman system of religion.\n\n\"Religio licita\" has sometimes been taken as a formal recognition or charter originating with Julius Caesar and embodied by various pieces of Roman legislation pertaining to the Jews, conceived of as a coherent policy. In fact, the various privileges and exemptions granted to the Jews were responses to specific complaints or requests, made in the context of the traditional patronage network, and had nothing to do with a supposed \"religio licita\" status. To the extent that the Romans respected Judaism, it was because of the religion's great antiquity, ancestral tradition being regarded as a source of social and political stability.\n\nIt has been observed that \"Roman magistrates treated the Jews the way they did not because they were consciously tolerant, but simply because they had no reason to hinder the free exercise of Jewish religious practices.\"\n\nSome scholars have argued that Christianity was declared a \"religio illicita\" (an impermissible or illegitimate religion) by Domitian in the 80s AD. Though this term appears nowhere, it has been conjectured that a declaration of Christianity as \"illicita\" was the legal basis for official persecutions. There was, however, \"no law, either existing section of criminal law, or special legislation directed against the Christians, under which Christians were prosecuted in the first two centuries.\" Rome lacked a uniform policy or legal code pertaining to foreign cults, and before Christian hegemony in the 4th century, there was no legal language to designate a concept analogous to \"heresy\" or crimes against orthodox religion.\n\nUnder Constantine the Great, Christianity and other religions became tolerated with the Edict of Milan in 313. Toleration did not extend to religions that practiced human sacrifice, such as Druidism. This state of affairs lasted until 380, when Nicene Christianity was adopted as the state religion of the Roman Empire, after which time persecution of non-Christian and non-Nicene cults began. Priscillian was executed for heresy in 385, and Theodosius I began outlawing Rome's traditional religious rituals in 391.\n\n"}
{"id": "1972686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972686", "title": "Religion &amp; Ethics Newsweekly", "text": "Religion &amp; Ethics Newsweekly\n\nReligion & Ethics Newsweekly was an American weekly television news-magazine program which aired on PBS.\n\nPremiering in 1997, Religion & Ethics Newsweekly was devoted to the news of religion and spirituality, along with major ethical issues. The program explored the top moral questions facing the country and profiles notable people and groups in the world of religion and ethics. As of February, 2017 the series has been cancelled.\n\nIt had been produced by Thirteen/WNET in New York City, New York, since its premiere, and was filmed on location worldwide. The main studio was in downtown Washington, D.C., in the same building as Reuters news agency.\n\nThe program was distributed to PBS stations nationwide.\n\nThe program was hosted by journalist Bob Abernethy.\n\n"}
{"id": "364295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364295", "title": "Religious perspectives on Jesus", "text": "Religious perspectives on Jesus\n\nThe religious perspectives on Jesus vary among world religions. Jesus' teachings and the retelling of his life story have significantly influenced the course of human history, and have directly or indirectly affected the lives of billions of people, even non-Christians. He is considered to be the most influential person to have ever lived by many, finding a significant place in numerous cultural contexts.\nChristianity teaches that Jesus is the Messiah (Christ) foretold in the Old Testament and the Son of God Incarnate. Christians believe that through his death and resurrection, humans can be reconciled to God and thereby are offered salvation and the promise of eternal life. These teachings emphasize that as the willing Lamb of God, Jesus \"chose to\" suffer in Calvary as a sign of his full obedience to the will of his Father, as an \"agent and servant of God\". Christians view Jesus as a role model, whose God-focused life believers are encouraged to imitate.\n\nIn Islam, Jesus (commonly transliterated as \"Isa\") is one of God's highest-ranked and most-beloved prophets. Islam considers Jesus to be neither the incarnation nor the Son of God. Islamic texts emphasize a strict notion of monotheism (\"tawhid\") and forbid the association of partners with God, which would be idolatry (\"shirk\").\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith considers Jesus to be a manifestation of God, who are a series of personages who reflect the attributes of the divine into the human world. Bahá'ís reject the idea that divinity was contained with a single human body.\n\nApart from his own disciples and followers, the Jews of Jesus' day generally rejected him as the Messiah, as do the great majority of Jews today. Mainstream Jewish scholars argue that Jesus neither fulfilled the Messianic prophecies in the Tanakh nor embodied the personal qualifications of the Messiah.\nSikhism views Jesus as a high-ranked Holy man or saint. \n\nOther world religions such as Buddhism have no particular view on Jesus, and have but a minor intersection with Christianity. For non-religious perspectives on Jesus, see historical Jesus.\nChristian views of Jesus are based on the teachings and beliefs as outlined in the Canonical gospels, New Testament letters, the Christian creeds, as well as specific denominational teachings. These documents outline the key beliefs held by Christians about Jesus, including his divinity, humanity, and earthly life, and that he is the Christ and the Son of God.\n\nAlthough Christian views of Jesus vary, it is possible to summarize the key beliefs shared among major denominations, as stated in their catechetical or confessional texts. Generally speaking, adhering to the Christian faith requires a belief that Jesus is the Son of God and the \"Messiah\" or \"Christ\". Jesus refers to himself as the Son of God in the New Testament.\n\nChristians consider Jesus to be the Messiah (Christ) and believe that through his death and resurrection, humans can be reconciled to God and thereby are offered salvation and the promise of eternal life. These teachings emphasize that as the willing Lamb of God, Jesus \"chose to\" suffer in Calvary as a sign of his full obedience to the will of his Father, as an \"agent and servant of God\". The choice Jesus made thus counter-positions him as a new man of morality and obedience, in contrast to Adam's disobedience.\n\nThe five major milestones in the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus are his Baptism, Transfiguration, Crucifixion, Resurrection and Ascension. These are usually bracketed by two other episodes: his Nativity at the beginning and the sending of the Paraclete at the end. The gospel accounts of the teachings of Jesus are often presented in terms of specific categories involving his \"works and words\", e.g. his ministry, parables and miracles. The words of Jesus include several sermons, in addition to parables that appear throughout the narrative of the Synoptic Gospels (the gospel of John includes no parables).\n\nChristians not only attach theological significance to the works of Jesus, but also to his name. Devotions to the Holy Name of Jesus go back to the earliest days of Christianity. These devotions and feasts exist both in Eastern and Western Christianity.\n\nMost Christians believe that Jesus was both human and the Son of God. While there have been theological debate over the nature of Jesus, Trinitarian Christians generally believe that Jesus is God incarnate, God the Son, and \"true God and true man\" (or both fully divine and fully human). Jesus, having become fully human in all respects, suffered the pains and temptations of a mortal man, yet he did not sin. As fully God, he defeated death and rose to life again. According to the Bible, God raised him from the dead. He ascended to heaven, to the \"right hand of God,\" and he will return again for the Last Judgment and the establishment of the Kingdom of God.\n\nIn Islam, Jesus (\"Isa\") is considered to be a messenger of God (\"Allah\") and the Messiah (\"al-Masih\") who was sent to guide the Children of Israel (\"Bani Isra'il\") with a new scripture, the Gospel.\n\nThe Quran mentions Jesus by name 25 times—more often than Muhammad—and emphasises that Jesus was a mortal human who, like all other prophets, had been divinely chosen to spread God's message. Unlike Christian writings, the Quran does not describe Jesus as the son of God, but as one of four major human messengers (out of many prophets) sent by God throughout history to guide mankind. Jesus is said to have lived a life of piety and generosity, and abstained from eating flesh of swine (or of any animals, according to some Muslim authors, even some who were not vegetarians themselves).\n\nMuslims also believe that Jesus received a Gospel from God, called the \"Injil\". However, Muslims hold that Jesus' original message was lost or altered and that the Christian New Testament does not accurately represent God's original message to mankind.\n\nDespite some major differences, the Quran and New Testament overlap in other aspects of Jesus' life; both Muslims and orthodox Christians believe that Jesus was miraculously born without a human biological father by the will of God, and that his mother, Mary (\"Maryam\" in Arabic), is among the most saintly, pious, chaste and virtuous women ever. The Quran also specifies that Jesus was able to perform miracles—though only by the will of God—including being able to raise the dead, restore sight to the blind and cure lepers. One miracle attributed to Jesus in the Quran, but not in the New Testament, is his being able to speak at only a few days old, to defend his mother from accusations of adultery. It also says that Jesus was a 'word' from God, since he was predicted to come in the Old Testament.\n\nMost Muslims believe that he was neither killed nor crucified, but that God made it appear so to his enemies. With the noteworthy exception of Ahmadi Muslims who believe that Jesus was indeed put on the cross, survived the crucifixion and was not lifted bodily to the heaven, majority of Muslims believe that Jesus ascended bodily to heaven and is alive. Majority of the Muslim population does not consider Ahmadi Muslims to be Muslims and consider them as Infidels due to their unorthodox perspectives. Some Muslim scholars maintain that Jesus was indeed put up on the cross, but did not die on it; rather, he revived and then ascended bodily to heaven. Others say that it was actually Judas Iscariot who was mistakenly crucified by the Romans. Regardless, Muslims believe that Jesus is alive in heaven and will return to the world in the flesh to defeat the Antichrist, once the world has become filled with sin, deception and injustice, and then live out the rest of his natural life.\n\nIslam rejects the Trinitarian Christian view that Jesus was God incarnate or the son of God, that he was ever crucified or resurrected or that he ever atoned for the sins of mankind. The Quran says that Jesus himself never claimed any of these things, and it furthermore indicates that Jesus will deny having ever claimed divinity at the Last Judgment, and God will vindicate him.\n\nJudaism rejects the idea of Jesus being God, or a person of a Trinity, or a mediator to God. Judaism also holds that Jesus is not the Messiah, arguing that he had not fulfilled the Messianic prophecies in the Tanakh nor embodied the personal qualifications of the Messiah. According to Jewish tradition, there were no more prophets after Malachi, who lived centuries before Jesus and delivered his prophesies about 420 BC/BCE.\n\nAccording to Conservative Judaism, Jews who believe Jesus is the Messiah have \"crossed the line out of the Jewish community\". Reform Judaism, the modern progressive movement, states \"For us in the Jewish community anyone who claims that Jesus is their savior is no longer a Jew and is an apostate\".\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud include stories of \"Yeshu\" ; the vast majority of contemporary historians disregard these as sources on the historical Jesus. Contemporary Talmud scholars view these as comments on the relationship between Judaism and Christians or other sectarians, rather than comments on the historical Jesus.\n\nThe \"Mishneh Torah\", an authoritative work of Jewish law, states in \"Hilkhot Melakhim\" 11:10–12 that Jesus is a \"stumbling block\" who makes \"the majority of the world err to serve a divinity besides God\".\nThe Bahá'í Faith consider Jesus to be a manifestation of God, who are a series of personages who reflect the attributes of the divine into the human world for the progress and advancement of human morals and civilization. In Bahá'í belief, the Manifestations have always been sent by God, and always will, as part of the single progressive religion from God bringing more teachings through time to help humanity progress. The Manifestations of God are taught to be \"one and the same\", and in their relationship to one another have both the station of unity and the station of distinction. In this way each Manifestation of God manifested the Word of God and taught the same religion, with modifications for the particular audience's needs and culture. Bahá'u'lláh wrote that since each Manifestation of God has the same divine attributes, they can be seen as the spiritual \"return\" of all the previous Manifestations of God. In this way, Bahá'ís believe that Bahá'u'lláh is, in both respects, the return of Jesus.\n\nTraditionally, Buddhists as a group take no particular view on Jesus, and Buddhism and Christianity have but a minor intersection. However, some scholars have noted similarities between the life and teachings of Gautama Buddha and Jesus. These similarities might be attributed to Buddhist missionaries sent as early as Emperor Ashoka around 250 BCE in many of the Greek Seleucid kingdoms that existed then and then later became the same regions that Christianity began. Jesus was seen as the savior and bringer of gnosis by various Gnostic sects, such as the extinct Manichaeism. In the Ahmadiyya Islamic view, Jesus survived the crucifixion and later travelled to India, where he lived as a prophet (and died) under the name of Yuz Asaf.\n\nIn Scientology, the teachings of Jesus are included among belief systems comprising those \"earlier forms\". Jesus is classified as below the level of Operating Thetan, but as a \"shade above\" the Scientology state of \"Clear\".\n\nIn Raëlism, Jesus and several other religious figures are considered prophets sent by an extraterrestrial race called the Elohim. Followers of Religious Science consider Jesus to be a teacher of Science of Mind principles, but reject his unique divinity, arguing that every person is equally divine.\n\nIn Hinduism Jesus is an avatar of the God Vishnu.\n\n"}
{"id": "725516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725516", "title": "Religious war", "text": "Religious war\n\nA religious war or holy war () is a war primarily caused or justified by differences in religion. In the modern period, debates are common over the extent to which religious, economic, or ethnic aspects of a conflict predominate in a given war. According to the \"Encyclopedia of Wars\", out of all 1,763 known/recorded historical conflicts, 123, or 6.98%, had religion as their primary cause, and of that percentage, 65, or 53.66%, were related to Islam. Matthew White's \"The Great Big Book of Horrible Things\" gives religion as the cause of 13 of the world's 100 deadliest atrocities. In several conflicts including the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, the Syrian civil war, and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, religious elements are overtly present but variously described as fundamentalism or religious extremism—depending upon the observer's sympathies. However, studies on these cases often conclude that ethnic animosities drive much of the conflicts.\n\nSome historians argue that what is termed \"religious wars\" is a largely \"Western dichotomy\" and a modern invention from the past few centuries, arguing that all wars that are classed as \"religious\" have secular (economic or political) ramifications. Similar opinions were expressed as early as the 1760s, during the Seven Years' War, widely recognized to be \"religious\" in motivation, noting that the warring factions were not necessarily split along confessional lines as much as along secular interests.\n\nAccording to Jeffrey Burton Russell, numerous cases of supposed acts of religious wars such as the Thirty Years War, the French Wars of Religion, the Sri Lankan Civil War, 9/11 and other terrorist attacks, the Bosnian War, and the Rwandan Civil War were all primarily motivated by social, political, and economic issues rather than religion.\n\nThe modern word \"religion\" comes from the Latin word \"religio\". In the ancient and medieval world, the etymological Latin root \"religio\" was understood as an individual virtue of worship, never as doctrine, practice, or actual source of knowledge. The modern concept of \"religion\" as an abstraction which entails distinct sets of beliefs or doctrines is a recent invention in the English language since such usage began with texts from the 17th century due to the splitting of Christendom during the Protestant Reformation and more prevalent colonization or globalization in the age of exploration which involved contact with numerous foreign and indigenous cultures with non-European languages. It was in the 17th century that the concept of \"religion\" received its modern shape despite the fact that ancient texts like the Bible, the Quran, and other ancient sacred texts did not have a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written. For example, the Greek word \"threskeia\", which was used by Greek writers such as Herodotus and Josephus and is found in texts like the New Testament, is sometimes translated as \"religion\" today, however, the term was understood as \"worship\" well into the medieval period. In the Quran, the Arabic word \"din\" is often translated as \"religion\" in modern translations, but up to the mid-1600s translators expressed \"din\" as \"law\". Even in the 1st century AD, Josephus had used the Greek term \"ioudaismos\", which some translate as \"Judaism\" today, even though he used it as an ethnic term, not one linked to modern abstract concepts of religion as a set of beliefs. It was in the 19th century that the terms \"Buddhism\", \"Hinduism\", \"Taoism\", and \"Confucianism\" first emerged. Throughout its long history, Japan had no concept of \"religion\" since there was no corresponding Japanese word, nor anything close to its meaning, but when American warships appeared off the coast of Japan in 1853 and forced the Japanese government to sign treaties demanding, among other things, freedom of religion, the country had to contend with this Western idea.\n\nAccording to the philologist Max Müller in the 19th century, the root of the English word \"religion\", the Latin \"religio\", was originally used to mean only \"reverence for God or the gods, careful pondering of divine things, piety\" (which Cicero further derived to mean \"diligence\"). Max Müller characterized many other cultures around the world, including Egypt, Persia, and India, as having a similar power structure at this point in history. What is called ancient religion today, they would have only called \"law\".\n\nSome languages have words that can be translated as \"religion\", but they may use them in a very different way, and some have no word for religion at all. For example, the Sanskrit word dharma, sometimes translated as \"religion\", also means law. Throughout classical South Asia, the study of law consisted of concepts such as penance through piety and ceremonial as well as practical traditions. Medieval Japan at first had a similar union between \"imperial law\" and universal or \"Buddha law\", but these later became independent sources of power.\n\nThere is no precise equivalent of \"religion\" in Hebrew, and Judaism does not distinguish clearly between religious, national, racial, or ethnic identities. One of its central concepts is \"halakha\", meaning the \"walk\" or \"path\" sometimes translated as \"law\", which guides religious practice and belief and many aspects of daily life.\n\nThe Crusades against Muslim expansion in the 11th century was recognized as a \"holy war\" or \"bellum sacrum\" by later writers in the 17th century. The early modern wars against the Ottoman Empire were seen as a seamless continuation of this conflict by contemporaries.\nThe term \"religious war\" was used to describe, controversially at the time, what are now known as the European wars of religion, and especially the then-ongoing Seven Years' War, from at least the mid 18th century.\n\nIn their \"Encyclopedia of Wars\", authors Charles Phillips and Alan Axelrod document 1763 notable wars in world history. They note that before the 17th century, much of the \"reasons\" for conflicts were explained through the lens of religion and that after that time wars were explained through the lens of wars as a way to further sovereign interests. They note, \"Wars have always arisen, and arise today, from territorial disputes, military rivalries, conflicts of ethnicity, and strivings for commercial and economic advantage, and they have always depended on, and depend on today, pride, prejudice, coercion, envy, cupidity, competitiveness, and a sense of injustice. But for much of the world before the 17th century, these “reasons” for war were explained and justified, at least for the participants, by religion. Then, around the middle of the 17th century, Europeans began to conceive of war as a legitimate means of furthering the interests of individual sovereigns.\" Some commentators have concluded that only 123 wars (7%) out of these 1763 wars were fundamentally originated by religious motivations. Religious wars account for less than 2% of all people killed in warfare. This includes 3 million during the Crusades and 3,000 during the Inquisition.\n\n\"The Encyclopedia of War\", edited by Gordon Martel, using the criteria that the armed conflict must involve some overt religious action, concludes that 6% of the wars listed in their encyclopedia can be labelled religious wars.\n\nWilliam T. Cavanaugh in his \"Myth of Religious Violence\" (2009) argues that what is termed \"religious wars\" is a largely \"Western dichotomy\" and a modern invention, arguing that all wars that are classed as \"religious\" have secular (economic or political) ramifications. Similar opinions were expressed as early as the 1760s, during the Seven Years' War, widely recognized to be \"religious\" in motivation, noting that the warring factions were not necessarily split along confessional lines as much as along secular interests.\n\nIt is evident that religion as one aspect of a people's cultural heritage may serve as a cultural marker or ideological rationalisation for a conflict that has deeper ethnic and cultural differences. This has been specifically argued for the case of The Troubles in Northern Ireland, often portrayed as a religious conflict of a Catholic vs. a Protestant faction, while the more fundamental cause of the conflict was in fact ethnic or nationalistic rather than religious in nature. Since the native Irish were mostly Catholic and the later British-sponsored immigrants were mainly Protestant, the terms become shorthand for the two cultures, but it is inaccurate to describe the conflict as a religious one.\n\nAccording to Irfan Omar and Michael Duffey's review of violence and peacemaking in world religions, they note that studies of supposed cases of religious violence often conclude that violence is strongly driven by ethnic animosities.\n\nWhile early empires could be described as henotheistic, i.e. dominated by a single god of the ruling elite (as Marduk in the Babylonian empire, Assur in the Assyrian empire, etc.), or more directly by deifing the ruler in an imperial cult, the concept of \"Holy War\" enters a new phase with the development of monotheism.\n\nClassical Antiquity had a pantheon with particular attributes and interest areas. Ares personified war. While he received occasional sacrifice from armies going to war, there was only a very limited \"cult of Ares\". In Sparta, however, each company of youths sacrificed to Enyalios before engaging in ritual fighting at the Phoebaeum.\n\nIn early Christianity, St. Augustine's concept of just war (\"bellum iustum\") was widely accepted, but warfare was not regarded as a virtuous activity and expressions of concern for the salvation of those who killed enemies in battle, regardless of the cause for which they fought, was common. According to historian Edward Peters, before the 11th century Christians had not developed a concept of \"Holy War\" (\"bellum sacrum\"), whereby fighting itself might be considered a penitential and spiritually meritorious act. During the 9th and 10th centuries, multiple invasions occurred which lead some regions to make their own armies to defend themselves and this slowly lead to the emergence of the Crusades, the concept of \"holy war\", and terminology such as \"enemies of God\" in the 11th century.\n\nDuring the time of the Crusades, some of those who fought in the name of God were recognized as the \"Milites Christi\", soldiers or knights of Christ.\nThe Crusades were a series of military campaigns that took place during the 11th through 13th centuries against the Muslim Conquests. Originally, the goal was to recapture Jerusalem and the Holy Land from the Muslims, and support the besieged Christian Byzantine Empire against the Muslim Seljuq expansion into Asia Minor and Europe proper. Later, Crusades were launched against other targets, either for religious reasons, such as the Albigensian Crusade, the Northern Crusades, or because of political conflict, such as the Aragonese Crusade. In 1095, at the Council of Clermont, Pope Urban II raised the level of war from \"bellum iustum\" (\"just war\"), to \"bellum sacrum\" (\"holy war\"). In 16th-century France there was a succession of wars between Roman Catholics and Protestants (Hugenots primarily), known as the French Wars of Religion. In the first half of the 17th century, the German states, Scandinavia (Sweden, primarily) and Poland were beset by religious warfare in the Thirty Years War. Roman Catholicism and Protestantism figured in the opposing sides of this conflict, though Catholic France did take the side of the Protestants but purely for political reasons.\n\nThe Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa, known in Arab history as the Battle of Al-Uqab (معركة العقاب), took place on 16 July 1212 and was an important turning point in the \"Reconquista\" and in the medieval history of Spain. The forces of King Alfonso VIII of Castile were joined by the armies of his Christian rivals, Sancho VII of Navarre, Pedro II of Aragon and Afonso II of Portugal in battle against the Berber Muslim Almohad conquerors of the southern half of the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nThe Muslim conquests were a military expansion on an unprecedented scale, beginning in the lifetime of Muhammad and spanning the centuries, down to the Ottoman wars in Europe. Until the 13th century, the Muslim conquests were those of a more or less coherent empire, the Caliphate, but after the Mongol invasions, expansion continued on all fronts (other than Iberia which was lost in the Reconquista) for another half millennium until the final collapse of the Mughal Empire in the east and the Ottoman Empire in the west with the onset of the modern period.\n\nThere were also a number of periods of infighting among Muslims; these are known by the term Fitna and mostly concern the early period of Islam, from the 7th to 11th centuries, i.e. before the collapse of the Caliphate and the emergence of the various later Islamic empires.\n\nWhile technically, the millennium of Muslim conquests could be classified as \"religious war\", the applicability of the term has been questioned.\nThe reason is that the very notion of a \"religious war\" as opposed to a \"secular war\" is the result of the Western concept of the separation of Church and State. No such division has ever existed in the Islamic world, and consequently there cannot be a real division between wars that are \"religious\" from such that are \"non-religious\". Islam does not have any normative tradition of pacifism, and warfare has been integral part of Islamic history both for the defense and the spread of the faith since the time of Muhammad. This was formalised in the juristic definition of war in Islam, which continues to hold normative power in contemporary Islam, inextricably linking political and religious justification of war. This normative concept is known as \"Jihad\", an Arabic word with the meaning \"to strive; to struggle\" (viz. \"in the way of God\"), which includes the aspect of struggle \"by the sword\".\n\nThe first forms of military Jihad occurred after the migration (hijra) of Muhammad and his small group of followers to Medina from Mecca and the conversion of several inhabitants of the city to Islam. The first revelation concerning the struggle against the Meccans was surah 22, verses 39-40: \nThis happened many times throughout history, beginning with Muhammad's battles against the polytheist Arabs including the Battle of Badr (624), and battles in Uhud (625), Khandaq (627), Mecca (630) and Hunayn (630).\n\nIn the Jewish religion, the expression \"Milkhemet Mitzvah\" (Hebrew: מלחמת מצווה, \"commandment war\") refers to a war that is obligatory for all Jews (men and women). Such wars were limited to territory within the borders of the land of Israel. The geographical limits of Israel and conflicts with surrounding nations are detailed in the Tanakh, the Hebrew Bible, especially in Numbers 34:1-15 and Ezekiel 47:13-20. The concept of a religious war was absent in Jewish thought for approximately 2000 years, though it reemerged in some factions of the Zionist movement, particularly Revisionist Zionism. \"From the earliest days of Israel's existence as a people, holy war was a sacred institution, undertaken as a cultic act of a religious community.\n\nAccording to Reuven Firestone, \"\"Holy War\" is a Western concept referring to war that is fought for religion, against adherents of other religions, often in order to promote religion through conversion, and with no specific geographic limitation. This concept does not occur in the Hebrew Bible, whose wars are not fought for religion or in order to promote it but, rather, in order to preserve religion and a religiously unique people in relation to a specific and limited geography.\"\n\nThe Israeli–Palestinian conflict can be viewed primarily as an ethnic conflict between two parties where one party is most often portrayed as a singular ethno-religious group consisting only of the Jewish majority and ignores non-Jewish minority Israeli citizens who at varying levels support a Zionist state, especially the Druze and Circassians who for example volunteer in higher numbers for IDF combat service and are represented in the Israeli parliament in greater percentages than Israeli Jews are as well as Israeli Arabs, Samaritans, various other Christians, and Negev Bedouin; the other party is sometimes presented as an ethnic group which is multi-religious (although most numerously consisting of Muslims, then Christians, then other religious groups up to and including Samaritans and even Jews). Yet despite the multi-religious composition of both of the parties in the conflict, elements on both sides often view it as a religious war between Jews and Muslims. In 1929, religious tensions between Muslim and Jewish Palestinians over Jews praying at the Wailing Wall led to the 1929 Palestine riots including the Hebron and Safed ethnic cleansings of Jews.\n\nIn 1947, the UN decided on partitioning the Mandate of Palestine, led to the creation of the state of Israel and Jordan annexing the West Bank portion of the mandate, since then the region has been plagued with conflict. The 1948 Palestinian exodus also known as the \"Nakba\" (), occurred when approximately 711,000 to 726,000 Palestinian Arabs fled or were expelled from their homes, during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War and the Civil War that preceded it. The exact number of refugees is a matter of dispute, though the number of Palestine refugees and their unsettled descendants registered with UNRWA is more than 4.3 million. The causes remain the subject of fundamental disagreement between Palestinians and Israelis. Jews make a religious and historical claim to the land, and Palestinians make historic, religious and ethnic claims to the land.\n\nThe All India Muslim League (AIML) was formed in Dhaka in 1906 by Muslims who were suspicious of the Hindu-majority Indian National Congress. They complained that Muslim members did not have the same rights as Hindu members. A number of different scenarios were proposed at various times.This was fuelled by the British policy of \"Divide and Rule\", which they tried to bring upon every political situation. Among the first to make the demand for a separate state was the writer/philosopher Allama Iqbal, who, in his presidential address to the 1930 convention of the Muslim League said that a separate nation for Muslims was essential in an otherwise Hindu-dominated subcontinent.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the British Raj in 1947, two new sovereign nations were formed—the Union of India and the Dominion of Pakistan. The subsequent partition of the former British India displaced up to 12.5 million people, with estimates of loss of life varying from several hundred thousand to a million. India emerged as a secular nation with a Hindu majority, while Pakistan was established as an Islamic republic with Muslim majority population.\n\nThe Abyssinian–Adal war was a military conflict between the Abyssinians and the Adal Sultanate from 1529 until 1559. The Imam Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi (nicknamed \"Gurey\" in Somali and \"Gragn\" in Amharic (ግራኝ \"Graññ\"), both meaning \"the left-handed\") came close to extinguishing the ancient realm of Abyssinia, and forcibly converting all of its surviving subjects to Islam; the intervention of the European Cristóvão da Gama, son of the famous navigator Vasco da Gama, attempted to help to prevent this outcome but was killed by al-Ghazi. However, both polities exhausted their resources and manpower in this conflict, allowing the northward migration of the Oromo into their present homelands to the north and west of Addis Ababa. Many historians trace the origins of hostility between Somalia and Ethiopia to this war. Some historians also argue that this conflict proved, through their use on both sides, the value of firearms such as the matchlock musket, cannons, and the arquebus over traditional weapons.\n\nInter-ethnic conflict in Nigeria has generally had a religious element. Riots against Igbo in 1953 and in the 1960s in the north were said to have been sparked by religious conflict. The riots against Igbo in the north in 1966 were said to have been inspired by radio reports of mistreatment of Muslims in the south. A military coup d'état led by lower and middle-ranking officers, some of them Igbo, overthrew the NPC-NCNC dominated government. Prime Minister Balewa along with other northern and western government officials were assassinated during the coup. The coup was considered an Igbo plot to overthrow the northern dominated government. A counter-coup was launched by mostly northern troops. Between June and July there was a mass exodus of Ibo from the north and west. Over 1.3 million Ibo fled the neighboring regions in order to escape persecution as anti-Ibo riots increased. The aftermath of the anti-Ibo riots led many to believe that security could only be gained by separating from the North.\n\nIn the 1980s, serious outbreaks between Christians and Muslims occurred in Kafanchan in southern Kaduna State in a border area between the two religions.\n\nThe 2010 Jos riots saw clashes between Muslim herders against Christian farmers near the volatile city of Jos, resulting in hundreds of casualties. Officials estimated that 500 people were massacred in night-time raids by rampaging Muslim gangs.\n\nDuring the rule of the Catholic Ngo Dinh Diem in South Vietnam, the discrimination against the majority Buddhist population generated the growth of Buddhist institutions as they sought to participate in national politics and gain better treatment. The Buddhist Uprising of 1966 was a period of civil and military unrest in South Vietnam, largely focused in the I Corps area in the north of the country in central Vietnam.\n\nIn a country where the Buddhist majority was estimated to be between 70 and 90 percent, Diem ruled with a strong religious bias. As a member of the Catholic Vietnamese minority, he pursued pro-Catholic policies that antagonized many Buddhists.\n\nThe Dungan revolt (1862–1877) and Panthay Rebellion (1856–1873) by the Hui were also set off by racial antagonism and class warfare, rather than the mistaken assumption that it was all due to Islam that the rebellions broke out. During the Dungan revolt fighting broke out between Uyghurs and Hui.\n\nIn 1936, after Sheng Shicai expelled 20,000 Kazakhs from Xinjiang to Qinghai, the Hui led by General Ma Bufang massacred their fellow Muslims, the Kazakhs, until there were only 135 of them left.\n\nTensions with Uyghurs and Hui arose because Qing and Republican Chinese authorities used Hui troops and officials to dominate the Uyghurs and crush Uyghur revolts. Xinjiang's Hui population increased by over 520 percent between 1940 and 1982, an average annual growth rate of 4.4 percent, while the Uyghur population only grew by 1.7 percent. This dramatic increase in the Hui population led inevitably to significant tensions between the Hui and Uyghur Muslim populations. Some old Uyghurs in Kashgar remember that the Hui army at the Battle of Kashgar (1934) massacred 2,000 to 8,000 Uyghurs, which caused tension as more Hui moved into Kashgar from other parts of China. Some Hui criticize Uyghur separatism, and generally do not want to get involved in conflicts in other countries over Islam for fear of being perceived as radical. Hui and Uyghur live apart from each other, praying separately and attending different mosques.\n\nThere is no consensus among scholars on what triggered the Lebanese Civil War. However, the militarization of the Palestinian refugee population, with the arrival of the PLO guerrilla forces did spark an arms race amongst the different Lebanese political factions. However the conflict played out along three religious lines, Sunni Muslim, Christian Lebanese and Shiite Muslim, Druze are considered among Shiite Muslims.\n\nIt has been argued that the antecedents of the war can be traced back to the conflicts and political compromises reached after the end of Lebanon's administration by the Ottoman Empire. The Cold War had a powerful disintegrative effect on Lebanon, which was closely linked to the polarization that preceded the 1958 political crisis. During the 1948 Arab–Israeli War an exodus of Palestinian refugees who fled the fighting or were expelled from their homes, arrived in Lebanon. Palestinians came to play a very important role in future Lebanese civil conflicts, whilst the establishment of Israel radically changed the local environment in which Lebanon found itself.\n\nLebanon was promised independence and on 22 November 1943 it was achieved. Free French troops, who had invaded Lebanon in 1941 to rid Beirut of the Vichy French forces, left the country in 1946. The Christians assumed power over the country and economy. A confessional parliament was created, where Muslims and Christians were given quotas of seats in parliament. As well, the President was to be a Christian, the Prime Minister a Sunni Muslim and the Speaker of Parliament a Shia Muslim.\n\nIn March 1991, parliament passed an amnesty law that pardoned all political crimes prior to its enactment. The amnesty was not extended to crimes perpetrated against foreign diplomats or certain crimes referred by the cabinet to the Higher Judicial Council. In May 1991, the militias (with the important exception of Hezbollah) were dissolved, and the Lebanese Armed Forces began to slowly rebuild themselves as Lebanon's only major non-sectarian institution.\n\nSome violence still occurred. In late December 1991 a car bomb (estimated to carry 220 pounds of TNT) exploded in the Muslim neighborhood of Basta. At least thirty people were killed, and 120 wounded, including former Prime Minister Shafik Wazzan, who was riding in a bulletproof car.\n\nThe Croatian War (1991–95) and Bosnian War (1992–95), have been viewed of as religious wars between the Orthodox, Catholic and Muslim populations of former Yugoslavia, that is, Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks. Traditional religious symbols were used during the wars. Notably, foreign Muslim volunteers came to Bosnia to wage \"jihad\" (\"jihad\" doesn’t mean \"holy war\", it means \"struggle\"), and were thus known as \"Bosnian mujahideen\".\n\nThe Second Sudanese Civil War from 1983 to 2005 have describe the conflict as an ethnoreligious one where the Muslim central government's pursuits to impose sharia law on non-Muslim southerners led to violence, and eventually to the civil war. The war resulted in the independence of South Sudan six years after the war ended. Sudan is Muslim and South Sudan is Christian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26447", "title": "Resurrection", "text": "Resurrection\n\nResurrection is the concept of coming back to life after death. In a number of ancient religions, a dying-and-rising god is a deity which dies and resurrects. \n\nThe resurrection of the dead is a standard eschatological belief in the Abrahamic religions. As a religious concept, it is used in two distinct respects: a belief in the resurrection of individual souls that is current and ongoing (Christian idealism, realized eschatology), or else a belief in a singular resurrection of the dead at the end of the world. Some believe the soul is the actual vehicle by which people are resurrected.\n\nThe death and resurrection of Jesus, an example of resurrection, is the central focus of Christianity. Christian theological debate ensues with regard to what kind of resurrection is factual – either a \"spiritual\" resurrection with a spirit body into Heaven, or a material resurrection with a restored human body. While most Christians believe Jesus' resurrection from the dead and ascension to Heaven was in a material body, a very small minority believe it was spiritual.\n\nThere are documented rare cases of the return to life of the clinically dead which are classified scientifically as examples of the Lazarus syndrome, a term originating from the biblical story of the resurrection of Lazarus.\n\nResurrection, from the Latin noun \"resurrectio -onis\", from the verb \"rego\", \"to make straight, rule\" + preposition \"sub\", \"under\", altered to \"subrigo\" and contracted to \"surgo, surrexi, surrectum\" (\"to rise\", \"get up\", \"stand up\") + preposition \"re-\", \"again\", thus literally \"a straightening from under again\".\n\nThe concept of resurrection is found in the writings of some ancient non-Abrahamic religions in the Middle East. A few extant Egyptian and Canaanite writings allude to dying and rising gods such as Osiris and Baal. Sir James Frazer in his book \"The Golden Bough\" relates to these dying and rising gods, but many of his examples, according to various scholars, distort the sources. Taking a more positive position, Tryggve Mettinger argues in his recent book that the category of rise and return to life is significant for the following deities: Ugaritic Baal, Melqart, Adonis, Eshmun, Osiris and Dumuzi.\n\nIn ancient Greek religion a number of men and women were made physically immortal as they were resurrected from the dead. Asclepius was killed by Zeus, only to be resurrected and transformed into a major deity. Achilles, after being killed, was snatched from his funeral pyre by his divine mother Thetis and resurrected, brought to an immortal existence in either Leuce, Elysian plains or the Islands of the Blessed. Memnon, who was killed by Achilles, seems to have received a similar fate. Alcmene, Castor, Heracles, and Melicertes, were also among the figures sometimes considered to have been resurrected to physical immortality. According to Herodotus's Histories, the seventh century BC sage Aristeas of Proconnesus was first found dead, after which his body disappeared from a locked room. Later he found not only to have been resurrected but to have gained immortality.\n\nMany other figures, like a great part of those who fought in the Trojan and Theban wars, Menelaus, and the historical pugilist Cleomedes of Astupalaea, were also believed to have been made physically immortal, but without having died in the first place. Indeed, in Greek religion, immortality originally always included an eternal union of body and soul. The philosophical idea of an immortal soul was a later invention, which, although influential, never had a breakthrough in the Greek world. As may be witnessed even into the Christian era, not least by the complaints of various philosophers over popular beliefs, traditional Greek believers maintained the conviction that certain individuals were resurrected from the dead and made physically immortal and that for the rest of us, we could only look forward to an existence as disembodied and dead souls.\n\nThis traditional religious belief in physical immortality was generally denied by the Greek philosophers. Writing his \"Lives of Illustrious Men\" (Parallel Lives) in the first century CE, the Middle Platonic philosopher Plutarch's chapter on Romulus gave an account of the mysterious disappearance and subsequent deification of this first king of Rome, comparing it to traditional Greek beliefs such as the resurrection and physical immortalization of Alcmene and Aristeas the Proconnesian, \"for they say Aristeas died in a fuller's work-shop, and his friends coming to look for him, found his body vanished; and that some presently after, coming from abroad, said they met him traveling towards Croton.\" Plutarch openly scorned such beliefs held in traditional ancient Greek religion, writing, \"many such improbabilities do your fabulous writers relate, deifying creatures naturally mortal.\"\n\nThe parallel between these traditional beliefs and the later resurrection of Jesus was not lost on the early Christians, as Justin Martyr argued: \"when we say ... Jesus Christ, our teacher, was crucified and died, and rose again, and ascended into heaven, we propose nothing different from what you believe regarding those whom you consider sons of Zeus.\" (\"1 Apol.\" 21). There is, however, no belief in a general resurrection in ancient Greek religion, as the Greeks held that not even the gods were able to recreate flesh that had been lost to decay, fire or consumption. The notion of a \"general\" resurrection of the dead was therefore apparently quite preposterous to the Greeks. This is made clear in Paul's Areopagus discourse. After having first told about the resurrection of Jesus, which makes the Athenians interested to hear more, Paul goes on, relating how this event relates to a general resurrection of the dead:\n\nThere are three explicit examples in the Hebrew Bible of people being resurrected from the dead:\n\nDuring the period of the Second Temple, there developed a diversity of beliefs concerning the resurrection. The concept of resurrection of the physical body is found in 2 Maccabees, according to which it will happen through recreation of the flesh. Resurrection of the dead also appears in detail in the extra-canonical books of Enoch, in Apocalypse of Baruch, and 2 Esdras. According to the British scholar in ancient Judaism Philip R. Davies, there is “little or no clear reference … either to immortality or to resurrection from the dead” in the Dead Sea scrolls texts. Both Josephus and the New Testament record that the Sadducees did not believe in an afterlife, but the sources vary on the beliefs of the Pharisees. The New Testament claims that the Pharisees believed in the resurrection, but does not specify whether this included the flesh or not. According to Josephus, who himself was a Pharisee, the Pharisees held that only the soul was immortal and the souls of good people will “pass into other bodies,” while “the souls of the wicked will suffer eternal punishment.” Paul, who also was a Pharisee, said that at the resurrection what is \"sown as a natural body is raised a spiritual body.\" Jubilees seems to refer to the resurrection of the soul only, or to a more general idea of an immortal soul.\n\nAccording to Herbert C. Brichto, writing in Reform Judaism's \"Hebrew Union College Annual\", the family tomb is the central concept in understanding biblical views of the afterlife. Brichto states that it is \"not mere sentimental respect for the physical remains that is...the motivation for the practice, but rather an assumed connection between proper sepulture and the condition of happiness of the deceased in the afterlife\".\n\nAccording to Brichto, the early Israelites apparently believed that the graves of family, or tribe, united into one, and that this unified collectivity is to what the Biblical Hebrew term Sheol refers, the common Grave of humans. Although not well defined in the Tanakh, Sheol in this view was a subterranean underworld where the souls of the dead went after the body died. The Babylonians had a similar underworld called Aralu, and the Greeks had one known as Hades. For biblical references to Sheol see Genesis 42:38, Isaiah 14:11, Psalm 141:7, Daniel 12:2, Proverbs 7:27 and Job 10:21,22, and 17:16, among others. According to Brichto, other Biblical names for Sheol were: Abaddon (ruin), found in Psalm 88:11, Job 28:22 and Proverbs 15:11; Bor (the pit), found in Isaiah 14:15, 24:22, Ezekiel 26:20; and Shakhat (corruption), found in Isaiah 38:17, Ezekiel 28:8.\n\nIn Christianity, resurrection most critically concerns the resurrection of Jesus, but also includes the resurrection of Judgment Day known as the resurrection of the dead by those Christians who subscribe to the Nicene Creed (which is the majority or Mainstream Christianity), as well as the resurrection miracles done by Jesus and the prophets of the Old Testament (see Judaism and Samaritanism below).\n\nChristians regard the resurrection of Jesus as the central doctrine in Christianity. Others take the incarnation of Jesus to be more central; however, it is the miracles – and particularly his resurrection – which provide validation of his incarnation. According to Paul, the entire Christian faith hinges upon the centrality of the resurrection of Jesus and the hope for a life after death. The Apostle Paul wrote in his first letter to the Corinthians:\nDuring the Ministry of Jesus on earth, before his death, Jesus commissioned his Twelve Apostles to, among other things, raise the dead. In the New Testament, Jesus is said to have raised several persons from death. These resurrections included the daughter of Jairus shortly after death, a young man in the midst of his own funeral procession, and Lazarus, who had been buried for four days. According to the Gospel of Matthew, after Jesus's resurrection, many of those previously dead came out of their tombs and entered Jerusalem, where they appeared to many.\n\nSimilar resurrections are credited to the apostles and Catholic saints. In the Acts of the Apostles, Saint Peter raised a woman named Dorcas (also called Tabitha), and Paul the Apostle revived a man named Eutychus who had fallen asleep and fell from a window to his death. Following the Apostolic Age, many saints were said to resurrect the dead, as recorded in Orthodox Christian hagiographies. St Columba supposedly raised a boy from the dead in the land of Picts.\n\nMost Christians understand these miraculous resurrections to be of a different nature than the resurrection of Jesus and the future resurrection of the dead. The raising of Lazarus and others from the dead could also be called \"resuscitations\" or \"reanimations\", since the life given to them is presumably temporary in nature. In contrast, the resurrection of Jesus and the future resurrection of the dead has abolished death once and for all (see , , , ).\n\nChristianity started as a religious movement within 1st-century Judaism (late Second Temple Judaism), and it retains what the New Testament itself claims was the Pharisaic belief in the afterlife and Resurrection of the Dead. Whereas this belief was only one of many beliefs held about the World to Come in Second Temple Judaism, and was notably rejected by both the Sadducees and, according to Josephus, the Pharisees, this belief became dominant within Early Christianity and already in the Gospels of Luke and John included an insistence on the resurrection of the flesh. Most modern Christian churches continue to uphold the belief that there will be a final resurrection of the dead and World to Come, perhaps as prophesied by the Apostle Paul when he said: \"...he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world...\" (Acts 17:31 KJV) and \"...there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.\" (Acts 24:15 KJV).\n\nBelief in the resurrection of the dead, and Jesus' role as judge, is codified in the Apostles' Creed, which is the fundamental creed of Christian baptismal faith. The Book of Revelation also makes many references about the Day of Judgment when the dead will be raised.\n\nIn Platonic philosophy and other Greek philosophical thought, at death the soul was said to leave the inferior body behind. The idea that Jesus was resurrected spiritually rather than physically even gained popularity among some Christian teachers, whom the author of 1 John declared to be antichrists. Similar beliefs appeared in the early church as Gnosticism. However, in Luke 24:39, the resurrected Jesus expressly states \"behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see I have.\"\n\nThere are folklore, stories, and extractions from certain holy texts that refer to resurrections. One major folklore is that of Savitri saving her husband's life from Yamraj. In the Ramayana, after Ravana was slayed by Rama in a great battle between good and evil, Rama requests the king of Gods, Indra, to restore the lives of all the monkeys who died in the great battle.\n\nBelief in the \"Day of Resurrection\", \"Yawm al-Qiyāmah\" () is also crucial for Muslims. They believe the time of \"Qiyāmah\" is preordained by God but unknown to man. The trials and tribulations preceding and during the \"Qiyāmah\" are described in the Qur'an and the hadith, and also in the commentaries of scholars. The Qur'an emphasizes bodily resurrection, a break from the pre-Islamic Arabian understanding of death.\n\nThere are stories in Buddhism where the power of resurrection was allegedly demonstrated in Chan or Zen tradition. One is the legend of Bodhidharma, the Indian master who brought the Ekayana school of India to China that subsequently became Chan Buddhism.\n\nThe other is the passing of Chinese Chan master Puhua (J., Fuke) and is recounted in the Record of Linji (J., Rinzai). Puhua was known for his unusual behavior and teaching style so it is no wonder that he is associated with an event that breaks the usual prohibition on displaying such powers. Here is the account from Irmgard Schloegl's \"The Zen Teaching of Rinzai\".\n\nCryonics is the low-temperature preservation of humans who cannot be sustained by contemporary medicine, with the hope that healing and resuscitation may be possible in the future. Cryonics procedures ideally begin within minutes of cardiac arrest, and use cryoprotectants to prevent ice formation during cryopreservation. However, the idea of cryonics also includes preservation of people long after death because of the possibility that brain encoding memory structure and personality may still persist or be inferable in the future. Whether sufficient brain information still exists for cryonics to successfully preserve may be intrinsically unprovable by present knowledge. Therefore, most proponents of cryonics see it as an intervention with prospects for success that vary widely depending on circumstances.\n\nRussian Cosmist Nikolai Fyodorovich Fyodorov advocated resurrection of the dead using scientific methods. Fedorov tried to plan specific actions for scientific research of the possibility of restoring life and making it infinite. His first project is connected with collecting and synthesizing decayed remains of dead based on \"knowledge and control over all atoms and molecules of the world\". The second method described by Fedorov is genetic-hereditary. The revival could be done successively in the ancestral line: sons and daughters restore their fathers and mothers, they in turn restore their parents and so on. This means restoring the ancestors using the hereditary information that they passed on to their children. Using this genetic method it is only possible to create a genetic twin of the dead person. It is necessary to give back the revived person his old mind, his personality. Fedorov speculates about the idea of \"radial images\" that may contain the personalities of the people and survive after death. Nevertheless, Fedorov noted that even if a soul is destroyed after death, Man will learn to restore it whole by mastering the forces of decay and fragmentation.\n\nIn his 1994 book \"The Physics of Immortality\", American physicist Frank J. Tipler, an expert on the general theory of relativity, presented his Omega Point Theory which outlines how a resurrection of the dead could take place at the end of the cosmos. He posits that humans will evolve into robots which will turn the entire cosmos into a supercomputer which will, shortly before the big crunch, perform the resurrection within its cyberspace, reconstructing formerly dead humans (from information captured by the supercomputer from the past light cone of the cosmos) as avatars within its metaverse.\n\nDavid Deutsch, British physicist and pioneer in the field of quantum computing, agrees with Tipler's Omega Point cosmology and the idea of resurrecting deceased people with the help of quantum computers but he is critical of Tipler's theological views.\n\nItalian physicist and computer scientist Giulio Prisco presents the idea of \"quantum archaeology\", \"reconstructing the life, thoughts, memories, and feelings of any person in the past, up to any desired level of detail, and thus resurrecting the original person via 'copying to the future'\".\n\nIn his book \"Mind Children\", roboticist Hans Moravec proposed that a future supercomputer might be able to resurrect long-dead minds from the information that still survived. For example, this information can be in the form of memories, filmstrips, medical records, and DNA.\n\nRay Kurzweil, American inventor and futurist, believes that when his concept of singularity comes to pass, it will be possible to resurrect the dead by digital recreation.\n\nIn their science fiction novel \"The Light of Other Days\", Sir Arthur Clarke and Stephen Baxter imagine a future civilization resurrecting the dead of past ages by reaching into the past, through micro wormholes and with nanorobots, to download full snapshots of brain states and memories.\n\nBoth the Church of Perpetual Life and the Terasem Movement consider themselves transreligions and advocate for the use of technology to indefinitely extend the human lifespan.\n\nA zombie (Haitian French: \"\", ) is a fictional undead being created through the reanimation of a human corpse. Zombies are most commonly found in horror and fantasy genre works. The term comes from Haitian folklore, where a \"zombie\" is a dead body reanimated through various methods, most commonly magic.\n\nAs knowledge of different religions has grown, so have claims of bodily disappearance of some religious and mythological figures. In ancient Greek religion, this was a way the gods made some physically immortal, including such figures as Cleitus, Ganymede, Menelaus, and Tithonus. After his death, Cycnus was changed into a swan and vanished. In his chapter on Romulus from Parallel Lives, Plutarch criticises the continuous belief in such disappearances, referring to the allegedly miraculous disappearance of the historical figures Romulus, Cleomedes of Astypalaea, and Croesus. In ancient times, Greek and Roman pagan similarities were explained by the early Christian writers, such as Justin Martyr, as the work of demons, with the intention of leading Christians astray.\n\nIn the Epic of King Gesar, Geesar, at the end, chants on a mountain top and his clothes fall empty to the ground. The body of the first Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Nanak Dev, is said to have disappeared and flowers left in place of his dead body.\n\nLord Raglan's Hero Pattern lists many religious figures whose bodies disappear, or have more than one sepulchre. B. Traven, author of \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\", wrote that the Inca Virococha arrived at Cusco (in modern-day Peru) and the Pacific seacoast where he walked across the water and vanished. It has been thought that teachings regarding the purity and incorruptibility of the hero's human body are linked to this phenomenon. Perhaps, this is also to deter the practice of disturbing and collecting the hero's remains. They are safely protected if they have disappeared.\n\nThe first such case mentioned in the Bible is that of Enoch (son of Jared, great-grandfather of Noah, and father of Methuselah). Enoch is said to have lived a life where he \"walked with God\", after which \"he was not, for God took him\" (Genesis 5:1–18). In Deuteronomy (34:6) Moses is secretly buried. Elijah vanishes in a whirlwind 2 Kings (2:11). After hundreds of years these two earlier Biblical heroes suddenly reappear, and are seen walking with Jesus, then again vanish. Mark (9:2–8), Matthew (17:1–8) and Luke (9:28–33). The last time he is seen, Luke (24:51) alone tells of Jesus leaving his disciples by ascending into the sky.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38614952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38614952", "title": "Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service", "text": "Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service\n\nThe Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service provides chaplains to the Royal Navy. The chaplains are commissioned by the Sovereign but do not hold military rank other than that of \"Chaplain Royal Navy\". They are usually addressed as Padre, Reverend or more informally Bish. Chaplains are recruited from a number of Christian denominations.\n\nThe senior chaplain in the Royal Navy is currently Martyn Gough. An Anglican priest, he is also the Archdeacon for the Royal Navy.\n\nChaplains undergo training at Britannia Royal Naval College alongside other Royal Navy officer cadets. After completing the course they may opt to earn their \"Dolphins\" and serve in the Submarine Service or the green beret (upon completion of the All Arms Commando Course) and serve with the Royal Marines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5038821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5038821", "title": "Secularist of the Year", "text": "Secularist of the Year\n\nSecularist of the Year (also known as the Irwin Prize) is an award presented annually by the UK's National Secular Society to the individual or organisation considered to have made the greatest contribution to secularism in the previous year. The prize consists of a trophy, the \"Golden Ammonite\", and a cheque for £5000. It was first awarded in 2005 and is sponsored by humanist and secularist campaigner Dr. Michael Irwin. The award ceremony normally takes place in London in March.\n"}
{"id": "1925150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1925150", "title": "Smoking in Jewish law", "text": "Smoking in Jewish law\n\nHalakha (Jewish law) addresses three main topics applicable to tobacco and cigarette smoking from the early modern period to the present day: the regulation of smoking on days of special Jewish significance, the debate over prohibition of smoking, per se, with regard to individual Jews, and the general environmental concerns (e.g. second-hand smoking).\n\nUntil the late 20th century, the use of tobacco for smoking and in the form of snuff was common among Jews. It is asserted that a Jew named Luis de Torres, who accompanied Christopher Columbus on his expedition in 1492, settled in Cuba, learned the use of tobacco, and introduced it into Europe. From this time Jews were connected with the trade in tobacco, one of the most important in early American history (M. J. Kohler, in \"Publ. Am. Jew. Hist. Soc.\" x. 52)\n\nRecently, some rabbis considered smoking an improper, lightheaded activity for students (Stone 302).\n\nRabbis also debated the use of tobacco under traditional Jewish law, including varying aspects of its permissibility on the Sabbath, chagim (Jewish holy days), fast-days, and whether a special \"smoking\" berakhah (blessing) might be needed. Among the early sources are the \"Keneset ha-Gedolah\" (\"Men of the Great Assembly\") of Rabbi Hayyim Benveniste (1603–73) and the \"Magen Avraham\" (\"Shield of Abraham\") of Avraham Gombiner (1635–83). Gombiner referred to the \"drinking of \"tabak\" [tobacco] through a pipe by drawing the smoke into the mouth and discharging it,\" and said that a smoker should first make a blessing over smoking as a type of refreshment. Believing that tobacco was soaked in beer — a source of \"chametz\", or leaven — he banned smoking during Passover. (ib. 343). Benveniste expressed himself very forcibly against smoking \"tutun\" (tobacco) on the Ninth of Av, and reportedly excommunicated a Jew who smoked on that solemn fast-day (\"Keneset ha-Gedolah\", to Orach Chayim, 551, 21). Benveniste “points out the inconsistency of those authorities who permit smoking on holy days because it is a 'necessity,' a 'means of sustaining life,' and who allow it on fast-days because smoke has no 'substance' like food. In Benveniste's opinion, smoking was prohibited on holy days; he quoted Rabbi Joseph Escapa as coinciding in this view, though he thought it unwise to enforce a generally accepted law.”\n\nWriting in Turkey, an Islamic country, Benveniste further argued that smoking is \"Chillul Hashem\" (a defamation of God), because Muslims refraining from smoking on fast-days would see Jews smoking on theirs (\"Keneset ha-Gedolah\", ib. 567 [ed. Constantinople, 1729, pp. 101 \"et seq\".]). Despite such concerns, some Jews did smoke on the Sabbath, and visited Muslim neighbors in order to smoke hookas there. Rabbinic authorities banned this practise on the grounds that Gentiles would consider Judaism as ridiculous (Alkalai, \"Zekor le-Abraham,\" i. 142-143, Salonica, 1798).\n\nRabbi Yisrael Meir Kagan (1838–1933), known as the \"Chofetz Chaim\" (\"Desirer of Life\"), also sought to dissuade practitioners from smoking. He considered it a waste of time, and saw the practice of people borrowing cigarettes from each other as morally questionable. (Cp. Stone (296f., 299) and Eliezer Waldenberg).\n\nThere is a custom still practiced today by Hasidic and some Haredi grooms who hand out free cigarettes to their friends at their \"vort\" (engagement). Recent rulings against smoking by great rabbis do not have seem to have stopped the tradition. Early on in the Hasidic movement, the Baal Shem Tov taught that smoking tobacco can be used as a religious devotion, and can even help bring the Messianic Era. Rabbi Levi Yitchak of Berditchev is quoted as saying that \"a Jew smokes on the weekdays and sniffs tobacco on the Sabbath\". Rabbi Dovid of Lelov taught that it is a good religious practice to smoke on Saturday nights after the Sabbath, and this practice is followed by the Rebbes of Lelov and Skulen, however the current Rebbe of Skulen discourages people from following his example, in light of current views opposing smoking, and he himself only takes a few brief puffs of a cigarette after Havdalah. Many Hasidic Jews smoke, and many who do not smoke regularly will smoke on the holiday of Purim, even if they do not do so any other time of the year, and some consider it to be a spiritual practice, similar to the smoke of the altar in the ancient Temple. However, many Hasidic Rabbis oppose smoking.\n\nEarly modern Jewish law also addresses the Turkish \"narghile\", or water pipe, which filters the smoke through water. Benveniste rules that the \"narghile\" violates even holy-day regulations because it may extinguish fire (which is not permitted to be extinguished on a Jewish holy day). Gombiner forbids the \"naghile's\" use because its tobacco is analogous to the \"mugmar\" (spice incense) banned by Talmudic law. \n\nUnlike smoking, the use of snuff was allowed on the Sabbath, holy days, fast-days, and Yom Kippur (\"Leket ha-Kemah\", p. 51b, Amsterdam, 1707). Jacob Haziz (1620-74) quotes a responsum of Isaiah Pinto permitting the use of snuff on the Sabbath, even though it cures catarrh; for everybody, even healthy people, snuff, and it can not therefore be considered a drug (\"Halakot Ketannot,\" No. 101).\n\nSome Jewish women also used tobacco (see Elijah of Lublin, \"Yad Eliyahu\", responsum No. 65, Amsterdam, 1712).\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia also cites Hebrew poetry on tobacco: “Solomon Wilder of Amsterdam composed one in acceptance of a tobacco-pipe as a birthday present (\"Ha-Karmel\", 1862, vol. ii., No. 20). Another poem characterizes the cigar and cigarette as \"the two tails of these smoking firebrands\" (Isa. vii. 4; see \"Ha-Boker Or,\" i. 123).”\n\nThere has been extensive controversy regarding the question of smoking. The debate about the acceptability of smoking according to \"halacha\" is centered primarily around the prohibition for a person to damage his body, or bring about his death. Opponents of smoking argue that since there is a clear link between smoking and cancer, smoking should be prohibited. However, Rabbi Moses Feinstein wrote a responsum stating that while inadvisable, smoking was permitted for one who had already started. Feinstein explained that since the risk of illness or death due to smoking is considered small, and it is a widespread practice, it is therefore permitted under the rabbinical principle: \"The Lord protects the simple.\" However, starting to smoke would be prohibited because of the transgression of v'lo sasuru. According to students, when informed of the dangers of smoking, Rabbi Aaron Kotler ruled that smoking was a biblical transgression. Many Haredi rabbis have called on people not to smoke and called smoking an 'evil habit'. These rabbis include Rabbi Yosef Sholom Eliashiv, Rabbi Aharon Leib Shteinman, Rabbi Moshe Shmuel Shapiro, Rabbi Michel Yehuda Lefkowitz, Rabbi Nissim Karelitz, and Rabbi Shmuel Auerbach. Rabbi Shmuel HaLevi Wosner forbade people from starting to smoke and said that those who smoke are obligated to do everything they can to stop. All of these rabbis also said that it is forbidden to smoke in a public place, where others might be bothered by it.\n\nAmong important Sephardi Haredi rabbis, Rabbi Ben Tzion Abba Shaul and Rabbi Moshe Tzedaka called on youth not to start smoking.\n\nOther major Ashkenazi rabbis who explicitly forbade smoking include Rabbi Eliezer Waldenberg, Rabbi Moshe Stern, and Rabbi Chaim Pinchas Sheinberg.\n\nSmoking is specifically prohibited by Solomon Freehof, other Reform rabbis, as well as rabbis in the Conservative movement in the U.S. and Israel. \n\nThe early modern responsa literature shows that Jewish students smoked in their \"batei midrash\" – or study halls – and synagogues. Some rabbis sought to outlaw smoking and the use of snuff in places of worship (\"Pahad Yitzkhak\", 9, p. 62a) and posted notices for study halls. (\"Ha-Maggid\", 1859, vol. iii., No. 16). While smoking had been extremely prevalent in Orthodox \"yeshivot\", rabbinic opinions have led to a major decrease in cigarette use in Israeli and (especially) American \"yeshivot\". \n\nIn tandem with secular campaigns to restrict indoor tobacco-smoking as harmful to non-smokers, Orthodox rabbinical authorities began to make it virtually prohibited a priori to smoke in synagogues and study halls. Rabbi Moses Feinstein ruled against indoor smoking based on \"halakha\" covering nuisance and pollution, while most other rabbis have based a similar ruling on the halakha concerning health. In Israel, Jewish doctors and rabbis work collaboratively on anti-smoking efforts. \n\nOn June 30, 2006, the \"Vaad Halacha\" (Jewish law committee), sponsored by the Rabbinical Council of America, ruled that the use of tobacco is forbidden to Jews, and the committee specifically cited and reversed precedents that permitted smoking.\n\n"}
{"id": "4820996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4820996", "title": "Stumbling block", "text": "Stumbling block\n\nA stumbling block or scandal in the Bible, or in politics (including history), is a metaphor for a behaviour or attitude that leads another to sin or to destructive behaviour. \n\nThe origin of the metaphor is the prohibition of putting a stumbling block before the blind (). Geoffrey W. Bromiley calls the image \"especially appropriate to a rocky land like Palestine\". In the Hebrew Bible, the term for \"stumbling block\" is Biblical Hebrew (). In the Septuagint, is translated into Koine Greek (), a word which occurs only in Hellenistic literature, in the sense \"snare for an enemy; cause of moral stumbling\". In the Septuagint a stumbling block means anything that leads to sin.\n\nThe New Testament usages of , such as , resemble Septuagint usage. It appears 15 times in the New Testament in 12 unique verses according to Strong's Concordance. These passages are: , , (3 times), , , , , , , , , , and .\n\nThe noun has a derived verb, (formed with the suffix as English \"scandalize\"), meaning literally \"to trip somebody up\" or, idiomatically, \"to cause someone to sin.\" This verb appears 29 times in 27 New Testament verses.\n\nApart from \"skandalon\" the idiom of \"stumbling block\" has a second synonym in the Greek term \"proskomma\" \"stumbling.\" Both words are used together in 1 Peter 2:8; this is a \"stone of stumbling\" ( λίθος προσκόμματος) and a \"rock of offense\" ( πέτρα σκανδάλου). The antonymous adjective (ἀπρόσκοπος), \"without causing anyone to stumble,\" also occurs three times in the New Testament.\n\nThe Leviticus warning is developed in rabbinical Judaism as \"lifnei iver\" \"before the blind.\"\n\n\"Scandal\" is discussed by Thomas Aquinas in the \"Summa Theologica\". In the 1992 \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", it is discussed under the fifth commandment (Thou shalt not kill) section \"Respect for the Dignity of Persons\".\n\n\"Active scandal\" is performed by a person; \"passive scandal\" is the reaction of a person to active scandal (\"scandal given\" or in Latin ), or to acts which, because of the viewer's ignorance, weakness, or malice, are regarded as scandalous (\"scandal received\" or in Latin ). \n\nIn order to qualify as scandalous, the behavior must, in itself, be evil or give the appearance of evil. To do a good act or an indifferent act, even knowing that it will inspire others to sin — as when a student studies diligently to do well, knowing it will cause envy — is not scandalous. Again, to ask someone to commit perjury is scandalous, but for a judge to require witnesses to give an oath even when he knows the witness is likely to commit perjury is not scandalous. It does not require that the other person actually commit sin; to be scandalous, it suffices that the act is of a nature to lead someone to sin. Scandal is performed with the intention of inducing someone to sin. Urging someone to commit a sin is therefore active scandal. In the case where the person urging the sin is aware of its nature and the person he is urging is ignorant, the sins committed are the fault of the person who urged them. Scandal is also performed when someone performs an evil act, or an act that appears to be evil, knowing that it will lead others into sin. (In case of an apparently evil act, a sufficient reason for the act despite the faults it will cause negates the scandal.) Scandal may also be incurred when an innocent act may be an occasion of sin to the weak, but such acts should not be foregone if the goods at stake are of importance.\n\nThe term \"stumbling block\" is common in Protestant writings. An early use was Martin Luther's consideration that the common belief that the Mass was a sacrifice was a \"stumbling block.\"\n\nThe Greek word was borrowed from Greek to Latin to French, and finally to English as \"scandal\". The modern English meaning of \"scandal\" is a development from the religious meaning, via the intermediate sense of \"damage to reputation\". \n\n"}
{"id": "36893973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36893973", "title": "Surplice fees", "text": "Surplice fees\n\nSurplice fees were, in English ecclesiastical law, the fees paid to the incumbent of a parish for things such as baptisms, weddings, and funerals. They were paid to the incumbent, whoever performed the service.\n"}
{"id": "31874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31874", "title": "United States Declaration of Independence", "text": "United States Declaration of Independence\n\nThe United States Declaration of Independence is the statement adopted by the Second Continental Congress meeting at the Pennsylvania State House (now known as Independence Hall) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on July 4, 1776. The Declaration announced that the Thirteen Colonies at war with the Kingdom of Great Britain would regard themselves as thirteen independent sovereign states, no longer under British rule. With the Declaration, these new states took a collective first step toward forming the United States of America. The declaration was signed by representatives from New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.\n\nThe Lee Resolution for independence was passed on July 2 with no opposing votes. The Committee of Five had drafted the Declaration to be ready when Congress voted on independence. John Adams, a leader in pushing for independence, had persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document, which Congress edited to produce the final version. The Declaration was a formal explanation of why Congress had voted to declare independence from Great Britain, more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War. Adams wrote to his wife Abigail, \"The Second Day of July 1776, will be the most memorable Epocha, in the History of America\" – although Independence Day is actually celebrated on July 4, the date that the wording of the Declaration of Independence was approved.\n\nAfter ratifying the text on July 4, Congress issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms. It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public. The source copy used for this printing has been lost and may have been a copy in Thomas Jefferson's hand. Jefferson's original draft is preserved at the Library of Congress, complete with changes made by John Adams and Benjamin Franklin, as well as Jefferson's notes of changes made by Congress. The best-known version of the Declaration is a signed copy that is displayed at the National Archives in Washington, D.C., and which is popularly regarded as the official document. This engrossed copy was ordered by Congress on July 19 and signed primarily on August 2.\n\nThe sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry. The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances against King George III and by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution. Its original purpose was to announce independence, and references to the text of the Declaration were few in the following years. Abraham Lincoln made it the centerpiece of his policies and his rhetoric, as in the Gettysburg Address of 1863. Since then, it has become a well-known statement on human rights, particularly its second sentence:\n\nWe hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.\n\nThis has been called \"one of the best-known sentences in the English language\", containing \"the most potent and consequential words in American history\". The passage came to represent a moral standard to which the United States should strive. This view was notably promoted by Lincoln, who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy and argued that it is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.\n\nThe Declaration of Independence inspired many similar documents in other countries, the first being the 1789 \"Declaration of Flanders\" issued during the Brabant Revolution in the Austrian Netherlands. It also served as the primary model for numerous declarations of independence in Europe and Latin America, as well as Africa (Liberia) and Oceania (New Zealand) during the first half of the 19th century.\n\nBy the time that the Declaration of Independence was adopted in July 1776, the Thirteen Colonies and Great Britain had been at war for more than a year. Relations had been deteriorating between the colonies and the mother country since 1763. Parliament enacted a series of measures to increase revenue from the colonies, such as the Stamp Act of 1765 and the Townshend Acts of 1767. Parliament believed that these acts were a legitimate means of having the colonies pay their fair share of the costs to keep them in the British Empire.\n\nMany colonists, however, had developed a different conception of the empire. The colonies were not directly represented in Parliament, and colonists argued that Parliament had no right to levy taxes upon them. This tax dispute was part of a larger divergence between British and American interpretations of the British Constitution and the extent of Parliament's authority in the colonies. The orthodox British view, dating from the Glorious Revolution of 1688, was that Parliament was the supreme authority throughout the empire, and so, by definition, anything that Parliament did was constitutional. In the colonies, however, the idea had developed that the British Constitution recognized certain fundamental rights that no government could violate, not even Parliament. After the Townshend Acts, some essayists even began to question whether Parliament had any legitimate jurisdiction in the colonies at all. Anticipating the arrangement of the British Commonwealth, by 1774 American writers such as Samuel Adams, James Wilson, and Thomas Jefferson were arguing that Parliament was the legislature of Great Britain only, and that the colonies, which had their own legislatures, were connected to the rest of the empire only through their allegiance to the Crown.\n\nThe issue of Parliament's authority in the colonies became a crisis after Parliament passed the Coercive Acts (known as the Intolerable Acts in the colonies) in 1774 to punish the colonists for the Gaspee Affair of 1772 and the Boston Tea Party of 1773. Many colonists saw the Coercive Acts as a violation of the British Constitution and thus a threat to the liberties of all of British America, so the First Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia in September 1774 to coordinate a response. Congress organized a boycott of British goods and petitioned the king for repeal of the acts. These measures were unsuccessful because King George and the ministry of Prime Minister Lord North were determined to enforce parliamentary supremacy in America. As the king wrote to North in November 1774, \"blows must decide whether they are to be subject to this country or independent\".\n\nMost colonists still hoped for reconciliation with Great Britain, even after fighting began in the American Revolutionary War at Lexington and Concord in April 1775. The Second Continental Congress convened at the Pennsylvania State House in Philadelphia in May 1775, and some delegates hoped for eventual independence, but no one yet advocated declaring it. Many colonists no longer believed that Parliament had any sovereignty over them, yet they still professed loyalty to King George, who they hoped would intercede on their behalf. They were disappointed in late 1775 when the king rejected Congress's second petition, issued a Proclamation of Rebellion, and announced before Parliament on October 26 that he was considering \"friendly offers of foreign assistance\" to suppress the rebellion. A pro-American minority in Parliament warned that the government was driving the colonists toward independence.\n\nThomas Paine's pamphlet \"Common Sense\" was published in January 1776, just as it became clear in the colonies that the king was not inclined to act as a conciliator. Paine had only recently arrived in the colonies from England, and he argued in favor of colonial independence, advocating republicanism as an alternative to monarchy and hereditary rule. \"Common Sense\" made a persuasive and impassioned case for independence, which had not yet been given serious intellectual consideration in the American colonies. Paine connected independence with Protestant beliefs as a means to present a distinctly American political identity, thereby stimulating public debate on a topic that few had previously dared to openly discuss, and public support for separation from Great Britain steadily increased after its publication.\nSome colonists still held out hope for reconciliation, but developments in early 1776 further strengthened public support for independence. In February 1776, colonists learned of Parliament's passage of the Prohibitory Act, which established a blockade of American ports and declared American ships to be enemy vessels. John Adams, a strong supporter of independence, believed that Parliament had effectively declared American independence before Congress had been able to. Adams labeled the Prohibitory Act the \"Act of Independency\", calling it \"a compleat Dismemberment of the British Empire\". Support for declaring independence grew even more when it was confirmed that King George had hired German mercenaries to use against his American subjects.\n\nDespite this growing popular support for independence, Congress lacked the clear authority to declare it. Delegates had been elected to Congress by 13 different governments, which included extralegal conventions, ad hoc committees, and elected assemblies, and they were bound by the instructions given to them. Regardless of their personal opinions, delegates could not vote to declare independence unless their instructions permitted such an action. Several colonies, in fact, expressly prohibited their delegates from taking any steps towards separation from Great Britain, while other delegations had instructions that were ambiguous on the issue; consequently, advocates of independence sought to have the Congressional instructions revised. For Congress to declare independence, a majority of delegations would need authorization to vote for it, and at least one colonial government would need to specifically instruct its delegation to propose a declaration of independence in Congress. Between April and July 1776, a \"complex political war\" was waged to bring this about.\n\nIn the campaign to revise Congressional instructions, many Americans formally expressed their support for separation from Great Britain in what were effectively state and local declarations of independence. Historian Pauline Maier identifies more than ninety such declarations that were issued throughout the Thirteen Colonies from April to July 1776. These \"declarations\" took a variety of forms. Some were formal written instructions for Congressional delegations, such as the Halifax Resolves of April 12, with which North Carolina became the first colony to explicitly authorize its delegates to vote for independence. Others were legislative acts that officially ended British rule in individual colonies, such as the Rhode Island legislature declaring its independence from Great Britain on May 4, the first colony to do so. Many \"declarations\" were resolutions adopted at town or county meetings that offered support for independence. A few came in the form of jury instructions, such as the statement issued on April 23, 1776, by Chief Justice William Henry Drayton of South Carolina: \"the law of the land authorizes me to declare ... that \"George\" the Third, King of \"Great Britain\" ... has no authority over us, and we owe no obedience to him.\" Most of these declarations are now obscure, having been overshadowed by the declaration approved by Congress on July 2, and signed July 4.\n\nSome colonies held back from endorsing independence. Resistance was centered in the middle colonies of New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. Advocates of independence saw Pennsylvania as the key; if that colony could be converted to the pro-independence cause, it was believed that the others would follow. On May 1, however, opponents of independence retained control of the Pennsylvania Assembly in a special election that had focused on the question of independence. In response, Congress passed a resolution on May 10 which had been promoted by John Adams and Richard Henry Lee, calling on colonies without a \"government sufficient to the exigencies of their affairs\" to adopt new governments. The resolution passed unanimously, and was even supported by Pennsylvania's John Dickinson, the leader of the anti-independence faction in Congress, who believed that it did not apply to his colony.\n\nAs was the custom, Congress appointed a committee to draft a preamble to explain the purpose of the resolution. John Adams wrote the preamble, which stated that because King George had rejected reconciliation and was hiring foreign mercenaries to use against the colonies, \"it is necessary that the exercise of every kind of authority under the said crown should be totally suppressed\". Adams's preamble was meant to encourage the overthrow of the governments of Pennsylvania and Maryland, which were still under proprietary governance. Congress passed the preamble on May 15 after several days of debate, but four of the middle colonies voted against it, and the Maryland delegation walked out in protest. Adams regarded his May 15 preamble effectively as an American declaration of independence, although a formal declaration would still have to be made.\n\nOn the same day that Congress passed Adams's radical preamble, the Virginia Convention set the stage for a formal Congressional declaration of independence. On May 15, the Convention instructed Virginia's congressional delegation \"to propose to that respectable body to declare the United Colonies free and independent States, absolved from all allegiance to, or dependence upon, the Crown or Parliament of Great Britain\". In accordance with those instructions, Richard Henry Lee of Virginia presented a three-part resolution to Congress on June 7. The motion was seconded by John Adams, calling on Congress to declare independence, form foreign alliances, and prepare a plan of colonial confederation. The part of the resolution relating to declaring independence read:\n\nResolved, that these United Colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent States, that they are absolved from all allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain is, and ought to be, totally dissolved.\n\nLee's resolution met with resistance in the ensuing debate. Opponents of the resolution conceded that reconciliation was unlikely with Great Britain, while arguing that declaring independence was premature, and that securing foreign aid should take priority. Advocates of the resolution countered that foreign governments would not intervene in an internal British struggle, and so a formal declaration of independence was needed before foreign aid was possible. All Congress needed to do, they insisted, was to \"declare a fact which already exists\". Delegates from Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey, Maryland, and New York were still not yet authorized to vote for independence, however, and some of them threatened to leave Congress if the resolution were adopted. Congress, therefore, voted on June 10 to postpone further discussion of Lee's resolution for three weeks. Until then, Congress decided that a committee should prepare a document announcing and explaining independence in the event that Lee's resolution was approved when it was brought up again in July.\n\nSupport for a Congressional declaration of independence was consolidated in the final weeks of June 1776. On June 14, the Connecticut Assembly instructed its delegates to propose independence and, the following day, the legislatures of New Hampshire and Delaware authorized their delegates to declare independence. In Pennsylvania, political struggles ended with the dissolution of the colonial assembly, and a new Conference of Committees under Thomas McKean authorized Pennsylvania's delegates to declare independence on June 18. The Provincial Congress of New Jersey had been governing the province since January 1776; they resolved on June 15 that Royal Governor William Franklin was \"an enemy to the liberties of this country\" and had him arrested. On June 21, they chose new delegates to Congress and empowered them to join in a declaration of independence.\n\nOnly Maryland and New York had yet to authorize independence towards the end of June. Previously, Maryland's delegates had walked out when the Continental Congress adopted Adams's radical May 15 preamble, and had sent to the Annapolis Convention for instructions. On May 20, the Annapolis Convention rejected Adams's preamble, instructing its delegates to remain against independence. But Samuel Chase went to Maryland and, thanks to local resolutions in favor of independence, was able to get the Annapolis Convention to change its mind on June 28. Only the New York delegates were unable to get revised instructions. When Congress had been considering the resolution of independence on June 8, the New York Provincial Congress told the delegates to wait. But on June 30, the Provincial Congress evacuated New York as British forces approached, and would not convene again until July 10. This meant that New York's delegates would not be authorized to declare independence until after Congress had made its decision.\n\nPolitical maneuvering was setting the stage for an official declaration of independence even while a document was being written to explain the decision. On June 11, 1776, Congress appointed a \"Committee of Five\" to draft a declaration, consisting of John Adams of Massachusetts, Benjamin Franklin of Pennsylvania, Thomas Jefferson of Virginia, Robert R. Livingston of New York, and Roger Sherman of Connecticut. The committee left no minutes, so there is some uncertainty about how the drafting process proceeded; contradictory accounts were written many years later by Jefferson and Adams, too many years to be regarded as entirely reliable—although their accounts are frequently cited. What is certain is that the committee discussed the general outline which the document should follow and decided that Jefferson would write the first draft. The committee in general, and Jefferson in particular, thought that Adams should write the document, but Adams persuaded the committee to choose Jefferson and promised to consult with him personally. Considering Congress's busy schedule, Jefferson probably had limited time for writing over the next seventeen days, and likely wrote the draft quickly. He then consulted the others and made some changes, and then produced another copy incorporating these alterations. The committee presented this copy to the Congress on June 28, 1776. The title of the document was \"A Declaration by the Representatives of the United States of America, in General Congress assembled.\"\nCongress ordered that the draft \"lie on the table\". For two days, Congress methodically edited Jefferson's primary document, shortening it by a fourth, removing unnecessary wording, and improving sentence structure. They removed Jefferson's assertion that Great Britain had forced slavery on the colonies in order to moderate the document and appease persons in Great Britain who supported the Revolution. Jefferson wrote that Congress had \"mangled\" his draft version, but the Declaration that was finally produced was \"the majestic document that inspired both contemporaries and posterity,\" in the words of his biographer John Ferling.\n\nCongress tabled the draft of the declaration on Monday, July 1, and resolved itself into a committee of the whole, with Benjamin Harrison of Virginia presiding, and they resumed debate on Lee's resolution of independence. John Dickinson made one last effort to delay the decision, arguing that Congress should not declare independence without first securing a foreign alliance and finalizing the Articles of Confederation. John Adams gave a speech in reply to Dickinson, restating the case for an immediate declaration.\n\nA vote was taken after a long day of speeches, each colony casting a single vote, as always. The delegation for each colony numbered from two to seven members, and each delegation voted amongst themselves to determine the colony's vote. Pennsylvania and South Carolina voted against declaring independence. The New York delegation abstained, lacking permission to vote for independence. Delaware cast no vote because the delegation was split between Thomas McKean (who voted yes) and George Read (who voted no). The remaining nine delegations voted in favor of independence, which meant that the resolution had been approved by the committee of the whole. The next step was for the resolution to be voted upon by Congress itself. Edward Rutledge of South Carolina was opposed to Lee's resolution but desirous of unanimity, and he moved that the vote be postponed until the following day.\n\nOn July 2, South Carolina reversed its position and voted for independence. In the Pennsylvania delegation, Dickinson and Robert Morris abstained, allowing the delegation to vote three-to-two in favor of independence. The tie in the Delaware delegation was broken by the timely arrival of Caesar Rodney, who voted for independence. The New York delegation abstained once again since they were still not authorized to vote for independence, although they were allowed to do so a week later by the New York Provincial Congress. The resolution of independence had been adopted with twelve affirmative votes and one abstention. With this, the colonies had officially severed political ties with Great Britain.\n\nJohn Adams predicted in a famous letter, written to his wife on the following day, that July 2 would become a great American holiday. He thought that the vote for independence would be commemorated; he did not foresee that Americans—including himself—would instead celebrate Independence Day on the date when the announcement of that act was finalized.\n\nI am apt to believe that [Independence Day] will be celebrated, by succeeding Generations, as the great anniversary Festival. It ought to be commemorated, as the Day of Deliverance by solemn Acts of Devotion to God Almighty. It ought to be solemnized with Pomp and Parade, with shews, Games, Sports, Guns, Bells, Bonfires and Illuminations from one End of this Continent to the other from this Time forward forever more.\n\nAfter voting in favor of the resolution of independence, Congress turned its attention to the committee's draft of the declaration. Over several days of debate, they made a few changes in wording and deleted nearly a fourth of the text and, on July 4, 1776, the wording of the Declaration of Independence was approved and sent to the printer for publication.\n\nThere is a distinct change in wording from this original broadside printing of the Declaration and the final official engrossed copy. The word \"unanimous\" was inserted as a result of a Congressional resolution passed on July 19, 1776:\n\nResolved, That the Declaration passed on the 4th, be fairly engrossed on parchment, with the title and stile of \"The unanimous declaration of the thirteen United States of America,\" and that the same, when engrossed, be signed by every member of Congress.\n\nHistorian George Billias says:\n\nIndependence amounted to a new status of interdependence: the United States was now a sovereign nation entitled to the privileges and responsibilities that came with that status. America thus became a member of the international community, which meant becoming a maker of treaties and alliances, a military ally in diplomacy, and a partner in foreign trade on a more equal basis.\n\nThe declaration is not divided into formal sections; but it is often discussed as consisting of five parts: \"introduction\", \"preamble\", \"indictment\" of King George III, \"denunciation\" of the British people, and \"conclusion\".\n\nHistorians have often sought to identify the sources that most influenced the words and political philosophy of the Declaration of Independence. By Jefferson's own admission, the Declaration contained no original ideas, but was instead a statement of sentiments widely shared by supporters of the American Revolution. As he explained in 1825:\n\nNeither aiming at originality of principle or sentiment, nor yet copied from any particular and previous writing, it was intended to be an expression of the American mind, and to give to that expression the proper tone and spirit called for by the occasion.\n\nJefferson's most immediate sources were two documents written in June 1776: his own draft of the preamble of the Constitution of Virginia, and George Mason's draft of the Virginia Declaration of Rights. Ideas and phrases from both of these documents appear in the Declaration of Independence. They were, in turn, directly influenced by the 1689 English Declaration of Rights, which formally ended the reign of King James II. During the American Revolution, Jefferson and other Americans looked to the English Declaration of Rights as a model of how to end the reign of an unjust king. The Scottish Declaration of Arbroath (1320) and the Dutch Act of Abjuration (1581) have also been offered as models for Jefferson's Declaration, but these models are now accepted by few scholars.\n\nJefferson wrote that a number of authors exerted a general influence on the words of the Declaration. English political theorist John Locke is usually cited as one of the primary influences, a man whom Jefferson called one of \"the three greatest men that have ever lived\". In 1922, historian Carl L. Becker wrote, \"Most Americans had absorbed Locke's works as a kind of political gospel; and the Declaration, in its form, in its phraseology, follows closely certain sentences in Locke's second treatise on government.\" The extent of Locke's influence on the American Revolution has been questioned by some subsequent scholars, however. Historian Ray Forrest Harvey argued in 1937 for the dominant influence of Swiss jurist Jean Jacques Burlamaqui, declaring that Jefferson and Locke were at \"two opposite poles\" in their political philosophy, as evidenced by Jefferson's use in the Declaration of Independence of the phrase \"pursuit of happiness\" instead of \"property\". Other scholars emphasized the influence of republicanism rather than Locke's classical liberalism. Historian Garry Wills argued that Jefferson was influenced by the Scottish Enlightenment, particularly Francis Hutcheson, rather than Locke, an interpretation that has been strongly criticized.\n\nLegal historian John Phillip Reid has written that the emphasis on the political philosophy of the Declaration has been misplaced. The Declaration is not a philosophical tract about natural rights, argues Reid, but is instead a legal document—an indictment against King George for violating the constitutional rights of the colonists. Historian David Armitage has argued that the Declaration was strongly influenced by de Vattel's \"The Law of Nations\", the dominant international law treatise of the period, and a book that Benjamin Franklin said was \"continually in the hands of the members of our Congress\". Armitage writes, \"Vattel made independence fundamental to his definition of statehood\"; therefore, the primary purpose of the Declaration was \"to express the international legal sovereignty of the United States\". If the United States were to have any hope of being recognized by the European powers, the American revolutionaries first had to make it clear that they were no longer dependent on Great Britain. The Declaration of Independence does not have the force of law domestically, but nevertheless it may help to provide historical and legal clarity about the Constitution and other laws.\n\nThe Declaration became official when Congress voted for it on July 4; signatures of the delegates were not needed to make it official. The handwritten copy of the Declaration of Independence that was signed by Congress is dated July 4, 1776. The signatures of fifty-six delegates are affixed; however, the exact date when each person signed it has long been the subject of debate. Jefferson, Franklin, and Adams all wrote that the Declaration had been signed by Congress on July 4. But in 1796, signer Thomas McKean disputed that the Declaration had been signed on July 4, pointing out that some signers were not then present, including several who were not even elected to Congress until after that date.\n\nThe Declaration was transposed on paper, adopted by the Continental Congress, and signed by John Hancock, President of the Congress, on July 4, 1776, according to the 1911 record of events by the U.S. State Department under Secretary Philander C. Knox. On August 2, 1776, a parchment paper copy of the Declaration was signed by 56 persons. Many of these signers were not present when the original Declaration was adopted on July 4. Signer Matthew Thornton from New Hampshire was seated in the Continental Congress in November; he asked for and received the privilege of adding his signature at that time, and signed on November 4, 1776.\n\nHistorians have generally accepted McKean's version of events, arguing that the famous signed version of the Declaration was created after July 19, and was not signed by Congress until August 2, 1776. In 1986, legal historian Wilfred Ritz argued that historians had misunderstood the primary documents and given too much credence to McKean, who had not been present in Congress on July 4. According to Ritz, about thirty-four delegates signed the Declaration on July 4, and the others signed on or after August 2. Historians who reject a July 4 signing maintain that most delegates signed on August 2, and that those eventual signers who were not present added their names later.\n\nTwo future U.S. presidents were among the signatories: Thomas Jefferson and John Adams. The most famous signature on the engrossed copy is that of John Hancock, who presumably signed first as President of Congress. Hancock's large, flamboyant signature became iconic, and the term \"John Hancock\" emerged in the United States as an informal synonym for \"signature\". A commonly circulated but apocryphal account claims that, after Hancock signed, the delegate from Massachusetts commented, \"The British ministry can read that name without spectacles.\" Another apocryphal report indicates that Hancock proudly declared, \"There! I guess King George will be able to read that!\"\n\nVarious legends emerged years later about the signing of the Declaration, when the document had become an important national symbol. In one famous story, John Hancock supposedly said that Congress, having signed the Declaration, must now \"all hang together\", and Benjamin Franklin replied: \"Yes, we must indeed all hang together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately.\" The quotation did not appear in print until more than fifty years after Franklin's death.\n\nThe Syng inkstand used at the signing was also used at the signing of the United States Constitution in 1787.\n\nAfter Congress approved the final wording of the Declaration on July 4, a handwritten copy was sent a few blocks away to the printing shop of John Dunlap. Through the night, Dunlap printed about 200 broadsides for distribution. Before long, it was being read to audiences and reprinted in newspapers throughout the 13 states. The first formal public readings of the document took place on July 8, in Philadelphia (by John Nixon in the yard of Independence Hall), Trenton, New Jersey, and Easton, Pennsylvania; the first newspaper to publish it was the \"Pennsylvania Evening Post\" on July 6. A German translation of the Declaration was published in Philadelphia by July 9.\n\nPresident of Congress John Hancock sent a broadside to General George Washington, instructing him to have it proclaimed \"at the Head of the Army in the way you shall think it most proper\". Washington had the Declaration read to his troops in New York City on July 9, with thousands of British troops on ships in the harbor. Washington and Congress hoped that the Declaration would inspire the soldiers, and encourage others to join the army. After hearing the Declaration, crowds in many cities tore down and destroyed signs or statues representing royal authority. An equestrian statue of King George in New York City was pulled down and the lead used to make musket balls.\n\nBritish officials in North America sent copies of the Declaration to Great Britain. It was published in British newspapers beginning in mid-August, it had reached Florence and Warsaw by mid-September, and a German translation appeared in Switzerland by October. The first copy of the Declaration sent to France got lost, and the second copy arrived only in November 1776. It reached Portuguese America by Brazilian medical student \"Vendek\" José Joaquim Maia e Barbalho, who had met with Thomas Jefferson in Nîmes.\n\nThe Spanish-American authorities banned the circulation of the Declaration, but it was widely transmitted and translated: by Venezuelan Manuel García de Sena, by Colombian Miguel de Pombo, by Ecuadorian Vicente Rocafuerte, and by New Englanders Richard Cleveland and William Shaler, who distributed the Declaration and the United States Constitution among Creoles in Chile and Indians in Mexico in 1821. The North Ministry did not give an official answer to the Declaration, but instead secretly commissioned pamphleteer John Lind to publish a response entitled \"Answer to the Declaration of the American Congress\". British Tories denounced the signers of the Declaration for not applying the same principles of \"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\" to African Americans. Thomas Hutchinson, the former royal governor of Massachusetts, also published a rebuttal. These pamphlets challenged various aspects of the Declaration. Hutchinson argued that the American Revolution was the work of a few conspirators who wanted independence from the outset, and who had finally achieved it by inducing otherwise loyal colonists to rebel. Lind's pamphlet had an anonymous attack on the concept of natural rights written by Jeremy Bentham, an argument that he repeated during the French Revolution. Both pamphlets asked how the American slaveholders in Congress could proclaim that \"all men are created equal\" without freeing their own slaves.\n\nWilliam Whipple, a signer of the Declaration of Independence who had fought in the war, freed his slave Prince Whipple because of revolutionary ideals. In the postwar decades, other slaveholders also freed their slaves; from 1790 to 1810, the percentage of free blacks in the Upper South increased to 8.3 percent from less than one percent of the black population. All Northern states abolished slavery by 1804.\n\nThe official copy of the Declaration of Independence was the one printed on July 4, 1776, under Jefferson's supervision. It was sent to the states and to the Army and was widely reprinted in newspapers. The slightly different \"engrossed copy\" (shown at the top of this article) was made later for members to sign. The engrossed version is the one widely distributed in the 21st century. Note that the opening lines differ between the two versions.\n\nThe copy of the Declaration that was signed by Congress is known as the engrossed or parchment copy. It was probably engrossed (that is, carefully handwritten) by clerk Timothy Matlack. A facsimile made in 1823 has become the basis of most modern reproductions rather than the original because of poor conservation of the engrossed copy through the 19th century. In 1921, custody of the engrossed copy of the Declaration was transferred from the State Department to the Library of Congress, along with the United States Constitution. After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, the documents were moved for safekeeping to the United States Bullion Depository at Fort Knox in Kentucky, where they were kept until 1944. In 1952, the engrossed Declaration was transferred to the National Archives and is now on permanent display at the National Archives in the \"Rotunda for the Charters of Freedom\".\n\nThe document signed by Congress and enshrined in the National Archives is usually regarded as \"the\" Declaration of Independence, but historian Julian P. Boyd argued that the Declaration, like Magna Carta, is not a single document. Boyd considered the printed broadsides ordered by Congress to be official texts, as well. The Declaration was first published as a broadside that was printed the night of July 4 by John Dunlap of Philadelphia. Dunlap printed about 200 broadsides, of which 26 are known to survive. The 26th copy was discovered in The National Archives in England in 2009.\n\nIn 1777, Congress commissioned Mary Katherine Goddard to print that listed the signers of the Declaration, unlike the Dunlap broadside. Nine copies of the Goddard broadside are known to still exist. A variety of broadsides printed by the states are also extant.\n\nSeveral early handwritten copies and drafts of the Declaration have also been preserved. Jefferson kept a four-page draft that late in life he called the \"original Rough draught\". It is not known how many drafts Jefferson wrote prior to this one, and how much of the text was contributed by other committee members. In 1947, Boyd discovered a fragment of an earlier draft in Jefferson's handwriting. Jefferson and Adams sent copies of the rough draft to friends, with slight variations.\n\nDuring the writing process, Jefferson showed the rough draft to Adams and Franklin, and perhaps to other members of the drafting committee, who made a few more changes. Franklin, for example, may have been responsible for changing Jefferson's original phrase \"We hold these truths to be sacred and undeniable\" to \"We hold these truths to be self-evident\". Jefferson incorporated these changes into a copy that was submitted to Congress in the name of the committee. The copy that was submitted to Congress on June 28 has been lost and was perhaps destroyed in the printing process, or destroyed during the debates in accordance with .\n\nOn April 21, 2017, it was announced that a second engrossed copy had been discovered in the archives at West Sussex County Council in Chichester, England. Named by its finders the \"Sussex Declaration\", it differs from the National Archives copy (which the finders refer to as the \"Matlack Declaration\") in that the signatures on it are not grouped by States. How it came to be in England is not yet known, but the finders believe that the randomness of the signatures points to an origin with signatory James Wilson, who had argued strongly that the Declaration was made not by the States but by the whole people.\n\nThe Declaration was given little attention in the years immediately following the American Revolution, having served its original purpose in announcing the independence of the United States. Early celebrations of Independence Day largely ignored the Declaration, as did early histories of the Revolution. The \"act\" of declaring independence was considered important, whereas the \"text\" announcing that act attracted little attention. The Declaration was rarely mentioned during the debates about the United States Constitution, and its language was not incorporated into that document. George Mason's draft of the Virginia Declaration of Rights was more influential, and its language was echoed in state constitutions and state bills of rights more often than Jefferson's words. \"In none of these documents\", wrote Pauline Maier, \"is there any evidence whatsoever that the Declaration of Independence lived in men's minds as a classic statement of American political principles.\"\n\nMany leaders of the French Revolution admired the Declaration of Independence but were also interested in the new American state constitutions. The inspiration and content of the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen (1789) emerged largely from the ideals of the American Revolution. Its key drafts were prepared by Lafayette, working closely in Paris with his friend Thomas Jefferson. It also borrowed language from George Mason's Virginia Declaration of Rights. The declaration also influenced the Russian Empire. The document had a particular impact on the Decembrist revolt and other Russian thinkers.\n\nAccording to historian David Armitage, the Declaration of Independence did prove to be internationally influential, but not as a statement of human rights. Armitage argued that the Declaration was the first in a new genre of declarations of independence that announced the creation of new states.\n\nOther French leaders were directly influenced by the text of the Declaration of Independence itself. The \"Manifesto of the Province of Flanders\" (1790) was the first foreign derivation of the Declaration; others include the Venezuelan Declaration of Independence (1811), the Liberian Declaration of Independence (1847), the declarations of secession by the Confederate States of America (1860–61), and the Vietnamese Proclamation of Independence (1945). These declarations echoed the United States Declaration of Independence in announcing the independence of a new state, without necessarily endorsing the political philosophy of the original.\n\nOther countries have used the Declaration as inspiration or have directly copied sections from it. These include the Haitian declaration of January 1, 1804, during the Haitian Revolution, the United Provinces of New Granada in 1811, the Argentine Declaration of Independence in 1816, the Chilean Declaration of Independence in 1818, Costa Rica in 1821, El Salvador in 1821, Guatemala in 1821, Honduras in (1821), Mexico in 1821, Nicaragua in 1821, Peru in 1821, Bolivian War of Independence in 1825, Uruguay in 1825, Ecuador in 1830, Colombia in 1831, Paraguay in 1842, Dominican Republic in 1844, Texas Declaration of Independence in March 1836, California Republic in November 1836, Hungarian Declaration of Independence in 1849, Declaration of the Independence of New Zealand in 1835, and the Czechoslovak declaration of independence from 1918 drafted in Washington D.C. with Gutzon Borglum among the drafters. The Rhodesian declaration of independence, ratified in November 1965, is based on the American one as well; however, it omits the phrases \"all men are created equal\" and \"the consent of the governed\". The from December 1860 also mentions the U.S. Declaration of Independence, though it, like the Rhodesian one, omits references to \"all men are created equal\" and \"consent of the governed\".\n\nInterest in the Declaration was revived in the 1790s with the emergence of the United States's first political parties. Throughout the 1780s, few Americans knew or cared who wrote the Declaration. But in the next decade, Jeffersonian Republicans sought political advantage over their rival Federalists by promoting both the importance of the Declaration and Jefferson as its author. Federalists responded by casting doubt on Jefferson's authorship or originality, and by emphasizing that independence was declared by the whole Congress, with Jefferson as just one member of the drafting committee. Federalists insisted that Congress's act of declaring independence, in which Federalist John Adams had played a major role, was more important than the document announcing it. But this view faded away, like the Federalist Party itself, and, before long, the act of declaring independence became synonymous with the document.\n\nA less partisan appreciation for the Declaration emerged in the years following the War of 1812, thanks to a growing American nationalism and a renewed interest in the history of the Revolution. In 1817, Congress commissioned John Trumbull's famous painting of the signers, which was exhibited to large crowds before being installed in the Capitol. The earliest commemorative printings of the Declaration also appeared at this time, offering many Americans their first view of the signed document. Collective biographies of the signers were first published in the 1820s, giving birth to what Garry Wills called the \"cult of the signers\". In the years that followed, many stories about the writing and signing of the document were published for the first time.\n\nWhen interest in the Declaration was revived, the sections that were most important in 1776 were no longer relevant: the announcement of the independence of the United States and the grievances against King George. But the second paragraph was applicable long after the war had ended, with its talk of self-evident truths and unalienable rights. The Constitution and the Bill of Rights lacked sweeping statements about rights and equality, and advocates of groups with grievances turned to the Declaration for support. Starting in the 1820s, variations of the Declaration were issued to proclaim the rights of workers, farmers, women, and others. In 1848, for example, the Seneca Falls Convention of women's rights advocates declared that \"all men and women are created equal\".\n\nJohn Trumbull's painting \"Declaration of Independence\" has played a significant role in popular conceptions of the Declaration of Independence. The painting is in size and was commissioned by the United States Congress in 1817; it has hung in the United States Capitol Rotunda since 1826. It is sometimes described as the signing of the Declaration of Independence, but it actually shows the Committee of Five presenting their draft of the Declaration to the Second Continental Congress on June 28, 1776, and not the signing of the document, which took place later.\n\nTrumbull painted the figures from life whenever possible, but some had died and images could not be located; hence, the painting does not include all the signers of the Declaration. One figure had participated in the drafting but did not sign the final document; another refused to sign. In fact, the membership of the Second Continental Congress changed as time passed, and the figures in the painting were never in the same room at the same time. It is, however, an accurate depiction of the room in Independence Hall, the centerpiece of the Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nTrumbull's painting has been depicted multiple times on U.S. currency and postage stamps. Its first use was on the reverse side of the $100 National Bank Note issued in 1863. A few years later, the steel engraving used in printing the bank notes was used to produce a 24-cent stamp, issued as part of the 1869 Pictorial Issue. An engraving of the signing scene has been featured on the reverse side of the United States two-dollar bill since 1976.\n\nThe apparent contradiction between the claim that \"all men are created equal\" and the existence of American slavery attracted comment when the Declaration was first published. As mentioned above, Jefferson had included a paragraph in his initial draft that strongly indicted Great Britain's role in the slave trade, but this was deleted from the final version. Jefferson himself was a prominent Virginia slave holder, having owned hundreds of slaves. Referring to this seeming contradiction, English abolitionist Thomas Day wrote in a 1776 letter, \"If there be an object truly ridiculous in nature, it is an American patriot, signing resolutions of independency with the one hand, and with the other brandishing a whip over his affrighted slaves.\"\n\nIn the 19th century, the Declaration took on a special significance for the abolitionist movement. Historian Bertram Wyatt-Brown wrote that \"abolitionists tended to interpret the Declaration of Independence as a theological as well as a political document\". Abolitionist leaders Benjamin Lundy and William Lloyd Garrison adopted the \"twin rocks\" of \"the Bible and the Declaration of Independence\" as the basis for their philosophies. \"As long as there remains a single copy of the Declaration of Independence, or of the Bible, in our land,\" wrote Garrison, \"we will not despair.\" For radical abolitionists such as Garrison, the most important part of the Declaration was its assertion of the right of revolution. Garrison called for the destruction of the government under the Constitution, and the creation of a new state dedicated to the principles of the Declaration.\n\nThe controversial question of whether to add additional slave states to the United States coincided with the growing stature of the Declaration. The first major public debate about slavery and the Declaration took place during the Missouri controversy of 1819 to 1821. Antislavery Congressmen argued that the language of the Declaration indicated that the Founding Fathers of the United States had been opposed to slavery in principle, and so new slave states should not be added to the country. Proslavery Congressmen led by Senator Nathaniel Macon of North Carolina argued that the Declaration was not a part of the Constitution and therefore had no relevance to the question.\n\nWith the antislavery movement gaining momentum, defenders of slavery such as John Randolph and John C. Calhoun found it necessary to argue that the Declaration's assertion that \"all men are created equal\" was false, or at least that it did not apply to black people. During the debate over the Kansas–Nebraska Act in 1853, for example, Senator John Pettit of Indiana argued that the statement \"all men are created equal\" was not a \"self-evident truth\" but a \"self-evident lie\". Opponents of the Kansas–Nebraska Act, including Salmon P. Chase and Benjamin Wade, defended the Declaration and what they saw as its antislavery principles.\n\nThe Declaration's relationship to slavery was taken up in 1854 by Abraham Lincoln, a little-known former Congressman who idolized the Founding Fathers. Lincoln thought that the Declaration of Independence expressed the highest principles of the American Revolution, and that the Founding Fathers had tolerated slavery with the expectation that it would ultimately wither away. For the United States to legitimize the expansion of slavery in the Kansas-Nebraska Act, thought Lincoln, was to repudiate the principles of the Revolution. In his October 1854 Peoria speech, Lincoln said:\n\nThe meaning of the Declaration was a recurring topic in the famed debates between Lincoln and Stephen Douglas in 1858. Douglas argued that the phrase \"all men are created equal\" in the Declaration referred to white men only. The purpose of the Declaration, he said, had simply been to justify the independence of the United States, and not to proclaim the equality of any \"inferior or degraded race\". Lincoln, however, thought that the language of the Declaration was deliberately universal, setting a high moral standard to which the American republic should aspire. \"I had thought the Declaration contemplated the progressive improvement in the condition of all men everywhere,\" he said. During the seventh and last joint debate with Steven Douglas at Alton, Illinois on October 15, 1858, Lincoln said about the declaration:\n\nAccording to Pauline Maier, Douglas's interpretation was more historically accurate, but Lincoln's view ultimately prevailed. \"In Lincoln's hands,\" wrote Maier, \"the Declaration of Independence became first and foremost a living document\" with \"a set of goals to be realized over time\".\n\nLike Daniel Webster, James Wilson, and Joseph Story before him, Lincoln argued that the Declaration of Independence was a founding document of the United States, and that this had important implications for interpreting the Constitution, which had been ratified more than a decade after the Declaration. The Constitution did not use the word \"equality\", yet Lincoln believed that the concept that \"all men are created equal\" remained a part of the nation's founding principles. He famously expressed this belief in the opening sentence of his 1863 Gettysburg Address: \"Four score and seven years ago [i.e. in 1776] our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.\"\n\nLincoln's view of the Declaration became influential, seeing it as a moral guide to interpreting the Constitution. \"For most people now,\" wrote Garry Wills in 1992, \"the Declaration means what Lincoln told us it means, as a way of correcting the Constitution itself without overthrowing it.\" Admirers of Lincoln such as Harry V. Jaffa praised this development. Critics of Lincoln, notably Willmoore Kendall and Mel Bradford, argued that Lincoln dangerously expanded the scope of the national government and violated states' rights by reading the Declaration into the Constitution.\n\nIn July 1848, the first woman's rights convention, the Seneca Falls Convention, was held in Seneca Falls, New York. The convention was organized by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott, Mary Ann McClintock, and Jane Hunt. In their \"Declaration of Sentiments\", patterned on the Declaration of Independence, the convention members demanded social and political equality for women. Their motto was that \"All men \"and women\" are created equal\" and the convention demanded suffrage for women. The suffrage movement was supported by William Lloyd Garrison and Frederick Douglass.\n\nThe Declaration was chosen to be the first digitized text (1971).\n\nThe Memorial to the 56 Signers of the Declaration of Independence was dedicated in 1984 in Constitution Gardens on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., where the signatures of all the original signers are carved in stone with their names, places of residence, and occupations.\n\nThe new One World Trade Center building in New York City (2014) is 1776 feet high to symbolize the year that the Declaration of Independence was signed.\n\nThe adoption of the Declaration of Independence was dramatized in the 1969 Tony Award–winning musical \"1776\" and the 1972 film version, as well as in the 2008 television miniseries \"John Adams\". In 1970, The 5th Dimension recorded the opening of the Declaration on their album \"Portrait\" in the song \"Declaration\". It was first performed on the \"Ed Sullivan Show\" on December 7, 1969, and it was taken as a song of protest against the Vietnam War. The Declaration of Independence is also a plot device in the 2004 American film \"National Treasure\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18076631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18076631", "title": "Urreligion", "text": "Urreligion\n\nUrreligion is a notion of an \"original\" or \"oldest\" form of religious tradition ( being a Germanic prefix for \"original, primitive, elder, primeval, or \"\"\"). The term contrasts with organized religion, such as the theocracies of the early urban cultures of the Ancient Near East or current world religions.\nThe term originates in German Romanticism.\n\nFriedrich Creuzer put forward the notion of a monotheistic primeval religion in 1810 - an idea taken up by other authors of the Romantic period, such as J. J. Bachofen, but decidedly opposed by Johann Heinrich Voss.\nGoethe in a conversation with Eckermann on 11 March 1832 discussed the human \"Urreligion\", which he characterized as \"pure nature and [pure] reason, of divine origin\".\nThe final scene of his \"Faust Part Two\" (1832) has been taken as evoking \"the 'Urreligion' of mankind\".\n\nOften used in the sense of natural religion or indigenous religion, the religious behaviour of pre-modern tribal societies such as shamanism, animism and ancestor worship (e.g. Australian aboriginal mythology), the term \"Urreligion\" has also been used by adherents of various religions to back up the claim that their own religion is somehow \"primeval\" or \"older\" than competing traditions. In the context of a given religious faith, literal belief in a creation may be the base of primality. (e.g. Biblical literalism, or literal belief in the Hindu Puranas).\n\nIn particular, Urmonotheismus comprises the historical claim that primeval religion was monotheistic. Some have rejected this hypothesis, and certain Christian apologetics circles defend it.\n\nNineteenth-century Germanic mysticism sometimes claimed that the Germanic runes bore testimony of a primeval religion.\nSome more recent new religious movements that claim to restore primeval religion include Godianism\nand Umbanda.\n\n"}
{"id": "1242881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242881", "title": "World religions", "text": "World religions\n\nWorld religions is a category used in the study of religion to demarcate the five—and in some cases six—largest and most internationally widespread religious movements. Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, and Buddhism are always included in the list, being known as the \"Big Five\". Some scholars also include another religion, such as Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, or the Bahá'í Faith, in the category. \n\nThe world religions paradigm was developed in the United Kingdom in the 1960s, where it was pioneered by phenomenological scholars like Ninian Smart. It was designed to broaden the study of religion away from its heavy focus on Christianity by taking into account other large religious traditions around the world. \nThe paradigm is often used by lecturers instructing undergraduate students in the study of religion and is also the framework used by school teachers in the UK and other countries. The paradigm's emphasis on viewing these religious movements as distinct and mutually exclusive entities has also had a wider impact on the categorisation of religion—for instance in censuses—in both Western countries and elsewhere.\n\nSince the late twentieth century, the paradigm has faced critique by scholars of religion like Jonathan Z. Smith, some of whom have argued for its abandonment. Critics have argued that the world religions paradigm is inappropriate because it takes the Protestant variant of Christianity as the model for what constitutes religion; that it is tied up with discourses of modernity, including modern power relations; that it encourages an uncritical understanding of religion; and that it makes a value judgement as to what religions should be considered \"major\". Others have argued that it remains useful in the classroom, so long as students are made aware that it is a socially constructed category.\n\nThe scholars of religion Christopher R. Cotter and David G. Robertson described the \"World Religions Paradigm\" as \"a particular way of thinking about religions which organizes them into a set of discrete traditions with a supposedly 'global' import.\" It typically consists of the \"Big Five\" religions: Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism. \nAs noted by Cotter and Robertson, the \"Big Five\" religions are often listed in an \"Abrahamocentric order\" which places the largest three Abrahamic religions—Christianity, Judaism, and Islam—before the non-Abrahamic religions Hinduism and Buddhism. The category is sometimes also extended to include other religious groups, namely Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, and the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nThe inclusion of Judaism in the Big Five raises some issues; it is included in the list because of its influence on Christianity and Islam and because of its relevance to traditional Western understandings of Western history. On demographic grounds, it does not fit into the list, for there are far fewer Jews in the world than there are Christians, Muslims, Hindus, and Buddhists. Similarly, it does not fit into the list if the groups are defined by a desire to spread internationally, because Judaism is typically non-proselytizing.\n\nMany scholars have utilised the \"World Religions\" category alongside other \"catch-all\" categories such as \"new religious movements\" and \"indigenous religions\". The scholar Steven J. Sutcliffe compared the relationship between the three categories to the English football league system, with the \"world\" religions forming a Premier League, the \"new\" religions forming a Championship, and \"indigenous\" religions a First Division. That groups that get placed in categories like \"indigenous religions\" get treated less seriously than the \"world religions\" by many scholars was noted by the scholar of religion Graham Harvey, who maintained that \"indigenous religions should receive similarly respectful treatment to that considered appropriate to the larger 'World Religions'.\"\n\nCotter and Robertson noted that the history of the world religions paradigm is \"intimately tied up\" with the history of the study of religion as an academic discipline. It emerged from within the phenomenology of religion approach which placed an emphasis on description rather than critical analysis. \n\nThe paradigm was integrated throughout the education system through work of scholars like Ninian Smart, who formed the Shap Working Party on World Religions in Education in 1969. It was introduced with the intent of moving Western education away from its focus on Christianity. However, it took liberal Western Protestantism as its baseline and interpreted these different religious traditions through the framework of liberal Protestant norms and values. This included an emphasis on theology as being central to a given religion. It also reflects the post-Enlightenment Christian approach of treating different religious groups as distinct, mutually exclusive categories. It thus reflects the socio-political concerns of 1960s Britain, the environment in which it was devised.\n\nThe paradigm has since gone beyond this academic discipline, and \"informs the perception\" of many members of different religious groups. The paradigm for instance frames the teaching about religion in the British education system; at all three Key Stages, British teachers are instructed to teach about Christianity, while by the end of key Stage 3 they are also supposed to teach about the other \"five principal religions\": Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, and Sikhism. Similarly, the censuses of many countries for instance reflect the influence of the world religion paradigm by only permitting respondents to describe themselves as adhering to one particular religious tradition, whereas in reality many individuals identify themselves with various different traditions at the same time. This idea of mutually exclusive religious identities is not only a Western phenomenon, but can also be found in other socio-cultural contexts; Hindu nationalists for instance often endorse the idea that Hinduism and Buddhism are mutually exclusive categories despite the fact that many people in South Asia mix Hindu and Buddhist practices.\nThe scholars of religion Tara Baldrick-Morrone, Michael Graziano, and Brad Stoddard stated that \"the WRP is neither neutral nor natural, but its social authority derives from appearing as both.\"\n\nThe utility of the World Religions Paradigm has experienced a sustained and rigorous critique from many scholars of religion. In 1978, the scholar of religion Jonathan Z. Smith for example called it a \"dubious category\".\n\nOne of the major criticisms of the framework is that it is based on a model of 'religion' that is highly reliant on using the Protestant version of Christianity as its base example. A second criticism is that it is rooted in the discourses of modernity, including the power relations present in modern society. Smith observed that it was constructed by Western scholars from a Western perspective. He noted that the only religions that get included in it are those which have \"achieved sufficient power and numbers to enter our [i.e. Western] history, either to form it, interact with it, or to thwart it\" and represent \"important geo-political entities with which we must deal.\" The framework also includes privileging the literate elites active in particular religious movements by presenting their interpretations of particular traditions as being authoritative, eclipsing alternative interpretations presented by non-literate, marginalised, and localized practitioners. For instance, as noted by the scholar of religion Suzanne Owen, \"Hinduism as a World Religion does not include Hinduism as a village religion\".\n\nA third criticism of the world religions paradigm is that it encourages an uncritical and \"sui generis\" model of 'religion'. It presents each of the 'world religions' in an abstracted and essentialised form, failing to take account of hybridization. For instance, in teaching about Christianity it does not refer to reincarnation, because this is not typically regarded as a Christian doctrine, and yet there are Christians who profess a belief in reincarnation.\nA fourth criticism is that in choosing to focus attention on the \"major\" religions, it makes a value judgement as to what constitutes \"major\" and what does not. \n\nMany scholars of religion have resisted efforts to challenge the paradigm, and as of 2016 was reported as still being widespread in university introductory courses to the study of religion. Many instructors feel that explaining the critique of the world religions paradigm to undergraduate students would be difficult, as the critique would be too complex for many of them to understand. Its continued use has also been defended by the claim that it is what undergraduate students expect and that it mirrors what they will have been taught at school.\n\nSome scholars have argued for the rejection of the world religions paradigm altogether; Cotter and Robertson presented the argument that \"the continued uncritical use of the WRP fosters a breeding ground for relativistic navel-gazing which has no place in the contemporary research university\". Owen was of the view that \"as long as it continues to employ the World Religions paradigm as a default approach (even after deconstructing it), religious studies will fail in its humanistic task\" because it will simply be engaging in \"knowledge transfer\" and not \"critically engaging\" with \"culture and knowledge\". One alternative framework that some scholars use to teach about religion is the \"lived religion\" paradigm, which places emphasis not on distinct religious traditions but on individual experiences and practices. Another alternative is the \"material religion\" framework which focuses on examining religion through material culture and physical objects. Owen noted that, in her experience, many students display an \"initial resistance to alternatives\" as they are expecting the world religions paradigm. She cited the example of her introductory course at Leeds Trinity University College, which was constructed on thematic lines rather than according to the world religions paradigm, and which induced feelings of panic among many undergraduates.\n\nMany scholars who are critical of the world religions paradigm find themselves having to teach it as part of introductory courses for undergraduate students. Some spent much of a course teaching the concept and then several sessions after this deconstructing it. Some scholars have suggested that even when students are taught using the world religions paradigm, it could be a good means of encouraging them to think critically about category formation. The scholar Steven W. Ramey for instance advocated teaching the paradigm in a manner that makes it clear that it is a \"constructed discourse\". Similarly, Baldrick-Morrone, Graziano, and Stoddard suggested that teaching undergraduates about the world religious paradigm helps to explain to students how \"classification is a social act\". They noted that students could leave such a course not only knowing more about the specific religious traditions included in the world religions category, but that they would also leave \"knowing how to better interrogate the world around them\". To avoid promoting the paradigm's portrayal of different religious traditions as rigid, homogenous categories, the scholar Teemu Taira suggested introducing ethnographic case studies into the class to better explain the realities of people's lives and uses of religious traditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "512539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512539", "title": "World tree", "text": "World tree\n\nThe world tree is a motif present in several religions and mythologies, particularly Indo-European religions, Siberian religions, and Native American religions. The world tree is represented as a colossal tree which supports the heavens, thereby connecting the heavens, the terrestrial world, and, through its roots, the underworld. It may also be strongly connected to the motif of the tree of life, but it is the source of wisdom of the ages.\n\nSpecific world trees include \"égig érő fa\" in Hungarian mythology, Ağaç Ana in Turkic mythology, Modun in Mongol mythology, \"Yggdrasil\" (or \"Irminsul\") in Germanic (including Norse) mythology, the oak in Slavic, Finnish and Baltic, Iroko in Yoruba religion, \"Jianmu\" in Chinese mythology, and in Hindu mythology the \"Ashvattha\" (a \"Ficus religiosa\").\n\n\nA common theme in most indigenous cultures of the Americas is a concept of directionality (the horizontal and vertical planes), with the vertical dimension often being represented by a world tree. Some scholars have argued that the religious importance of the horizontal and vertical dimensions in many animist cultures may derive from the human body and the position it occupies in the world as it perceives the surrounding living world. Many Indigenous cultures of the Americas have similar cosmologies regarding the directionality and the world tree, however the type of tree representing the world tree depends on the surrounding environment. For many Indigenous American peoples located in more temperate regions for example, it is the spruce rather than the ceiba that is the world tree; however the idea of cosmic directions combined with a concept of a tree uniting the directional planes is similar.\n\nThe world tree is widespread in Lithuanian folk painting, and is frequently found carved into household furniture such as cupboards, towel holders, and laundry beaters.\n\nThe world tree ( - \"Tree of Dawn\") also was one of the most important beliefs in Latvian mythology.\n\nIn the Iranian mythology, Gaokerena or white Haoma, is a tree that its vivacity would certify continuance of life in universe. Bas tokhmak is another world tree with remedial attribute, it's retentive of all herbal seeds, and destroyer of sorrow. World tree is a common motif in ancient art of Iran.\n\nThe Tree of the knowledge of good and evil and the Tree of life are both components of the Garden of Eden story in the Book of Genesis in the Hebrew Bible. According to Jewish mythology, in the Garden of Eden there is a tree of life or the \"tree of souls\" that blossoms and produces new souls, which fall into the Guf, the \"Treasury of Souls\". The Angel Gabriel reaches into the treasury and takes out the first soul that comes into his hand. Then Lailah, the Angel of Conception, watches over the embryo until it is born.\n\nIn Norse mythology, Yggdrasil is the world tree. Yggdrasil is attested in the \"Poetic Edda\", compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and the \"Prose Edda\", written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson. In both sources, Yggdrasil is an immense ash tree that is central and considered very holy. The Æsir go to Yggdrasil daily to hold their courts. The branches of Yggdrasil extend far into the heavens, and the tree is supported by three roots that extend far away into other locations; one to the well Urðarbrunnr in the heavens, one to the spring Hvergelmir, and another to the well Mímisbrunnr. Creatures live within Yggdrasil, including the harts Dáinn, Dvalinn, Duneyrr and Duraþrór, the giant in eagle-shape Hræsvelgr, the squirrel Ratatoskr and the wyrm Níðhöggr. Scholarly theories have been proposed about the etymology of the name \"Yggdrasil\", the potential relation to the trees Mímameiðr and Læraðr, and the sacred tree at Uppsala.\n\nThe world tree is also represented in the mythologies and folklore of North Asia and Siberia. In the mythology of the Samoyeds, the world tree connects different realities (underworld, this world, upper world) together. In their mythology the world tree is also the symbol of Mother Earth who is said to give the Samoyed shaman his drum and also help him travel from one world to another.\n\nThe symbol of the world tree is also common in Tengrism, an ancient religion of Mongols and Turkic peoples.\n\nThe world tree is visible in the designs of the Crown of Silla, Silla being one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea. This link is used to establish a connection between Siberian peoples and those of Korea.\n\nRemnants are also evident in the Kalpavriksha (\"wish-fulfilling tree\") and the Ashvattha tree of the South Asian religions.\n\nIn Brahma Kumaris religion, the World Tree is portrayed as the \"Kalpa Vriksha Tree\", or \"Tree of Humanity\", in which the founder Brahma Baba (Dada Lekhraj) and his Brahma Kumaris followers are shown as the roots of the humanity who enjoy 2,500 years of paradise as living deities before trunk of humanity splits and the founders of other religions incarnate. Each creates their own branch and brings with them their own followers, until they too decline and split. Twig like schisms, cults and sects appear at the end of the Iron Age.\n\nSome scholars suggest that the world tree is programmed into the human mind by evolutionary biology. Theory suggests that human beings are primates, and lived in trees for around 60 million years. The idea of a vast tree as the entirety of the world is thus still implanted in our collective unconscious.\n\n\n\n\n"}
