{"id": "21538638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538638", "title": "2012 phenomenon", "text": "2012 phenomenon\n\nVarious astronomical alignments and numerological formulae were proposed as pertaining to this date. A New Age interpretation held that the date marked the start of a period during which Earth and its inhabitants would undergo a positive physical or spiritual transformation, and that 21 December 2012 would mark the beginning of a new era. Others suggested that the date marked the end of the world or a similar catastrophe. Scenarios suggested for the end of the world included the arrival of the next solar maximum, an interaction between Earth and the black hole at the center of the galaxy, or Earth's collision with a mythical planet called Nibiru.\n\nScholars from various disciplines quickly dismissed predictions of concomitant cataclysmic events as they arose. Professional Mayanist scholars stated that no extant classic Maya accounts forecast impending doom, and that the idea that the Long Count calendar ends in 2012 misrepresented Maya history and culture, while astronomers rejected the various proposed doomsday scenarios as pseudoscience, easily refuted by elementary astronomical observations.\n\nDecember 2012 marked the conclusion of a \"b'ak'tun\"—a time period in the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar, used in Central America prior to the arrival of Europeans. Although the Long Count was most likely invented by the Olmec, it has become closely associated with the Maya civilization, whose classic period lasted from 250 to 900 AD. The writing system of the classic Maya has been substantially deciphered, meaning that a corpus of their written and inscribed material has survived from before the European conquest.\n\nUnlike the 260-day \"tzolk'in\" still used today among the Maya, the Long Count was linear rather than cyclical, and kept time roughly in units of 20: 20 days made a \"uinal\", 18 uinals (360 days) made a \"tun\", 20 tuns made a \"k'atun\", and 20 k'atuns (144,000 days or roughly 394 years) made up a \"b'ak'tun\". Thus, the Maya date of 8.3.2.10.15 represents 8 b'ak'tuns, 3 k'atuns, 2 tuns, 10 uinals and 15 days.\n\nThere is a strong tradition of \"world ages\" in Maya literature, but the record has been distorted, leaving several possibilities open to interpretation. According to the \"Popol Vuh\", a compilation of the creation accounts of the K'iche' Maya of the Colonial-era highlands, we are living in the fourth world. The \"Popol Vuh\" describes the gods first creating three failed worlds, followed by a successful fourth world in which humanity was placed. In the Maya Long Count, the previous world ended after 13 b'ak'tuns, or roughly 5,125 years. The Long Count's \"zero date\" was set at a point in the past marking the end of the third world and the beginning of the current one, which corresponds to 11 August 3114 BC in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. This means that the fourth world reached the end of its 13th b'ak'tun, or Maya date 13.0.0.0.0, on 21 December 2012. In 1957, Mayanist and astronomer Maud Worcester Makemson wrote that \"the completion of a Great Period of 13 b'ak'tuns would have been of the utmost significance to the Maya.\" In 1966, Michael D. Coe wrote in \"The Maya\" that \"there is a suggestion ... that Armageddon would overtake the degenerate peoples of the world and all creation on the final day of the 13th [b'ak'tun]. Thus ... our present universe [would] be annihilated ... when the Great Cycle of the Long Count reaches completion.\"\n\nCoe's interpretation was repeated by other scholars through the early 1990s. In contrast, later researchers said that, while the end of the 13th b'ak'tun would perhaps be a cause for celebration, it did not mark the end of the calendar. \"There is nothing in the Maya or Aztec or ancient Mesoamerican prophecy to suggest that they prophesied a sudden or major change of any sort in 2012,\" said Mayanist scholar Mark Van Stone. \"The notion of a 'Great Cycle' coming to an end is completely a modern invention.\" In 1990, Mayanist scholars Linda Schele and David Freidel argued that the Maya \"did not conceive this to be the end of creation, as many have suggested\". Susan Milbrath, curator of Latin American Art and Archaeology at the Florida Museum of Natural History, stated that, \"We have no record or knowledge that [the Maya] would think the world would come to an end\" in 2012. Sandra Noble, executive director of the Foundation for the Advancement of Mesoamerican Studies, said, \"For the ancient Maya, it was a huge celebration to make it to the end of a whole cycle,\" and, \"The 2012 phenomenon is a complete fabrication and a chance for a lot of people to cash in.\" \"There will be another cycle,\" said E. Wyllys Andrews V, director of the Tulane University Middle American Research Institute. \"We know the Maya thought there was one before this, and that implies they were comfortable with the idea of another one after this.\" Commenting on the new calendar found at Xultún, one archaeologist said \"The ancient Maya predicted the world would continue – that 7,000 years from now, things would be exactly like this. We keep looking for endings. The Maya were looking for a guarantee that nothing would change. It's an entirely different mindset.\"\n\nSeveral prominent individuals representing Maya of Guatemala decried the suggestion that the world would end with the 13th b'ak'tun. Ricardo Cajas, president of the \"Colectivo de Organizaciones Indígenas de Guatemala\", said the date did not represent an end of humanity but that the new cycle \"supposes changes in human consciousness\". Martín Sacalxot, of the office of the \"Procurador de los Derechos Humanos\" (Guatemala's Human Rights Ombudsman, PDH), said that the end of the calendar has nothing to do with the end of the world or the year 2012.\n\nThe European association of the Maya with eschatology dates back to the time of Christopher Columbus, who was compiling a work called \"Libro de las profecías\" during the voyage in 1502 when he first heard about the \"Maia\" on Guanaja, an island off the north coast of Honduras. Influenced by the writings of Bishop Pierre d'Ailly, Columbus believed that his discovery of \"most distant\" lands (and, by extension, the Maya themselves) was prophesied and would bring about the Apocalypse. End-times fears were widespread during the early years of the Spanish Conquest as the result of popular astrological predictions in Europe of a second Great Flood for the year 1524.\n\nIn the early 1900s, German scholar Ernst Förstemann interpreted the last page of the Dresden Codex as a representation of the end of the world in a cataclysmic flood. He made reference to the destruction of the world and an apocalypse, though he made no reference to the 13th b'ak'tun or 2012 and it was not clear that he was referring to a future event. His ideas were repeated by archaeologist Sylvanus Morley, who directly paraphrased Förstemann and added his own embellishments, writing, \"Finally, on the last page of the manuscript, is depicted the Destruction of the World ... Here, indeed, is portrayed with a graphic touch the final all-engulfing cataclysm\" in the form of a great flood. These comments were later repeated in Morley's book, \"The Ancient Maya\", the first edition of which was published in 1946.\n\nIt is not certain what significance the classic Maya gave to the 13th b'ak'tun. Most classic Maya inscriptions are strictly historical and do not make any prophetic declarations. Two items in the Maya classical corpus, however, do mention the end of the 13th b'ak'tun: Tortuguero Monument 6 and La Corona Hieroglyphic Stairway 12.\n\nThe Tortuguero site, which lies in southernmost Tabasco, Mexico, dates from the 7th century AD and consists of a series of inscriptions mostly in honor of the contemporary ruler Bahlam Ajaw. One inscription, known as Tortuguero Monument 6, is the only inscription known to refer to b'ak'tun 13 in any detail. It has been partially defaced; Sven Gronemeyer and Barbara MacLeod have given this translation:\n\nVery little is known about the god B'olon Yokte'. According to an article by Mayanists Markus Eberl and Christian Prager in \"British Anthropological Reports\", his name is composed of the elements \"nine\", 'OK-te' (the meaning of which is unknown), and \"god\". Confusion in classical period inscriptions suggests that the name was already ancient and unfamiliar to contemporary scribes. He also appears in inscriptions from Palenque, Usumacinta, and La Mar as a god of war, conflict, and the underworld. In one stele he is portrayed with a rope tied around his neck, and in another with an incense bag, together signifying a sacrifice to end a cycle of years.\n\nBased on observations of modern Maya rituals, Gronemeyer and MacLeod claim that the stela refers to a celebration in which a person portraying Bolon Yokte' K'uh was wrapped in ceremonial garments and paraded around the site. They note that the association of Bolon Yokte' K'uh with b'ak'tun 13 appears to be so important on this inscription that it supersedes more typical celebrations such as \"erection of stelae, scattering of incense\" and so forth. Furthermore, they assert that this event was indeed planned for 2012 and not the 7th century. Mayanist scholar Stephen Houston contests this view by arguing that future dates on Maya inscriptions were simply meant to draw parallels with contemporary events, and that the words on the stela describe a contemporary rather than a future scene.\n\nIn April–May 2012, a team of archaeologists unearthed a previously unknown inscription on a stairway at the La Corona site in Guatemala. The inscription, on what is known as Hieroglyphic Stairway 12, describes the establishment of a royal court in Calakmul in 635 AD, and compares the then-recent completion of 13 k'atuns with the future completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. It contains no speculation or prophecy as to what the scribes believed would happen at that time.\n\nMaya inscriptions occasionally mention predicted future events or commemorations that would occur on dates far beyond the completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. Most of these are in the form of \"distance dates\"; Long Count dates together with an additional number, known as a Distance Number, which when added to them makes a future date. On the west panel at the Temple of Inscriptions in Palenque, a section of text projects forward to the 80th 52-year Calendar Round from the coronation of the ruler K'inich Janaab' Pakal. Pakal's accession occurred on 9.9.2.4.8, equivalent to 27 July 615 AD in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. The inscription begins with Pakal's birthdate of 9.8.9.13.0 (24 March, ) and then adds the Distance Number 10.11.10.5.8 to it, arriving at a date of 21 October 4772 AD, more than 4,000 years after Pakal's time.\n\nAnother example is Stela 1 at Coba which marks the date of creation as , or nineteen units above the b'ak'tun. According to Linda Schele, these 13s represent \"the starting point of a huge odometer of time\", with each acting as a zero and resetting to 1 as the numbers increase. Thus this inscription anticipates the current universe lasting at least 20×13×360 days, or roughly 2.687×10 years; a time span equal to 2 quintillion times the age of the universe as determined by cosmologists. Others have suggested, however, that this date marks creation as having occurred after that time span.\n\nIn 2012, researchers announced the discovery of a series of Maya astronomical tables in Xultún, Guatemala which plot the movements of the Moon and other astronomical bodies over the course of 17 b'ak'tuns.\n\nMany assertions about the year 2012 form part of Mayanism, a non-codified collection of New Age beliefs about ancient Maya wisdom and spirituality. The term is distinct from \"Mayanist,\" used to refer to an academic scholar of the Maya. Archaeoastronomer Anthony Aveni says that while the idea of \"balancing the cosmos\" was prominent in ancient Maya literature, the 2012 phenomenon did not draw from those traditions. Instead, it was bound up with American concepts such as the New Age movement, millenarianism, and the belief in secret knowledge from distant times and places. Themes found in 2012 literature included \"suspicion towards mainstream Western culture\", the idea of spiritual evolution, and the possibility of leading the world into the New Age by individual example or by a group's joined consciousness. The general intent of this literature was not to warn of impending doom but \"to foster counter-cultural sympathies and eventually socio-political and 'spiritual' activism\". Aveni, who has studied New Age and search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) communities, describes 2012 narratives as the product of a \"disconnected\" society: \"Unable to find spiritual answers to life's big questions within ourselves, we turn outward to imagined entities that lie far off in space or time—entities that just might be in possession of superior knowledge.\"\n\nIn 1975, the ending of b'ak'tun 13 became the subject of speculation by several New Age authors, who asserted it would correspond with a global \"transformation of consciousness\". In \"Mexico Mystique: The Coming Sixth Age of Consciousness\", Frank Waters tied Coe's original date of 24 December 2011 to astrology and the prophecies of the Hopi, while both José Argüelles (in \"The Transformative Vision\") and Terence McKenna (in \"The Invisible Landscape\") discussed the significance of the year 2012 without mentioning a specific day.\n\nIn 1983, with the publication of Robert J. Sharer's revised table of date correlations in the 4th edition of Morley's \"The Ancient Maya,\" each became convinced that 21 December 2012 had significant meaning. By 1987, the year in which he organized the Harmonic Convergence event, Arguelles was using the date 21 December 2012 in \"The Mayan Factor: Path Beyond Technology\". He claimed that on 13 August 3113 BC the Earth began a passage through a \"galactic synchronization beam\" that emanated from the center of our galaxy, that it would pass through this beam during a period of 5200 \"tuns\" (Maya cycles of 360 days each), and that this beam would result in \"total synchronization\" and \"galactic entrainment\" of individuals \"plugged into the Earth's electromagnetic battery\" by 13.0.0.0.0 (21 December 2012). He believed that the Maya aligned their calendar to correspond to this phenomenon. Anthony Aveni has dismissed all of these ideas.\n\nIn 2006, author Daniel Pinchbeck popularized New Age concepts about this date in his book \"2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl\", linking b'ak'tun 13 to beliefs in crop circles, alien abduction, and personal revelations based on the use of hallucinogenic drugs and mediumship. Pinchbeck claims to discern a \"growing realization that materialism and the rational, empirical worldview that comes with it has reached its expiration date ... [w]e're on the verge of transitioning to a dispensation of consciousness that's more intuitive, mystical and shamanic\".\n\nThere is no significant astronomical event tied to the Long Count's start date. However, its supposed end date was tied to astronomical phenomena by esoteric, fringe, and New Age literature that placed great significance on astrology, especially astrological interpretations associated with the phenomenon of axial precession. Chief among these ideas is the astrological concept of a \"galactic alignment\".\n\nIn the Solar System, the planets and the Sun lie roughly within the same flat plane, known as the plane of the ecliptic. From our perspective on Earth, the ecliptic is the path taken by the Sun across the sky over the course of the year. The twelve constellations that line the ecliptic are known as the zodiacal constellations and, annually, the Sun passes through all of them in turn. Additionally, over time, the Sun's annual cycle appears to recede very slowly backward by one degree every 72 years, or by one constellation approximately every 2,160 years. This backward movement, called \"precession\", is due to a slight wobble in the Earth's axis as it spins, and can be compared to the way a spinning top wobbles as it slows down. Over the course of 25,800 years, a period often called a Great Year, the Sun's path completes a full, 360-degree backward rotation through the zodiac. In Western astrological traditions, precession is measured from the March equinox, one of the two annual points at which the Sun is exactly halfway between its lowest and highest points in the sky. At the end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st, the Sun's March equinox position was in the constellation Pisces moving back into Aquarius. This signaled the end of one astrological age (the Age of Pisces) and the beginning of another (the Age of Aquarius).\n\nSimilarly, the Sun's December solstice position (in the northern hemisphere, the lowest point on its annual path; in the southern hemisphere, the highest) was in the constellation of Sagittarius, one of two constellations in which the zodiac intersects with the Milky Way. Every year, on the December solstice, the Sun and the Milky Way, appear (from the surface of the Earth) to come into alignment, and every year precession caused a slight shift in the Sun's position in the Milky Way. Given that the Milky Way is between 10° and 20° wide, it takes between 700 and 1,400 years for the Sun's December solstice position to precess through it. In 2012 it was about halfway through the Milky Way, crossing the galactic equator. In 2012, the Sun's December solstice fell on 21 December.\n\nMystical speculations about the precession of the equinoxes and the Sun's proximity to the center of the Milky Way appeared in \"Hamlet's Mill\" (1969) by Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Deschend. These were quoted and expanded upon by Terence and Dennis McKenna in \"The Invisible Landscape\" (1975). \n\nAdherents to the idea, following a theory first proposed by Munro Edmonson, alleged that the Maya based their calendar on observations of the Great Rift or Dark Rift, a band of dark dust clouds in the Milky Way, which, according to some scholars, the Maya called the \"Xibalba be\" or \"Black Road\". John Major Jenkins claims that the Maya were aware of where the ecliptic intersected the Black Road and gave this position in the sky a special significance in their cosmology. Jenkins said that precession would align the Sun precisely with the galactic equator at the 2012 winter solstice. Jenkins claimed that the classical Maya anticipated this conjunction and celebrated it as the harbinger of a profound spiritual transition for mankind. New Age proponents of the galactic alignment hypothesis argued that, just as astrology uses the positions of stars and planets to make claims of future events, the Maya plotted their calendars with the objective of preparing for significant world events. Jenkins attributed the insights of ancient Maya shamans about the galactic center to their use of psilocybin mushrooms, psychoactive toads, and other psychedelics. Jenkins also associated the \"Xibalba be\" with a \"world tree\", drawing on studies of contemporary (not ancient) Maya cosmology.\n\nAstronomers such as David Morrison argue that the galactic equator is an entirely arbitrary line and can never be precisely drawn, because it is impossible to determine the Milky Way's exact boundaries, which vary depending on clarity of view. Jenkins claimed he drew his conclusions about the location of the galactic equator from observations taken at above , an altitude that gives a clearer image of the Milky Way than the Maya had access to. Furthermore, since the Sun is half a degree wide, its solstice position takes 36 years to precess its full width. Jenkins himself noted that even given his determined location for the line of the galactic equator, its most precise convergence with the center of the Sun already occurred in 1998, and so asserts that, rather than 2012, the galactic alignment instead focuses on a multi-year period centered in 1998.\n\nThere is no clear evidence that the classic Maya were aware of precession. Some Maya scholars, such as Barbara MacLeod, Michael Grofe, Eva Hunt, Gordon Brotherston, and Anthony Aveni, have suggested that some Mayan holy dates were timed to precessional cycles, but scholarly opinion on the subject remains divided. There is also little evidence, archaeological or historical, that the Maya placed any importance on solstices or equinoxes. It is possible that only the earliest among Mesoamericans observed solstices, but this is also a disputed issue among Mayanists. There is also no evidence that the classic Maya attached any importance to the Milky Way; there is no glyph in their writing system to represent it, and no astronomical or chronological table tied to it.\n\n\"Timewave zero\" is a numerological formula that purports to calculate the ebb and flow of \"novelty\", defined as increase over time in the universe's interconnectedness, or organized complexity. Terence McKenna claimed that the universe has a teleological attractor at the end of time that increases interconnectedness. He believed this which would eventually reach a singularity of infinite complexity in 2012, at which point anything and everything imaginable would occur simultaneously. He conceived this idea over several years in the early to mid-1970s whilst using psilocybin mushrooms and DMT. The scientific community considers novelty theory to be pseudoscience.\n\nMcKenna expressed \"novelty\" in a computer program which produces a waveform known as \"timewave zero\" or the \"timewave\". Based on McKenna's interpretation of the King Wen sequence of the \"I Ching\", an ancient Chinese book on divination, the graph purports to show great periods of novelty corresponding with major shifts in humanity's biological and sociocultural evolution. He believed that the events of any given time are resonantly related to the events of other times, and chose the atomic bombing of Hiroshima as the basis for calculating his end date of November 2012. When he later discovered this date's proximity to the end of the 13th b'ak'tun of the Maya calendar, he revised his hypothesis so that the two dates matched.\n\nThe 1975 first edition of \"The Invisible Landscape\" referred to 2012 (but no specific day during the year) only twice. In the 1993 second edition, McKenna employed Sharer's date of 21 December 2012 throughout.\n\nNovelty theory has been criticized for \"rejecting countless ideas presumed as factual by the scientific community\", depending \"solely on numerous controversial deductions that contradict empirical logic\", and encompassing \"no suitable indication of truth\", with the conclusion that novelty theory is a pseudoscience.\n\nThe idea that the year 2012 presaged a world cataclysm, the end of the world, or the end of human civilization, became a subject of popular media speculation as the date of 21 December 2012 approached. This idea was promulgated by many pages on the Internet, particularly on YouTube. The Discovery Channel was criticized for its \"quasi-documentaries\" about the subject that \"sacrifice[d] accuracy for entertainment\".\n\nSome people interpreted the galactic alignment apocalyptically, claiming that its occurrence would somehow create a combined gravitational effect between the Sun and the supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy (known as Sagittarius A*), creating havoc on Earth. Apart from the \"galactic alignment\" already having happened in 1998, the Sun's apparent path through the zodiac as seen from Earth did not take it near the true galactic center, but rather several degrees above it. Even were this not the case, Sagittarius A* is 30,000 light years from Earth; it would have to have been more than 6 million times closer to cause any gravitational disruption to Earth's Solar System. This reading of the alignment was included on the History Channel documentary \"Decoding the Past\". John Major Jenkins complained that a science fiction writer co-authored the documentary, and he went on to characterize it as \"45 minutes of unabashed doomsday hype and the worst kind of inane sensationalism\".\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday used the term \"galactic alignment\" to describe a different phenomenon proposed by some scientists to explain a pattern in mass extinctions supposedly observed in the fossil record. According to the Shiva Hypothesis, mass extinctions are not random, but recur every 26 million years. To account for this, it was suggested that vertical oscillations made by the Sun on its 250-million-year orbit of the galactic center cause it to regularly pass through the galactic plane. When the Sun's orbit takes it outside the galactic plane which bisects the galactic disc, the influence of the galactic tide is weaker. However, when re-entering the galactic disc—as it does every 20–25 million years—it comes under the influence of the far stronger \"disc tides\", which, according to mathematical models, increase the flux of Oort cloud comets into the inner Solar System by a factor of 4, thus leading to a massive increase in the likelihood of a devastating comet impact. However, this \"alignment\" takes place over tens of millions of years, and could never be timed to an exact date. Evidence shows that the Sun passed through the plane bisecting the galactic disc three million years ago and in 2012 was moving farther above it.\n\nA third suggested alignment was some sort of planetary conjunction occurring on 21 December 2012; however, there was no conjunction on that date. Multi-planet alignments did occur in both 2000 and 2010, each with no ill result for the Earth. Jupiter is the largest planet in the Solar System; larger than all other planets combined. When Jupiter is near opposition, the difference in gravitational force that the Earth experiences is less than 1% of the force that the Earth feels daily from the Moon.\n\nAnother idea tied to 2012 involved a geomagnetic reversal (often referred to as a pole shift by proponents), possibly triggered by a massive solar flare, that would release an energy equal to 100 billion atomic bombs. This belief was supposedly supported by observations that the Earth's magnetic field was weakening, which could precede a reversal of the north and south magnetic poles, and the arrival of the next solar maximum, which was expected sometime around 2012.\n\nMost scientific estimates, however, say that geomagnetic reversals take between 1,000 and 10,000 years to complete, and do not start on any particular date. Furthermore, the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicted that the solar maximum would peak in late 2013 or 2014, and that it would be fairly weak, with a below-average number of sunspots. In any case, there was no scientific evidence linking a solar maximum to a geomagnetic reversal, which is driven by forces entirely within the Earth. Instead, a solar maximum would be mostly notable for its effects on satellite and cellular phone communications. David Morrison attributed the rise of the solar storm idea to physicist and science popularizer Michio Kaku, who claimed in an interview with Fox News that a solar peak in 2012 could be disastrous for orbiting satellites, and to NASA's headlining a 2006 webpage as \"Solar Storm Warning\", a term later repeated on several doomsday pages.\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday claimed that a planet called Planet X, or Nibiru, would collide with or pass by the Earth. This idea, which appeared in various forms since 1995, initially predicted Doomsday in May 2003, but proponents abandoned that date after it passed without incident. The idea originated from claims of channeling alien beings and is widely ridiculed. Astronomers calculated that such an object so close to Earth would be visible to anyone looking up at the night sky.\n\nAuthor Graham Hancock, in his book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\", interpreted Coe's remarks in \"Breaking the Maya Code\" as evidence for the prophecy of a global cataclysm. Filmmaker Roland Emmerich later credited the book with inspiring his 2009 disaster film \"2012\".\n\nOther speculations regarding doomsday in 2012 included predictions by the Web Bot project, a computer program that purports to predict the future by analyzing Internet chatter. However, commentators have rejected claims that the bot is able to predict natural disasters, as opposed to human-caused disasters like stock market crashes.\n\nThe 2012 date was also loosely tied to the long-running concept of the Photon Belt, which predicted a form of interaction between Earth and Alcyone, the largest star of the Pleiades cluster. Critics argued that photons cannot form belts, that the Pleiades, located more than 400 light years away, could have no effect on Earth, and that the Solar System, rather than getting closer to the Pleiades, was in fact moving farther away from it.\n\nSome media outlets tied the fact that the red supergiant star Betelgeuse would undergo a supernova at some point in the future to the 2012 phenomenon. However, while Betelgeuse was certainly in the final stages of its life, and would die as a supernova, there was no way to predict the timing of the event to within 100,000 years. To be a threat to Earth, a supernova would need to be no further than 25 light years from the Solar System. Betelgeuse is roughly 600 light years away, and so its supernova would not affect Earth. In December 2011, NASA's Francis Reddy issued a press release debunking the possibility of a supernova occurring in 2012.\n\nAnother claim involved alien invasion. In December 2010, an article, first published in examiner.com and later referenced in the English-language edition of \"Pravda\" claimed, citing a Second Digitized Sky Survey photograph as evidence, that SETI had detected three large spacecraft due to arrive at Earth in 2012. Astronomer and debunker Phil Plait noted that by using the small-angle formula, one could determine that if the object in the photo were as large as claimed, it would have had to be closer to Earth than the Moon, which would mean it would already have arrived. In January 2011, Seth Shostak, chief astronomer of SETI, issued a press release debunking the claims.\n\nThe phenomenon spread widely after coming to public notice, particularly on the Internet. Hundreds of thousands of websites were posted on the subject. \"Ask an Astrobiologist\", a NASA public outreach website, received over 5,000 questions from the public on the subject from 2007, some asking whether they should kill themselves, their children or their pets. In May 2012, an Ipsos poll of 16,000 adults in 21 countries found that 8 percent had experienced fear or anxiety over the possibility of the world ending in December 2012, while an average of 10 percent agreed with the statement \"the Mayan calendar, which some say 'ends' in 2012, marks the end of the world\", with responses as high as 20 percent in China, 13 percent in Russia, Turkey, Japan and Korea, and 12 percent in the United States. At least one suicide was directly linked to fear of a 2012 apocalypse, with others anecdotally reported. Jared Lee Loughner, the perpetrator of the 2011 Tucson shooting, followed 2012-related predictions. A panel of scientists questioned on the topic at a plenary session at the Astronomical Society of the Pacific contended that the Internet played a substantial role in allowing this doomsday date to gain more traction than previous similar panics.\n\nBeginning in 2000, the small French village of Bugarach, population 189, began receiving visits from \"esoterics\"—mystic believers who had concluded that the local mountain, Pic de Bugarach, was the ideal location to weather the transformative events of 2012. In 2011, the local mayor, Jean-Pierre Delord, began voicing fears to the international press that the small town would be overwhelmed by an influx of thousands of visitors in 2012, even suggesting he might call in the army. \"We've seen a huge rise in visitors\", Delord told \"The Independent\" in March 2012. \"Already this year more than 20,000 people have climbed right to the top, and last year we had 10,000 hikers, which was a significant rise on the previous 12 months. They think Pic de Bugarach is 'un garage à ovnis' [a garage for UFOs]. The villagers are exasperated: the exaggerated importance of something which they see as completely removed from reality is bewildering. After 21 December, this will surely return to normal.\" In December 2012, the French government placed 100 police and firefighters around both Bugarach and Pic de Bugarach, limiting access to potential visitors. Ultimately, only about 1,000 visitors appeared at the height of the \"event\". Two raves were foiled, 12 people had to be turned away from the peak, and 5 people were arrested for carrying weapons. Jean-Pierre Delord was criticised by members of the community for failing to take advantage of the media attention and promote the region.\n\nThe Turkish village of Şirince, near Ephesus, expected to receive over 60,000 visitors on 21 December 2012, as New Age mystics believed its \"positive energy\" would aid in weathering the catastrophe. Only a fraction of that number actually arrived, with a substantial component being police and journalists, and the expected windfall failed to materialise.\n\nSimilarly, the pyramid-like mountain of Rtanj, in the Serbian Carpathians, attracted much apocalyptic attention, as many believed an artificial pyramid structure buried within it would emit a powerful force shield on the day, protecting those within it. Hotels around the base received up to 500 bookings a piece for rooms.\n\nIn Russia, inmates of a women's prison experienced \"a collective mass psychosis\" in the weeks leading up to the supposed doomsday, while residents of a factory town near Moscow reportedly emptied a supermarket of matches, candles, food and other supplies. The Minister of Emergency Situations declared in response that according to \"methods of monitoring what is occurring on the planet Earth\", there would be no apocalypse in December. When asked when the world would end in a press conference, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, \"In about 4.5 billion years.\"\n\nIn December 2012, Vatican astronomer Rev. José Funes wrote in the Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\" that apocalyptic theories around 2012 were \"not even worth discussing\".\n\nIn China, up to one thousand members of the Christian cult Almighty God were arrested after claiming that the end of b'ak'tun 13 marked the end of the world, and that it was time to overthrow Communism. Shoppers were reported to be hoarding supplies of candles in anticipation of coming darkness, while online retailer Taobao sold tickets to board Noah's Ark to customers. Bookings for wedding ceremonies on 21 December 2012 were saturated in several cities. On 14 December 2012, a man in Henan province attacked and wounded twenty-three children with a knife. Authorities suspected the man had been \"influenced\" by the prediction of the upcoming apocalypse. Academics in China attributed the widespread belief in the 2012 doomsday in their country to a lack of scientific literacy and a mistrust of the government-controlled media.\n\nOn 6 December 2012, Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard delivered a hoax speech for the radio station triple J in which she declared \"My dear remaining fellow Australians; the end of the world is coming. Whether the final blow comes from flesh-eating zombies, demonic hell-beasts or from the total triumph of K-Pop, if you know one thing about me it is this – I will always fight for you to the very end.\" Radio announcer Neil Mitchell described the hoax as \"immature\" and pondered whether it demeaned her office.\n\nThose Mesoamerican countries that once formed part of the Maya civilization – Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador – all organized festivities to commemorate the end of b'ak'tun 13 at the largest Maya sites. On 21 December 2011, the Maya town of Tapachula in Chiapas activated an eight-foot digital clock counting down the days until the end of b'ak'tun 13. On 21 December 2012, major events took place at Chichén Itzá in Mexico and Tikal in Guatemala. In El Salvador, the largest event was held at Tazumal, and in Honduras, at Copán. In all of these archaeological sites, Maya rituals were held at dawn led by shamans and Maya priests.\n\nOn the final day of b'ak'tun 13, residents of Yucatán and other regions formerly dominated by the ancient Maya celebrated what they saw as the dawn of a new, better era. According to official figures from Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH), about 50,000 people visited Mexican archaeological sites on 21 December 2012. Of those, 10,000 visited Chichén Itzá in Yucatán, 9,900 visited Tulum in Quintana Roo, and 8,000 visited Palenque in Chiapas. An additional 10,000 people visited Teotihuacan near Mexico City, which is not a Maya site. The main ceremony in Chichén Itzá was held at dawn in the plaza of the Temple of Kukulkán, one of the principal symbols of Maya culture. The archaeological site was opened two hours early to receive thousands of tourists, mostly foreigners who came to participate in events scheduled for the end of b'ak'tun 13.\n\nThe fire ceremony at Tikal was held at dawn in the main plaza of the Temple of the Great Jaguar. The ceremony was led by Guatemalan and foreign priests. The President of Guatemala, Otto Pérez, and of Costa Rica, Laura Chinchilla, participated in the event as special guests. During the ceremony the priests asked for unity, peace and the end of discrimination and racism, with the hope that the start of a new cycle will be a \"new dawn\". About 3,000 people participated in the event.\n\nMost of these events were organized by agencies of the Mexican and Central American governments, and their respective tourism industries expected to attract thousands of visitors. Mexico is visited by about 22 million foreigners in a typical year. However, in 2012, the national tourism agency expected to attract 52 million visitors just to the regions of Chiapas, Yucatán, Quintana Roo, Tabasco and Campeche. A Maya activist group in Guatemala, Oxlaljuj Ajpop, objected to the commercialization of the date. A spokesman from the Conference of Maya Ministers commented that for them the Tikal ceremony is not a show for tourists but something spiritual and personal. The secretary of the Great Council of Ancestral Authorities commented that living Maya felt they were excluded from the activities in Tikal. This group held a parallel ceremony, and complained that the date has been used for commercial gain. In addition, before the main Tikal ceremony, about 200 Maya protested the celebration because they felt excluded. Most modern Maya were indifferent to the ceremonies, and the small number of people still practising ancient rites held solemn, more private ceremonies.\n\nOsvaldo Gomez, a technical advisor to the Tikal site, complained that many visitors during the celebration had illegally climbed the stairs of the Temple of the Masks, causing \"irreparable\" damage.\n\nIn Brazil, Décio Colla, the Mayor of the City of São Francisco de Paula, Rio Grande do Sul, mobilized the population to prepare for the end of the world by stocking up on food and supplies. In the city of Corguinho, in the Mato Grosso do Sul, a colony was built for survivors of the expected tragedy. In Alto Paraíso de Goiás, the hotels also made specific reservations for prophetic dates. On 11 October 2012, in the Brazilian city of Teresina, police interrupted what was believed to have been an attempted mass suicide by up to one hundred members of a cult headed by self-proclaimed prophet Luis Pereira dos Santos, who predicted the end of the world on the feast day of Our Lady of Aparecida. Santos was subsequently arrested.\n\nIn Bolivia, President Evo Morales participated in Quechua and Aymara rituals, organized with government support, to commemorate the Southern solstice that took place in Isla del Sol, in the southern part of Lake Titicaca. During the event, Morales proclaimed the beginning of \"Pachakuti\", meaning the world's wake up to a culture of life and the beginning of the end to wild capitalism, and he proposed to dismantle the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.\n\nOn 21 December 2012, the Uritorco in Córdoba, Argentina was closed, as a mass suicide there had been proposed on Facebook.\n\nIn the United States, sales of private underground blast shelters increased noticeably after 2009, with many construction companies' advertisements calling attention to the 2012 apocalypse. In Michigan, schools were closed for the Christmas holidays two days early, in part because rumours of the 2012 apocalypse were raising fears of repeat shootings similar to that at Sandy Hook. American reality TV stars Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt revealed that they had spent most of their $10 million of accumulated earnings by 2010 because they believed the world would end in 2012.\n\nThe 2012 phenomenon was discussed or referenced in several media. Several TV documentaries, as well as some contemporary fictional references to the year 2012, referred to 21 December as the day of a cataclysmic event.\n\nThe UFO conspiracy TV series \"The X-Files\" cited 22 December 2012 as the date for an alien colonization of the Earth and mentioned the Mayan calendar \"stopping\" on this date. The History Channel aired a handful of special series on doomsday that included analysis of 2012 theories, such as \"Decoding the Past\" (2005–2007), \"2012, End of Days\" (2006), \"Last Days on Earth\" (2006), \"Seven Signs of the Apocalypse\" (2009), and \"Nostradamus 2012\" (2008). The Discovery Channel also aired \"2012 Apocalypse\" in 2009, suggesting that massive solar storms, magnetic pole reversal, earthquakes, supervolcanoes, and other drastic natural events could occur in 2012. In 2012, the National Geographic Channel launched a show called \"Doomsday Preppers\", a documentary series about survivalists preparing for various cataclysms, including the 2012 doomsday.\n\nHundreds of books were published on the topic. The bestselling book of 2009, Dan Brown's \"The Lost Symbol\", featured a coded mock email number (2456282.5) that decoded to the Julian date for 21 December 2012.\n\nIn cinema, the 2009 disaster film \"2012\" was inspired by the phenomenon, and advance promotion prior to its release included a stealth marketing campaign in which TV spots and websites from the fictional \"Institute for Human Continuity\" called on people to prepare for the end of the world. As these promotions did not mention the film itself, many viewers believed them to be real and contacted astronomers in panic. Although the campaign was heavily criticized, the film became one of the most successful of its year, grossing nearly $770 million worldwide. An article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" attributed the widespread fear of the 2012 phenomenon in China to the film, which was a smash hit in that country because it depicted the Chinese building \"survival arks\". Lars von Trier's 2011 film \"Melancholia\" featured a plot in which a planet emerges from behind the Sun on a collision course with Earth. Announcing his company's purchase of the film, the head of Magnolia Pictures said in a press release, \"As the 2012 apocalypse is upon us, it is time to prepare for a cinematic last supper\".\n\nThe phenomenon also inspired several rock and pop music hits. As early as 1997, \"A Certain Shade of Green\" by Incubus referred to the mystical belief that a shift in perception would arrive in 2012 (\"Are you gonna stand around till 2012 A.D.? / What are you waiting for, a certain shade of green?\"). More recent hits include \"2012 (It Ain't the End)\" (2010) performed by Jay Sean and \"Till the World Ends\" (2011) performed by Britney Spears. Towards mid-December 2012, an internet hoax related to South Korean singer Psy being one of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse was widely circulated around social media platforms. The hoax purported that once Psy's \"Gangnam Style\" YouTube video amassed a billion views, the world would end. Indian composer A. R. Rahman, known for \"Slumdog Millionaire\", released his single \"Infinite Love\" to \"instill faith and optimism in people\" prior to the predicted doomsday. The artwork for All Time Low's 2012 album \"Don't Panic\" satirizes various cataclysmic events associated with the world ending on 21 December 2012.\n\nA number of brands ran commercials tied to the 2012 apocalypse in the months and days leading to the date. In February 2012, American automotive company General Motors aired an advertisement during the annual Super Bowl football game in which a group of friends drove Chevrolet Silverados through the ruins of human civilization following the 2012 apocalypse, while on 17 December 2012, Jell-O ran an ad saying that offering Jell-O to the Mayan gods would appease them into sparing the world. John Verret, Professor of Advertising at Boston University, questioned the utility of tying large sums of money to such a unique and short-term event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54129701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54129701", "title": "999 phone charging myth", "text": "999 phone charging myth\n\nThe 999 phone charging myth is an urban myth which claims that if a mobile phone has low battery then dialing 999 (or any regional emergency number) charges the phone so it has more power. This was confirmed as a myth by several British police forces who publicly cited the dangers of making such calls.\n\nThe basis for the myth was a feature of BlackBerry phones: If the battery level was too low, the phone automatically locked down phone features and shut down the phone radio for all calls except to emergency services. People discovered that if they dialed 999 then immediately hung up, it would override the shutdown for a number of minutes so that phone calls could be made.\n\nThe myth is believed to have originated in BlackBerry forums around 2012. In 2013, Derbyshire Constabulary released a press release telling people not to believe the myth that calling 999 charges the battery. They cited that for every silent or aborted 999 call received, the operators have to call the person back to make sure there is no emergency. These hoax calls waste police time that could potentially block responses to real emergencies. Bedfordshire Police also released information asking people not to call 999 except for an emergency as they stated that in the last six months of 2013 they had an increase in hoax 999 calls from people believing the myth. Other sources supplemented these press releases by stating that misusing the 999 number is illegal. They also stated that the police could cut off telephones being used to abuse the 999 service.\n\nA related myth emerged: that when Siri on an iPhone is told, \"Charge my phone to 100%\", the phone would call emergency services as a secret safety code. This was later traced to a bug in Apple programming that was fixed within a day. The myth continued to spread on social media as a prank.\n"}
{"id": "30890892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30890892", "title": "Abu Salim prison", "text": "Abu Salim prison\n\nAbu Salim prison () is a maximum security prison in Tripoli, Libya. The prison was notorious during the rule of Muammar Gaddafi for alleged mistreatment and human rights abuses, including a massacre in 1996 in which Human Rights Watch estimated that 1,270 prisoners were killed. \n\nIn 2011, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nAmnesty International has called for an independent inquiry into deaths that occurred there on 29 June 1996, an incident which some have referred to as the Abu Salim prison massacre. Human Rights Watch believes that 1,270 prisoners were killed. HRW also calls the prison a \"site of egregious human rights violations.\" Human Rights Watch also stated in a report that they were unable to independently verify the allegations of a massacre. The claims cited by Human Rights Watch are based on the testimony of a single former inmate, Hussein Al Shafa’i, who stated that he did not witness a prisoner being killed: \"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot...\" The figure of over 1200 killed was arrived at by Al Shafa’i allegedly calculating the number of meals he prepared when he was working in the prison's kitchen. Al Shafa'i stated \"I was asked by the prison guards to wash the watches that were taken from the bodies of the dead prisoners...\"\n\nLibyan Government rejected the allegations about a massacre in Abu Salim. In May 2005, the Internal Security Agency head of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya told Human Rights Watch that the prisoners captured some guards and stole weapons from the prison cache. The prisoners and guards died as security personnel tried to restore order, and the government opened an investigation on the order of the Minister of Justice. The Libyan official stated that more than 400 prisoners escaped Abu Salim in four separate break-outs prior to and after the incident: in July 1995, December 1995, June 1996 and July 2001. Among the escapees were men who then fought with Islamist militant groups in Afghanistan, Iran, and Iraq.\n\nJournalist Lindsey Hilsum explored the topic in her 2012 book \"Sandstorm\". She met with a number of families who claimed their family members had been at the prison. She describes the massacre number as an uncertain estimate for several reasons; the main problem being the government's long term silence about the whereabouts of prisoners and their condition. She also describes eyewitness accounts of a mass shooting.\n\nThe families of the disappeared and killed formed a loose association and held numerous protests in Benghazi. Lawyer Fathi Terbil helped represent them. He was arrested several times for his trouble. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi (son of the dictator) tried to resolve the issue via his Gaddafi International Foundation for Charity Associations circa 2007.\n\nThe Libyan government said in 2009, then controlled by the same people as at the time of the event, that the killings took place amid confrontation between the government and rebels from the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, and that some 200 guards were killed too. In January 2011, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya confirmed that it was carrying out an investigation into the incident along with international investigators. Statements made in an interview with the BBC by the captured Mansour Dhao, a prominent figure in the Gaddafi regime, provides further evidence for the massacre.\n\nWhen the Arab Spring occurred in Tunisia and Egypt, lawyer Fathi Terbil was amongst the first arrested by Libyan authorities trying to stave off a revolution. The Abu Salim families gathered to protest his imprisonment, and this gathering eventually contributed to the revolution in Libya. Abdullah Senussi, Gaddafi's intelligence chief suspected by many to have been involved in the 1996 massacre, reportedly tried to ask Terbil to make the protests stop.\n\nOn 25 September 2011, soon after the previous government had been overthrown, the governing National Transitional Council (NTC) said that a mass grave had been discovered outside the prison. Khalid al-Sherif, a military spokesman for the NTC, said that the grave was located based on information from captured former regime officials. He stated: \"We have discovered the truth about what the Libyan people have been waiting for many years, and it is the bodies and remains of the Abu Salim massacre.\" Ibrahim Abu Shim, a member of the committee looking for mass graves, said that investigators believed 1,270 people were buried in the grave but the NTC needed help from the international community to find and identify the remains as they lacked the sophisticated equipment needed for DNA testing. However, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nBefore the civil war, the lawyer Abdul Hafiz Ghoga took the legal representation for the families of people killed in the massacre and negotiated with Gaddafi about compensations. During the uprise Ghoga became speaker of the National Transitional Council, in April 2011 vice president, and held this position until January 2012.\n\n\nOn 24 January 2010, the Libyan authorities blocked access to YouTube after it featured videos of demonstrations in the Libyan city of Benghazi by families of detainees who were killed in Abu Salim prison in 1996, and videos of family members of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi at parties.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War the prison was captured by the rebels on 24 August and all prisoners were set free. Among those confirmed to have been freed was volunteer rebel fighter Matthew VanDyke from Baltimore, Maryland, USA, a member of a rebel unit captured by the Libyan Army in Brega in March. An international campaign to free VanDyke had described him as a \"writer and journalist,\" but it was later revealed that he was a rebel fighter and prisoner of war.\n"}
{"id": "13416327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13416327", "title": "Accident-proneness", "text": "Accident-proneness\n\nAccident-proneness, also known as clumsiness, is the idea that some people have a greater predisposition than others to suffer accidents, such as car crashes and industrial injuries. It may be used as a reason to deny any insurance on such individuals.\n\nThe early work on this subject dates back to 1919, in a study by Greenwood and Woods, who studied workers at a British munitions factory and found that accidents were unevenly distributed among workers, with a relatively small proportion of workers accounting for most of the accidents.\nFurther work on accident-proneness was carried out in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe subject is still being studied actively. Research into accident-proneness is of great interest in safety engineering, where human factors such as pilot error, or errors by nuclear plant operators, can have massive effects on the reliability and safety of a system.\nOne of the areas of most interest and more profound research is the Aeronautical area, where accidents have been reviewed from psychological and human factors, to mechanical and technical failures. There has been many conclusive studies, that present that human factor has great influence on the results of those occurrences.\n\nStatistical evidence clearly demonstrates that different individuals can have different rates of accidents from one another; for example, young male drivers are the group at highest risk for being involved in car accidents. There also seems to be substantial variation in personal accident rates between individuals.\n\nHowever, a number of studies have cast doubt on whether accident-proneness actually exists as a \"distinct, persistent and independently verifiable\" physiological or psychological syndrome. Although substantial research has been devoted to this subject, there still seems to be no conclusive evidence either for or against the existence of accident proneness in this sense.\n\nThe exact nature and causes of accident-proneness, assuming that it exists as a distinct entity, are unknown. Factors which have been considered as associated with accident-proneness have included absent-mindedness, clumsiness, carelessness, impulsivity, predisposition to risk-taking, and unconscious desires to create accidents as a way of achieving secondary gains.\nBroad studies on the speed and accuracy using a specially designed test sheet of finding a specific figure on various people as Japanese, Brazil born Japanese, Chinese, Russian, Spanish, Filipinos, Thai and Central Americans with different educational backgrounds. The studies have revealed that educational background or study experience is the key factor of concentration capability. Screening new employees using this test gave drastic decrease of work accidents in several companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5732655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5732655", "title": "Alternate ending", "text": "Alternate ending\n\nAlternate ending (British English: alternative ending) is a term used (usually in movies) to describe the ending of a story that was planned or debated but ultimately unused in favor of the actual ending. Generally, alternative endings are considered to have no bearing on the canonical narrative. On the internet, amateurs may make their own alternative endings.\n\nAlternative endings are often filmed before being scrapped, and may be subsequently included as a special feature in the film's DVD release. These alternative endings are a special type of deleted scene. In other cases, ideas that were presented but discarded early on are alluded to by the production team in commentary or interviews.\n\nSome films or movies also present the alternative ending on International releases as well as their international Home media release, with its original region release only showing the alternative ending on certain TV channels.\n\nThe following are examples of known alternative endings to movies:\n\nIn TV shows, producers may want to keep the ending of an episode a secret, even if it means keeping it from the stars themselves. In such a case, they will usually film more than one ending and not tell the cast which one will be used.\n\nMany video games also have alternative endings. These endings are generally posed after completing the game in a harder difficulty, or taking a different route through the game's storyline.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21188248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21188248", "title": "Analog-to-digital timeline", "text": "Analog-to-digital timeline\n\nThis page serves as a timeline to show when analog devices were first made with digital circuits and systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43176195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43176195", "title": "Asia Tour", "text": "Asia Tour\n\nThe Asia Tour was planned to be the eleventh concert tour by Canadian singer Celine Dion. The tour was organized to support the English language album \"Loved Me Back to Life\", and was scheduled to take place in October and November 2014. It would have marked Dion's first concerts in Asia since the Taking Chances World Tour in 2008. While Japan and the Philippines were the only confirmed stops of the tour, it has been revealed that the singer was planned to be performing dates in several Asian countries for the very first time.\n\nThe tour was organized to support the English language album \"Loved Me Back to Life\", and was scheduled to take place in October and November 2014. Japan and the Philippines were officially announced. However, there were unofficial dates and venues for Taiwan, China, South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand but because of the cancellation the ticket were never put on sale. In total, 14 concerts were supposed to take place.\n\nCeline's concerts in Tokyo and Osaka sold out immediately after tickets went on sale.\n\nOn 13 August 2014, Dion has announced that the tour has been cancelled due to ongoing illness and family issues.\n\nAccording to a statement released by the singer:\n\nIn the official announcement for the Japan and Philippine tour, it was revealed that the impersonator Véronic DiCaire had been invited to join Celine as the opening act for these shows.\n\nThe official setlist had yet to be announced, although in an exclusive video message to her Japanese fans, Dion promised a new show featuring songs from her latest English album, \"Loved Me Back to Life\", as well as fan favorites from the past. Celine was also rehearsing one song in Japanese and one in Mandarin for the tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "174883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174883", "title": "Catastrophism", "text": "Catastrophism\n\nCatastrophism was the theory that the Earth had largely been shaped by sudden, short-lived, violent events, possibly worldwide in scope. This was in contrast to uniformitarianism (sometimes described as gradualism), in which slow incremental changes, such as erosion, created all the Earth's geological features. Uniformitarianism held that the present was the key to the past, and that all geological processes (such as erosion) throughout the past were like those that can be observed now. Since the early disputes, a more inclusive and integrated view of geologic events has developed, in which the scientific consensus accepts that there were some catastrophic events in the geologic past, but these were explicable as extreme examples of natural processes which can occur.\n\nCatastrophism held that geological epochs had ended with violent and sudden natural catastrophes such as great floods and the rapid formation of major mountain chains. Plants and animals living in the parts of the world where such events occurred were made extinct, being replaced abruptly by the new forms whose fossils defined the geological strata. Some catastrophists attempted to relate at least one such change to the Biblical account of Noah's flood.\n\nThe concept was first popularised by the early 19th-century French scientist Georges Cuvier, who proposed that new life forms had moved in from other areas after local floods, and avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings.\n\nIn the early development of geology, efforts were made in a predominantly Christian western society to reconcile biblical narratives of Creation and the universal flood with new concepts about the processes which had formed the Earth. The discovery of other ancient flood myths was taken as explaining why the flood story was \"stated in scientific methods with surprising frequency among the Greeks\", an example being Plutarch's account of the Ogygian flood.\n\nThe leading scientific proponent of catastrophism in the early nineteenth century was the French anatomist and paleontologist Georges Cuvier. His motivation was to explain the patterns of extinction and faunal succession that he and others were observing in the fossil record. While he did speculate that the catastrophe responsible for the most recent extinctions in Eurasia might have been the result of the inundation of low-lying areas by the sea, he did not make any reference to Noah's flood. Nor did he ever make any reference to divine creation as the mechanism by which repopulation occurred following the extinction event. In fact Cuvier, influenced by the ideas of the Enlightenment and the intellectual climate of the French revolution, avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings. Cuvier also believed that the stratigraphic record indicated that there had been several of these revolutions, which he viewed as recurring natural events, amid long intervals of stability during the history of life on earth. This led him to believe the Earth was several million years old.\n\nBy contrast in Britain, where natural theology was influential during the early nineteenth century, a group of geologists including William Buckland and Robert Jameson interpreted Cuvier's work differently. Cuvier had written an introduction to a collection of his papers on fossil quadrupeds, discussing his ideas on catastrophic extinction. Jameson translated Cuvier's introduction into English, publishing it under the title \"Theory of the Earth\". He added extensive editorial notes to the translation, explicitly linking the latest of Cuvier's revolutions with the biblical flood. The resulting essay was extremely influential in the English-speaking world. Buckland spent much of his early career trying to demonstrate the reality of the biblical flood using geological evidence. He frequently cited Cuvier's work, even though Cuvier had proposed an inundation of limited geographic extent and extended duration, whereas Buckland, to be consistent with the biblical account, was advocating a universal flood of short duration. Eventually, Buckland abandoned flood geology in favor of the glaciation theory advocated by Louis Agassiz, following a visit to the Alps where Agassiz demonstrated the effects of glaciation at first hand. As a result of the influence of Jameson, Buckland, and other advocates of natural theology, the nineteenth century debate over catastrophism took on much stronger religious overtones in Britain than elsewhere in Europe.\n\nUniformitarian explanations for the formation of sedimentary rock and an understanding of the immense stretch of geological time, or as the concept came to be known deep time, were found in the writing of James Hutton, sometimes known as the father of geology, in the late 18th century. The geologist Charles Lyell built upon Hutton's ideas during the first half of 19th century and amassed observations in support of the uniformitarian idea that the Earth's features had been shaped by same geological processes that could be observed in the present acting gradually over an immense period of time. Lyell presented his ideas in the influential three volume work, \"Principles of Geology\", published in the 1830s, which challenged theories about geological cataclysms proposed by proponents of catastrophism like Cuvier and Buckland.\n\nFrom around 1850 to 1980, most geologists endorsed uniformitarianism (\"The present is the key to the past\") and gradualism (\"geologic change occurs slowly over long periods of time\") and rejected the idea that cataclysmic events such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, or floods of vastly greater power than those observed at the present time, played any significant role in the formation of the Earth's surface. Instead they believed that the earth had been shaped by the long term action of forces such as volcanism, earthquakes, erosion, and sedimentation, that could still be observed in action today. In part, the geologists' rejection was fostered by their impression that the catastrophists of the early nineteenth century believed that God was directly involved in determining the history of Earth. Some of the theories about Catastrophism in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were connected with religion and catastrophic origins were sometimes considered miraculous rather than natural events.\n\nThe rise in uniformitarianism made the introduction of a new catastrophe theory very difficult. In 1923 J Harlen Bretz published a paper on the channeled scablands formed by glacial Lake Missoula in Washington State, USA. Bretz encountered resistance to his theories from the geology establishment of the day, kicking off an acrimonious 40 year debate. Finally in 1979 Bretz received the Penrose Medal; the Geological Society of America's highest award.\n\nIn the 1950s, Immanuel Velikovsky propounded catastrophism in several popular books. He speculated that the planet Venus is a former \"comet\" which was ejected from Jupiter and subsequently 3,500 years ago made two catastrophic close passes by Earth, 52 years apart, and later interacted with Mars, which then had a series of near collisions with Earth which ended in 687 BCE, before settling into its current orbit. Velikovsky used this to explain the biblical plagues of Egypt, the biblical reference to the \"Sun standing still\" for a day (Joshua 10:12 & 13, explained by changes in Earth's rotation), and the sinking of Atlantis. Scientists vigorously rejected Velikovsky's conjectures.\n\nNeocatastrophism is the explanation of sudden extinctions in the palaeontological record by high magnitude, low frequency events (such as asteroid impacts, super-volcanic eruptions, supernova gamma ray bursts, etc.), as opposed to the more prevalent geomorphological thought which emphasises low magnitude, high frequency events.\n\nOver the past 25 years, a scientifically based catastrophism has gained wide acceptance with regard to certain events in the distant past. One impetus for this change came from the publication of a historic paper by Walter and Luis Alvarez in 1980. This paper suggested that a asteroid struck Earth 66 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. The impact wiped out about 70% of all species, including the dinosaurs, leaving behind the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary (K–T boundary). In 1990, a candidate crater marking the impact was identified at Chicxulub in the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico.\n\nSince then, the debate about the extinction of the dinosaurs and other mass extinction events has centered on whether the extinction mechanism was the asteroid impact, widespread volcanism (which occurred about the same time), or some other mechanism or combination. Most of the mechanisms suggested are catastrophic in nature.\n\nThe observation of the Shoemaker-Levy 9 cometary collision with Jupiter illustrated that catastrophic events occur as natural events.\n\nOne of the key differences between catastrophism and uniformitarianism is that uniformitarianism requires the assumption of vast timelines, whereas catastrophism does not. Today most geologists combine catastrophist and uniformitarianist standpoints, taking the view that Earth's history is a slow, gradual story punctuated by occasional natural catastrophic events that have affected Earth and its inhabitants.\n\nModern theories also suggest that Earth's anomalously large moon was formed catastrophically. In a paper published in \"Icarus\" in 1975, William K. Hartmann and Donald R. Davis proposed that a catastrophic near-miss by a large planetesimal early in Earth's formation approximately 4.5 billion years ago blew out rocky debris, remelted Earth and formed the Moon, thus explaining the Moon's lesser density and lack of an iron core. The impact theory does have some faults; some computer simulations show the formation of a ring or multiple moons post impact, and elements are not quite the same between the earth and moon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26241411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26241411", "title": "Chase's Calendar of Events", "text": "Chase's Calendar of Events\n\nChase's Calendar of Events is an annual American publication, started in 1957 by brothers William (Bill) D. Chase (a journalist and publisher from Michigan), and Harrison V. Chase (a university social scientist from Florida). It includes special events, holidays, federal and state observances, historic anniversaries, and more unusual celebratory traditions. Bill Chase worked as a newspaper librarian and saw a need for \"a single reference source for calendar dates, and for authoritative and current information about various observances throughout the year\".\n\nThe brothers gathered information on events and the first edition of 2,000 copies was printed for 1958. \"It was 32 pages, contained 364 entries and sold for $1\", while recent editions are 752 pages and contain more than 12,000 entries. A promotion sponsored by the US Chamber of Commerce was added in 1958: a pamphlet listed commercial promotions as Special Days, Weeks and Months, and remained in future editions. Contemporary Books in Chicago, Illinois, took over publication in 1983 and the Chases retired in 1987 from compiling the calendar, which is now handled by an in-house staff of editors and researchers. Contemporary Books was acquired by Tribune in 1993 and sold to McGraw-Hill Companies in September 2000. McGraw-Hill sold the property to Rowman and Littlefield Publishing Group in January 2015, where it is now published by Bernan Press, an imprint of RLPG. \nSections of the calendar include \n\n"}
{"id": "20261829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261829", "title": "Chronology of the Great Famine", "text": "Chronology of the Great Famine\n\nThe Chronology of the Great Famine ( or \"An Drochshaol\", litt: \"The Bad Life\") documents a period of Irish history between 1845 and 1852 during which time the population of Ireland was reduced by 20 to 25 percent. The proximate cause was famine resulting from a potato disease commonly known as late blight. Although blight ravaged potato crops throughout Europe during the 1840s, the impact and human cost in Irelandwhere a third of the population was entirely dependent on the potato for foodwas exacerbated by a host of political, social and economic factors which remain the subject of historical debate.\n\nAn important and controversial point of debate, that is notable amongst Irish people, was that Irish food supplies were sufficient until it was taken away by the British the feed the British, and the landlords kept economic benefits to themselves. Some commentators and writers controversially compared this explanation to \"genocide\".\n\nAt the beginning of August, Sir Robert Peel, the British Prime Minister, received news of a potato disease in the South of England. This was the first recorded evidence that the 'blight' which had ravaged the potato crop in North America in 1843-1844 had crossed the Atlantic. Cecil Woodham-Smith would write that a failure in England would be serious, but for Ireland, it would be a disaster.\n\nFollowing earlier reports of incidences of the blight in England, on 13 September 1845 potato blight was first reported in Ireland. The crops at Dublin were suddenly perishing, it was reported in the \"Gardeners' Chronicle\", asking \"where will Ireland be in the event of a universal potato rot?\" The British Government were nevertheless optimistic through the next few weeks.\n\n\nThe principle of the Corn Laws had been to keep the price of home-grown grain up. Duties on imported grain assured English farmers a minimum and profitable price. The burden of a higher price for bread was carried by the labouring classes, in particular factory workers and operatives. It was claimed that if the Corn Laws were repealed all those connected with the land would be ruined and the established social organisation of the country destroyed.\n\nAccording to Cecil Woodham-Smith, the rising wrath of Tories and landlords ensured \"all interest in Ireland was submerged.\" She writes that the Tory Mayor of Liverpool refused to call a meeting for the relief of Irish distress. She continues that the Mansion House Committee in Dublin was accused of 'deluding the public with a false alarm', and the blight itself 'was represented as the invention of agitators on the other side of the water'. The entanglement of the Irish famine with the repeal of the Corn Laws, she says, was a key misfortune for Ireland. The potato failure was eclipsed by the domestic issue of Corn Law repeal. The Irish famine, she writes, \"slipped into the background.\"\n\n\nThe first deaths from hunger took place in early 1846. In March Peel set up a programme of public works in Ireland but was forced to resign as Prime Minister on 29 June. The new Whig administration under Lord Russell, influenced by their laissez-faire belief that the market would provide the food needed then halted government food and relief works, leaving many hundreds of thousands of people without any work, money or food. Grain continued to be exported from the country. Private initiatives such as The Central Relief Committee of the Society of Friends (Quakers) attempted to fill the gap caused by the end of government relief and eventually the government reinstated the relief works, although bureaucracy slowed the release of food supplies. The blight almost totally destroyed the 1846 crop and the Famine worsened considerably. By December a third of a million destitute people were employed in public works.\n\nThere were average crop yields in the 1847 harvest, but due to lack of seed potatoes to plant, the crop was low. Crowds began to throng the public works during the last months of 1846 and the start of 1847, which promoted exactly the social conditions for the spread of 'famine fever.' In late January and February, legislation called the Temporary Relief Act went through the British parliament; it became popularly known as the Soup Kitchen Act and occasionally as Burgoyne's Act. This system of relief was designed to deliver cheap food directly and gratuitously to the destitute masses. This system of relief would be terminated in September. The government also announced an additional change in the system of relief. After August 1847, the permanent Poor Law was to be extended and was to become responsible for providing relief and as a result, all relief would be financed by the local Poor Law rates. This put impossible loads on local poor rates, particularly in the rural west and south. With the mass emigration of the famine era, the horrors of the 'coffin ships' and 1847 have ever since been associated in the popular mind, according to James S. Donnelly.\n\nIn December 1847 The Crime and Outrage Bill (Ireland) 1847 was enacted due to growing Irish nationalist agitation that was causing the British government concern about a possible violent rebellion against British rule in Ireland.\n\nThe bill gave the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland the power to organise the island into districts and bring police forces into them at the districts' expense. It limited who could own guns, and required all of the men in the district between the ages of 16 and 60 to assist in apprehending suspected murderers when landlords were killed, or else be guilty of a misdemeanour themselves.\n\nThe blight returned in 1848 and outbreaks of cholera were reported. Evictions became common among the Irish who could not keep up with the demands of their British landlords. Famine victims on outdoor relief peaked in July at almost 840,000 people. On 29 July an uprising against the government was led by William Smith O'Brien. After a skirmish at \"Widow McCormack's house\" in the village of Ballingarry, County Tipperary the leaders of the rebellion fled to America or were sentenced to transportation.\n\nThe potato crop failed again in 1849 and famine was accompanied by cholera outbreaks. This deadly cholera epidemic killed one of Ireland's greatest poets: James Clarence Mangan.\n\nThe Famine ended.\n\nBy 1851 census figures showed that the population of Ireland had fallen to 6,575,000 – a drop of 1,600,000 in ten years. Cormac Ó Gráda and Joel Mokyr have described the 1851 census as a famous but flawed source. They contend that the combination of institutional and individuals figures gives \"an incomplete and biased count\" of fatalities during the famine. The famine left in its wake up to a million dead and another million emigrated. The famine caused a sense of lasting bitterness by the Irish towards the British government, whom many blamed — then and now — for the starvation of so many people. The fall-out of the famine continued for decades afterwards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "73536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73536", "title": "Cliffhanger", "text": "Cliffhanger\n\nA cliffhanger, or cliffhanger ending, is a plot device in fiction which features a main character in a precarious or difficult dilemma, or confronted with a shocking revelation at the end of an episode of serialized fiction. A cliffhanger is hoped to ensure the audience will return to see how the characters resolve the dilemma.\n\nSome serials end with the caveat \"To Be Continued…\" or \"The End?\" In movie serials and television series, the following episode sometimes begins with a recap sequence.\n\nThe cliffhanger plot device dates back to the famous medieval Arabic literary work, the \"One Thousand and One Nights\". The framing device has Scheherazade narrating a series of stories to King Shahryār for 1,001 nights, with each night ending on a cliffhanger, in order to save herself from execution.\n\nCliffhangers later appeared as an element of the Victorian serial novel that emerged in the 1840s, with many associating the form with Charles Dickens, a pioneer of the serial publication of narrative fiction. By the 1860s it had become a staple part of the sensation serials, while the term itself originated with Thomas Hardy in 1873 when a protagonist from one of his serials, Henry Knight, was left hanging off a cliff.\n\nCliffhangers became prominent with the serial publication of narrative fiction, pioneered by Charles Dickens. Printed episodically in magazines, Dickens’s cliffhangers triggered desperation in his readers. Writing in the \"New Yorker\", Emily Nussbaum captured the anticipation of those waiting for the next installment of Dickens' \"The Old Curiosity Shop\";\n\nThe impact of Dickens' serial publications saw the cliffhanger become a staple part of the sensation serials by the 1860s. The term \"cliffhanger\" is considered to have originated with the serialised version of Thomas Hardy's \"A Pair of Blue Eyes\" (which was published in \"Tinsley's Magazine\" between September 1872 and July 1873) in which Henry Knight, one of the protagonists, is left hanging off a cliff.\n\nCliffhangers were especially popular in 1920s and 1930s serials when movie theaters filled the cultural niche later primarily occupied by television. Cliffhangers are often used in television series, especially soap operas that end each episode on a cliffhanger. Prior to the early 1980s, season-ending cliffhangers were rare on U.S. television. The first such season-ender on U.S. TV was in the comedy send-up of soap operas \"Soap\" in 1978. Several Australian soap operas, which went off air over summer, such as \"Number 96\", \"The Restless Years\", and \"Prisoner\", ended each year with major and much publicized catastrophe, such as a character being shot in the final seconds of the year's closing episode.\n\nCliffhangers are commonly used in Japanese manga and anime. In contrast to American superhero comics, Japanese manga are much more frequently written with cliffhangers, often with each volume or issue. This is particularly the case with shōnen manga, especially those published by \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\", such as \"Dragon Ball\", \"Shaman King\", and \"One Piece\".\n\nDuring its original run, Doctor Who was written in a serialised format that usually ended each episode within a serial on a cliffhanger. In the first few years of the show, the final episodes of each serial would have a cliffhanger that would lead into the next serial. Dragonfire Part One is notable for having a cliffhanger that involved The Doctor literally hanging from a cliff. This has been frequently criticised by fans for being a pointless cliffhanger, but script editor Andrew Cartmel gave an explanation for the reasoning of it in an interview.\n\nCliffhangers were rare on American television before 1980, as television networks preferred the flexibility of airing episodes in any order. The phenomenal success of the 1980 \"Who shot J.R.?\" third season-ending cliffhanger of \"Dallas\", and the \"Who Done It\" fourth-season episode that finally solved the mystery, contributed to the cliffhanger becoming a common storytelling device on television. Another notable cliffhanger was the \"Moldavian Massacre\" on \"Dynasty\" in 1985, which fueled speculation throughout the summer months regarding who lived or died when almost all the characters attended a wedding in the country of Moldavia, only to have revolutionaries topple the government and machine-gun the entire wedding party.\n\nThe two main ways for cliffhangers to keep readers/viewers coming back is to either involve characters in a suspenseful, possibly life-threatening situation, or to feature a sudden shocking revelation. Cliffhangers are also used to leave open the possibility of a character being killed off due to the actor not continuing to play the role.\n\nCliffhangers are also sometimes deliberately inserted by writers who are uncertain whether a new series or season will be commissioned, in the hope that viewers will demand to know how the situation is resolved. Such was the case with the second season of \"Twin Peaks\", which ended in a cliffhanger similar to the first season with a high degree of uncertainty about the fate of the protagonist, but the cliffhanger could not save the show from being canceled, resulting in the unresolved ending.\n\nThe cliffhanger has become a genre staple (especially in comics, due to the multi-part storylines becoming the norm instead of self-contained stories). To such a degree, in fact, that series writers no longer feel they have to be immediately resolved, or even referenced, when the next episode is shown, variously because the writer didn't feel it was \"a strong enough opener,\" or simply \"couldn't be bothered.\" The heavily serialized television drama \"True Blood\" has become notorious for cliffhangers. Not only do the seasons conclude with cliffhangers, but almost every episode finishes at a cliffhanger directly after or during a highly dramatic moment.\n\nCommercial breaks can be a nuisance to script writers because some sort of incompleteness or minor cliffhanger should be provided before each to stop the viewer from changing channels during the commercial break. Sometimes a series ends with an unintended cliffhanger caused by a very abrupt ending without a satisfactory dénouement, but merely assuming that the viewer will assume that everything sorted itself out.\n\nSometimes a movie, book, or season of a television show will end with the defeat of the main villain before a second, evidently more powerful villain makes a brief appearance (becoming the villain of the next film). Occasionally an element other than a villain is also used to tease at a sequel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44358983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44358983", "title": "Cultural effects of the Ebola crisis", "text": "Cultural effects of the Ebola crisis\n\nThe Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa has had a large effect on the culture of most of the West African countries. In most instances, the effect is a rather negative one as it has disrupted many Africans’ traditional norms and practices. For instance, many West African communities rely on traditional healers and witch doctors, who use herbal remedies, massage, chant, and witchcraft to cure just about any ailment. Therefore, it is difficult for West Africans to adapt to foreign medical practices. Specifically, West African resistance to Western medicine is prominent in the region, which calls for severe distrust of Western and modern medical personnel and practices.\n\nSimilarly, some African cultures have a traditional solidarity of standing by the sick, which is contrary to the safe care of an Ebola patient. This tradition is known as \"standing by the ill\" in order to show one's respect and honor to the patient. According to the Wesley Medical Center, these sorts of traditional norms can be dangerous to those not infected with the virus as it increases their chances of coming in contract with their family member's bodily fluids. In Liberia, Ebola has wiped out entire families, leaving perhaps one survivor to recount stories of how they simply could not be hands off while their loved ones were sick in bed, because of their culture of touch, hold, hug and kiss.\n\nSome communities traditionally use folklore and mythical literature, which is often passed on verbally from one generation to the next to explain the interrelationships of all things that exist. However the folklore and songs are not only of traditional or ancient historical origins, but are often about current events that have affected the community. Additionally, folklore and music will often take opposing sides of any story. Thus early in the Ebola epidemic, the song \"White Ebola\" was released by a diaspora based group and centers on the general distrust of \"outsiders\" who may be intentionally infecting people.\n\nThis initial misinformation increased the general distrust in foreigners, and the idea that Ebola was not in Africa before their arrival led to attacks on many health workers as well as blockages of aid convoys blocked from checking remote areas. A burial team, which was sent in to collect the bodies of suspected Ebola victims from West Point in Liberia, was blocked by several hundred residents chanting: \"No Ebola in West Point.\" Health ministries and workers started an aggressive Ebola information campaign on all media formats to properly inform the residents and allow aid workers safe access to the high risk areas. In Guinea, riots broke out after medics disinfected a market in Nzerekore. Locals rumored that the medics were actually spreading the disease. In nearby Womey, 8 people distributing information about Ebola were killed by the villagers.\n\nThe Ebola epidemic of 2014 has forced West Africans to face numerous difficulties on daily basis regarding their traditional norms and practices. In essence, their traditions have been severely disrupted due to the Ebola virus. For instance, Africans have had the tendency to remain close to their sick family members to nurse them during illness for centuries. Unfortunately for the African community, many have been encouraged to keep their distance from their infected family members as potential contact could be fatal. In addition, it is part of their culture to touch the deceased at funerals and for the sister of the deceased’s father to bathe, clean, and dress the corpse in a favorite outfit. When there is not an aunt to perform this task, a female elder in their community is then held responsible. Not only is it customary to wash and touch the deceased, but also to kiss those that have passed.\n\nSpecifically, funerals are considered to be major cultural events for families and friends to gather around to celebrate the deceased. The funeral performances, which involve wailing and dancing, is done out of care and respect for the dead. Funerals in Africa often last for several days, depending on the status of the person who died. In other words, the more important the person who died was while they were alive, the longer the mourning will last. More importantly, there is a common bowl used for ritual hand-washing towards the end of the ceremony, including a final kiss or touch on the face, which is to be bestowed on the dead. This is commonly referred to as a \"love touch.\" The Wesley Medical Center has confirmed that prohibiting African families from performing such rites is a disgrace as it insults the deceased, putting the remaining family in danger. Specifically, it is believed that the dead person’s spirit, also known as \"tibo,\" will cause harm and bring illness to the family as a result of an improper burial.\n\nResistance to Western medicine is considered to be a significant barrier to battling the Ebola virus. The Wesley Medical Center claims that the interference with African burial rituals caused by Western medical practices has prohibited them from properly honoring their loved ones. They believe that this may have been a reason for heightened distrust in medical professionals, and that the mistrust enhances each time family members of infected persons are prohibited from participating in the funeral or seeing the dead body in person. Due to the mistrust Ebola-stricken communities in Liberia reportedly hid family members with Ebola from health care providers and held secret burials. In Sierra Leone health workers made more progress because health measures were implemented according to WHO guidance, which advises health workers to heed the traditions of the threatened communities when attending to the dead. Therefore, funerals were held in agreement with the wishes of the families, but also gave health workers an opportunity to disinfect the bodies. In many of the Ebola infected areas in Africa, Western medicine is also believed either to be ineffective or to be the actual origin of the virus. In other words, there is a belief among the African community that Western doctors are intentionally killing their patients with their treatments. A conspiracy theory also says that the medical professionals are planning to harvest the organs of those dying from Ebola.\n\nResistance to Western medicine exists also because of the look of the hazmat suits, which are worn by healthcare workers to protect themselves from becoming infected with the Ebola virus. The protective equipment is said to frighten many West Africans and also believed to be hostile and intimidating to the African families. Lastly, the interference in the family’s care for the patient diminishes the honor of the patient as well as hindering the family’s duty to provide comfort and care. Regardless of the existing resistance towards Western medicine, handling the bodies of the deceased poses a high risk of contagion as Ebola is contracted through physical contact with an infected person’s bodily fluids. This is mainly because preparation for burial includes touching, washing, and kissing as is mentioned above. Those that are preparing for the funeral can become easily infected as they can easily become exposed to the infected person’s blood, vomit, diarrhea, and other bodily fluids as these are the main symptoms of the virus.\n\nApart from the fact that traditional African healers have been using ritual and herbal remedies for many centuries, the African people also trust these treatments and find the costs more affordable. Traditional procedures include the following: magic, biomedical methods, fasting, dieting, herbal therapies, bathing, massage, as well as surgery. Surgical procedures often involve cutting a patient’s skin with unsterilized knives. Sometimes, traditional healers apply blood to the skin to rid them of their sickness. Despite the severe distrust of Africans in modern medicine, the Ebola virus has been said to spread rampantly across West Africa due to a shortage of healthcare workers and limited medical resources and facilities. The unsanitary conditions in the overall African region have also made it easier for Ebola to spread.\n\nAlakey Osei, a student and bank-teller from Freetown, Sierra Leone, described the Sierra Leonean capital as a ghost-town, as a result of the increasing death toll in the West African region caused by the Ebola epidemic. Osei states that \"everyone is scared to be out of their houses. No one is going to church or mosque, no one is going to work, the kids are not going to school, [and] people are not even going to the market place\". The fact that the city of Freetown has been completely abandoned is foreign to the student, because the nation is and has always been heavily reliant on physical contact and very close interaction. Osei has indicated that following the no touching rule that the medical personnel have been promoting is extremely difficult for her. Osei continues by saying that she does not even know how her people are surviving.\n\nIn her interview, Osei provides some insight about her childhood. She moved to US in 2008 when she was thirteen years old. She experienced extensive bullying for her obliviousness to American culture and simply for being the \"uncivilized\" African. For example, others had asked her if she was getting accustomed to wearing shoes since people do not wear shoes in Africa. She was also called names, such as monkey and pre-historic. As a result of this cruelty, she began to believe that American culture was very cold. She also noticed that Americans were \"protective of their property\", space, and time. She concluded that American society is \"extremely individualistic\". This truly made her miss living in Africa, \"... where every woman is your mother and every man is your father, ... where you are never alone, because everyone is family and family is all around you\".\n\nAs of October 2014, the Ebola virus had not reached her home-town back in Sierra Leone; however, she said that her family still living in the country claimed that Freetown did not \"feel like the same place\" anymore. Her aunt had told her that people were not sharing food anymore nor spending time at each other's houses as they used to because of the fear of becoming infected. Osei finds it heart-breaking that people in Sierra Leone have turned to isolation as a way to stay Ebola-free. Osei now says that \"Freetown has become Fear-town\", and that \"Ebola has turned us into prisoners in our own country\".\n\nThe Ebola virus, for which the primary host is suspected to be fruit bats, has been linked to bushmeat, which is commonly consumed in areas of West Africa that use it as a protein source. Although primates and other species may be intermediates, evidence suggests people primarily get the virus from bats. Hunters usually shoot, net, scavenge or catapult their prey, and butcher the bats without gloves, getting bites or scratches and coming in contact with their blood.\n\nIn 2014, the suspected index case for the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is a two-year-old child in Guéckédou in south-eastern Guinea, who was the child of a family that hunted two species of fruit bat, \"Hypsignathus monstrosus\" and \"Epomops franqueti\". Some researchers suggested the case was caused by zoonotic transmission though the child playing with an insectivorous bat from a colony of Angolan free-tailed bats near the village.\n\nDespite health organisations warning about risks of bushmeat, surveys pre-dating the 2014 outbreak indicate that people who eat bushmeat are usually unaware of the risks and view it as healthy food. Because of bushmeat's role as a protein source in Western Africa, it is traditionally associated with good nutrition, and efforts to outlaw the sale and consumption of bushmeat have been impossible to enforce and have met with suspicion from rural communities. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that between 30 and 80 percent of protein intake in rural households in Central Africa comes from wild meat.\n\nOne major Nigerian newspaper published a report about the widespread view that eating dog meat was a healthy alternative to bush meat. Dog meat was implicated in a June 2015 Liberian outbreak of Ebola, where three villagers who had tested positive for the disease had shared a meal of dog meat.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are a number of Ebola-themed jokes circulating in West Africa to spread awareness.\n\nIn July 2014 the Liberian Football Association made an announcement that all soccer related activities would be put on hold \"\"indefinitely to protect players and fans\".\" In September 2014, in a joint venture between FIFA and WHO, the Antoinette Tubman Stadium was converted into an Ebola treatment center.\n\nThe 2015 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) was temporarily put on hold when the original hosts, Morocco, asked the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to postpone the final games till 2016, due to the Ebola outbreak. CAF eventually moved the finals to Equatorial Guinea, which eliminated Morocco from the game as hosts, and brought Equatorial Guinea in, even though they had been eliminated prior.\n\nHowever the qualifiers for 2015 AFCON have been influenced by many countries' fear of Ebola, with many refusing to enter or allow entry of teams from affected countries. In July 2014, Seychelles refused entry to the Sierra Leone team. CAF ruled that Seychelles forfeited the game, giving Sierra Leone an automatic pass to the next stage. Lesotho refused to send the Under-20 team to Nigeria. CAF again ruled that Lesotho forfeited the game, sending Nigeria through to the finals.\n\nIn August 2014, CAF also decided to forbid any official games in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. For Liberia, who had already been eliminated, this was not of concern. Sierra Leone managed to move some home games to the visiting teams home; both home and away games against DR Congo were played in Lubumbashi, and both games against Cameroon were played in Yaounde. Guinea managed to get their home games moved to Casablanca, Morocco.\n\nEven after calls to have the 2015 AFCON postponed, the Equatorial Guinea government and CAF organisers have downplayed these concerns, and insisted that they would have ample measures in place, including: \n\nOn 7 August 2014 a social media hoax message was doing the rounds in Nigeria. It urged readers to \"bath with hot water and salt before daybreak\" and to drink as much of it as possible. On 8 August the person who started the joke message to see how many of their friends would fall for it, identified it as such and posted an apology. The hoax message quickly went viral when \"several gullible, unsophisticated opinion leaders\" repeated the hoax message. Within days many were hospitalized due to excessive salt intake, with 2 deaths in Jos, Plateau, 2 deaths in Makurdi, Benue and at least 3 deaths in Bauchi.\n\nIt is ironic that these deaths all happened in states that had no known EVD infected people. In fact only Lagos State and Rivers State had any infected. Furthermore, the unconfirmed death toll of the hoax cure is as many as the EVD death toll for Nigeria, with 8 deaths each.\n\nIn two separate incidents in October, flights have been delayed from disembarking because of an Ebola joke. On 8 October 2014, US Airways flight 845 from Philadelphia to Punta Cana, Dominican Republic was held up for two hours on the tarmac when an American passenger sneezed, then announced \"I have Ebola. You're all screwed,\" during the flight. After landing, he was escorted off the plane by four emergency personnel wearing blue hazmat suits, and detained until medical tests cleared him. On 30 October 2014, during the Aer Lingus flight EI 433, from Milan, Italy to Dublin, Ireland a passenger wrote \"'Attenzione Ebola'\" (\"Attention Ebola\") on a coffee lid before handing it to his daughter. The container and lid were discreetly disposed of, however a flight attendant noticed, and alerted the captain. The passenger was arrested, and later pleaded guilty to \"engaging in threatening, abusive or insulting behavior on an airplane contrary to the Air Navigation and Transport Act\", and was fined 2500 euros.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154755", "title": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events", "text": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events\n\nDates of Epoch-Making Events is an entry in The Nuttall Encyclopaedia for its listing of the most important turning points in history, particularly western history. The work's list illustrates western culture's turning points and James Wood's views from the early 20th century. The events are listed as in the original listing, with modern footnotes.\n\nThe events chosen, with few errors, are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52454436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52454436", "title": "Devendrar Jayanti", "text": "Devendrar Jayanti\n\nDevendrar Jayanthi is a festival celebrated annually on 11 September. It is organised by various political parties, community organisations and civil societies in Southern Tamil Nadu to commemorate the memory of Immanuvel Devendrar, a freedom fighter and Indian National Congress leader who took part in the Quit India movement during the British Raj era. He worked in the Indian Army in independent India and later he fought for the rights of depressed class people of Southern Tamil Nadu, particularly for upliftment of Pallar caste. He was a close associate of chief minister K. Kamaraj.\n\nImmanuel Devendrar was a member of the Indian National Congress and a close associate of its leader, K. Kamaraj. At that time, Congress was supported by influential communities of southern Tamil Nadu, such as the Pallars and Nadars, and opposed by the Forward Block, which was itself favoured by the Maravar community. The two sides clashed during elections. Violence erupted notably in the districts of Ramanathapuram and Madurai which claimed over 40 lives. Devendrar was killed at this time and the anniversary of his death is today celebrated by various political parties and community organisations and civil societies as Devendrar Jayanthi.\n\nDevendrar Jayanti is among the celebrations sometimes criticised as being designed mainly as expressions of caste pride and political power, which sometimes turn into inter-caste violence. The critics claim that political parties used them as a form of vote bank politics.\n\nThese critics are rebutted by people who say that every caste has its own leader and the people are celebrating the memories of their leaders. Despite of these arguments every year the government is struggling to maintain the law and order during these celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "25177307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25177307", "title": "Diminished value", "text": "Diminished value\n\nDiminished value, Diminution in Value, or commonly referred to as \"DV\" are the terms generally used to describe the economic loss in a property's value as a result of having been damaged. Diminished Value (DV) is often associated with vehicles that have been damaged, however, it is applicable to other property of value including collectibles such as jewelry, artwork, etc. For the purposes herein, reference will involve the loss in value of a damaged automobile where the term is often applied.\n\nUnlike \"depreciation\", which is an anticipated and predictable loss in value over time, ‘Inherent Diminished Value’ is a loss in value due to a specific, sudden and unexpected negative occurrence. Diminished value of an automobile following an accident may occur in one of three ways (or a combination thereof):\n\n(1) repair-related diminished value;\n\n(2) Immediate diminished value; and\n\n(3) inherent diminished value.\n\nRepair-related diminished value is the loss of value due to the inability to perfectly repair the vehicle, so it is worth less after repairs than it was before the wreck. Immediate Diminished Value – The difference in resale value of a vehicle immediately before damage has occurred and immediately after damage has occurred (prior to repair). As courts are rarely the chosen venue for recovery of property damage, the standard of \"Immediate Diminished Value\" is rarely employed in resolving Property Damage claims. This also refers to a loss of value caused by the insurer's direct involvement in the claim adjustment in which the insurer exerts control over the repairs and repairs are incomplete, insufficiently performed, or otherwise restore the vehicle to less than the standard condition.\n\nInherent Diminished Value - Assumes optimal repair quality has been achieved and is defined as the amount by which the resale value of a repaired vehicle has been reduced simply because the subject vehicle now has a significant damage history. This is the most widely recognized and accepted form of Diminished Value. It is also the basis upon which any supplemental form of Diminished Value would be added. A common \"Supplemental\" form of Diminished Value is \"Repair Related Diminished Value\".\n\nUsually, a frame or structurally damaged vehicle cannot be re-sold as a \"certified pre-owned vehicle.\"\n\nThe true measure of a damaged vehicle's inherent loss in value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. The standard rule as to establishing a value on late model vehicles would be: 20-25% behind book (Black Book, KBB, NADA) and utilize actual sales results, and not on advertised prices.\n\nWhile some may claim Diminished Value (DV) is subjective and based upon perception or speculation, the old adage \"perception becomes reality' applies and as such Diminution in Value is real simply because, for the most part, no reasonable and prudent person is willing to pay the same price for a vehicle with a history of damage as they would for one never having been damaged. Retailers often offer discounts for scratches and dents on appliances, electronics and dented canned goods; it is, therefore, reasonable that the value of a damaged motor vehicle will suffer a lessening in value.\n\nAdditional factors may be taken into consideration in evaluating the loss in value of a damaged and repaired vehicle and may include, but not be limited to: the vehicle itself (i.e. rare collectible, originality, market desirability etc.), the vehicle’s pre-loss condition, severity of the sustained damages (i.e. frame damage, flood, fire etc.), the subject vehicle’s history (i.e. one owner, prior damage/repair, death of occupants etc.), quality and thoroughness of the performed repairs, (i.e. quality of parts, materials, workmanship, etc.) and additional value considerations including, but not limited to values associated with pre-owned certification programs.etc.\n\nAuto insurance companies may not readily recognize or offer to pay for diminished value. Each state may have differing opinions of DV. Example; The state of Georgia allows the insured party (the first-party Policyholder) to make a claim for their remaining economic loss for DV from their own insurance company while the neighboring state of Florida does not. Most states, however, allow the victim of another's negligence (third-party) to make a DV claim from the at-fault party.\n\nThe length of time to collect Diminished Value will vary depending upon each state's statute of limitations for first party (contractual) claims and third-party (restatement of tort) claims.\n\nA diminished value appraisal evaluates the difference in value of a motor vehicle after a collision repair. Reports are usually compiled by an Auto Appraisal Expert experienced in the field of DV and who may provide expert testimony for Appraisals, Arbitration, Mediation or Litigation in a court of law. This Assessment report is used when filing or disputing a diminished value claim against another party and/or an insurance company. The report measures a damaged vehicle’s inherent loss in value. The diminished value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. In most cases even if the repair was done expertly, the value of the automobile will still be considerably less after a loss. When consumers find that a vehicle has been in an accident, most consumers will never pay the same price for a repaired vehicle as compared to one with no loss history.\n\nSome reports include an assessment of the damage done to a motor vehicle, the quality of the performed repair, the market value of the vehicle before and after the accident. There are no set rules for measuring diminished value, and since every vehicle loses value differently, a one size fits all formula would be fundamentally inaccurate.\n\nRecognition of concept of diminished value varies from country to country \n\nSome states' statutes acknowledge diminished value and provide the ability for consumers to collect first party claims of DV from their own insurance companies under their own policies. Most states allow the consumer to collect third party claims from the at-fault driver's insurance company. Some states recognize liability for third party claims but not first party claims.\n\nIn Georgia, vehicle owners can collect DV against their own policy.\n\nDiminished value is part of the Florida Standard Civil Jury Instructions. Diminished value case law in Florida is based primarily on two cases.\n\nThe ability to receive diminished value financial compensation from an at-fault driver for their negligence was decided by the Florida Supreme Court in the Siegle vs. Progressive Consumer's Insurance Company case. After Siegle insurance companies are able to exclude responsibility for the payment of diminished value to the vehicle that they insure through the language in the policy.\nThe Florida Third District Court of Appeal, upheld that the correct measure of damages is the cost of repair plus any reduction in the value of the vehicle. The Court also directed that proving the reduction in value is the burden of the Plaintiff bringing the claim.\n\nDiminished value is provided in Louisiana Revised Statute 9:2800.17. The vehicle owner must prove by a preponderance of evidence that the fair market value would be less than its value before the vehicle was damaged.\n\nOn July 15, 2014, a policyholder in Washington state filed a proposed class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of Pierce County seeking diminished value insurance benefits under their automobile insurance policies. The insurance company filed a notice to remove the lawsuit to federal district court on August 20, 2014. The case is titled \"Johnston v. United Services Automobile Ass'n\".\n\nThe ability to recover damages for accelerated depreciation varies from Province to Province.\n\nIn British Columbia, law recognizes this loss as a recoverable damage and quantify the claim based on the diminished value at the time the collision occurs.\n\nThe Rules addressing the admissibility of depreciation reports in court vary by jurisdiction. For example, in British Columbia, Canada, the BC Supreme Court requires such reports to comply with Rule 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "8137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8137", "title": "Disaster", "text": "Disaster\n\nA disaster is a serious disruption, occurring over a relatively short time, of the functioning of a community or a society involving widespread human, material, economic or environmental loss and impacts, which exceeds the ability of the affected community or society to cope using its own resources.\n\nIn contemporary academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk. These risks are the product of a combination of both hazards and vulnerability. Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become disasters, as in the case of uninhabited regions.\n\nDeveloping countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by hazards occur in developing countries, and losses due to natural hazards are 20 times greater (as a percentage of GDP) in developing countries than in industrialized countries.\n\nThe word \"disaster\" is derived from Middle French \"désastre\" and that from Old Italian \"disastro\", which in turn comes from the Ancient Greek pejorative prefix δυσ-, (\"dus-\") \"bad\" and ἀστήρ (\"aster\"), \"star\". The root of the word \"disaster\" (\"bad star\" in Greek) comes from an astrological sense of a calamity blamed on the position of planets.\n\nResearchers have been studying disasters for more than a century, and for more than forty years disaster research. The studies reflect a common opinion when they argue that all disasters can be seen as being human-made, their reasoning being that human actions before the strike of the hazard can prevent it developing into a disaster. All disasters are hence the result of human failure to introduce appropriate emergency management measures. Hazards are routinely divided into natural or human-made, although complex disasters, where there is no single root cause, are more common in developing countries. A specific disaster may spawn a secondary disaster that increases the impact. A classic example is an earthquake that causes a tsunami, resulting in coastal flooding.\n\nA natural disaster is a natural process or phenomenon that may cause loss of life, injury or other health impacts, property damage, loss of livelihoods and services, social and economic disruption, or environmental damage.\n\nVarious phenomena like earthquakes, landslides, volcanic eruptions, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, tsunamis, and cyclones are all natural hazards that kill thousands of people and destroy billions of dollars of habitat and property each year. However, the rapid growth of the world's population and its increased concentration often in hazardous environments has escalated both the frequency and severity of disasters. With the tropical climate and unstable landforms, coupled with deforestation, unplanned growth proliferation, non-engineered constructions make the disaster-prone areas more vulnerable. Developing countries suffer more or less chronically from natural disasters due to ineffective communication combined with insufficient budgetary allocation for disaster prevention and management. Asia tops the list of casualties caused by natural hazards.\n\nHuman-instigated disasters are the consequence of technological hazards. Examples include stampedes, fires, transport accidents, industrial accidents, oil spills and nuclear explosions/radiation. War and deliberate attacks may also be put in this category. As with natural hazards, man-made hazards are events that have not happened—for instance, terrorism. Man-made disasters are examples of specific cases where man-made hazards have become reality in an event.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986491", "title": "Disaster area", "text": "Disaster area\n\nA disaster area is a region or a locale, heavily damaged by either natural, technological or social hazards. Disaster areas affect the population living in the community by dramatic increase in expense, loss of energy, food and services; and finally increase the risk of disease for citizens. An area that has been struck with a natural, technological or sociological hazard that opens the affected area for national or international aid.\n\nA natural hazard is a negative process of phenomena created naturally (tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes) that will affect people or the environment.\n\nTornadoes are narrow aggressively rotating mixtures of air that come from the base of a thunderstorm, being the most violent of storms. Tornadoes are usually hard to see unless they form a condensations funnel made from:- dust, water droplets and debris. Tornadoes take place in several parts of the world, such as Australia, Europe, Africa but mostly occur in the United States, Argentina, and Bangladesh.\n\nHurricanes, cyclones, tropical storms and typhoons can be referred to as the same. They combine low pressure and strong winds that rotate counter clockwise in the northern hemisphere and clockwise in the southern hemisphere. Tropical cyclones have a low pressure center, rain and strong winds. They usually initiate over tropical or subtropical waters. Hurricanes can be predicted several days before they hit and can be very destructive and destroy homes and some other buildings. Cyclones, although they are the same type of storm, are harder to predict before a few days like hurricanes thus giving people only a few hours of notice to evacuate their homes. In this case there are far more deaths from flooding and high tides. A recent (2012) example of a hurricane is Hurricane Sandy, which was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States, leaving millions without power and a few homeless.\n\nFloods take place when water overflows or submerges land that is usually parched. The most common way is when rivers or streams overflow their banks. A floodplain is produced when water from a rivers spreads through the land from excessive rain, rapid ice melting, unfortunately placed beaver dam, and ruptured dam. There are two types of floods: general and flash floods. General floods are predicted well in advance and usually cause the destruction of housing, people and crops. Flash floods come without warning and are sudden and extreme: A large volume of water flows rapidly and people have to make quick movements if they do not want to be caught in the flood. They have to find high safe ground where the water will not reach them.\n\nWhen two blocks of the earth suddenly slip past each other in the fault of the earth, it is called an earthquake. Energy released in many forms moves in all directions and causes the ground to shake. Sometimes earthquakes may have foreshocks, which are smaller earthquakes that occur in the same region which is followed by a larger earthquake. The larger earthquake, called the mainshock, always has aftershocks that follow it. Aftershocks can continue of hours, weeks, months and sometimes even years depending on how big the mainshock was. Earthquakes usually occur on active faults which define major tectonic plates on the Earth. 90% of the world’s earthquakes occur along plate boundaries. Earthquakes can cause much damage, mainly from the ground shaking and leaving cracks in the ground. Sometimes it can also cause buildings to collapse and cause deaths.\n\nThere are several technical hazards one should be aware of as they pose a threat humans and their values. These hazards are measured in terms of the risk they pose to the community using them. Technical hazards are classified by a source, specifically speaking; they can fall under automotive emissions, medical radiation, explosions and air pollution (environmental) hazards. The quality of the hazard determines the safety precautions that are taken. For example, hazards can be a risk to an individual or a risk to the population. If the population is at risk with the hazard, there will be more priorities for the management of the hazardous material. These hazardous materials can cause illness or even death to an individual if they are not address accordingly, so it is crucial for them to inform the public about these technical hazards.\n\nThere are several thoughts that come to mind when one thinks of the word “nuclear”, whether it be basic chemistry or highly complex explosives; nuclear accidents, nuclear incidences or nuclear terrorism are definitely a threat to the community or the world in that matter. But what is nuclear terrorism exactly? A \"nuclear accident, incident, or act of terrorism is an unpredictable, unusual and unwanted event involving radiation and/or radioactive materials.\" To specifically distinguish between the three, nuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. Nuclear incidents on the other hand are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” \n\nNuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. There are several examples of these nuclear accidents taken place around the world. To start off, a prime example of a nuclear accident would be Palo mares B-52 Accident. On January 17, 1966, a U.S. Air Force B-52 bomber collided with a mid-tanker airplane that was being refueled at 31000 feet. When the two airplanes collided, the tanker airplane exploded completely killing all crew members, while the B-52 bomber split in half killing a small proportion of the crew. When the airplane split in half, four bombs dropped from the sky. Two of them detonated, causing 2 kilometers of land to be contaminated by radioactive plutonium. The fourth explosive was recovered when it was discovered that it landed on the sea. The soil on the contaminated area had to be removed and placed in barrels, to reduce the amount of pollution having been caused by the nuclear explosive.\n\nNuclear incidents are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” A Secondary example would be the Johnston Atoll Incident that occurred on July 25, 1962. They decided to conduct the experiment at Christmas Island on Johnson Atoll, where they set off 36 nuclear explosions. One of the missile launches went wrong as it malfunctioned when trying to launch. The leaders decided to detonate the missile before it launched. When it detonated, the entire island was covered with radioactive plutonium. The witnesses claimed that 85% of the people suffered from radioactive contamination that created cancer and other radioactive related diseases. Plus those who were present at the site of the explosion suffered from infertility, and other body deformations.\n\nSociological hazards that create a disaster area are riots, terrorism, and war.\n\nA riot is defined as a noisy, violent public disturbance caused by a group or a crowd (three or more people) usually protesting against another group or government policy in the streets. The UK London riot in August 2011, for example, was started due to the shooting of Mark Duggan by the London police. The rioters came together destroying neighborhoods and streets violently damaging property to protest the police's actions that happened a few days prior. Riots increase expenses to repair costly damages putting the city in distress.\n\nTerrorism is defined as acts of violence and threats by a group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons. Terrorism occurs with an unexpected attack on non-combatants to create fear and panic having a detrimental consequence. Terrorist attacks create a massive, costly impact on the society. Not only is there large amount of property damage that may not be able to be repaired, there is also a large impact on citizens. People lose loved ones and suffer from their own health being impacted. The 9/11 terrorist attack on the twin towers in New York City marks one of the largest attacks on the United States. The Twin Towers were completely destroyed, damaging the surrounding buildings as well as causing the loss of many lives. People suffered from health problems from inhaling the sediments from the crumbling towers. The financial and social impact is still present thirteen years later in today's society. It is concluded that New York City still suffers from a post-disaster decline in financial services. New York City is a Disaster area due to the sociological hazard of terrorism.\n\nWar defined as a period where conflict is carried out as an act of hostility by armed forces between two or more nations or within a nation. Afghanistan, for example would be a sociological hazard causing disaster areas because it is considered a war zone. There has been an ongoing battle between United States and the Taliban in Afghanistan resulting in a war zone. Constant bombing and shooting marks up Afghanistan destructing property, land and causing threats to the civilians living in the area. Thousands have died and international aid for the cost of the war is implemented through tax payers. There is lack of resources due to the war area cutting off access to areas because of violence and danger.\n\nAn example of a technological disaster was the Fukushima disaster which was caused by a “massive 8.9-magnitude earthquake [that] hit northeast Japan”. This earthquake caused a nuclear explosion at a power plant; five reactors were damaged, causing the plant to go into an emergency state. All this occurred because there was a technological error in the system that cut down the regular and emergency power, causing the five reactors to destabilize and explode. This significant nuclear event had a big impact on the public health, as the area suffered nuclear contamination. The contamination caused all the crops such as milk, water or vegetables unsafe to eat. Hence all food grown in that area was banned from being sold. People in the “surroundings were moved to safe shelters,” and 3 people were affected by the radiation alone. Luckily, the “Japanese government [handled] the situation in the most efficient and amazing way that anyone can imagine.”\n\nA recent example of a disaster area caused by a natural hazard is Hurricane Sandy which hit October 27, 2012. It was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States. The storm killed about 50 people and many were also hit by falling trees. The hardest-hit state was New York, leaving millions without power and a few homeless. \n\nA disaster area caused by a sociological hazard would be the terrorist attack on September 11th, 2001, in New York City. Two airplanes struck the Twin Towers, causing them to crumble, killing many people in the process. The unexpected attack harmed many people and had a detrimental impact on New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8611599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8611599", "title": "False ending", "text": "False ending\n\nA false ending has two contexts: in literature, film and video games it is a narrative device where the plot seems to be heading to its conclusion, but in reality, there's still more to the story; in a musical composition, however, it is a complete stop of the work or song for one or more seconds before continuing.\n\nThe presence of a false ending can be anticipated through a number of ways: the medium itself might betray that it isn't the true ending (i.e. it's only halfway into a book or a song, a film's listed running time hasn't fully elapsed, only half the world has been explored in a video game, etc.), making only stories with indeterminate running length or a multi-story structure able to pull this off effectively; another indicator is the feeling that too much of the story is incomplete when the false ending comes, making it feel like there has to be more.\n\nIn \"L.A. Confidential\" , it seems like the criminal case that the movie revolves around is completely closed with no loose ends until one of the witnesses admits that she lied about important details to give more importance towards the trial of the people who raped her, exposing a cover-up conspiracy. In \"\", the director keeps using editing techniques that are indicative of endings in scenes that could be used as such, but continues until the movie finally ends. \"Spider-Man 3\" has two false endings. Another example is in \"The Simpsons Movie\", where, at a very climatic stage in the film, the screen fades away and says \"To be continued\", which is then followed by the word \"Immediately.\"\n\nSome movies come to a formal ending, followed by the rolling of the credits, which is almost universally used to indicate that the film has ended, only to have the actors reappear in one or more mid-credits scenes. In comedy films, these sequences may be bloopers or outtakes. In other types of films, the mid-credit scenes may continue the narrative set out in the movie. The Marvel Cinematic Universe movies have become notorious for this, in some cases featuring a mid-credits scene and an end-credits scene in the same movie.\n\nIn the police comedy \"Hot Fuzz\" (2007), two police officers realize that a cult is controlling their town. After the two officers defeat the head of the Neighbourhood Watch Alliance and his members, who have been causing problems in the town, the pair are celebrating their success at the police station, and the movie appears to be wrapping up. Then a surviving member of the Neighbourhood Watch Alliance enters the station and shoots an old musket, which triggers an old-fashioned mine.\n\nSome examples in video games include \"Final Fantasy VI\" and \"Wild ARMs\". Both involve confrontations with the major antagonists at what seems like their final lairs, but instead a crisis occurs and the story continues. A third is in \"\", upon sinking the \"Druna Skass\" a second time (Which can only happen if the player plays though the game again, as the game resets itself to the beginning if you sink it once), the player is greeted by another supership, that looks just like the \"Druna Skass\". Yet another example is the survival horror game \"Obscure II\", in which the player must wait until the credits roll to their conclusion before gameplay resumes.\n\nRole-playing video games are notorious for having such plot devices. It usually involves the game's main antagonist being defeated, only for a previously mentioned character to be revealed as the \"real\" villain. One example is \"\", in which the main character is apparently about to have a boss fight with the former villain Zant, but Zant reveals he has been working for another Villain.\nAnother example is \"\" where after you defeat Medusa, credits roll but are quickly interrupted by Hades, the villain for the rest of the game.\n\nIn video games, it is difficult to use the false ending device effectively. Nevertheless, in the hands of a skilled designer, there are several methods that allow it to be done. In several video games, such as those with multiple playable characters and story lines, the game may appear to end after defeating a difficult boss, or clearing what appears to be the \"Final\" level, complete with credits, an outro, and a return to the start screen. These endings are different from bad endings, as everything may appear to be resolved. However, fulfilling conditions such as clearing all the storylines, reloading the save file, or reaching the \"ending\" in a New Game+ mode may give the player the option to continue on to the real ending.\n\nAn example of this is \"Sonic Adventure\", and its sequel \"Sonic Adventure 2\". In the former, while there are six stories to play, only the main character's, Sonic's is the most complete. The other characters' stories are simply side-stories. However, if \"all\" of the stories are completed, a final story appears that wraps up the game and acts as the \"true\" ending. In the latter, there are two stories to play, one for the heroes, and one for the villains. Of note is the plot device is hidden in a false Chaos Emerald being used that would destroy the space colony in which the villain Doctor Eggman is using as a base. It is at first implied that Eggman took the false Emerald, but in reality, when the last story is played, again, after the two normal stories are completed, a true conclusion is offered.\n\nAnother example could be the survival horror game \"Resident Evil 2\", where, depending on your choice, you get to play with one of the two characters and get a certain ending for one of them to later discover, when you finish playing the second path with the second character, you fight the real final boss and the \"true\" ending (That may vary depending of which character you have chosen first) is shown. The main difference between both of the \"true\" endings are that places and times are exchanged, as well as the final dialogue from the game.\n\n\"The Consequence\", the second Kidman DLC for 2014's \"The Evil Within\", features a secret false ending in a similar manner to those shown in the \"Resident Evil\" franchise. At one point, Juli Kidman encounters the brain of the game's main antagonist, Ruben Victoriano, sealed inside a glass container hooked up to the STEM system in Beacon Hospital. Should the player choose to shoot the container and break it, the game cuts to black, then begins the credits sequence, cutting short on a postcard depicting Juli, Joseph and Sebastian on a postcard, before promptly returning to the game as Kidman exclaims \"What the fuck?!\", indicating the whole sequence was a hallucination.\n\nFalse endings are a known device in classical music. Josef Haydn was fond of them, for example inducing applause at the wrong place in the finales of his String Quartet, Op. 33 No. 2 (nicknamed \"The Joke\") and Symphony No. 90. The first movement of Prokoviev's Classical Symphony contains false endings.\nIn music, a number of rock and pop songs use false endings in which the music is arranged so that the song appears to be coming to its ending (e.g., reaching a final cadence on the chord of the home key and then stopping), but then the music recommences. Examples include The Rascals' \"Good Lovin'\"; The Four Tops' \"Bernadette\", \"White Room\" by Cream; \"The Peace!\" by Morning Musume; \"Thank You\" by Led Zeppelin; \"Rain\" by The Beatles; \"Monday, Monday\" by The Mamas & the Papas; and \"But You Know I Love You\" by The First Edition. Another notable example of a musical false ending is \"(Everything I Do) I Do It for You\" by Bryan Adams - because the original song was six and a half minutes long, the false ending became the end of the single/video edit of the song (the album version had a fadeout ending).\n\nIn addition, several other songs have also had false endings, such as \"Angels\" by Amy Grant, a #1 Christian hit in 1984. Another example is \"Keep On Dancing\", a 1965 Top 10 hit for the group The Gentrys from Memphis, Tennessee. In both songs, there is a pause of two seconds before the music starts all over again. Also, \"When I Grow Up (To Be a Man)\" by The Beach Boys, has a sudden stop and resumes 1 second later as the band counts numbers of years of age until the song fades, counting from 19 to 30. The Alice in Chains track \"Rain When I Die\" has a fade-out false ending lasting about 20 seconds, then the music comes back, and then it fades once more, thus providing the real ending. \"Weather with You\" by Crowded House appears to be ending and then another small instrumental is followed by a final chorus.\n\n"}
{"id": "38022101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38022101", "title": "Foreign body aspiration", "text": "Foreign body aspiration\n\nForeign body aspiration occurs when a foreign body enters the airways and causes choking. Objects can enter the esophagus through the mouth, or enter the trachea through the mouth or nose.\n\nMost cases of foreign body aspiration are in children ages 6 months to 3 years due to the tendency for children to place small objects in the mouth and nose. Children of this age usually lack molars and cannot grind up food into small pieces for proper swallowing. Small, round objects including nuts, hard candy, popcorn kernels, beans, and berries are common causes of foreign body aspiration. Latex balloons are also a serious choking hazard in children that can result in death. A latex balloon will conform to the shape of the trachea, blocking the airway and making it difficult to expel with the Heimlich maneuver.\n\nIn adults, foreign body aspiration is most prevalent in populations with impaired swallowing mechanisms such as the following: neurological disorders, alcohol use, sedative use, advanced age (most common in the 6th decade of life), and loss of consciousness. \n\nSigns and symptoms of foreign body aspiration vary based on the site of obstruction, the size of the foreign body, and the severity of obstruction. 20% of foreign bodies become lodged in the upper airway, while 80% become lodged in the mainstem or lobar bronchus. Signs of foreign body aspiration are usually abrupt in onset with coughing, choking, and/or wheezing; however, symptoms can be more progressive if the foreign body does not cause a large degree of obstruction of the airway. \n\nClassically, patients present with acute onset of choking. In these cases, the obstruction is classified as a partial or complete obstruction. Signs of partial obstruction include choking with drooling, stridor, and the ability to speak. Signs of complete obstruction include choking with inability to speak or cough, and signs of respiratory distress such as cyanosis. \n\nForeign bodies above the larynx often present with stridor, while objects below the larynx present with wheezing. Foreign bodies above the vocal cords often present with difficulty and pain with swallowing and excessive drooling. Foreign bodies below the vocal cords often present with pain and difficulty with speaking and breathing. Increased respiratory rate may be the only sign of foreign body aspiration in a child who cannot verbalize or report if they have swallowed a foreign body.\n\nIf the foreign body does not cause a large degree of obstruction, patients may present with chronic cough, asymmetrical breath sounds on exam, or recurrent pneumonia of a specific lung lobe. The right lower lobe of the lung is the most common site of recurrent pneumonia in foreign body aspiration. This is due to the fact that the anatomy of the right main bronchus is wider and steeper than that of the left main bronchus.\n\nSigns and symptoms of foreign body aspiration in adults can sometimes mimic other lung disorders such as asthma, COPD, and lung cancer. \n\nIf foreign body aspiration is suspected, finger sweeping in the oral cavity is not recommended due to the increased risk of displacing the foreign object further into the airway. \n\nMost patients receive a chest x-ray to determine the location of the foreign body. However, a negative chest x-ray cannot rule out foreign body aspiration. Lateral neck, chest, and bilateral decubitus end-expiratory chest x-rays should be obtained in patients suspected of having aspirated a foreign body. Signs on x-ray that can be indicative of foreign body aspiration include visualization of the foreign body or hyperinflation of the affected lung. Other x-ray findings that can be seen with foreign body aspiration include obstructive emphysema, atelectasis, and consolidation.\n\nWhile, x-ray can be used to visualize the location and identity of a foreign body, rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia is the gold-standard for diagnosis since the foreign body can be visualized and removed with this intervention. Rigid bronchoscopy is indicated when two of the three following criteria are met: report of foreign body aspiration by the patient or a witness, abnormal lung exam findings, or abnormal chest x-ray findings. \n\nTreatment of foreign body aspiration is determined by the severity of obstruction of the airway involved. In partial obstruction, the patient can usually clear the foreign body with coughing. In complete obstruction, acute intervention is required to remove the foreign body.\n\nFor choking children less than 1 year of age, the child should be placed face down over the rescuer's arm. Back blows should be delivered with the heel of the hand, then the patient should be turned face-up and chest thrusts should be administered. The rescuer should alternate five back blows followed by five chest thrusts until the object is cleared. The Heimlich maneuver should be used in choking patients older than 1 year of age to dislodge a foreign body. If the patient becomes unresponsive during physical intervention, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) should be started.\n\nIn the event that the above measures do not remove the foreign body, and adequate ventilation cannot be restored, need for treatment by trained personnel becomes necessary. Laryngoscopy should be performed in unresponsive patients if non-invasive airway clearance techniques are unsuccessful. Laryngoscopy involves placing a device in the mouth to visualize the back of the airway. If the foreign body can be seen, it can be removed with forceps. An endotracheal tube should then be placed in order to prevent airway compromise from resulting inflammation after the procedure. If the foreign body cannot be visualized, intubation, tracheostomy, or needle cricothyrotomy can be done to restore an airway for patients who have become unresponsive due to airway compromise. \n\nIf non-invasive measures do not dislodge the foreign body, and the patient can maintain adequate ventilation, rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia should be performed. Supplemental oxygen, cardiac monitoring, and a pulse oximeter should be applied to the patient. Efforts should be made to keep the patient calm and avoid agitating the patient to prevent further airway compromise. After the foreign body is removed, patients should receive nebulized beta-adrenergic medication and chest physiotherapy to further protect the airway.\n\nMany complications can develop after a foreign body is removed, or if a foreign body remains in the airway. Patients may develop inflammation of the airway walls or lung abscess from a foreign body remaining in the airway. Hyperinflation of the airway distal to the obstruction can also occur if the foreign body is not removed. Patients can also develop pneumonia from retained foreign bodies. Episodes of recurrent pneumonia in the same lung field should prompt evaluation for a possible foreign body in the airway. Even if the foreign body is removed, complications such as chemical bronchitis, mucosal reactions, and the development of granulation tissue are possible.\n"}
{"id": "52443600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52443600", "title": "Funke Bucknor-Obruthe", "text": "Funke Bucknor-Obruthe\n\nFunke Bucknor-Obruthe (born 27 June 1976) is a Nigerian entrepreneur and lawyer. She is the founder and CEO of Zapphaire Events and is regarded as one of Nigeria's pioneering event planners.\n\nBucknor-Obruthe was born to Segun and Shola Bucknor in Lagos State, Southwestern Nigeria. She began her basic and secondary school education at Fountain Nursery and Primary School, Lagos, and Nigeria Navy Secondary School, Lagos, before she proceeded to study Law at the University of Lagos. In 2000, she was called to bar after attending the Nigerian Law School in Abuja.\n\nAfter practising law briefly, Bucknor-Obruthe was employed at Tie Communications, an advertisement agency, where she worked for a short period. In 2003, her love for event planning made her start Zapphaire Events, an independent event planning enterprise. She has since gone on to plan and organize several high-profile events within and outside Nigeria and has won awards and recognition including being featured in CNN's \"Inside Africa\" for planning a Nigerian royal wedding. Some of these include the Future Award for \"Entrepreneur of the Year\" (2006), the \"Wedding Planner Magazine\" Award for \"Wedding Planner of the Year\" (2007), Go2girl Life Achievement Awards (2011), Nigerian Events Awards for Outstanding Contribution to the Events Industry (2012).\n\n\nIn 2014, Nigerian online magazine \"YNaija\" listed Bucknor-Obruthe in its \"10 Most Powerful Under-40s in Business\". In 2016, she was listed in the BBC's \"100 Women\" series.\n\nBucknor-Obruthe is married to Onome Obruthe, with whom she has two children. She is the elder sister of Nigerian media personality Tosyn Bucknor.\n"}
{"id": "53981348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53981348", "title": "Game2: Winter", "text": "Game2: Winter\n\nGame2: Winter () was a social experiment and media stunt promoted as a Russian survival reality television program produced by Novosibirsk entrepreneur Yevgeny Pyatkovsky that was set to premiere in . The show caught the attention of the press when the show stated that its rules would allow crimes such as rape and murder which sparked outrage online. The show has been compared to a \"real-life \"Hunger Games\"\".\n\nThe project was revealed to be a social experiment used for marketing research purposes on .\n\n30 participants, half men and half women, were expected to compete on a remote Siberian island in the Ob River for a 100 million rouble ($1.7 million) prize on a nine month survival mission.\nAll contestants were said to have signed death waivers and agreed not to hold the organisers accountable for criminal activity.\nHowever, Snopes found that 'Despite multiple misleading headlines, the waiver described by news outlets explicitly stated that contestants on the show would be obliged to \"obey the laws of the Russian Federation\".'\n\nThe production's home base was in Western Siberia, with the Ob River area proposed as the main filming location.\n\nOn , the production team posted a casting call via their VK account. Registration was closed on with over 340 applications.\n\nAs of , 120 people had qualified for runoff voting. The 30 finalists were set to be revealed that .\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", \"five countries have already expressed the desire to broadcast [the show] for their audiences\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53794727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53794727", "title": "George Gigicos", "text": "George Gigicos\n\nGeorge Gigicos is an American campaign consultant who specializes in advance representation for Republican politicians. He served as White House Scheduling and Advance Director from the beginning of Donald Trump's presidency until July 31, 2017.\n\nGigicos is of Greek descent and has ancestry from Kalamata. He studied at Birmingham–Southern College in Alabama, graduating in 1990. Gigicos worked in advance planning for the United States Department of the Treasury under President George H. W. Bush and later worked as an event planner at the Orange County Convention Center in Florida. He founded a communications firm known as the Telion Corporation in 1999, and also worked for the Republican campaigns of George W. Bush, John McCain, and Mitt Romney. \n\nIn December 2016, \"Politico\" reported that Gigicos was one of Trump's campaign staffers being considered for a staff role in the Trump administration. The site reported that Gigicos was likely to be appointed as the director of White House advance. Trump appointed him as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Advance on January 5, 2017. He served in the Trump Administration until July 31, 2017. \n"}
{"id": "44724007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44724007", "title": "Great Escape Tour", "text": "Great Escape Tour\n\nThe Great Escape Tour was the scheduled second headlining concert tour by Australian recording artist Iggy Azalea in support of her debut album, \"The New Classic\" (2014), its reissue, \"Reclassified\" (2014) and then-upcoming second studio album. The tour was scheduled to visit twenty-one cities across North America over the span of two months, beginning on 18 September 2015 in San Diego, California and concluding on 27 October 2015 in Glendale, Arizona. It was announced on 29 May 2015 that the entire tour was cancelled, with a new tour to be announced with her then-upcoming, later cancelled album in 2016. It was the first of Azalea's tours to be cancelled, with her 2018 Bad Girls Tour also later cancelled.\n\nOn 10 December 2014, when reflecting on the year she has had and the struggles she faced in the years before, Azalea announced plans of an arena tour and a second studio album via her Twitter account. The same day, Azalea revealed the title of the tour and the concept behind it, which is Azalea picturing herself as \"a musical escape artist for people.\" Azalea also revealed that the name of the tour goes along with the title of her upcoming second studio album, which will also be promoted on the tour.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, the North American leg of the tour was officially announced. Presented by AEG, the first leg of tour, which was set to commence on 14 April 2015 in Fresno, California, and was scheduled to visit twenty-four cities across North America during the spring of 2015 before ending on 24 May 2015 in Austin, Texas. Also revealed in the North American leg announcement was that Nick Jonas and Tinashe would be the special guests supporting Azalea on the first leg of the tour promoting their latest individual efforts, \"Nick Jonas\" (2014) and \"Aquarius\" (2014). Azalea's disc jockey, DJ Wizz Kidd, would also support Azalea throughout the tour.\n\nBeginning on 15 December 2014, pre-sale tickets were available to all American Express cardholders through 18 December 2014. The public on-sale followed immediately after with tickets becoming available on 19 December 2014. Platinum and VIP Packages also became available for purchase on AEG's website, in which the packages included premium seating and exclusive autographed merchandise.\n\nIn an interview with \"GQ\", Azalea began to reveal details about the tour's stage, visuals, and concept. When speaking about her main focus of the tour, Azalea stated \"I want everything to be right—everything, from the tour book to what someone wears. Even the right faces for the dancers, and their attitude. Everything is equally important.\" While discussing stage layout, Azalea revealed that she's \"trying to work on the initial stage design\" and that she's \"making a stage that [she can] engage with many people in an arena that big.\" She also noted that she was working with Jamie King, who has also worked with Madonna on her Confessions Tour (2006), which Azalea has stated is a major influence for the tour. Other influences for the tour that she's mentioned include the films \"Xanadu\" (1980) and \"Fantasia\" (1940). In regards to the visuals, Azalea has stated that the tour will include \"color blocking—loud, just obnoxious-type visual things\", that she also characterized as \"Trippy, cool, [and] colorful.\" Azalea also commented on the nature of the show by saying \"The traditional hip-hop arena show is more focused on a DJ. I don't think it has as many props and spectacles as perhaps a pop show, which is also what I would say my show is visually like.\" Overall, Azalea has stated her desire for the show is \"not to be too wacky\" and to be \"a great experience [in which fans feel] really immersed in the whole thing.\"\n\n\"The whole point was to make no compromises, but nothing's changed in terms of my creative vision,\" Azalea told the Associated Press on 18 March 2014, backstage at a show for Samsung Galaxy during SXSW. \"It's very kind of like Patrick Nagel, powerful 80s androgynous women vibe.\" Azalea admitted not wanting to wait until September to launch the tour, \"but because the arenas are so far in advanced booked, it was kind of their next slot.\" She also mentioned taking advantage of the free time to finish recording her second album, \"I didn't anticipate having any time to completely finish it, but now that I have kind of the time, I'd love to have an album at the end of 2015.\"\n\nOn 29 March 2015, Azalea told \"Billboard\" at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, the tour was now under the creative guidance of a new production designer, Baz Halpin, who'd been seasoning the show with a post-apocalyptic vibe, \"It's going to be maybe a bit like Blade Runner, full of dark and '80s ridiculous fare but not in a cliché way,\" also revealing she had parted ways with former tour producer AEG Live over creative differences earlier that month. \"It's been great working with a new person who really understands my vision,\" Azalea said of Halpin, who had also fashioned the set for her performance of \"Trouble\" with Jennifer Hudson both at the iHeartRadio Awards and Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards on the previous day. \"It's taken some of the workload off me that he's able to understand what I'm trying to achieve instead of battling it, or it being lost in translation,\" Azalea continued. \"Some things just work. With Baz, I really don't have to say it; he's thinking what I'm thinking, and it's great. I'm super-excited about the tour,\" she said.\n\nOn 10 March 2015, it was announced the tour was being rescheduled \"due to tour production delays\", according to a statement from Def Jam Recordings. After reports surfaced that the tour was to be cancelled due to lack of promotion and conflict between her and management, Def Jam announced the decision \"to accommodate for creative team availability and tour productions, it was determined that the tour will not be ready this spring.\" They continued, \"It's important to Iggy that she delivers the show she envisaged to share with her fans and that requires more time in development.\" The spring tour was rescheduled to the fall, kicking off on September 18 in San Diego, California. A rep for Azalea also added that \"there's no truth to the rumor that there's any conflict between her and her management.\" The press release issued by AEG Live also noted tickets for dates on the tour would be valid for the new dates in the fall, with the exception of the Baltimore, Las Vegas and Sacramento shows being canceled altogether, also indicating that the opening acts for the spring tour, Nick Jonas and Tinashe, would be replaced. Shortly after the announcement, a message was also posted from Azalea's official Twitter account: \"The tour getting pushed back only means that it'll be way more amazing than it would've been in April. Good things take time.\"\n\nOn 29 May 2015, it was announced that the entire tour had been cancelled, with ticket holders receiving an email that stated \"The Iggy Azalea Great Escape Tour scheduled for this fall has been cancelled and refunds are available at point of purchase. There will be a new tour planned around Iggy's new record to be released in 2016 and we apologize for any inconvenience.\" Azalea stated, \"I'm sad and sorry to let my fans down,\" confirming plans to \"be back on the road when the next album is done.\" She later issued a statement clarifying the cancellation saying she \"had a different creative change of heart,\" in addition to being unable to find new opening acts available for the new dates she thought that would be a good fit for the tour and announcing she would also be taking a break to figure out the progression she wanted for her sound and visuals.\n\nThe tour promoter, AEG Live's senior VP Debra Rathwell, stated they never put its full marketing support behind the tour, explaining, \"As we were not able to fill the support slots on the tour in the fall, due to so many artists already having commitments and working this summer, we had not advertised or promoted the new shows since last winter.\" She added, \"The dates were selling well and were going to do fine,” standing by Azalea’s creative decision to take a break and not exploring a move to smaller venues by clarifying, \"there was no reason to do so. AEG LIVE is committed to her and will be working with her on her new tour.\" Azalea’s booking agency, CAA, also issued a statement, \"The lines of communication between Iggy, myself, and her [Turn First] managers Sarah [Stennett] and Nadia [Khan] have always been open. Iggy is an incredibly talented and creative artist with a clear vision, which she continuously shares with myself and her management team.\"\n\nAfter the tickets for the tour became available to the public for purchase on 19 December 2014, \"Forbes\" reported positive news for ticket sales on the primary and secondary markets. On 7 January 2015, a list compiled by TiqIQ revealed that tickets for Azalea's tour were ranked fourteenth for most expensive concert tickets of the year as of that month. On the secondary market, the average ticket price for Azalea's tour totals in about $167, therefore making the tickets some of the most expensive tickets available on the secondary market. Ticket prices for the tour managed to top artists such as the Foo Fighters, but paled in comparison to artists such as Fleetwood Mac, Maroon 5, and Taylor Swift.\n"}
{"id": "301456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301456", "title": "Happy ending", "text": "Happy ending\n\nA happy ending is an ending of the plot of a work of fiction in which almost everything turns out for the best for the protagonists, their sidekicks, and almost everyone except the villains.\n\nIn storylines where the protagonists are in physical danger, a happy ending mainly consists of their survival and successful completion of the quest or mission; where there is no physical danger, a happy ending may be lovers consummating their love despite various factors which may have thwarted it. A considerable number of storylines combine both situations. In Steven Spielberg's version of \"War of the Worlds\", the happy ending consists of three distinct elements: The protagonists all survive the countless perils of their journey; humanity as a whole survives the alien invasion; \"and\" the protagonist father regains the respect of his estranged children. The plot is so constructed that all three are needed for the audience's feeling of satisfaction in the end. \n\nA happy ending is epitomized in the standard fairy tale ending phrase, \"happily ever after\" or \"and they lived happily ever after\". (\"One Thousand and One Nights\" has the more restrained formula \"they lived happily until there came to them the One who Destroys all Happiness\" (i.e. Death); likewise, the Russian versions of fairy tales typically end with \"they lived long and happily, and died together on the same day\".) Satisfactory happy endings are happy for the reader as well, in that the characters he or she sympathizes with are rewarded. However, this can also serve as an open path for a possible sequel. For example, in the 1977 film \"Star Wars\", Luke Skywalker defeats the Galactic Empire by destroying the Death Star; however, the story's happy ending has consequences that follow in \"The Empire Strikes Back\". The concept of a permanent happy ending is specifically brought up in the Stephen King fantasy/fairy tale novel \"The Eyes of the Dragon\" which has a standard good ending for the genre, but simply states that \"there were good days and bad days\" afterwards.\n\nA happy ending only requires that the main characters be all right. Millions of innocent background characters can die, but as long as the characters that the reader/viewer/audience cares about survive, it can still be a happy ending. Roger Ebert comments in his review of Roland Emmerich's \"The Day After Tomorrow\": \"Billions of people may have died, but at least the major characters have survived. Los Angeles is leveled by multiple tornadoes, New York is buried under ice and snow, the United Kingdom is flash-frozen, and lots of the Northern Hemisphere is wiped out for good measure. Thank god that Jack, Sam, Laura, Jason and Dr. Lucy Hall survive, along with Dr. Hall's little cancer patient.\"\n\nThe presence of a happy ending is one of the key points that distinguish melodrama from tragedy. In certain periods, the endings of traditional tragedies such as \"Macbeth\" or \"Oedipus Rex\", in which most of the major characters end up dead, disfigured, or discountenanced, have been actively disliked. In the Seventeenth Century, the Irish author Nahum Tate sought to improve William Shakespeare's \"King Lear\" in his own heavily modified version in which Lear survives and Cordelia marries Edgar. Tate's version dominated performances for a century and a half, Shakespeare's original nearly forgotten. Both David Garrick and John Philip Kemble, while taking up some of Shakespeare's original text, kept Tate's happy ending. Edmund Kean played \"King Lear\" with its tragic ending in 1823, but failed and reverted to Tate's crowd-pleaser after only three performances. Only in 1838 did William Macready at Covent Garden successfully restore Shakespeare's original tragic end – Helen Faucit's final appearance as Cordelia, dead in her father's arms, became one of the most iconic of Victorian images and the play's tragic end was finally accepted by the general public. Most subsequent critics have not found Tate's amendments an improvement, and welcomed the restoration of Shakespeare's original. Happy endings have also been fastened – equally, with no lasting success – to \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Othello\". \n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of what a happy ending is; such definitions can considerably vary with time and cultural differences. An interpretation of \"The Merchant of Venice\"s forced conversion of Shylock to Christianity is that it was intended as a happy ending. As a Christian, Shylock could no longer impose interest, undoing his schemes in the play and ending the rivalry between him and Antonio, but more important, contemporary audiences would see becoming a Christian as a means to save his soul (cf. Romans 11:15). In later times, Jews (and non-Jewish opponents of anti-Semitism) strongly objected to that ending, regarding it as depicting a victory for injustice and oppression and as pandering to the audience's prejudices.\n\nMost interpretations of the legend of Don Juan end with the protagonist rake being dragged off to Hell, in just retribution for his many sins (for example, the ending of Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\"). However, José Zorrilla - whose 1844 play \"Don Juan Tenorio\" is the version most well-known in the Spanish-speaking world - believed that a story should never end sadly, and must always have a happy ending. In Zorrilla's depiction, Don Juan is saved at the last moment from the flames of Hell by the selfless pure love of Doña Inés, a woman whom he wronged but who forgave him; she had made a deal with God to offer her own blameless soul on behalf of Don Juan's - thus redeeming Don Juan and taking him with her to Paradise.\n\nA \"Times\" review of \"The Spy Who Came in from the Cold\" strongly criticized John le Carré for failing to provide a happy ending, and gave unequivocal reasons why in the reviewer's opinion (shared by many others) such an ending is needed: \"The hero must triumph over his enemies, as surely as Jack must kill the giant in the nursery tale. If the giant kills Jack, we have missed the whole point of the story.\"\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw had to wage an uphill struggle against audiences, as well as some critics, persistently demanding that his \"Pygmalion\" have a happy ending, i.e. that Professor Higgins and Eliza Doolitle would ultimately get married. To Shaw's great chagrin, [[Herbert Beerbohm Tree]] who presented the play in London's [[West End theatre|West End]] in 1914 had sweetened the ending and told Shaw: \"My ending makes money; you ought to be grateful. Your ending is damnable; you ought to be shot.\" The irritated Shaw added a postscript essay, \"'What Happened Afterwards\", to the 1916 print edition, for inclusion with subsequent editions, in which he explained precisely why in his view it was impossible for the story to end with Higgins and Eliza getting married. Nevertheless, audiences continued wanting a happy ending also for later adaptations such as the musical and film \"[[My Fair Lady]]\".\n\nIn numerous cases, [[Hollywood]] studios adapting literary works into film added a happy ending which did not appear in the original. \n\n\n[[Category:Endings]]\n[[Category:Narratology]]\n[[Category:Fiction]]\n[[Category:Plot (narrative)]]\n[[Category:Recurrent elements in fairy tales]]"}
{"id": "34984208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34984208", "title": "Kony 2012", "text": "Kony 2012\n\nKony 2012 is a short documentary film produced by Invisible Children, Inc. (authors of \"Invisible Children\"). It was released on March 5, 2012. The film's purpose was to promote the charity's \"Stop Kony\" movement to make Ugandan cult and militia leader, indicted war criminal and the International Criminal Court fugitive Joseph Kony globally known in order to have him arrested by the end of 2012, when the campaign expired. \nThe film spread virally and the campaign was initially supported by various celebrities. , the film has received over 101 million views and nearly 1.4 million \"likes\" on the video-sharing website YouTube, and over 18.6 million views and over 21.5 thousand \"likes\" on Vimeo, with other views on a central \"Kony 2012\" website operated by Invisible Children. The intense exposure of the video caused the \"Kony 2012\" website to crash shortly after it began gaining widespread popularity. A poll suggested that more than half of young adult Americans heard about \"Kony 2012\" in the days following the video's release. It was included among the top international events of 2012 by PBS and called the most viral video ever by \"TIME\".\n\nThe campaign resulted in a resolution by the United States Senate and contributed to the decision to send troops by the African Union. The film also called for an April 20 world wide canvassing campaign, called \"Cover the Night\". On April 5, 2012, Invisible Children released a follow-up video, titled \"Kony 2012: Part II – Beyond Famous\", which failed to repeat the success of the original.\n\nThe film documents the Invisible Children's plans and efforts to capture Joseph Kony. It describes Kony's actions with his rebel militia group Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), including forced recruitment of child soldiers, and the regions (northern Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Sudan) in which they have been active. One of the main people featured in the film is a young Ugandan named Jacob Avaye, whose brother was killed by the LRA. In response, director and founder of Invisible Children, Jason Russell, promises Jacob that he will help \"stop Kony\".\n\nThe film advocates the restoration of social order and curtailing compelled and coerced youth military service. The video also has clips of Jason Russell's young son reacting to the information about Kony. Near the end of the film, a 2011 announcement from U.S. President Barack Obama is shown authorizing the deployment of 100 Special Forces military advisers to provide \"information, advice, and assistance to partner nation forces\" of Central African countries to \"remove Joseph Kony from the battlefield\". The video concludes by urging viewers to join its publicity campaign by putting up posters and helping out in their communities.\n\nThe Invisible Children charity has focused on obtaining the support of a select group of individuals in order to \"help bring awareness to the abuse and killing of children in the East and Central African countries at the hands of Kony and his leadership.\" This list included 20 \"celebrity culture makers\", such as George Clooney, Angelina Jolie, Oprah Winfrey (who significantly helped to spread the video), Taylor Swift and Ryan Seacrest. The list also featured 12 \"policy makers\" that have \"the power to keep U.S. government officials in Africa\" in order to work toward the capture of Kony. This list includes former U.S. President George W. Bush and his Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and former Secretary of State John Kerry.\n\nA number of celebrities endorsed the awareness campaign against Kony, including Justin Bieber, Bill Gates, Christina Milian, Nicki Minaj, Kim Kardashian, Rihanna and Ellen Page.\n\nAs part of the campaign, American supporters were asked to put up posters in their hometowns in an action named \"Cover the Night\", which took place on April 20, 2012. Invisible Children website offers posters and T-shirts in an attempt to gain wider recognition. They also created action kits to help spread awareness that include campaign buttons, posters, bracelets and stickers.\n\nThe \"Cover the Night\" event took place worldwide on April 20, 2012, and was to be conducted by supporters who were encouraged to perform some sort of charity work that morning in their local community. Then, that evening, they were to post flyers and posters throughout their city for the Kony 2012 campaign. The turnout for the event worldwide was much smaller than initially expected, with no organized spots officially announced and much fewer people attending than had pledged to attend. A tweet from Invisible Children stated, \"There is no official meet-up as we are asking people to act locally with friends+family in their neighborhoods.\" One gathering in Vancouver had only 17 people; another in Brisbane had fewer than 50 attendees. In Kelowna, British Columbia, several signs and posters were put up, including two large banners that were \"placed on both sides of the pedestrian overpass\". In Canberra, several Facebook groups resulted in a few gatherings of two or three people each; Pierre Johannessen, a \"law firm partner who runs a charity for disadvantaged children\", distributed around 3,000 posters to the groups to be put up throughout the city. In Phoenix, 200 posters were put up by \"college students and other people in their teens and 20s\", along with a number of chalk and stencil messages. \n\nThe film sparked a heated controversy regarding its merits, with very differing opinions being expressed by various NGO workers, government and international officials, journalists, and other groups and individuals.\n\nAfter the video was released, various social media outlets went into a frenzy and exploded the Kony 2012 movement into the world-wide news. The video, directed by Jason Russell, began to generate a tremendous amount of social media attention. After being the quickest video to reach 100 million views within 6 days, Kony 2012 took over social media with hashtags like #Kony2012. The social media impact was so relevant that, on March 6 and 7, more people were talking about Kony 2012 through Facebook posts than the newly released Apple iPhone. Along with Facebook, nearly 66% of Twitter conversations during March 5 – March 12 were about the Anti-Kony movement. Social media outlets, such as Facebook, were responsible for informing 27% of young adults of the Kony 2012 video, compared to 10% who learned about it through other traditional platforms. Overall, Kony 2012 made a significant impact throughout social media platforms. During that short period of time, it became YouTube's number one video of reaching a certain number of views within a short period of time, along with over 5 million related tweets occurring over just a week.\n\nIn under a week, the video created by Invisible Children, Kony 2012 had been viewed over 100 million times. \"Time\" magazine credits Invisible Children's strong base of followers on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. Unlike other videos that accidentally \"go viral\", Kony 2012 was created to elicit emotional responses and encourage viewers to share the footage and spread the hashtag. This attracted the attention of celebrities like Oprah Winfrey, Rihanna, Bill Gates, Ryan Seacrest, Justin Bieber, and Kim Kardashian-West. Despite the video's popularity, not all interactions were positive. But the more criticism the video drew, the more people watched it and shared it so that they could be a part of the conversation. Their Public Relations team was not ready for the over night fame and failed to control the narrative of the fall out.\n\nForbes gives a breakdown of 12 reasons why the video went so viral. They cite that the video invoked positive feelings, grabbed viewers attention, made it personal, referenced mainstream media, pulled on the heartstrings, conveyed immediacy, made it simple, made it real, gave it a scale, used celebrities, created events, and made it easy to get involved. These 12 basic tactics affected viewers so much so that the Kony 2012 campaign sold out of merchandise when their two interns could not keep up with the hundreds of thousands of action kits supporters could buy. Jason Russel told Business Insider, \"We sourced every single red T-shirt in the entire US. There were no more to buy.\" The google trends for searches like \"Joseph Kony\" and \"Kony 2012\" all show flatlines until the video was released where the spike reaches all the way to 100%. Before Invisible Children released the video, Joseph Kony and the LRA were mostly unknown to America and the rest of the world.\n\nLuis Moreno Ocampo, who was featured in the film and was, at the time, the chief Prosecutor at the International Criminal Court (ICC), voiced his support of the film and the campaign that had \"mobilised the world\", and said that the criticism was \"stupid\". The Special Representative and head of the newly created United Nations Regional Office for Central Africa (UNOCA), Abou Moussa, said that international interest in Kony was \"useful, very important\". The White House released a statement of support through Press Secretary Jay Carney, who stated in a news conference, \"We congratulate the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have mobilized to this unique crisis of conscience\" and said that the raised awareness from the video is \"consistent with the bipartisan legislation passed by our congress in 2010.\" Cameron Hudson, policy director at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and former Africa director in the National Security Council, also praised Invisible Children for reaching \"tens of millions of people who probably never previously heard of Joseph Kony.\" Anthony Lake, the executive director of UNICEF, was cited as saying that a similar viral video would have made a difference during the Rwandan Genocide in 1994, also suggesting that \"this kind of public attention would also have helped save more lives in Darfur and in Congo's warring east.\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch (HRW)'s Africa division senior researcher Anneke Van Woudenberg wrote in a statement: \"We've spent years investigating the horrors perpetrated by the LRA in central Africa—Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Central African Republic (CAR), and South Sudan. We gathered evidence at massacre sites—wooden clubs covered in dried blood, rubber strips from bicycle tires used to tie up the victims, and freshly dug graves—and spoke to hundreds of boys and girls forced to fight for his army or held captive as sex slaves. And we're elated that #stopKony is a trending topic on Twitter—if anyone deserves global notoriety it's Kony.\" She added: \"Arresting Kony and other senior LRA leaders would reaffirm that those who commit mass atrocities will face justice. It will also help end the scourge of one of the most brutal rebel groups in Africa.\" HRW's LRA researcher Ida Sawyer reaffirmed, \"we definitely support the message of the film and we think it's great that they're bringing so much attention to the film with Kony's crimes and the phenomena of the LRA.\" Amnesty International, which had documented what it described as the LRA's \"horrific impact on the lives of thousands of civilians in Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan and Uganda\" and for years had been calling for the LRA leaders to be arrested, welcomed the massive public response to the Kony 2012 campaign. Erwin van der Borght, the organization's Africa director, wrote in a statement: \"Joseph Kony and other LRA leaders have evaded arrest for far too long and this campaign is a salient reminder of the continuing crimes by LRA members and the need to arrest and surrender their leaders to the ICC so they can face trial,\" but added: \"Anyone joining the Kony 2012 campaign should insist that efforts to arrest Joseph Kony must respect human rights\", especially because \"many of LRA members were themselves victims of human rights violations including forcible recruitment\", and ensure the protection of civilians.\n\nOpinions on the film were mixed in Gulu, one of former centers of rebel activities in northern Uganda, during a showing of the film, with several of the leaders expressing support and criticism. One of the attendees, State Minister for Foreign Affairs Henry Oryem Okello, said that the criticisms directed at the film and Invisible Children were \"unfounded\", going on to state, \"Invisible Children has done visible things in Acholi[land], for example offering scholarships to thousands of children and anyone against them is our enemy.\" Betty Bigombe, a Ugandan cabinet minister and former peace negotiator, said, \"I do not know whether it makes any difference as far as taking [Kony] out is concerned. However, what is important is bringing this to the attention of policymakers. I hope that something innovative will come out of it.\" Norbert Mao, Ugandan politician and president of the opposition Democratic Party, stated his support for the film, explaining that while it does have some problems, such as implying Ugandans did not try to fight back against the LRA and not explaining how many of the issues in the film were also exacerbated by the Ugandan government itself, the film is still a \"positive development\" for the issue, adding that while Invisible Children may not be \"the foremost analysts of the complicated political, historical and security dynamics\" in the situation, \"they have the most beautiful trait on earth – compassion.\"\n\nJournalist Nicholas D. Kristof thanked Invisible Children for making the film and addressed its criticism, stating that rather than being \"white man's burden\", when \"a warlord continues to kill and torture across a swath of Congo and Central African Republic ... it's a human burden.\" He also said that complexity had long been \"a leading excuse for inaction during atrocities\" and that Kony remains a threat in Uganda's neighbour countries, so the simplicity of the film \"has left the American public more informed\" than it would be otherwise, and that if he \"were a Congolese villager\", he would \"welcome these uncertain efforts over the sneering scorn of do-nothing armchair cynics.\" Foreign correspondent Roger Cohen called it \"simplifying grossly and distorting adeptly to make a valid point: that no effort should be spared to arrest Kony.\" British film critic Peter Bradshaw wrote that \"Kony 2012\", despite its flaws, \"lands an almighty punch. This is a principled campaign ad, and a very, very effective one.\" Former war correspondent Gotham Chopra said that he understands \"the instinctive backlash (really it's irritation)\" towards the film and the campaign, but \"there is enormous value in the fact that millions of people are talking today about genocide in Africa that were mostly unaware of it yesterday.\" Jane Bussmann, author of a 2009 book about Kony and the President of Uganda Yoweri Museveni, compared the campaign favorably to the \"culture of charity-as-industry\" as \"at least Kony2012 linked suffering to perpetrators, and urged the young American audience it's aimed at to contact a politician.\" Matthew Green, author of a 2008 book about Kony and the LRA conflict, \"The Wizard of the Nile\", wrote that IC had \"achieved more with their 30-minute video than battalions of diplomats, NGO workers and journalists have since the conflict began 26 years ago.\"\n\nJacob Acaye, the former child soldier featured in the film, supported the video and defended its makers. In response to Ugandans saying that the film was out-of-date, Jacob stated that, \"It is not too late, because all this fighting and suffering is still going on elsewhere. Until now, the war that was going on has been a silent war. People did not really know about it. Now what was happening in Gulu is still going on elsewhere in the Central African Republic and in Congo. What about the people who are suffering over there? They are going through what we were going through.\" It was noted by \"Los Angeles Times\" journalists Lindsay Branham and Jocelyn Kelly that a number of people living in the areas where the LRA is currently active have previously called for attention and advocacy to be directed at the issue. Julien Marneffe, a worker for Catholic Relief Services in Goma said \"it's been an undeniable success – and one all humanitarian organizations working in this area can be happy about,\" but added to \"be careful not to oversimplify the issue\" and worried that the interest might be short lived when \"another crisis or another video will be the next online trend, and I fear that most people will forget about the problems of the LRA.\"\n\nSince the video's release, Invisible Children has come under criticism for oversimplification of events in the region and has been accused of engaging in \"slacktivism\", in which one donates or takes actions that have little to no effect beyond making one feel like one contributed. While the campaign promotes global activism, it has been criticized for providing a black-and-white picture rather than encouraging the viewers to learn about the situation. Mikaela Luttrell-Rowland from Clark University's Strassler Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies stated that it was \"irresponsible to prize feel good, simplistic messages over complex history and to treat consumerist-consciousness raising as interchangeable with education.\" Africa researcher Alex de Waal accused the film of \"peddling dangerous and patronizing falsehoods,\" criticized the campaign as \"naive\" for \"elevating Kony to a global celebrity, the embodiment of evil,\" that might only help him as a terrorist and cult leader, and called for instead \"demystifying Kony—reducing him to a common criminal and a failed provincial politician.\"\n\nOne point of criticism is that the film gives a misleading impression of the whereabouts and magnitude of Kony's remaining LRA forces. As of early 2012, Kony's followers were thought to number only in the hundreds, and Kony himself was believed to be in the Central African Republic rather than Uganda—a fact that receives only a passing mention in the video. This problem raised questions about the plausibility of Ugandan army intervention, which the video advocates. Since Kony and most of the LRA forces are currently not in Uganda, the Ugandan army would need to coordinate with the governments and militaries of the other countries where the LRA is active.\n\nDinaw Mengestu, an Ethiopian American writer and Africa researcher, wrote that the real world Kony is \"not a click away\", and a simple solution of raising popular awareness, \"a beautiful equation that can only work so long as we believe that nothing in the world happens unless we know about it ... only works in the myopic reality of the film, a reality that deliberately eschews depth and complexity.\" \nAmanda Weisbaum of the charity War Child said that \"just getting rid of one person does not solve the problem\" and the film's focus should have been rather on helping ex-child soldiers. Anne Goddard, president and CEO of ChildFund International, wrote that \"by narrowing the focus on Kony, by defining success so singularly, it gives people a greater sense that the issue [of globally widespread conscription of young children] can be resolved. And that hope feeds on itself in a way that becomes infectious.\" United Nations Under-Secretary-General Radhika Coomaraswamy called for the Kony2012 campaign to divert its donation funds from supporting military action to capture Kony to rehabilitation and reintegration programmes for former child soldiers. Victor Ochen, founder and director of Ugandan rehabilitation NGO Ayinet, said that campaign \"to promote [Kony] or make him famous\" is \"offensive\", in part because of the Cover the Night event's date (an anniversary of the Atiak massacre by the LRA in Uganda in 1995 and the date of birth of Adolf Hitler), adding \"How do you think Americans would have reacted if people in another country wore Osama bin Laden T-shirts?\"\n\nAfter the film's release, there was criticism in Uganda of its failure to state more clearly that Kony and his forces fled northern Uganda in 2006 and were dispersed across the jungles of three neighbouring countries. Fred Opolot, spokesman for the Ugandan government, said, \"It is totally misleading to suggest that the war is still in Uganda.\" Arthur Larok, ActionAid's director in Uganda, said, \"It doesn't sound like a fair representation of Uganda. We have challenges within the country, but certainly the perception of a country at war is not accurate at all.\" Dr Beatrice Mpora, director of a community health organization in Gulu, commented, \"There has not been a single soul from the LRA here since 2006. Now we have peace, people are back in their homes, they are planting their fields, they are starting their businesses. That is what people should help us with.\" Prime Minister of Uganda Amama Mbabazi launched an online response on YouTube, in which he seeks to correct the \"false impression\" that Uganda is still at war, and invites everyone to visit the country, assuring that people would find it \"a very different place to that portrayed by Invisible Children\". Meanwhile, dozens of members of Ugandan diaspora in United States protested outside the Invisible Children offices in San Diego, also criticizing the video but saying Kony represents \"only three percent of all the problems\" in their home country and lambasting the Ugandan government for its inadequate response to Kony's terror and other issues.\n\nA March 2012 mass showing of the film in Lira, the site of one of Kony's worst atrocities in Uganda, was met with jeering and thrown objects at the screen and at the group African Youth Initiative Network, which screened the film and provided translations. The screening prompted angry calls to local radio stations by Ugandans upset that the film was so focused on the filmmakers and Kony while neglecting the conflict's victims, prompting complaints that the film was \"more about whites than Ugandans.\" Others objected to being reminded of the horrors Kony brought to Uganda. Despite the negative response, the organization still planned on showing the film in other towns, hoping to avoid this response by providing context for the film. Some Ugandan commentators have also criticized the video for its aim of making Kony \"famous\", even believing it means to \"celebrate\" him, and for its advocacy of foreign military intervention to stop him.\n\nMahmood Mamdani, director of the Institute of Social Research at Makerere University, Kampala, argued that the LRA is \"a Ugandan problem calling for a Ugandan political solution\" and against \"mobilisation of millions [to] be subverted into yet another weapon in the hands of those who want to further militarise the region.\" Ugandan journalist Rosebell Kagumire said that \"the war is much more complex than one man called Joseph Kony.\" A more recent showing of \"Kony 2012\" at Pece War Memorial Stadium in Gulu, Uganda sparked a riot in which dozens of people were injured. The archbishop of Gulu, Rt Rev. John Baptist Odama, was reported as saying that the video \"has ill motives and geared towards igniting anger in the population to cause violence.\" Margaret Aciro, whose picture appears in the video showing her face mutilated by the LRA, said she \"became sad\" after seeing it being \"used to profit.\"\n\nFather Ernest Sugule, national coordinator of the Congolese non-governmental organization SAIPD in Dungu, DRC, claimed that the few people there \"who have succeeded in watching [\"Kony 2012\"] are very critical on the film,\" as is he himself. Charlie Beckett, a media communications expert at the London School of Economics (LSE), said Invisible Children, \"haven't got the capacity for is to take that beyond another action. What are they going to do with all this energy and interest? It's going to dissipate. ... I think this will crash and die, I don't think they will catch Kony. People will say they bought the bracelet and stuck posters on lamppost but that could have negative effects when it doesn't actually lead anywhere.\"\n\nThe fame of director Jason Russell's 30-minute documentary was short-lived. After becoming the fastest video in history to have reached 100 million views, the popularity of the video dwindled – in 5 years it had added less than 1/50 of its views it had garnered in its first 144 hours. For Occupy Wall Street, the climb toward the most popular peak of the movement lasted 3 months – from August 2011 to October 2011. There is much speculation on how the movement died off. Rick Cohen suggests that the video \"sucked the energy out of the organizing\" – people already knew what Kony 2012 was so there was no need to create awareness about it. Cohen also makes reference to a \"counter-narrative\" that arose in Uganda. Ugandans criticized the movement for releasing false information – claiming that the LRA had not had a presence in Uganda since 2006. A parody of the Invisible Children, Inc., the \"Visible Children\", criticized the non-profit organization for misusing donations and overpaying their employees. The Visible Children also criticized the Kony 2012 movement for making Joseph Kony \"famous\", citing Ugandan opinions that even more supporters rallied behind Kony for publicity. Delinquent acts of graffiti from the movement's followers and lewd acts by creator Jason Russell led to further criticism of the movement. Finally, the movement's nature as a meme transformed it to be unattractive platform for some to donate.\n\nA statement purported to be released by Kony's Lord's Resistance Army rebels and signed by the group's spokesman and negotiator Justine Nyeko (\"The Leader, LRA Peace Team\") condemned the film as \"a cheap and banal panic act of mass trickery to make the unsuspecting peoples of the world complicit in the US rogue and murderous activities in Central Africa.\" The statement was obtained by Ugandan journalist Frank Nyakairu, received from Nairobi, Kenya-based LRA representatives. It was also reported that the LRA abduction rate sharply increased in the weeks since the film was released, although it was impossible to confirm the link between the rise in LRA attacks and Kony's global notoriety.\n\nOn March 8, 2012, Invisible Children released an official response addressing the criticisms directed at \"Kony 2012\". As an explanation for the simplicity of the movie, they stated that \"in [their] quest to garner wide public support of nuanced policy, [they] sought to explain the conflict in an easily understandable format.\" Jedidiah Jenkins, the director of idea development for Invisible Children, responded to the new criticisms by saying that they were \"myopic\" and that the video itself was a \"tipping point\" that \"got young people to care about an issue on the other side of the planet that doesn't affect them.\" In response to concerns about working with the Ugandan government, Invisible Children explained that they \"do not defend any of the human rights abuses perpetrated by the Ugandan government or the Ugandan army\". They added that the reason why they are working with the Ugandan army even though Kony is no longer in Uganda is that the army is \"more organized and better equipped than that of any of the other affected countries (DRC, South Sudan, CAR) to track down Joseph Kony\" and that they want all of the governments in the region to work together to arrest Kony. Jenkins stated, \"There is a huge problem with political corruption in Africa. If we had the purity to say we will not partner with anyone corrupt, we couldn't partner with anyone.\"\n\nA video titled \"Thank you, KONY 2012 Supporters\" was released on March 12, 2012 to address the criticisms directed at the film and to be \"fully transparent\", according to Invisible Children CEO Ben Keesey. The film begins with Keesey discussing the three things that the charity focuses on, which are to \"create films with compelling narratives, promote international advocacy and run on-the-ground initiatives.\" He also points out that \"overhead and travel costs are essential to those efforts\", as a part of the group's management expenses, along with going toward \"thousands of free screenings of the group's films worldwide, as well as toward bringing survivors of the Lord's Resistance Army ... to speak at these events.\" Keesey explains the way the charity's annual expenditures are made, with \"80.5 percent to 85.7 percent of total annual spending from fiscal 2007 to 2011\" going toward program expenses'—money that directly benefits their cause\", and finished by urging interested parties to make inquires to the group via Twitter, using the account @invisible and hashtag #AskICAnything. Two further short videos featured LRA survivors expressing support for the film and the organization.\n\nThe website Kickstriker, a parody of Kickstarter, contains a fake appeal to crowdsource the \"hiring private military contractors from Academi (formerly Blackwater), who will be immediately deployed to central Africa\" with a mission to capture or kill Kony. In response, Invisible Children sent the Kickstriker team a cease and desist warning to take down the parody page, accusing them of \"causing public confusion through your use of Invisible Children's copyrighted and trademarked property\" and threatening a legal action. According to Wired.com, the legal threats \"[had] Kickstriker's founders rolling their eyes.\"\n\n\"Kony 2012: Part II – Beyond Famous\" is a 20-minute video follow-up to \"Kony 2012\". The film was announced early on April 2, 2012, to be released within the week. It was initially announced to be released on April 3, but was delayed for two days due to editing problems.\n\n\"Beyond Famous\" aims to address criticisms of the original film and to present more information about Kony's LRA rebellion, including its impact on the countries other than Uganda, as well as about Invisible Children's work and the Kony 2012 campaign. Executive Director and CEO of Invisible Children, Inc. Ben Keesey, who narrates the film, said the sequel was made in two weeks. In a statement announcing the video, Keesey said that Invisible Children wants people \"to dig deeper into this conflict and actively engage in the solutions.\" Jason Russell, who was hospitalized on March 15 due to \"a temporary psychotic breakdown believed to have been brought on by the pressure of the success—and criticism—of the first film\", is not featured in \"Part II\".\n\nIn a pre-release comment, popular culture expert Robert Thompson said: \"The fact is, the story has developed in so many odd ways with all the controversy, and the sequel can't really promise the bang of that first video—which is informing people of something they did not know before. Now we're getting into the details, which is never that thrilling.\" The LRA researcher Craig Valters of the LSE's department of International Development said that the second video \"overwhelmingly\" failed to answer criticisms raised by the first film. On the other hand, Mike Pflanz, East Africa correspondent for \"The Daily Telegraph\", said that the sequel was \"a more solid, moving and, finally, accurate presentation of the ongoing battle to capture Joseph Kony\" and that, in comparison to the original video, the \"new video is couched in nuance and deploys dialogue more commonly heard in a United Nations workshop – displacement, rehabilitation, post-conflict – than in a YouTube smash.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", the sequel \"does not seem to have captured the public's imagination in quite the same way as Invisible Children's earlier video did, failing to significantly trend on social media websites.\" By April 16, 2012, it had received 1.7 million views in 11 days, less than 2% of what the first video had in its first five days. Matt Fiorentino, director of marketing at video measurement firm Visible Measures, considered the first campaign a never-seen-before anomaly, and despite being dwarfed by its predecessor, the number of views \"Beyond Famous\" received was \"pretty good\" when compared to a regular social campaign. \"The Guardian\" nevertheless described \"Beyond Famous\" as \"one of the top 25 non-profit campaigns ever.\"\n\nOn March 21, 2012, a resolution \"condemning Joseph Kony and his ruthless guerrilla group for a 26-year campaign of terror\" was put forward by Senators Jim Inhofe and Chris Coons. The resolution stated that it would back \"the effort of Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic and the newest country, South Sudan, to stop Kony and his Lord's Resistance Army\", along with an official statement of support \"for the U.S. effort to help regional forces pursue commanders of the militia group.\" Overall, the resolution received support from 34 senators, both Republicans and Democrats.\n\nSupport among senators for the resolution came about after the release of the \"Kony 2012\" video and its subsequent popularity. One of the resolution leaders, Senator Chris Coons, became aware of the situation after his daughters asked him what he was doing to stop Kony and Senator Roy Blunt was informed \"at a Missouri caucus in St. Louis when a constituent quizzed him about Kony\". One of the co-sponsors of the resolution, Senator Lindsey Graham, stated that, \"When you get 100 million Americans looking at something, you will get our attention. This YouTube sensation is gonna help the Congress be more aggressive and will do more to lead to his demise than all other action combined.\"\n\nOn March 23, 2012, the African Union (AU) announced its intentions to send an international brigade of 5,000 military troops \"from Uganda, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Congo, countries where Kony's reign of terror has been felt over the years ... to join the hunt for rebel leader Joseph Kony\" and to \"neutralize\" him. According to the statement, the mission commenced on March 24, 2012, and the search \"will last until Kony is caught\", after which the task force will be disbanded. The effort is Ugandan-led and backed by the U.S. with the 100 advisers already there, who are offering advice, intelligence and training, along with equipment. The brigade has established its headquarters in Yambio in South Sudan, close to the border with the DRC, and is commanded by a Ugandan officer; a Congolese officer has oversight of intelligence operations.\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokeswoman Melissa Fleming said the agency welcomed the \"unprecedented\" initiative to \"end the atrocities in the region\" and urged all involved to respect human rights and minimize risk to civilians. AU counter-terrorism envoy Francisco Madeira said, \"We need to stop Kony.\" The ICC chief prosecutor Luis Moreno Ocampo voiced confidence that the video will \"produce the arrest of Joseph Kony this year,\" adding: \"That is the impact of the campaign.\" However, Patrick Wegner, an academic at the Max Planck Research School on Successful Dispute Resolution in International Law, claimed it was \"plain wrong\" to suggest the AU action was prompted solely by Kony 2012, saying that \"the idea is a lot older than the Kony 2012 video\" as the plans for forming an anti-LRA regional military force have been first reported in international news media in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "14266112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14266112", "title": "Latent human error", "text": "Latent human error\n\nA latent human error is a human error which is likely to be made due to systems or routines that are formed in such a way that humans are disposed to making these errors. Latent human error is a term used in safety work and accident prevention, especially in aviation.\n\nBy gathering data about errors made, then collating, grouping and analyzing them, it can be determined whether a disproportionate amount of similar errors are being made. If this is the case, a contributing factor may be disharmony between the respective systems/routines and human nature or propensities. The routines or systems can then be analyzed, potential problems identified, and amendments made if necessary, in order to prevent future errors, incidents or accidents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10150504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10150504", "title": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent", "text": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent\n\nAn auto show (also: motor show or car show) is a public exhibition of current automobile models, debuts, concept cars, or out-of-production classics. The five most prestigious auto shows, sometimes called the \"Big Five\", are generally considered to be held in Frankfurt, Geneva, Detroit, Paris and Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104985", "title": "List of events named massacres", "text": "List of events named massacres\n\nThe following is a list of events for which one of the commonly accepted names includes the word \"massacre.\"\n\n\"Massacre\" is defined in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" as \"the indiscriminate and brutal slaughter of people or (less commonly) animals; carnage, butchery, slaughter in numbers\". It also states that the term is used \"in the names of certain massacres of history\".\nThe first recorded use in English of the word \"massacre\" in the name of an event is due to Christopher Marlow who in c. 1600 referred to what is now known as the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre as \"The massacre at Paris\"\n\nThe purpose of the list is to trace such of the term \"massacre\" specifically.\nThere are many alternative terms with similar connotations, such as butchery, carnage, bloodbath, mass killing, atrocity, etc. as well as euphemisms such as \"Vespers\", \"Blutgericht\" or \"attack\", \"incident\", \"tragedy\" (etc.), use of which are outside the scope of this list.\n\"Massacre\" is also used figuratively to describe dramatic events that did not involve any deaths, such as the \"Hilo massacre\" and the \"Saturday Night Massacre\"; this usage is also outside of the scope of this list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29752766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752766", "title": "List of fan conventions by date of founding", "text": "List of fan conventions by date of founding\n\nThe list of modern fan conventions for various genres of entertainment extends to the first conventions held in the 1930s. \n\nSome fan historians claim that the 1936 Philadelphia Science Fiction Conference, a.k.a. Philcon, was the first science fiction convention ever held. Others, such as Fred Patten and Rob Hansen, make this claim for the January 1937 event in Leeds, England, organized by the Leeds Science Fiction League, which was specifically organised as a conference, with a program and speakers. Out of this came the first incarnation of the British Science Fiction Association.\n\nWhile a few conventions were created in various parts of the world within the period between 1935-1960, the number of convention establishments increased slightly in the 1960s and then increased dramatically in the 1970s, with many of the largest conventions in the modern era being established during the latter decade. Impeti for further establishment of local fan conventions include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3981713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3981713", "title": "List of free-software events", "text": "List of free-software events\n\nThe following is a list of computer conferences and other events focused on the development and usage of free and open-source software (FOSS).\n\nSome events with \"Linux\" in their name are in fact general-purpose free-software events, often because they began as Linux-only events before broadening their focus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23375589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23375589", "title": "List of modern infrastructure failures", "text": "List of modern infrastructure failures\n\nInfrastructure includes the basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a society or enterprise, or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function. This entry aggregates articles on and lists of modern infrastructure failures by category (type of infrastructure).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "11958463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11958463", "title": "List of past Minicons", "text": "List of past Minicons\n\nThis list of past Minicons is in chronological order (which is not the same as numerical order). Location, dates, and guests of honor are noted when known.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21396853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21396853", "title": "List of science and engineering blunders", "text": "List of science and engineering blunders\n\nThis is a list of engineering blunders, i.e., gross errors or mistakes resulting from grave lack of proper consideration, such as stupidity, confusion, carelessness, or culpable ignorance, which resulted in notable incidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47346235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47346235", "title": "List of selfie-related injuries and deaths", "text": "List of selfie-related injuries and deaths\n\nThis is a list of serious injuries and deaths in which one or more subjects of a selfie were killed or injured, either before, during or after having taken a photo of themselves, with the accident at least in part attributed to the taking of the photo.\n\nThe United States Department of Transportation estimated that during 2014, the so-called \"year of the selfie\", 33,000 people were injured while driving and using a cell-phone in some fashion, which can include talking, listening, and \"manual button/control actuation\" including taking, uploading, downloading, editing, or opening of selfies. A 2015 survey by Erie Insurance Group found that 4% of all drivers admitted to taking selfies while driving. \n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported in January 2016 that \"about half\" of at least 27 \"selfie related\" deaths in 2015 had occurred in India. No official data on the number of people who died taking selfies in India exists, but reports show from 2014 up to August 2016, there have been at least 54 deaths in India while taking selfies. The Indian Ministry of Tourism asked states to identify and barricade ‘selfie danger’ areas, its first national attempt to deal with the selfie deaths. Mumbai Police identified at least 16 danger zones after a man drowned attempting to save a selfie-taker. No-selfie zones were also established in certain areas of the Kumbh Mela because organizers feared bottlenecks caused by selfie-takers could spark stampedes.\n\nA 2018 study of news reports showed that between October 2011 to November 2017, there were 259 selfie deaths in 137 incidents reported globally, with the highest occurrences in India followed by Russia, United States, and Pakistan. The mean age was 22.94 years old with male deaths outnumbering female about three to one. \n\n"}
{"id": "58637916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58637916", "title": "Marlboro M hoax", "text": "Marlboro M hoax\n\nThe Marlboro M Hoax was a false rumor originating from satire news website \"Abril Uno\" on April 1, 2016. It was an April Fools joke.\n\nThe article claims that Philip Morris, owner of the Marlboro tobacco company, is introducing a new line of marijuana cigarettes called Marlboro M in Colorado and the state of Washington. While fake, the article does have some factual basis, as tobacco companies have shown interest in marijuana since the 1970's. Even though the article was quite obviously satire, it's intriguing title was able to make it around the internet before it could be disproved. Some users, upon discovering that there were no 'Marlboro M' cigarettes at their local dispensary, claimed that they would be in stock by the end of 2017.\n\nWhile the article was proven fake, its claims were able gain widespread belief because of past and current events in cannabis culture, which themselves were true. For example, it is true that tobacco companies, including Phillip Morris, were interested in marijuana as a competing product and potentially an addition to their company, long before rapid legalization came about. Legalization is also a contributing factor to the blind acceptance these claims received, as societal views on marijuana use have largely shifted in recent years. Some tobacco companies have actually began investing in medical marijuana research, as well as joining with marijuana seed investment firms, though they haven't gone as far is to introduce cannabis cigarettes into the market. Currently, it would be illegal for such a large company, such as Philip Morris, to introduce cannabis cigarettes, as its use is still illegal on the federal level (in the US). \n"}
{"id": "53370439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53370439", "title": "Maxine Lewis", "text": "Maxine Lewis\n\nMaxine Lewis is a producer, talent scout, and event planner for Harlem's Amateur Night (Showtime at the Apollo). She was Percy Sutton's spokeswoman.\n\nShe has worked for the Apollo theatre for decades as a producer for Showtime at the Apollo, and Apollo Kids at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. She has been an organizer for over 21 years for the 154/153 streets' Extended Family Reunion in Harlem, an event that brings residents from the neighborhood and residents that used to live in the area in July of each year.\nShe was born and raised in Harlem, New York City.\n\nMaxine Lewis is a Special Events Producer for Diamonds in the Rough Independent Entertainment from 1986 to till the present (31 years).\n\nPercy Sutton was the founder of Inner City Broadcasting Corporation. Which bought the Apollo Theatre in 1981. They rescued the Apollo Theatre from bankruptcy Court. The theatre was refurbished. She served as Percy Sutton's Executive Assistant for 19 years.\n\nIn 1992, Maxine organized and produced a memorial tribute for tap dancer Charles Coles known as Charles \"Honi\" Coles at the Apollo Theatre. She began working for Inner City Broadcasting Corporation in 1982. In 1984 she became the talent coordinator for amateur segments for Showtime at the Apollo and later segment producer for \"Apollo Kids\" segments for over 14 years. She traveled across the country looking for talent to be showcased. Some well known artists that she showcased were: Lyfe Jennings, Jermaine Paul, Ne-Yo, Jazmine Sullivan,\nLauren Hill, Canton Jones, Jessica Care Moore, and more. She has a featured segment on 90.3 WHCR FM radio for Street Corner Resources giving information and updates about resources and activities for adults.\nShe has been a community volunteer serving food for years for Thanksgiving and Christmas at the National Action Network in Harlem. She is a member of Perfecting Faith Church in Freeport, Long Island, where she utilizes her skills for community service in special events organizing and public relations work.\n\n2015 - Senior Citizen's Day by the New York State Office for the Aging for her community work honored for Community Service.\n\n2015 - Senator Díaz of the Bronx, New York City presents a Senior Citizen of the Year proclamation to Maxine Lewis \n\n2014 - Fannie Lou Hamer Honoree: for her work at the National Action Network National Crisis Manager (North Jersey Chapter)\n"}
{"id": "38861905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38861905", "title": "Metal Open Air", "text": "Metal Open Air\n\nMetal Open Air (also known simply as MOA) was an unsuccessful 2012 heavy metal festival. It took place between 20–22 April, at the Parque Independência, 25 km southeast from downtown São Luís, Maranhão, northeastern Brazil. Due to problems with the payment of artists and the accommodation and security of the audience, the festival was ultimately cancelled on its last day.\n\nOriginally, it was supposed to be a Brazilian version of the famous German Wacken Open Air. However, the promoters failed to obtain official permission to use the name, so they decided to switch it for Metal Open Air. From that moment on, several bands, including Shaman, Megadeth, Symphony X and Anthrax, started to confirm their performances, though a few have cancelled, including Shadowside, Krisiun, and Volbeat, mostly for logistical reasons.\n\nBy February/March 2012, the official announced line-up was as follows (act names in bold are headliners; El Diablo is an entertainment group that prepared rock night parties after every headliner performance):\n\nThe headliners of the second day, the Rock and Roll All Stars, were a supergroup composed of Gene Simmons, Joe Elliott, Matt Sorum, Duff McKagan , Gilby Clarke, Glenn Hughes, Ed Roland, Sebastian Bach, Steve Stevens, Mike Inez, Billy Duffy and Charlie Sheen, who was to be the festival's master of ceremonies.\n\nShortly before and even during the festival, several bands cancelled their performances. British thrash band Venom, for example, had their visas sent to Africa instead of Brazil by mistake, thus making it impossible for them to take part of MOA and two other South American festivals. Hansi Kürsch, vocalist for German power metal quartet Blind Guardian, stated:\n\nAquiles Priester, from Hangar, also cancelled his band's participation, stating:\n\nTerra Prima's members didn't receive their air tickets to São Luís nor the confirmation of their accommodations in the city.\n\nSymphony X, one of the few bands that managed to take on the stage and perform, posted a note some days later, thanking their fans for the show and criticizing the event's structure:\n\nDave Mustaine, from Megadeth, also thanked his fans and regretted the festival's organization:\n\nRicardo Confessori, drummer for Shaman, publicly contested Anthrax guitarist Scott Ian for canceling the band's performance at the festival, accusing him of not giving a good excuse for the fans, to which Ian replied that the problem was \"the whole terrible organization. We never want to cancel but they made it impossible.\"\n\nIn the end, a total of 30 of the 47 invited bands cancelled their performances due to the severe logistical, structural and financial problems regarding the festival. As for the fans, some had to camp inside stables, with almost no electricity, lack of places to buy food, beverage and hygiene products and only one public toilet.\n\nSoon after MOA was cancelled, both companies responsible for the festival (Negri Concerts and Lamparina Filmes e Produções) accused each other of breaking contractual rules.\n"}
{"id": "13745047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13745047", "title": "Natural hazard", "text": "Natural hazard\n\nA natural hazard is a natural phenomenon that might have a negative effect on humans or the environment. Natural hazard events can be classified into two broad categories: geophysical and biological. Geophysical hazards encompass geological and meteorological phenomena such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, wildfires, cyclonic storms, floods, droughts, avalanches and landslides. Biological hazards can refer to a diverse array of disease, infection, infestation and invasive species.\n\nMany geophysical hazards are related; for example, submarine earthquakes can cause tsunamis, and hurricanes can lead to coastal flooding and erosion. Floods and wildfires can result from a combination of geological, hydrological, and climatic factors. It is possible that some natural hazards are intertemporally correlated as well. An example of the distinction between a natural \"hazard\" and a natural \"disaster\" is that the 1906 San Francisco earthquake was a disaster, whereas living on a fault line is a hazard. Some natural hazards can be provoked or affected by anthropogenic processes (e.g. land-use change, drainage and construction).\n\nAn avalanche occurs when a large snow (or rock) mass slides down a mountainside. An avalanche is an example of a gravity current consisting of granular material. In an avalanche, lots of material or mixtures of different types of material fall or slide rapidly under the force of gravity. Avalanches are often classified by the size or severity of consequences resulting from the event.\n\nAn earthquake is the sudden relof energy stored as lithospheric stress that radiates seismic waves. At the Earth's surface, earthquakes may manifest with a shaking or displacement of the ground; when the earthquake occurs on the seafloor, the resulting displacement of water can sometimes result in a tsunami. Most of the world's earthquakes (90%, and 81% of the largest) take place in the 40,000-km-long, horseshoe-shaped zone called the circum-Pacific seismic belt, also known as the Pacific Ring of Fire, which for the most part bounds the Pacific Plate. Many earthquakes happen each day, few of which are large enough to cause significant damage.\n\nCoastal erosion is a physical process by which shorelines in coastal areas around the world shift and change, primarily in response to waves and currents that can be influenced by tides and storm surge. Coastal erosion can result from long-term processes (see also beach evolution) as well as from episodic events such as tropical cyclones or other severe storm events.\n\nA lahar is a type of natural event closely related to a volcanic eruption, and involves a large amount of material originating from an eruption of a glaciated volcano, including mud from the melted ice, rock, and ash sliding down the side of the volcano at a rapid pace. These flows can destroy entire towns in seconds and kill thousands of people, and form flood basalt.\nThis is based on natural events.\n\nA landslide is a mass displacement of sediment, usually down a slope. It can be caused by pressure pulling natural objects down a declining hill.\n\nA sinkhole is a localized depression in the surface topography, usually caused by the collapse of a subterranean structure such as a cave. Although rare, large sinkholes that develop suddenly in populated areas can lead to the collapse of buildings and other structures.\n\nA volcanic eruption is the point in which a volcano is active and releases its power, and the eruptions come in many forms. They range from daily small eruptions which occur in places like Kilauea in Hawaii, to megacolossal eruptions (where the volcano expels at least 1,000 cubic kilometers of material) from supervolcanoes like Lake Taupo (26,500 years ago) and Yellowstone Caldera. According to the Toba catastrophe theory, 70 to 75 thousand years ago, a supervolcanic event at Lake Toba reduced the human population to 10,000 or even 1,000 breeding pairs, creating a bottleneck in human evolution. Some eruptions form pyroclastic flows, which are high-temperature clouds of ash and steam that can travel down mountainsides at speed exceeding an airliner.\n\nA blizzard is a severe winter storm with icy and windy conditions characterized by low temperature, strong wind and heavy snow.\n\nA drought is a period of below-average precipitation in a given region, resulting in prolonged shortages in the water supply, whether atmospheric, surface water or ground water.\nScientists warn that global warming and climate change may result in more extensive droughts in coming years. These extensive droughts are likely to occur within the African continent due to its very low precipitation levels and high temperatures.\n\nA hailstorm is a natural hazard where a thunderstorm produces numerous hailstones which damage the location in which they fall. Hailstorms can be especially devastating to farm fields, ruining crops and damaging equipment.\n\nA heat wave is a hazard characterized by heat which is considered extreme and unusual in the area in which it occurs. Heat waves are rare and require specific combinations of weather events to take place, and may include temperature inversions, katabatic winds, or other phenomena. There is potential for longer-term events causing global warming, including stadial events (the opposite to glacial \"ice age\" events), or through human-induced climatic warming.\n\nCyclone is a large scale air mass that rotates around a strong center of low atmospheric pressure.\n\nHurricane, tropical cyclone, and typhoon are different names for the cyclonic storm system that forms over the oceans. It is caused by evaporated water that comes off of the ocean and becomes a storm. The Coriolis effect causes the storms to spin.. \"Hurricane\" is used for these phenomena in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific Oceans, \"tropical cyclone\" in the Indian, and \"typhoon\" in the western Pacific.\n\nAn ice storm is a particular weather event in which precipitation falls as ice, due to atmosphere conditions. It causes damage.\n\nA tornado is a natural disaster resulting from a thunderstorm. Tornadoes are violent, rotating columns of air which can blow at speeds between and , and possibly higher. Tornadoes can occur one at a time, or can occur in large tornado outbreaks associated with supercells or in other large areas of thunderstorm development. Waterspouts are tornadoes occurring over tropical waters in light rain conditions.\n\nClimate change can increase or decrease weather hazards, and also directly endanger property due to sea level rise and biological organisms due to habitat destruction.\n\nGeomagnetic storms can disrupt or damage technological infrastructure, and disorient species with magnetoception.\n\nA flood results from an overflow of water beyond its normal confines of a body of water such as a lake, or the accumulation of water over land areas.\n\nWildfire is a fire that burns in an uncontrolled and unplanned manner. Wildfires can result from natural occurrences such as lightning strikes or from human activity.\n\nDisease is a natural hazard that can be enhanced by human factors such as urbanization or poor sanitation. Disease affecting multiple people can be termed an outbreak or epidemic.\n\nIn some cases, a hazard exists in that a human-made defense against disease could fail, for example through antibiotic resistance.\n\nEach of the natural hazard types outlined above have very different characteristics, in terms of the spatial and temporal scales they influence, hazard frequency and return period, and measures of intensity and impact. These complexities result in \"single-hazard\" assessments being commonplace, where the hazard potential from one particular hazard type is constrained. In these examples, hazards are often treated as isolated or independent. An alternative is a \"multi-hazard\" approach which seeks to identify all possible natural hazards and their interactions or interrelationships.\n\nMany examples exist of one natural hazard triggering or increasing the probability of one or more other natural hazards. For example, an earthquake may trigger landslides, whereas a wildfire may increase the probability of landslides being generated in the future. A detailed review of such interactions across 21 natural hazards identified 90 possible interactions, of varying likelihood and spatial importance. There may also be interactions between these natural hazards and anthropic processes. For example, groundwater abstraction may trigger groundwater-related subsidence.\n\nEffective hazard analysis in any given area (e.g., for the purposes of disaster risk reduction) should ideally include an examination of all relevant hazards and their interactions. To be of most use for risk reduction, hazard analysis should be extended to risk assessment wherein the vulnerability of the built environment to each of the hazards is taken into account. This step is well developed for seismic risk, where the possible effect of future earthquakes on structures and infrastructure is assessed, as well as for risk from extreme wind and to a lesser extent flood risk. For other types of natural hazard the calculation of risk is more challenging, principally because of the lack of functions linking the intensity of a hazard and the probability of different levels of damage (fragility curves). \"ThinkHazard!\" is an online tool that provides an overview of the hazards from eight natural hazards (river floods, earthquakes, water scarcity, cyclones, coastal floods, tsunamis, volcanoes and landslides) developed by the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery in partnership with other institutions.\n\nIn 2000, the United Nations launched the International Early Warning Programme to address the underlying causes of vulnerability and to build disaster-resilient communities by promoting increased awareness of the importance of disaster risk reduction as an integral component of sustainable development, with the goal of reducing human, economic and environmental losses due to hazards of all kinds (UN/ISDR, 2000). \n\nThe 2006-2007 United Nations International Disaster Reduction Day theme was “Disaster reduction education begins in school”. The Foundation of Public Safety Professionals launched an international campaign with an international open essay or documentary competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1972777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972777", "title": "Neil deGrasse Tyson", "text": "Neil deGrasse Tyson\n\nNeil deGrasse Tyson (; born October 5, 1958) is an American astrophysicist, author, and science communicator. Since 1996, he has been the Frederick P. Rose Director of the Hayden Planetarium at the Rose Center for Earth and Space in New York City. The center is part of the American Museum of Natural History, where Tyson founded the Department of Astrophysics in 1997 and has been a research associate in the department since 2003.\n\nTyson studied at Harvard University, the University of Texas at Austin and Columbia University. From 1991 to 1994 he was a postdoctoral research associate at Princeton University. In 1994, he joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist and the Princeton faculty as a visiting research scientist and lecturer. In 1996, he became director of the planetarium and oversaw its $210-million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, Tyson wrote monthly essays in the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine, some of which were later published in his books \"Death by Black Hole\" (2007) and \"Astrophysics for People in a Hurry\" (2017). During the same period, he wrote a monthly column in \"Star Date\" magazine, answering questions about the universe under the pen name \"Merlin\". Material from the column appeared in his books \"Merlin's Tour of the Universe\" (1998) and \"Just Visiting This Planet\" (1998). Tyson served on a 2001 government commission on the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, and on the 2004 Moon, Mars and Beyond commission. He was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal in the same year. From 2006 to 2011, he hosted the television show \"NOVA ScienceNow\" on PBS. Since 2009, Tyson hosted the weekly podcast \"StarTalk\". A spin-off, also called \"StarTalk\", began airing on National Geographic in 2015. In 2014, he hosted the television series \"\", a successor to Carl Sagan's 1980 series \"\". The U.S. National Academy of Sciences awarded Tyson the Public Welfare Medal in 2015 for his \"extraordinary role in exciting the public about the wonders of science\".\n\nTyson was born in Manhattan as the second of three children, into a family living in the Bronx. His mother, Sunchita Maria Tyson (née Feliciano), was a gerontologist for the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and is of Puerto Rican descent. His African-American father, Cyril deGrasse Tyson (1927–2016), was a sociologist, human resource commissioner for New York City mayor John Lindsay, and the first Director of Harlem Youth Opportunities Unlimited. Tyson has two siblings: Stephen Joseph Tyson and Lynn Antipas Tyson. Tyson's middle name, deGrasse, is from the maiden name of his paternal grandmother, who was born as Altima de Grasse in the British West Indies island of Nevis.\n\nTyson grew up in the Castle Hill neighborhood of the Bronx, and later in Riverdale. From kindergarten throughout high school, Tyson attended public schools in the Bronx: P.S. 36, P.S. 81, the Riverdale Kingsbridge Academy (then called \"P.S. 141\"), and The Bronx High School of Science (1972–1976) where he was captain of the wrestling team and editor-in-chief of the \"Physical Science Journal\". His interest in astronomy began at the age of nine after visiting the sky theater of the Hayden Planetarium. He recalled that \"so strong was that imprint [of the night sky] that I'm certain that I had no choice in the matter, that in fact, the universe called me.\" During high school, Tyson attended astronomy courses offered by the Hayden Planetarium, which he called \"the most formative period\" of his life. He credited Dr. Mark Chartrand III, director of the planetarium at the time, as his \"first intellectual role model\" and his enthusiastic teaching style mixed with humor inspired Tyson to communicate the universe to others the way he did.\n\nTyson obsessively studied astronomy in his teen years, and eventually even gained some fame in the astronomy community by giving lectures on the subject at the age of fifteen. Astronomer Carl Sagan, who was a faculty member at Cornell University, tried to recruit Tyson to Cornell for undergraduate studies. In his book, \"The Sky Is Not the Limit\", Tyson wrote:\n\nTyson revisited this moment on his first episode of \"\". Pulling out a 1975 calendar belonging to the famous astronomer, he found the day Sagan invited the 17-year-old to spend a day in Ithaca. Sagan had offered to put him up for the night if his bus back to the Bronx did not come. Tyson said, \"I already knew I wanted to become a scientist. But that afternoon, I learned from Carl the kind of \"person\" I wanted to become.\"\n\nTyson chose to attend Harvard where he majored in physics and lived in Currier House. He was a member of the crew team during his freshman year, but returned to wrestling, lettering in his senior year. He was also active in dance, in styles including jazz, ballet, Afro-Caribbean, and Latin Ballroom.\n\nTyson earned an AB degree in physics at Harvard College in 1980 and then began his graduate work at the University of Texas at Austin, from which he received an MA degree in astronomy in 1983. By his own account, he did not spend as much time in the research lab as he should have. His professors encouraged him to consider alternate careers and the committee for his doctoral dissertation was dissolved, ending his pursuit of a doctorate from the University of Texas.\n\nTyson was a lecturer in astronomy at the University of Maryland from 1986 to 1987 and in 1988, he was accepted into the astronomy graduate program at Columbia University, where he earned an MPhil degree in astrophysics in 1989, and a PhD degree in astrophysics in 1991 under the supervision of Professor R. Michael Rich. Rich obtained funding to support Tyson's doctoral research from NASA and the ARCS foundation enabling Tyson to attend international meetings in Italy, Switzerland, Chile, and South Africa and to hire students to help him with data reduction. In the course of his thesis work, he observed using the 0.91 m telescope at the Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory in Chile, where he obtained images for the Calán/Tololo Supernova Survey helping to further their work in establishing Type Ia supernovae as standard candles. These papers comprised part of the discovery papers of the use of Type Ia supernovae to measure distances, which led to the improved measurement of the Hubble constant and discovery of dark energy in 1998. He was 18th author on a paper with Brian Schmidt, a future winner of the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics, in the study of the measurement of distances to Type II Supernovae and the Hubble constant.\n\nDuring his thesis research at Columbia University, Tyson became acquainted with Professor David Spergel at Princeton University, who visited Columbia University in the course of collaborating with his thesis advisor on the Galactic bulge typically found in spiral galaxies.\n\nTyson's research has focused on observations in cosmology, stellar evolution, galactic astronomy, bulges, and stellar formation. He has held numerous positions at institutions including the University of Maryland, Princeton University, the American Museum of Natural History, and the Hayden Planetarium.\n\nIn 1994, Tyson joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist while he was a research affiliate in Princeton University. He became acting director of the planetarium in June 1995 and was appointed director in 1996. As director, he oversaw the planetarium's $210 million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000. Upon being asked for his thoughts on becoming director, Tyson said \"when I was a kid... there were scientists and educators on the staff at the Hayden Planetarium... who invested their time and energy in my enlightenment... and I've never forgotten that. And to end up back there as its director, I feel this deep sense of duty, that I serve in the same capacity for people who come through the facility today, that others served for me\".\n\nTyson has written a number of popular books on astronomy. In 1995, he began to write the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine. In a column he authored for a special edition of the magazine, called \"City of Stars\", in 2002, Tyson popularized the term \"Manhattanhenge\" to describe the two days annually on which the evening sun aligns with the street grid in Manhattan, making the sunset visible along unobstructed side streets. He had coined the term in 1996, inspired by how the phenomenon recalls the sun's solstice alignment with the Stonehenge monument in England. Tyson's column also influenced his work as a professor with The Great Courses.\n\nIn 2001, U.S. President George W. Bush appointed Tyson to serve on the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry and in 2004 to serve on the President's Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, the latter better known as the \"Moon, Mars, and Beyond\" commission. Soon afterward, he was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian honor bestowed by NASA.\nIn 2004, Tyson hosted the four-part \"Origins\" miniseries of the PBS \"Nova\" series, and, with Donald Goldsmith, co-authored the companion volume for this series, \"Origins: Fourteen Billion Years Of Cosmic Evolution\". He again collaborated with Goldsmith as the narrator on the documentary \"400 Years of the Telescope\", which premiered on PBS in April 2009.\n\nAs director of the Hayden Planetarium, Tyson bucked traditional thinking in order to keep Pluto from being referred to as the ninth planet in exhibits at the center. Tyson has explained that he wanted to look at commonalities between objects, grouping the terrestrial planets together, the gas giants together, and Pluto with like objects, and to get away from simply counting the planets. He has stated on \"The Colbert Report\", \"The Daily Show\", and \"BBC Horizon\" that this decision has resulted in large amounts of hate mail, much of it from children. In 2006, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) confirmed this assessment by changing Pluto to the dwarf planet classification.\n\nTyson recounted the heated online debate on the Cambridge Conference Network (CCNet), a \"widely read, UK-based Internet chat group\", following Benny Peiser's renewed call for reclassification of Pluto's status. Peiser's entry, in which he posted articles from the AP and \"The Boston Globe\", spawned from \"The New York Times\"s article entitled \"Pluto's Not a Planet? Only in New York\".\n\nTyson has been vice-president, president, and chairman of the board of the Planetary Society. He was also the host of the PBS program \"Nova ScienceNow\" until 2011. He attended and was a speaker at the symposium in November 2006. In 2007, Tyson was chosen to be a regular on The History Channel's popular series \"The Universe\".\nIn May 2009, Tyson launched a one-hour radio talk show called \"StarTalk\", which he co-hosted with comedian Lynne Koplitz. The show was syndicated on Sunday afternoons on KTLK AM in Los Angeles and WHFS in Washington DC. The show lasted for thirteen weeks, but was resurrected in December 2010 and then, co-hosted with comedians Chuck Nice and Leighann Lord instead of Koplitz. Guests range from colleagues in science to celebrities such as GZA, Wil Wheaton, Sarah Silverman, and Bill Maher. The show is available via the Internet through a live stream or in the form of a podcast.\n\nIn April 2011, Tyson was the keynote speaker at the 93rd International Convention of the Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society of the Two-year School. He and James Randi delivered a lecture entitled \"Skepticism\", which related directly with the convention's theme of \"The Democratization of Information: Power, Peril, and Promise\".\n\nIn 2012, Tyson announced that he would appear in a YouTube series based on his radio show \"StarTalk\". A premiere date for the show has not been announced, but it will be distributed on the Nerdist YouTube Channel. On February 28, 2014, Tyson was a celebrity guest at the White House Student Film Festival. In 2014, he helped revive Carl Sagan's \"\" television series, presenting \"\" on both FOX and the National Geographic Channel. Thirteen episodes were aired in the first season, and Tyson has stated that if a second season were produced, he would pass the role of host to someone else in the science world. On April 20, 2015, he began hosting a late-night talk show entitled \"StarTalk\" on the National Geographic Channel, where Tyson interviews pop culture celebrities and asks them about their life experiences with science.\n\nTyson is co-developing a sandbox video game with Whatnot Entertainment, \"\", which aims to help provide players with a realistic simulation of developing a space-faring culture, incorporating educational materials about space and technology. The game is anticipated for release in 2018.\n\nTyson has written and broadcast extensively about his views of science, spirituality, and the spirituality of science, including the essays \"The Perimeter of Ignorance\" and \"Holy Wars\", both appearing in \"Natural History\" magazine and the 2006 \"Beyond Belief\" workshop. In an interview with comedian Paul Mecurio, Tyson offered his definition of spirituality: \"For me, when I say spiritual, I’m referring to a feeling you would have that connects you to the universe in a way that it may defy simple vocabulary. We think about the universe as an intellectual playground, which it surely is, but the moment you learn something that touches an emotion rather than just something intellectual, I would call that a spiritual encounter with the universe.\" Tyson has argued that many great historical scientists' belief in intelligent design limited their scientific inquiries, to the detriment of the advance of scientific knowledge.\n\nWhen asked during a question session at the University at Buffalo if he believed in a higher power, Tyson responded: \"Every account of a higher power that I've seen described, of all religions that I've seen, include many statements with regard to the benevolence of that power. When I look at the universe and all the ways the universe wants to kill us, I find it hard to reconcile that with statements of beneficence.\" In an interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson said, \"So what people are really after is what is my stance on religion or spirituality or God, and I would say if I find a word that came closest, it would be agnostic ... at the end of the day I'd rather not be any category at all.\" Additionally, in the same interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson mentioned that he edited Wikipedia's entry on him to include the fact that he is an agnostic:I'm constantly claimed by atheists. I find this intriguing. In fact, on my Wiki page – I didn't create the Wiki page, others did, and I'm flattered that people cared enough about my life to assemble it – and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" I said, \"Well that's not really true.\" I said, \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an agnostic.\" I went back a week later it had been rewritten and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" – again within a week – and I said, \"What's up with that?\" so I said \"Alright, I have to word it a little differently.\" So I said, okay \"Neil deGrasse Tyson, widely claimed by atheists, is actually an agnostic.\"During the interview \"Called by the Universe: A Conversation with Neil deGrasse Tyson\" in 2009, Tyson said: \"I can't agree to the claims by atheists that I'm one of that community. I don't have the time, energy, interest of conducting myself that way... I'm not trying to convert people. I don't care.\"\n\nIn March 2014, philosopher and secularism proponent Massimo Pigliucci asked Tyson \"What is it you think about God?\" Tyson replied \"I remain unconvinced by any claims anyone has ever made about the existence or the power of a divine force operating in the universe.\" Pigliucci then asked him why he expressed discomfort with the label \"atheist\" in his Big Think video. Tyson replied by reiterating his dislike for one-word labels, saying \"That's what adjectives are for. What kind of atheist are you? Are you an ardent atheist? Are you a passive atheist? An apathetic atheist? Do you rally, or do you just not even care? So I'd be on the 'I really don't care' side of that, if you had to find adjectives to put in front of the word 'atheist.'\" Pigliucci contrasted Tyson with scientist Richard Dawkins: \"[Dawkins] really does consider, at this point, himself to be an atheist activist. You very clearly made the point that you are not.\" Tyson replied: \"I completely respect that activity. He's fulfilling a really important role out there.\"\n\nTyson has spoken about philosophy on numerous occasions. In March 2014, during an episode of \"The Nerdist Podcast\", he stated that philosophy is \"useless\" and that a philosophy major \"can really mess you up\", which was met with disapproval. The philosopher Massimo Pigliucci later criticized him for \"dismiss[ing] philosophy as a useless enterprise\".\n\nIn an undated interview at Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Tyson talked about being black and one of the most visible and well-known scientists in the world. He told a story about being interviewed about a plasma burst from the sun on a local Fox affiliate in 1989. \"I'd never before in my life seen an interview with a black person on television for expertise that had nothing to do with being black. And at that point, I realized that one of the last stereotypes that prevailed among people who carry stereotypes is that, sort of, black people are somehow dumb. I wondered, maybe ... that's a way to undermine this sort of, this stereotype that prevailed about who's smart and who's dumb. I said to myself, 'I just have to be visible, or others like me, in that situation.' That would have a greater force on society than anything else I could imagine.\"\n\nIn 2005, at a conference at the National Academy of Sciences, Tyson responded to a question about whether genetic differences might keep women from working as scientists. He said that his goal to become an astrophysicist was, \"...hands down the path of most resistance through the forces ... of society.\" He continued: \"My life experience tells me, when you don’t find blacks in the sciences, when you don’t find women in the sciences, I know these forces are real and I had to survive them in order to get where I am today. So before we start talking about genetic differences, you gotta come up with a system where there’s equal opportunity. Then we can start having that conversation.\"\n\nIn a 2014 interview with \"Grantland\", Tyson said that he related his experience on that 2005 panel in an effort to make the point that the scientific question about genetic differences can't be answered until the social barriers are dismantled. \"I'm saying before you even have that conversation, you have to be really sure that access to opportunity has been level\". In that same interview, Tyson said that race is not a part of the point he is trying to make in his career or with his life. According to Tyson, \"[T]hat then becomes the point of people's understanding of me, rather than the astrophysics. So it's a failed educational step for that to be the case. If you end up being distracted by that and not [getting] the message\". He purposefully no longer speaks publicly about race. \"I don't give talks on it. I don't even give Black History Month talks. I decline every single one of them. In fact, since 1993, I've declined every interview that has my being black as a premise of the interview\".\n\nTyson is an advocate for expanding the operations of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Arguing that \"the most powerful agency on the dreams of a nation is currently underfunded to do what it needs to be doing\". Tyson has suggested that the general public has a tendency to overestimate how much revenue is allocated to the space agency. At a March 2010 address, referencing the proportion of tax revenue spent on NASA, he stated, \"By the way, how much does NASA cost? It's a half a penny on the dollar. Did you know that? The people are saying, 'Why are we spending money up there...' I ask them, 'How much do you think we're spending?' They say 'five cents, ten cents on a dollar.' It's a half a penny.\"\n\nIn March 2012, Tyson testified before the United States Senate Science Committee, stating that:\n\nRight now, NASA's annual budget is half a penny on your tax dollar. For twice that—a penny on a dollar—we can transform the country from a sullen, dispirited nation, weary of economic struggle, to one where it has reclaimed its 20th century birthright to dream of tomorrow.\n\nInspired by Tyson's advocacy and remarks, Penny4NASA, a campaign of the Space Advocates nonprofit, was founded in 2012 by John Zeller and advocates the doubling of NASA's budget to one percent of the Federal Budget.\n\nIn his book \"Space Chronicles: Facing the Ultimate Frontier\" Tyson argues that large and ambitious space exploration projects, like getting humans to Mars, will probably require some sort of military or economic driver in order to get the appropriate funding from the United States Federal government.\n\nTyson collaborated with the organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) on a public service announcement that stated, \"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that kindness is a virtue.\" He also granted PETA an interview in which he discussed the concept of intelligence (both of human and other animals), the failure of humans to heretofore communicate meaningfully with other animals, and the need of humans to be empathetic.\n\nAs a science communicator, Tyson regularly appears on television, radio, and various other media outlets. He has been a regular guest on \"The Colbert Report\", and host Stephen Colbert refers to him in his comedic book \"I Am America (And So Can You!)\", noting in his chapter on scientists that most scientists are \"decent, well-intentioned people\", but, presumably tongue-in-cheek, that \"Neil DeGrasse Tyson is an absolute monster.\" He has appeared numerous times on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\". He has made appearances on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\", and \"The Rachel Maddow Show\". He served as one of the central interviewees on the various episodes of the History Channel science program, \"The Universe\". Tyson participated on the NPR radio quiz program \"Wait Wait... Don't Tell Me!\" in 2007 and 2015. He has appeared several times on \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", and he was also featured on an episode of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\" as the ask-the-expert lifeline. He has spoken numerous times on the Philadelphia morning show, \"Preston and Steve\", on 93.3 WMMR, as well as on SiriusXM's \"Ron and Fez\" and \"The Opie and Anthony Show\".\n\nTyson has been featured as a guest interviewee on \"The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe\", \"Radiolab\", \"Skepticality\", and \"The Joe Rogan Experience\" podcasts and has been in several of the Symphony of Science videos.\n\nTyson lived near the World Trade Center and was an eyewitness to the September 11, 2001 attacks. He wrote a widely circulated letter on what he saw. Footage he filmed on the day was included in the 2008 documentary film \"102 Minutes That Changed America\".\n\nIn 2007, Tyson was the keynote speaker during the dedication ceremony of Deerfield Academy's new science center, the Koch Center, named for David H. Koch '59. He emphasized the impact science will have on the twenty-first century, as well as explaining that investments into science may be costly, but their returns in the form of knowledge gained and piquing interest is invaluable. Tyson has also appeared as the keynote speaker at The Amazing Meeting, a science and skepticism conference hosted by the James Randi Educational Foundation.\n\nTyson made a guest appearance as himself in the episode \"Brain Storm\" of \"Stargate Atlantis\" alongside Bill Nye and in the episode \"The Apology Insufficiency\" of \"The Big Bang Theory\". Archive footage of him is used in the film \"Europa Report\". Tyson also made an appearance in an episode of \"Martha Speaks\" as himself.\nIn a May 2011 \"StarTalk Radio\" show, \"The Political Science of the Daily Show\", Tyson said he donates all income earned as a guest speaker.\n\nTyson is a frequent participant in the website Reddit's AMAs (Ask Me Anythings) where he is responsible for three of the top ten most popular AMAs of all time.\n\nIn \"Action Comics\" #14 (January 2013), which was published November 7, 2012, Tyson appears in the story, in which he determines that Superman's home planet, Krypton, orbited the red dwarf LHS 2520 in the constellation Corvus 27.1 lightyears from Earth. Tyson assisted DC Comics in selecting a real-life star that would be an appropriate parent star to Krypton, and picked Corvus, which is Latin for \"Crow\", and which is the mascot of Superman's high school, the Smallville Crows. Tyson also had a minor appearance as himself in the 2016 film \"\".\n\nIn May 2013, the Science Laureates of the United States Act of 2013 (H.R. 1891; 113th Congress) was introduced into Congress. Neil deGrasse Tyson was listed by at least two commentators as a possible nominee for the position of Science Laureate, if the act were to pass. On March 8, 2014, Tyson made a SXSW Interactive keynote presentation at the Austin Convention Center.\n\nOn June 3, 2014, Tyson co-reviewed \"Gravity\" in a CinemaSins episode. He made two more appearances with CinemaSins, co-reviewing \"Interstellar\" on September 29, 2015, and \"The Martian\" on March 31, 2016.\n\nIn 2016, Tyson narrated and was a script supervisor for the science documentary, Food Evolution, directed by Academy Award nominated director Scott Hamilton Kennedy. In the same year, Tyson made a guest appearance on the Avenged Sevenfold album \"The Stage\", where he delivered a monolog on the track \"Exist\". In 2017, Tyson appeared on Logic's album \"Everybody\" on the song \"AfricAryaN\" as well as on \"The Moon\" on Musiq Soulchild's album \"Feel the Real\".\n\nIn 2018, Tyson made a guest appearance on \"The Big Bang Theory\" as himself, together with fellow scientist Bill Nye, in the first episode of the show's final season (\"The Conjugal Configuration\").\nTyson lives in Lower Manhattan with his wife, Alice Young. They have two children: Miranda and Travis. Tyson met his wife in a physics class at the University of Texas at Austin. They married in 1988 and named their first child Miranda, after the smallest of Uranus' five major moons. Tyson is a wine enthusiast whose collection was featured in the May 2000 issue of the \"Wine Spectator\" and the Spring 2005 issue of \"The World of Fine Wine\".\n\nList of awards received by Tyson:\n\n\n\n\nList of works by Tyson:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27869730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27869730", "title": "New Milford, New Hampshire", "text": "New Milford, New Hampshire\n\nNew Milford is a fictional town in New Hampshire, United States. It was the subject of a hoax article published in 2011 by \"The White Pine Series of Architectural Monographs\", which described the community as being a flourishing Victorian-era village in the White Mountains during the early 20th century. According to the article, New Milford had been incorporated in 1852 by working-class quarry workers, had enjoyed prosperity for many years, and then declined in the early 20th century, following a succession of unfortunate disasters at the quarry site, the decline of rail-based tourism, the Great Depression, and the outbreak of World Wars. Research by the Milford, New Hampshire, Historical Society and the New Hampshire State Library following the publication of the article led to the discovery that the article was fictitious.\n\n"}
{"id": "25588455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25588455", "title": "Social media newsroom", "text": "Social media newsroom\n\nA social media newsroom is a company resource, set up to increase the functionality and usability of the traditional online newsroom. \n\nSocial media newsrooms (SMNs) are intended to encourage dialogue and information sharing. Unlike online newsrooms, content is accessible to more than just journalists, but to all those with whom the company engages such as bloggers, their prospects, customers, business partners and investors. It gives these stakeholders access to news, public relations announcements, images, audio, video and other multimedia files.\n\nIn addition to posting press releases and corporate news, companies can integrate other social content from sites such as YouTube, Flickr and Slideshow as well as streams from corporate Twitter accounts. Traditional tools for journalists such as corporate fast facts, leadership information, a multimedia library, financial information, awards and other recent media coverage are also included in an SMN.\n\nExamples of companies effectively using social media newsrooms include Opel Group, Pressat, First Direct, MyNewsdesk, Scania and Newport Beach.\n"}
{"id": "39418248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39418248", "title": "Summit of Ohrid 2013", "text": "Summit of Ohrid 2013\n\nThe Summit of Ohrid 2013 was a planned meeting of political leaders of countries in South Eastern Europe as well as representatives of the United Nations and the European Union that would be held on 1 June in the Macedonian city of Ohrid. On the 29th of May the President of the Republic of Macedonia Gjorge Ivanov in a press in the President's residence \"Villa Vodno\" made a statement that he would cancel the international meeting because of the forgive mixing of Balkan nationalism and prejudices.\n\nBefore the cancellation of the Summit all of the Balkan countries political leaders were invited. At first all of the countries have accepted the invitation except Greece. Following Greece, the Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev made a statement that he also would not attend the Summit, but Bulgaria would be represented by Marin Raykov. The last one to reject the invitation was the President of Albania Bujar Nishani who stated that he did so because leaders from the Republic of Kosovo weren't attending.\n\nThe Republic of Kosovo wasn't invited under the objection of Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Romania who don't recognise the disputed country. But Albania and Croatia said that they would not attend without Kosovo. EU Delegation head \"Vincent Degert\" said that the South-East European Cooperation Process is not covered in the Brussels agreement between Belgrade and Pristina.\n\nThis was supposed to be the 16th Meeting of Presidents of Central European States after the Ohrid Summit 2008. Among those who accepted the invitation to the meeting were: President of Croatia Ivo Josipović, President of Moldova Nicolae Timofti, President of Montenegro Filip Vujanović, President of Romania Traian Băsescu, President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolić, President of Slovenia Borut Pahor, President of Bosnia and Herzegovina Nebojša Radmanović, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkey Ahmet Davutoğlu, and also the President of the United Nations General Assembly Vuk Jeremić and the European Commissioner for Enlargement and European Neighbourhood Policy Štefan Füle.\n"}
{"id": "21828440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21828440", "title": "This Is It (concert residency)", "text": "This Is It (concert residency)\n\nThis Is It was a planned concert residency by Michael Jackson which was scheduled to begin in July 2009 and end September 29, 2009 with a second leg which was scheduled to run from January 2010 through March 2010 with a total of 50 shows. Jackson announced This Is It at a press conference in the O2 Arena, stating that it would be his final series of concerts in London. AEG Live, the concert promoters, released a promotional video that took up an entire commercial break, setting a record for ITV. Initially, only 10 concerts were announced, but following public demand, 40 more concerts were added. Ticket sales broke several records and Jackson's album sales increased following the announcement; AEG Live estimated that the first 10 dates alone would have earned Jackson approximately £50 million. \n\nIn preparation for the concert series, Jackson had been collaborating with high-profile figures including fashion designer Christian Audigier, choreographer Kenny Ortega and bodybuilder Lou Ferrigno. Prior to Jackson's death in 2009, Allgood Entertainment sued Jackson for $40 million, claiming that he had breached an exclusivity agreement with them by agreeing to the This Is It concerts; the case was dismissed.\n\nAfter Jackson's death, AEG Live offered either refunds to ticket holders or a special \"souvenir\" ticket designed by Jackson. The cancelled shows, record-breaking ticket sales and potential for a world tour led to This Is It being termed \"the greatest concert[s] that never happened.\" Columbia Pictures acquired the footage of the rehearsals and released a concert film, \"Michael Jackson's This Is It,\" accompanied by a compilation album of the same name.\n\nJackson announced the first 10 performances during a press conference at the O2 Arena on March 5, 2009. As many as 7,000 fans and 350 reporters awaited Jackon's arrival, many donning Jackson-related clothing. He commented at the conference, \"I just wanted to say that these will be my final show performances in London. When I say this is it, it really means this is it\", adding that it was his \"final curtain call\", although he may have just been referring to performing in London. Organizers touted the residency as, \"dramatic shows [that] promise an explosive return with a band of the highest calibre, a state-of-the-art stage show and incredible surprise support acts\". Hours before the press conference, promotional posters for the residency were displayed around London. Further promotion took up an entire commercial break period on ITV London during \"Dancing on Ice\", the first time this has ever happened for a musical artist. The advert, which cost £1 million to air, was viewed by 11 million people.\n\nThe shows, Jackson's first significant concert events since the in 2001, had been cited as one of the year's most important musical events, and as the greatest comeback in the history of pop. Randy Phillips, president and chief executive of AEG Live, stated that the first 10 dates would earn Jackson approximately £50 million (about US$80.1 million). \"The Guardian\" characterized the concerts as an \"astonishing comeback for a man who in recent years has been dogged by controversy\", adding that Jackson still had \"enormous commercial clout\". The \"Evening Standard\" stated that the deal was the \"showbiz coup of the decade\" for AEG Live, while \"The Independent\" remarked that the finalized 50 concerts would provide London with a \"much-needed\" economic boost. Joe Cohen, chief executive of Seatwave, told BBC 6 Music that the shows would generate £1 billion for the economy.\n\nSome websites offered early tickets, which the Association of Secondary Ticket Agents warned were fake. \"We are warning people not to buy tickets that are not yet on sale because it is unlikely that they will receive those tickets\", announced the organization's chief, Graham Burns. He concluded, \"It's impossible when the dates haven't been announced to be selling tickets for something when there are no announced dates\". Jackson's official website allowed fans to register early for a \"pre-sale\" draw. Some fans had difficulty applying, as the website could not deal with the large number of registrations—reportedly up to 16,000 applications a second. In the space of 24 hours, nearly a million people from around the world registered for pre-sale tickets, enough to fill the venue 50 times over. Tickets that had not even been printed were selling on auction website eBay for £300. Sales of Jackson's albums increased following the press conference. Overnight, sales of \"Off the Wall\" rose 200%, \"Bad\" rose 110%, \"Dangerous\" rose 165% and \"Thriller 25\" rose 155%.\n\nThe two-day pre-sale began on March 11, and 40 extra dates were added to meet high demand—five of these dates were reserved in their entirety for the public sale. More than 1.5  million fans caused two sites offering pre-sale tickets to crash within minutes of going online. In the space of two hours, 190,000 tickets were sold. Two million people tried to buy pre-sale tickets in the space of 18 hours. Veronica Schmidt of \"The Times\" stated of the reception, \"Michael Jackson has floored his critics\", while organizers proclaimed it a \"cultural phenomenon\". It was announced that Jackson would break the record for number of shows performed by an artist at a single venue, which had been set by Prince, who hosted a residency at the same arena for his concerts. According to Jackson's website, the following records were or would have been broken: \"The biggest audience ever to see an artist in one city\", \"The greatest number of people to attend a series of arena shows\", \"The fastest ticket sales in history\". Randy Phillips acknowledged that Jackson could have sold out even more dates, but this would have conflicted with other career plans. On March 13, the other 50% of seats for dates 1–45 and all the seats for dates 46–50 went on sale to the general public. Within four hours, all 50 dates had sold out. At this stage, the sales of \"King of Pop\" were up 400% and the sales of \"Thriller\" were up 200%. Tickets appeared on eBay for as much as £10,000.\n\nThe 50-concert run was originally scheduled to start on July 8, 2009 and conclude on February 24, 2010. Each of the shows would have been performed at the O2 Arena in London, which has a capacity of 23,000. New York-based fashion designer Zaldy served as head costumer, creating ten of Jackson's stage looks while the other six were created by his longtime costumers, Michael Bush and Dennis Tompkins. Jay Ruckel from La Crasia Gloves recreated Jackson's iconic single glove for the concerts. The costumes he was to wear during the shows were encrusted with 300,000 Swarovski crystals. In April 2009, thousands of dancers flew in from all around the world to audition from the 13th to the 15th for Jackson, who helped select the 11 finalists in person. Kenny Ortega, who had collaborated with Jackson previously, was to work on the overall design and direction of concerts. Ortega said that the final product would have been a \"theatrical musical experience\". According to Randy Philips, £13 million was to be spent on producing the concerts, which would have included 18–22 songs and 22 different sets. There also would have been aerial dancing similar to routines by Cirque du Soleil. Carla Ferrigno told Reuters that her husband Lou had been helping Jackson train in advance of the shows. Jackson and Ferrigno had previously worked together.\n\nOn May 20, it was announced that the first concert would be pushed back five days to July 13 and three other July dates would be rescheduled for March 2010. AEG Live said that the delay was necessary because more time was needed for dress rehearsals. The revised schedule called for 27 shows between July 13 and September 29, 2009, followed by a three-month break, before resuming in the new year with 23 more shows between January 7 and March 6, 2010. Some fans petitioned for the reversal of AEG Live's decision. In late June, several hundred seats for each of the dates were put on sale. These seats were held back until production logistics were worked out.\n\nIt was suggested that after the London concerts, Jackson might head to Australia, Europe, India, China, Hong Kong and Japan before moving on to North America. Randy Phillips, the CEO of AEG Live, told The LA Times that Australia was part of Michael Jackson's international tour plans.\n\nAccording to Jermaine Jackson's 2011 book \"You Are Not Alone: Michael Through a Brother's Eyes\", after the London concerts were finished, Jackson was planning to extend his deal with AEG Live which included new music, a potential three-picture movie deal, a series of one-off concert dates starting in China, a halftime slot at one of the future Super Bowl games to surpass his own halftime show at the Super Bowl XXVII in January 1993 and two more tours (one of which was to be a final reunion with his brothers based on a promise made to their mother to see her sons perform together one last time before she passed away). After the deal was completed, he planned to take time off from musical entertainment and move on to (possibly) directing his own film ideas, such as making a feature-length motion picture based on his 1982 song \"Thriller\" and the music video of the same name. It was also later revealed that a yearly Halloween television special based on his horror-themed songs, such as \"Thriller\" and \"Ghosts\", was part of Jackson's deal with AEG Live.\n\nIn Conrad Murray's manslaughter trial, David Walgren stated another one of Jackson's future plans was to open a children's hospital. This was heard in an audio tape Conrad Murray played of Jackson under the influence of propofol on May 10, 2009. His voice is barely recognisable in the recording, but he can be clearly heard saying that he wanted to build the greatest children's hospital in the world and name it after himself: The \"Michael Jackson's Children's Hospital\". Walgren also stated that while the tour was happening, Jackson wanted to buy an estate with streams, horses and animals so his three children, Prince, Paris and Blanket could live normal lives as their father performed the concerts, as he was photographed looking for a house in the United Kingdom with his children. Walgren also said that the tour would begin that summer, and Jackson could take his children out of school and bring them with him so they could see him perform in London.\n\nAs shown in \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\", songs prepared for the concerts included \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"They Don't Care About Us\", \"Human Nature\", \"Smooth Criminal\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\", a medley of songs by The Jackson 5 consisting of \"I Want You Back\", \"The Love You Save\", \"I'll Be There\" and \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\", \"I Just Can't Stop Loving You\", \"Thriller\", \"Beat It\", \"Black or White\", \"Earth Song\", \"Billie Jean\", and \"Man in the Mirror\". Later on, \"Stranger in Moscow\", \"You Are Not Alone\", \"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough\", \"Rock with You\", \"Dirty Diana\" ,\"You Rock My World\", \"Dangerous\", \"We Are the World\", \"Heal the World\" and \"Will You Be There\" were also confirmed to have been planned for the shows. Due to the larger than usual roster of songs, as well as time constraints, Jackson would perform some songs with one verse less than he did in previous tours (such as \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\" and \"Black or White\"). \"Bad\" was rumored to have been reserved for select concerts. On the final dates, Jackson wanted to perform a ballad called \"River Ripple\", written by him, with an African choir and his children. During the final concert before \"Man in the Mirror\", Michael was slated to premiere a song called \"Best of Joy\", written and recorded in 2009 prior to Jackson's death. As of 2018, the full version of \"River Ripple\" remains unreleased (although snippets of the song have leaked on YouTube), while \"Best of Joy\" was officially released in 2010 on Jackson's first posthumous album of unreleased songs, \"Michael\".\n\n\n\nIn June 2009, concert promoter Allgood Entertainment, represented by Ira Meyerowitz and Jon Kekielek of MJlawfirm, sued Jackson for $40 million. He claimed that Jackson, through his manager Frank DiLeo, had agreed to a single and a $30 million reunion concert with The Jackson 5 and his sister Janet Jackson. According to the concert promoter, the alleged contractual agreement prevented Jackson from performing elsewhere before the reunion concert and for a three-month period after it. Thus, agreeing to a 50 date residency at the O2 arena was an alleged breach of the Allgood Entertainment contract. The filing company stated that AEG Live knew of the alleged agreement with Jackson and used their dominance in the industry to coerce Jackson into agreeing to the residency. In August 2010, the judge dismissed the case, stating that there was no evidence of a binding agreement, no contracts were signed. The case was in limbo as of 2013.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, Jackson died after going into cardiac arrest which was caused by an overdose of Propofol and benzodiazepines, eighteen days before his planned first show. AEG Live, who persuaded Jackson to sign up for the shows, faced a liability of up to £300 million and an empty venue for the next nine months. The O2 arena stated that full refunds, including all ticket service charges, would be available to those who purchased tickets through authorized agents, but that \"fans will have the option to be sent the actual tickets they would have received to attend the shows in lieu of the full refunds which are being offered.\" Fans who bought their tickets from private sellers potentially faced difficulties. eBay recommended that purchasers contact their sellers for refunds and stated that those who used PayPal can get their money back if the purchase was made during the last 45 days, then later stated that \"all buyers on the site will receive a full refund for their ticket purchase\".\n\nFollowing Jackson's death, AEG stated that they had over \"100 hours of footage of preparations and rehearsals for the shows\". On August 10, 2009, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff approved a deal between film distributor Columbia Pictures and AEG Live for the former company to purchase and distribute rehearsal footage of Jackson for a film entitled \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\". According to court documents, Columbia paid $60 million (£35 million) for rights to the rehearsal footage. The papers filed in court had reportedly stated that Jackson's estate will get 90% of the profits and that AEG Live will get the remaining 10% from the film's revenue. The film was directed by Kenny Ortega who was also the director of the live concert. It was compiled mostly from footage that was shot as reference for production discussions and was never meant to be shown publicly. Some of the music and vocals in the film were added from previous recordings, though most were from the live performance. The film was released on October 28, 2009.\n\nAn accompanying album to the film was also released. Titled \"This Is It\", the compilation was distributed internationally on October 26, and to North America the following day. The two-disc album features music \"inspired from the documentary of the same name\". Of the album, Sony said, \"Disc one will feature the original album masters of some of Michael's biggest hits arranged in the same sequence as they appear in the film\" and stated that \"the disc ends with two versions of the 'never-released' 'This Is It' [...] This song is featured in the film's closing sequence and includes backing vocals by Michael's brothers, The Jacksons and Alvin Chea of Take 6.\" Sony added that the second disc will feature previously unreleased versions from Jackson's \"catalogue of hits\", along with a spoken word poem entitled \"Planet Earth\" and a 36-page commemorative booklet with \"exclusive photos of Michael from his last rehearsal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4145437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4145437", "title": "Year zero", "text": "Year zero\n\nYear zero does not exist in the anno Domini system usually used to number years in the Gregorian calendar and in its predecessor, the Julian calendar. In this system, the year is followed by . However, there is a year zero in astronomical year numbering (where it coincides with the Julian year ) and in ISO 8601:2004 (where it coincides with the Gregorian year ) as well as in all Buddhist and Hindu calendars.\n\nThe \"Anno Domini\" era was introduced in 525 by Scythian monk Dionysius Exiguus (c. 470–c. 544), who used it to identify the years on his Easter table. He introduced the new era to avoid using the \"Diocletian era\", based on the accession of Roman Emperor Diocletian, as he did not wish to continue the memory of a persecutor of Christians. In the preface to his Easter table, Dionysius stated that the \"present year\" was \"the consulship of Probus Junior [Flavius Anicius Probus Iunior]\" which was also 525 years \"since the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ\". How he arrived at that number is unknown.\n\nDionysius did not use AD years to date any historical event. This began with the English cleric Bede (c. 672–735), who used AD years in his \"Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum\" (731), popularizing the era. Bede also used a term similar to the English before Christ once, but that practice did not catch on until very much later. Bede did not sequentially number days of the month, weeks of the year, or months of the year. However, he did number many of the days of the week using a counting origin of one in Ecclesiastical Latin. Previous Christian histories used \"anno mundi\" (\"in the year of the world\") beginning on the first day of creation, or \"anno Adami\" (\"in the year of Adam\") beginning at the creation of Adam five days later (the sixth day of creation according to the Genesis creation narrative), used by Africanus, or \"anno Abrahami\" (\"in the year of Abraham\") beginning 3,412 years after Creation according to the Septuagint, used by Eusebius of Caesarea, all of which assigned \"one\" to the year beginning at Creation, or the creation of Adam, or the birth of Abraham, respectively. Bede continued this earlier tradition relative to the AD era.\n\nIn chapter II of book I of \"Ecclesiastical history\", Bede stated that Julius Caesar invaded Britain \"in the year 693 after the building of Rome, but the sixtieth year before the incarnation of our Lord\", while stating in chapter III, \"in the year of Rome 798, Claudius\" also invaded Britain and \"within a very few days … concluded the war in … the fortysixth [year] from the incarnation of our Lord\". Although both dates are wrong, they are sufficient to conclude that Bede did not include a year zero between BC and AD: 798 − 693 + 1 (because the years are inclusive) = 106, but 60 + 46 = 106, which leaves no room for a year zero. The modern English term \"before Christ\" (BC) is only a rough equivalent, \"not\" a direct translation, of Bede's Latin phrase \"ante incarnationis dominicae tempus\" (\"before the time of the lord's incarnation\"), which was itself never abbreviated. Bede's singular use of 'BC' continued to be used sporadically throughout the Middle Ages.\n\nNeither the concept nor a symbol for zero existed in the system of Roman numerals. The Babylonian system of the BC era had used the idea of \"nothingness\" without considering it a number, and the Romans enumerated in much the same way. Wherever a modern zero would have been used, Bede and Dionysius Exiguus did use Latin number words, or the word \"nulla\" (meaning \"nothing\") alongside Roman numerals. Zero was invented in India in the sixth century, and was either transferred or reinvented by the Arabs by about the eighth century. The Arabic numeral for zero (0) did not enter Europe until the thirteenth century. Even then, it was known only to very few, and only entered widespread use in Europe by the seventeenth century.\n\nThe \"anno Domini\" nomenclature was not widely used in Western Europe until the 9th century, and the to historical year was not uniform throughout Western Europe until 1752. The first extensive use (hundreds of times) of 'BC' occurred in \"Fasciculus Temporum\" by Werner Rolevinck in 1474, alongside years of the world (\"anno mundi\"). The terms \"anno Domini\", \"Dionysian era\", \"Christian era\", \"vulgar era\", and \"common era\" were used interchangeably between the Renaissance and the 19th century, at least in Latin. But \"vulgar era\" was suppressed in English at the beginning of the 20th century after \"vulgar\" acquired the meaning of \"offensively coarse\", replacing its original meaning of \"common\" or \"ordinary\". Consequently, historians regard all these eras as equal.\n\nHistorians have never included a year zero. This means that between, for example, and , there are 999 years: 500 years BC, and 499 years AD preceding 500. In common usage \"anno Domini\" 1 is preceded by the year 1 BC, without an intervening year zero. Neither the choice of calendar system (whether Julian or Gregorian) nor the era (\"Anno Domini\" or Common Era) determines whether a year zero will be used. If writers do not use the convention of their group (historians or astronomers), they must explicitly state whether they include a year 0 in their count of years, otherwise their historical dates will be misunderstood.\n\nIn astronomy, for the year AD 1 and later it is common to assign the same numbers as the Anno Domini notation, which in turn is numerically equivalent to the Common Era notation. But the discontinuity between 1 AD and 1 BC makes it cumbersome to compare ancient and modern dates. So the year before 1 AD is designated 0, the year before 0 is −1, and so on.\n\nThe letters \"AD\", \"BC\", \"CE, or \"BCE\" are omitted. So 1 BC in historical notation is equivalent to 0 in astronomical notation, 2 BC is equivalent to −1, etc. Sometimes positive years are preceded by the + sign. This year numbering notation was introduced by the astronomer Jacques Cassini in 1740.\n\nIn 1627, the German astronomer Johannes Kepler first used an astronomical year which was to become year zero in his \"Rudolphine Tables\". He labeled the year \"Christi\" and inserted it between years labeled \"Ante Christum\" (BC) and \"Post Christum\" (AD) on the mean motion pages of the Sun, Moon, and planets. Then in 1702 the French astronomer Philippe de la Hire used a year he labeled at the end of years labeled \"ante Christum\" (BC), immediately before years labeled \"post Christum\" (AD) on the mean motion pages in his \"Tabulæ Astronomicæ\", thus adding the designation \"0\" to Kepler's \"Christi\". Finally, in 1740 the French astronomer Jacques Cassini , who is traditionally credited with the invention of year zero, completed the transition in his \"Tables astronomiques\", simply labeling this year \"0\", which he placed at the end of years labeled \"avant Jesus-Christ\" (BC), immediately before years labeled \"après Jesus-Christ\" (AD).\n\nISO 8601:2004 (and previously ISO 8601:2000, but not ISO 8601:1988) explicitly uses astronomical year numbering in its date reference systems. Because it also specifies the use of the proleptic Gregorian calendar for all years before 1582, some readers incorrectly assume that a year zero is also included in that proleptic calendar, but it is not used with the BC/AD era. The \"basic\" format for year 0 is the four-digit form 0000, which equals the historical year 1 BC. Several \"expanded\" formats are possible: −0000 and +0000, as well as five- and six-digit versions. Earlier years are also negative four-, five- or six-digit years, which have an absolute value one less than the equivalent BC year, hence -0001 = 2 BC. Because only ISO 646 (7-bit ASCII) characters are allowed by ISO 8601, the minus sign is represented by a hyphen-minus.\n\nAll eras used with Hindu and Buddhist calendars, such as the Saka era or the Kali Yuga, begin with the year 0. All these calendars use elapsed, expired, or complete years, in contrast with most other calendars which use current years. A complete year had not yet elapsed for any date in the initial year of the epoch, thus the number 1 cannot be used. Instead, during the first year the indication of 0 years (elapsed) is given in order to show that the epoch is less than 1 year old. This is similar to the Western method of stating a person's age – people do not reach age one until one year has elapsed since birth (but their age during the year beginning at birth is specified in months or fractional years, not as age zero). However, if ages were specified in years and months, such a person would be said to be, for example, 0 years and 6 months or 0.5 years old. This is analogous to the way time is shown on a 24-hour clock: during the first hour of a day, the time elapsed is 0 hours, \"n\" minutes.\n\n"}
