{"id": "42470013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42470013", "title": "Abstinence-only sex education in Uganda", "text": "Abstinence-only sex education in Uganda\n\nUganda is one of the few Sub-Saharan African countries that has adopted abstinence-only sex education as an approach of sexual education that emphasizes abstinence from sexual intercourse until marriage as the only option. Abstinence-only sex education does not include joint curriculum covering other options including safe sex practices, family planning, and is espoused as the only sure way to avoid pregnancy and Sexually transmitted infections. Uganda is commonly recognized as an exemplary case of lowering the rate of HIV prevalence Prevalence figures may have also been distorted by the lack of treatment, meaning that the percentage of infected is decreased by disproportionately early deaths. Abstinence-only sex education has been implemented and supported for this cause to a large degree in Uganda, to some controversy. Critics have questioned its effectiveness in lowering HIV/AIDS transmission. They have also highlighted discrimination, gender inequality and social stigma as the outcomes of the program in Uganda.\n\nIn the wake of an increase of HIV prevalence in Uganda since it first appeared in 1982, many programs were introduced to lower incidence of HIV and educate about the disease. Abstinence-only sex education was implemented as one way to quell the spread of HIV/AIDS, in addition to creating a positive behaviour change to the same end over time. As the epidemic became known on the international scene, money and resources from many nations flooded Africa in general and Uganda in particular. Abstinence-only sex education in Uganda in the late 1990s onward was largely financed by the United States and independent faith-based organizations \n\nThe ABC approach was introduced during the US-Ugandan efforts to propose Abstinence-only as a way to lower HIV transmission. ABC is an acronym, A being Abstinence, B being Be Faithful, and C being Condom use. It would seem that this form of abstinence-only includes some education and encouragement of condoms, but the application of ABC is disaggregated for specific populations. The breakdown is Abstinence for people not yet married, Be Faithful for those in marriages, and Condom Use only for people that are already infected or are in a marriage where one person is infected.\n\nABC has evolved since its inception to a program known as AB, released in 2004 as an official abstinence-only education program for Uganda specifically. AB has lessened the emphasis on condoms due to the confusing nature of teaching the two simultaneously and the fear that condoms undermine the message of abstinence. AB is criticized for its lack of follow-through of collecting data on whether participants are abstaining or not. The main source of data collected for AB is the number of AB rallies, organizations and discussions concerning AB, instead of the behavioural changes proposed by AB. Therefore, AB is difficult to monitor as the true success of the programs aims for abstinence and social modifications, but no data is kept.\n\nCondoms, Needles and Negotiations was born out of the necessity of failing marital monogamy. CNN stands for Condoms, Needles and Negotiation. In sub-Saharan Africa, Uganda included, married women in monogamous relationships are at a disadvantage due to the lack of rights within marriage, bargaining power, and domestic violence. The need was discovered as most new HIV cases come from HIV women contracting the disease in their marriage through their husbands. In this way, AB abstinence-only education falls short for protecting the lives of those practicing it. The Condoms part of CNN is two-fold to reduce condom stigma and promote use within the B (Be Faithful) section of AB. Women are still practicing faithfulness, but in order to protect their health, they still need to be able to understand and use condoms. The next N in CNN covers needle exchange, which doesn't relate to abstinence-only sex education. But the third N stands for Negotiation, which again plays a part for individuals practicing faithfulness who could still be harmed. Negotiation informs partners of the risks they might encounter if their partner is not being monogamous and teaches them skills to bargain in their position in the relationship.\n\nIn 2001, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni introduced his official program for sex education for the youth of Uganda, Presidential Initiative on AIDS Strategy for Communication to Youth, abbreviated as PIASCY. PIASCY mainly targets primary schools, secondary schools and after school youth rallies with materials and instruction (HRW, 29). The main focus of PIASCY is for young people to empower themselves to delay their sexual relations until marriage through abstinence. PIASCY is primarily funded through the United States Agency for International Development and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, both of which provide many other services outside of finances to support the program. In addition, PIASCY has since become a foundation feature in the United States’ President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS relief (PEPFAR).\n\nThe medium for primary school involvement with PIASCY is a combination of manuals, instruction for teachers to relay to students, as well as materials given directly to the students based upon their age/grade. An assembly is normally held twice a month school wide for teachers to give presentations outlined from the curriculum within the PIASCY manuals. The first message is the choice of abstinence and its benefits, but subsequent lessons can include teachings of self-esteem and how to be above peer-pressure. Although other parts of PIASCY include correct condom application and uses, at the primary level, abstinence-only is the majority of the message.\n\nIn 2004, the Ugandan government incorporated PIASCY in secondary schools, in the form of handouts for students as well as teachers. The curriculum is disseminated in the classroom format on a regular basis. The secondary school level information was drafted to include age sensitive subjects such as masturbation, abortion and homosexuality, but was met with strong opposition from many powerful, yet undisclosed, groups in Uganda and the United States. In addition, draft copies of the secondary school handouts contained misleading and inaccurate information about condoms and HIV prevention. Furthermore, condoms were encouraged after marriage as HIV prevention, but did not explain how this differed with unmarried youth. The final drafts did include rudimentary instruction on condoms without the corresponding photos.\n\nPIASCY also has a significant section of their focus targeting youth that are not in school by holding rallies and events after school or outside of school. In Uganda, there are significant amounts of youth that are not enrolled in school, despite the recent movements to educate everyone. Although these events are generally held on a school campus or facility, anyone aged 15–30, student or not can participate. These events generally have speakers who are as diverse as the President of Uganda to religious leaders. In more rural areas, these serve to disseminate important abstinence messages but have been criticized as supporting an agenda of re-election and political messages and including inaccurate information about condoms and abstinence. After the formal rallies and programs, it is made aware that political leaders are around to take questions that youth may have about the current government. PEPFAR, an organization providing funding to PIASCY, outlines promotion of information, prevention and treatment of HIV, and is in contradiction with the political agenda and misleading information sometimes found in the PIASCY after school programs.\n\nIn Uganda, there are a number of faith-based organizations that provide abstinence-only education to youth. Many of these are financed and supported by not only the Ugandan Government, but also the United States. In general, these are based on Christian beliefs, as 60% of Ugandans are Christian.\n\nThe National Youth Forum was founded by one of the nation's largest activists for abstinence-only sex education, first lady Janet Museveni. The primary objective for the National Youth Forum (NYF) is to coordinate assemblies where young boys and girls pledge to stay sexually pure until marriage. More than 70, 000 Ugandan youths have committed to this through NYF. NYF and Museveni advocate abstinence-only education in its most exclusive form, even pushing the notion that condoms are inadequate in preventing HIV and education involving them promote sexual activity among youth. She has gone so far as to propose a nationwide testing of young boys and girls for virginity, although this has not come to pass. Ms. Museveni's organization NYF also obtains funding from the American government. This relationship has been called under scrutiny on the grounds that UNF Proselytizing and the laws of the United States regarding the secular nature of congressional funding.\n\nThe Makerere Community Church is another national leader in the abstinence-only push. Martin Ssempa, who is one of the writers of the Ugandan AB policy, directs the church and foundation. Ssempa leads the fundamentalist Makerere Christian Church and his policies fall in line. He takes a more extreme version of abstinence only sex education, sometimes speaking out directly against condoms and women's rights. His is a more outlying approach to abstinence-only and the lifestyle that he connects with it.\n\nThe Family Life Network is a non-profit organization that teaches abstinence-only techniques alongside value based sexual education. Since 2002, they have reached at least 130,000 students in over 400 schools. A tactic readily put into place is to create abstinence-only in the public discussion is a signing of \"True Love Waits\" cards to pledge abstinence until marriage. Stephen Langa, the executive director, defines the Family Life Network as having four goals: bring back faith in the marriage institution; show the danger of sexual involvement; warn children on the dangers of globalization, such as pornography; and ask children to make a commitment of abstinence. Although Langa does not actively speak out against condom use, his beliefs when questioned contain false information about the protection provided by condoms against sperm and HIV transference. The Family Life Network receives money from foreign and Ugandan donors, but has not in the past received any contributions from the United States or PEPFAR.\n\nLooking at the effectiveness of abstinence-only sex education, it can’t be measured in the knowledge received from the education, but instead the translation to the decisions that stem from the education. Three of these are STI/HIV prevention, the levels of teenagers participating in sexual activity and unplanned pregnancies.\n\nIn terms of lowering new infection rates of STIs and HIV in particular, there is a mixed opinion on the influence of abstinence only. Edward C. Green, frequently consults for USAID has been published remarking that abstinence-only was the main proponent of the lowering of HIV/AIDS infection in Uganda and that condoms were not effective. Furthermore, AIDS specialist Sophie Wacasa-Monacco explains that abstinence has played a very important role in the HIV decline, but only in conjunction with comprehensive education. It is the knowledge about HIV and STIs in general that allow for people to make educated decisions concerning their body and that of a prospective sexual partner. Abstinence is a good outlet to avoid sexual behaviour and therefore sexually transmitted infections, but without the full scope of the situation regarding sexual decisions, the consequences can be unclear and misleading.\n\nAbstinence-only sex education encourages youth to delay their sexual début until marriage. Between the years of 1989 and 1995, Uganda saw large success with the employment of abstinence and subsequent HIV infection rates comparatively to their regional neighbours. In males aged 15–24 years old, there was a decrease from 60% to 23% participation in premarital sex. Similarly, females aged 15–25 saw a decrease from 53% to 16% in 1989 and 1995 respectively. This decrease coincided with a policy called zero-grazing, which emphasizes monogamous relationships and the faithfulness that is implied. Curiously, there were very few abstinence-only education programs in place during this decrease, despite the choice of abstinence from sexual intercourse having a significant decline.\n\nAbstinence-only sex education leaves women socially vulnerable. Women in Uganda have a diminished ability to hold dominion over their bodies. Young women are often coerced into relationships with older men, teachers, or \"sugar daddies\" that provide them with items that would not be accessible otherwise. Biologically speaking, if women or men break their abstinence vow, a woman is twice as likely to contract HIV due to her anatomy. Furthermore, abstinence only sex education doesn't teach ways to avoid HIV/AIDS infection after marriage.\n\nIn Uganda, married women are one of the highest at risk populations. One of the biggest concerns is extra-marital sex that brings HIV into a seronegative relationship, in fact, in Uganda, men are twice as likely to infect their wives in marriage after entering into the relationship as seronegative. In addition, men are less likely to communicate the fact that they are infected with HIV to their partners. For example, of men that are hospitalized for HIV/AIDS, only 12% of the wives knew of their husbands' infection. When seronegative women engage in sexual intercourse with seropositive men, they are twice as likely to contract HIV than men in the same situation. In this respect, abstinence-only sex education neglects protecting anyone that does participate in sexual acts, and especially women, due to the gender power relations in Uganda.\n\nIn abstinence-only sex education, there is not a program within to plan for pregnancy or control birth spacing. As the only tenant is to abstain from sexual relations until marriage, once in marriage this feature is not utilized. In Uganda, there are strict tradition surrounding sex post-partum and while breastfeeding. Postpartum abstinence is a widely held belief and generally practiced. Unfortunately, this often leads to extramarital intercourse. In monogamous relationships, 31% of husbands abstain completely. This remaining 69% look elsewhere for sex, through polygamous relations, sex workers, or casual relationships. This abstinent period is not effective in the realm of preventing HIV from entering a seronegative relationship. In addition, in relationships that don't observe the post-partum abstinence, birth spacing becomes non-existent. In this case, many women find themselves pregnant in quick succession.\n\nAbstinence-only sex education became quite controversial in the examination of HIV/AIDS and pregnancy prevention due to the common link with morals and proselytizing. Often, abstinence-only sex education is taught from a Christian perspective and creates a connection with virginity and self-worth. In many cases, if someone slips from abstaining, they will then view their self-worth as less as they no longer have their virginity, leading to risky sexual behaviour. Many countries have pulled support for any abstinence-only education due to concerns with the idea of HIV prevention information being coupled with missionary work and message.\n\nSupport has also been retracted when abstinence-only sex education was discovered to have been distributing false information regarding condom use and effectiveness. Abstinence-only sex education in Uganda has reportedly distributed the misinformation that there are tiny pores in condoms that allow the HIV virus to pass through, therefore deeming them unsafe to use against infection. It has also been disseminated that condoms are not effective birth control and the chance of getting pregnant is very high. This information that is easily disproven in the Global North, is difficult to combat in Uganda when it comes from political, spiritual and community leaders. This further stigmatizes condom use and lowers the likelihood that people engaging in sexual acts will use them. This misinformation is a large proponent against abstinence-only sex education as the organizations implementing the programs are unreliable or have proven to be in the past.\n\nIn many situations, the choice to abstain is non-existent. Many young girls and some boys are sex workers, selling their bodies to survive. In these high-risk environments, the participants do not have the ability to abstain or enter into a faithful monogamous relationship. Abstinence-only sex education in Uganda has been criticized for ignoring the thousands of citizens that are forced into sexual relations and therefore unprotected against HIV/AIDS. Due to abstinence-only sex education teaching abstinence until marriage as the only option, many sex workers do not know about or use condoms. This creates a breeding ground for HIV transmission. Abstinence-only sex education is woefully discriminatory against lower socioeconomic peoples.\n\nOutside of sex work, there exists young women and men that also cannot abstain do to social or financial pressure from older parties that act as \"sugar mommies\" and \"sugar daddies\". Young men and women engage in sexual relationships in order to obtain items, treats or opportunities that they would not be able to otherwise receive. Abstinence-only sex education in Uganda disregards the existence of these relationships and does not provide any program or policy to protect against HIV/AIDS infection.\n\nAnother criticism levelled at abstinence-only sex education in Uganda is the limiting language and subsequent exclusion that the policy promotes when addressing lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) people. Abstinence-only sex education teaches to abstain from sex until marriage to a faithful partner. In Uganda, same-sex marriage is not recognized, and gay people can be penalized for coming out. In this way, some believe that abstinence-only sex education in Uganda discriminates against LGB individuals and does not provide them with adequate tools to combat HIV/AIDS infection.\n\nCritics of abstinence-only sex education have made the point that abstinence-only truly curbs education and a well-rounded knowledge to fight HIV/AIDS infection. The implied mutual exclusivity of abstinence-only harms followers as they are not able to receive as much knowledge as possible. Leaders of the ABC method have highlighted the use of abstinence as a tool among others. The mutual exclusivity that so many abstinence-only teachers espouse does not need to exist. Abstinence can be an aspect of sex education without being the only curriculum in order to support an educated platform against HIV/AIDS infection in Uganda.\n\n"}
{"id": "37933324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37933324", "title": "Age of Interruption", "text": "Age of Interruption\n\nThe Age of Interruption refers to a seeming increase in fractured attention due to media tools and virtual multitasking. The term was popularized by Thomas Friedman in a 2006 \"New York Times\" opinion editorial.\n\nFriedman deemed the age of \"malady of modernity\", and characterized it as reflecting information overload and lack of adequate attention span:\n\n\"Continuous partial attention is when you are on the Internet or cellphone or BlackBerry while also watching TV, typing on your computer and answering a question from your kid. That is, you are multitasking your way through the day, continuously devoting only partial attention to each act or person you encounter.\"\n\nCharacterized by information overload and multitasking, the age of interruption is a relatively recent but still frequently studied topic in education and technology disciplines. Educators and technology researchers study the phenomenon in relation to its effects on social, cognitive and emotional development. Ellen Rose, a professor of education at University of New Brunswick in Canada, studies online learning environments, with particular expertise in social effects of technology and media ecology. In a 2010 academic article, she posits that the Age of Interruption is another age in technological formation, following the Information Age. She discusses the Age of Interruption in relation to younger generations (digital natives) who have an over-abundance of information along with a general attitude of inattention.\n\nConversely, other researchers find a more optimistic view of technology's relationship to multitasking. In \"Media as Extensions\", Lin (2009) determined that the hyperlinked structure of information on the web may promote learning and creativity.\n\n"}
{"id": "3598909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598909", "title": "Albert Leffingwell", "text": "Albert Leffingwell\n\nAlbert Leffingwell, M.D. (1845–1916) was an American physician, social reformer, and vocal advocate for vivisection reform. He authored many books bringing light to the cruel abuses of animal experimentation and calling for regulation. At the same time he sought middle ground between the anti-vivisection societies which called for the abolition of all experimentation and those who rejected any restraints. Leffingwell also was concerned with meat safety, believing that lax regulations, in particular allowing cancerous animals into the food chain, were responsible for increases in the incidence of cancer. He also served as the president of the American Humane Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42467643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42467643", "title": "Annette Beveridge", "text": "Annette Beveridge\n\nAnnette Susannah Beveridge (née Akroyd) (1842–1929) was a British Orientalist known for her translation of the \"Humayun-nama\" and the \"Babur-nama\".\n\nAnnette Akroyd's father William Akroyd was a Unitarian industrialist associated with the establishment of the Bedford College, London in 1849, where she completed her study in 1863.\n\nIn October 1872 she sailed for British India. Around 1875 she was involved in a public controversy with Keshub Chandra Sen, an Indian philosopher and social reformer who attempted to incorporate Christian theology within the framework of Hindu thought. Akroyd was shocked by her discussions with him and felt that Sen, who spoke up for women's education in England, was a typical Hindu obscurantist back home in India, trying to keep knowledge from the minds of women. This dispute spilled into the native press and had its impact on the Bethune School. Akroyd was also dismayed with Sen's associates such as Bijoy Krishna Goswami, Aghore Nath Gupta and Gour Govinda Ray, who were traditionally Hindu in educational background and resisted the education of women.\n\nAnnette Beveridge translated the diaries of the first Mughal Emperor Babur, the Baburnama, publishing it in four books from 1912 to 1922. She used both Persian and Turki sources.\n\nShe also translated the biography of the second Mughal Emperor, Humayun, from Persian into English. The memoir had been written by his sister Gulbadan Begum, whom Beveridge affectionately called \"Princess Rosebud\". Her other translated works include \"The key of the hearts of beginners\", 1908.\n\nShe married Henry Beveridge of the Indian Civil Service.\n\nThe couple had two children: a daughter, Annette Jeanie Beveridge (d. 1956), who married R. H. Tawney, and a son, William Beveridge (1879–1963), a noted economist who gave his name to the report associated with the foundation of the welfare state.\n\nThe Beveridges lived at Pitfold, Shottermill, Surrey, England.\n"}
{"id": "19647098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19647098", "title": "Arthur Samuel Kendall", "text": "Arthur Samuel Kendall\n\nArthur Samuel Kendall (March 25, 1861 – July 18, 1944) was a physician and political figure in Nova Scotia, Canada. He represented Cape Breton in the House of Commons of Canada from 1900 to 1904 as a Liberal member.\n\nHe was born in Sydney, Nova Scotia, the son of the Reverend S.F. Kendall. Kendall was educated at Mount Allison College, Halifax Medical College, Bellevue Hospital Medical School in New York City and Guy's Hospital Medical School in London. He became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1884 and was Medical Health Officer for Cape Breton. Kendall served as a town councillor for Sydney in 1888. Kendall ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the House of Commons in 1896. He represented Cape Breton County in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly from 1897 to 1900 and from 1904 to 1911.\n\nA social reformer, he was concerned about poverty and the impact of industrialization on Cape Breton Island. He supported improving workers' living conditions, old-age pensions, a shorter work week and a workmen's compensation act. He was nicknamed the \"miner's friend\" because of his support for coal mine workers.\n\nHis brother, Henry Ernest Kendall, served as Lieutenant-Governor of Nova Scotia in the 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "7033602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7033602", "title": "BROG", "text": "BROG\n\nBROG is the acronym for (We)blog Research on Genre, a project based in the School of Library and Information Science at Indiana University, Bloomington.\n\nThe BROG project is an informal research collaboration dedicated to the conduct of empirical, social science research on weblogs. Founded and directed by Susan Herring, a professor of Information Science at Indiana University and established researcher of computer-mediated communication, its past and present members include faculty, graduate students, and visiting scholars at Indiana University.\n\nBROG is best known for an article published in January 2004 entitled, \"Bridging the gap: A genre analysis of weblogs\", which applied content analysis methods to a random sample of 203 blogs and characterized blogs as an emergent genre of computer-mediated communication. This article received the 2004 \"Best Blogged Paper\" Edublog award and is often cited in scholarship about blogs. A Google Scholar search indicates that it had been cited 677 times as of March 3, 2012.\nBrog is also a family name derived from the Scandinavian word which translates in English as \"flag.\"\nAbout the year 1500 there was a famine in Sweden and an entire village migrated from Sweden to the Berner Oberland in Switzerland. During the early part of the twentieth century, family members emigrated to southern Wisconsin; from there one branch to Wyoming/Utah/Idaho and another branch remained in southwest Wisconsin. Brog families originated in other parts of Europe, perhaps with longer names that were diminished to the shorter form. The author of this segment visited Canton Bern in 2014 and there were no known Brogs still residing in Switzerland at that time. The author's great grandson is the sixth generation of only sons.\n\nBROG was founded in February 2003 for the purpose of conducting a genre analysis of blogs at a time when very little research on blogs was available. The project's findings were first presented at the Association of Internet Researchers conference in Toronto in October 2003. Since then BROG has expanded its focus to include research on gender, visual design, audience, and interconnectivity of weblogs. Since 2004, the project has made extensive use of Social Network Analysis methods and network visualizations.\n\nThe presentation of BROG's research at the 2003 AoIR conference generated controversy among some bloggers who were present at the conference and others who were not about whether people who were \"not bloggers\" (two of the four original BROG members kept blogs at the time) could legitimately conduct research on blogs. Concerns were also expressed by some bloggers about the research's empirical, quantitative approach. Some critics expressed the view that this approach (which showed blogs to be less interlinked and conversational than was popularly believed) missed important aspects of the blogging experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "497025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497025", "title": "Buddy system", "text": "Buddy system\n\nThe buddy system is a procedure in which two people, the \"buddies\", operate together as a single unit so that they are able to monitor and help each other.\nAs per Merriam-Webster, the first known use of the phrase “buddy system” goes as far back as 1942. Webster goes on to define the buddy system as “an arrangement in which two individuals are paired (as for mutual safety in a hazardous situation).” \nThe buddy system is basically working together in pairs in a large group or alone. Both the individuals have to do the job. The job could be to ensure that the work is finished safely or the skill/learning is transferred effectively from one individual to the other.\n\nIn adventurous or dangerous activities, where buddies are often required, the main benefit of the system is improved safety; each may be able to prevent the other becoming a casualty or rescue the other in a crisis.\n\nWhen this system is used as part of training or the induction of newcomers to an organization, the less experienced buddy learns more quickly from close and frequent contact with the experienced buddy than when operating alone.\n\nThe buddy system is used in the United States Armed Forces, and referred to by various names in each branch (\"Wingmen\" in the Air Force, \"Battle Buddies\" in the Army, \"Shipmates\" in the Navy), as well as the Boy Scouts of America and the Girl Scouts of the USA\n\nIt is also used by religious organisations like the LDS Church. Members on mission form a companionship constituted by two or sometimes more missionaries, which are not allowed to be alone for a two-year time period: \"Stay Together. Never be alone. It is extremely important that you stay with your companion at all times.\"\n\nThe buddy system is used in new employee induction for assisting with the formalities in an organization. The period could be from a month to two months. The buddy helps in acclimatizing the new employee to the culture and day to day aspects of working, in a shorter period of time. The buddy helps the new employee to become knowledgeable about department practices and organizational culture in a shorter period. The purpose of assigning new employees with a buddy is to help welcome employees and reaffirms their decision to join the organization. It provides new employees with a reliable, motivated, single point-of-contact for their basic questions regarding their work experience. The buddy system is an effective method to provide support, monitor stress, and reinforce safety procedures.\n\nThe buddy system is also informally used by school-aged children, especially on field trips. Assigning each student a buddy provides an extra measure of safety and removes some of the burden of keeping an eye on a large number of children in an unfamiliar environment from the supervising adults.\n\nThe buddy system encourages open and effective dialogue among peers and tends to break down social barriers with their classmates. It helps create a collaborative learning environment in which peers feel less hesitant to raise questions. This enables students to develop social networks, cross-cultural experiences. It provides effective support for the students who are ‘at risk’ and to lower the attrition rate at the higher education level.\n\nA buddy system in a school is where a child gets paired with another child, usually one that is older and of higher abilities. A buddy system helps to promote friendship, better support of coursework, behavioral and social needs, and can foster a greater sense of belonging and a more inclusive school community. Students create friendships that enable both older and younger \"buddies\" to bond more closely with their school, increasing the likelihood of more positive school behavior and positive response towards learning for all students. The buddy system helps students starting at a new school have a welcoming experience from the very beginning. The older children learn to take on responsibility, while the younger children know that they have a fellow student they can confidently turn to for support.\nBuddy systems in schools can have numerous benefits such as promoting an inclusive environment for all, better acceptance of differences, promoting better self-control, expansion of communicative interaction with peers, decrease in behavioral problems, and even personal maturation or growth in career aspirations.\nThe buddy system positively affects the culture of the school and it greatly affects the troubled student as well as the older buddy.\nThe students learn and share from their peers and learn collaboratively. The students actively participate with each other and enjoy the informal setting and feel comfortable discussing with peers rather than a teacher. The opportunity for active participation, clearing doubts and discussions help students to continue with studies or activities with joy and creates a depth in the subject matter. The buddy system helps to increase self-confidence for all involved in the system and in the process helps build trust and co-operation within individuals. It benefits the buddies, buddy learner, school/university and the parents as well. The buddies involved also learn leadership skills and in turn can take up the role of buddy leader. \nThe buddy system helps in reducing the stress level of the learner. It reduces the levels of anxiety experienced by the students who struggle to engage with course material or with the school/university in general. \"When there's a companion available, the physiological measure of stress—cortisol levels in the blood—can be alleviated somewhat\", explains Jim Winslow, PhD, a specialist in behavioral neuroscience and pharmacology and head of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Intramural Research Program, Non-Human Primate Core.\nTeachers at progressive schools collaborate to improve their students' learning—and their own. It gives independence to all students, and increases self-esteem and peer acceptance. Children become protectors of each other.\nChristine Hogan states that the buddy system approach is highly appropriate for organizational behavior studies adding to the students' range of learning strategies. The technique not only works with peers of the same nation but has also proved to be of particular importance to foreign students.\n\nThere are numerous pairings styles: newly admitted students paired with older students, low achieving elementary school students paired with high achieving elementary school students; behaviorally challenged teenagers paired with adults; autistic children paired with neurotypical children; severely disabled children paired with neurotypical children; and even college students paired with post-bachelor students.\n\nAn example of a successful peer buddy system was in Nashville, Tennessee's McGavock High School. Teachers were concerned with having a more inclusive environment for special education students. Not only were the specialized students excluded academically but there was social exclusion as well. This adversely affects specialized students when there is a need for them to later assimilate when out of high school. Students with disabilities were eating with their buddies and their friends, which resulted in the expansion of their circle of friendship and thus allowed for the special needs students to feel more normal and included. The program was so successful it was later adopted in the other 11 high schools of that district.\n\nThere are more examples of buddy systems for developmentally challenged students than there are of students with normal development but with behavioral or academic needs. If a system can be implemented that can help autistic or behaviorally challenged children or children with intellectual disabilities, than similar buddy systems can be incorporated into mainstream classrooms to help aid students that have a hard time learning but who may not qualify for the special needs programs. Students with disabilities report feeling more included, able to start friendships and conversations, and these same benefits can be transferred over to students that have social problems but are not able to be in special needs programs. Similarly, a student who is struggling academically can be paired with someone more adept with certain subjects.\n\nPeer buddy groups can benefit many people. More research is needed to understand the possible impact of buddy systems for the general student population. Students that qualify for special services receive a lot of attention but students struggling behaviorally and socially would highly benefit from such an inclusive service.\n\nStudents that qualify for special needs services receive a lot of attention. For the students that do not qualify but might be struggling behaviorally and socially, then programs like these could potentially have similar benefits for them as well. Carolyn Hughes and Erik Carter promote a more ubiquitous peer buddy system in their book by laying out different strategies and benefits if schools were to include these systems in their curriculum. Examples they provide are: administrators assisting in the publication of the program, school counselors signing up students for a credit based buddy system course, general education teachers providing support for special needs students who might be in there classroom and having parents providing impetus and support for a program to begin. Carolyn Hughes and Erik Carter suggest starting on a smaller scale, perhaps a classroom or two and then growing a base of support.\n\nA key element of education is to build empathy and understand other people in the society. This approach sees a small group of students in a class being made \"buddies\" for an autistic student. The students are made aware of particular challenge a student has and are asked to take special care to include them, to be on the lookout for any bullying or exclusion and to be supportive to the student if they get stressed out or upset at break time or in class. The students who are selected would be chosen for their maturity and kindness. Parental consent would be sought from the parents of the students involved. While not every autistic student will instantly begin to socialise or make friends, this approach will at the very least ensure inclusion and also that there will be a friendly pair of eyes when teachers are not present or are out of ear-shot. Everyone needs a buddy sometimes – maybe a student is having a bad day, is upset about something or just is not very good at starting conversations or making friends alone. Under this system, a class would explore difference as a whole and recognize that everyone in a class is different and so have different needs, strengths, abilities and oddities. They would then either be paired up or each student would draw a name and become \"buddy\" to that person, perhaps without them even being made aware of it. Before the draw or pairing it could be discussed with the teacher, to ensure an autistic student gets an especially strong buddy.\nThe advantage of this system is that it does not single out the autistic student, especially if they are not comfortable with that, and instead includes everyone. Additionally, it gives the autistic person a role in being a buddy too, which can be used to teach social skills, expectations and etiquette.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30515983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30515983", "title": "Bunga bunga", "text": "Bunga bunga\n\nBunga bunga is a phrase of uncertain origin and various meanings that dates from 1910, and a name for an area of Australia dating from 1852. By 2010 the phrase had gained popularity in Italy and the international press to refer to former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's sex parties, which caused a major political scandal in Italy.\n\nAn 1852 issue of \"Hogg's Instructor\" states that \"bunga bunga\" is the name given by locals to a location near Moreton Bay on the eastern coast of Australia.\n\nIn 1910 Horace de Vere Cole, Virginia Woolf, her brother Adrian Stephen and a small group of friends, pretended to be the Prince of Abyssinia and his entourage. They obtained permission to visit one of the world's most powerful warships HMS \"Dreadnought\" in Weymouth, Dorset, in what became known as the \"Dreadnought\" hoax. It was reported that each time the Commander showed them a marvel of the ship, they murmured the phrase \"bunga, bunga!\" which then became a popular catchphrase of the time. Adrian Stephen, had this to say about the phrase:\nA 1950 Bugs Bunny short \"Bushy Hare\" used the phrase \"Unga Bunga Bunga\" in a nonsensical exchange between Bugs Bunny and a character who represented an Australian Aborigine and who was referred to as \"Nature Boy\".\n\nIn Malay-speaking countries bunga means flower. As such bunga bunga (written as bunga-bunga) is simply the plural form of flower. Possibly, Makassan contact with Australia can explain the existence of the word within the Australian Aborigines culture.\n\nA century later, the term \"bunga bunga\" became popular again as part of a joke on the internet. This joke was then narrated by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at his dinner parties (in a version which featured, as prisoners, former ministers from the centre-left opposition party led by Romano Prodi).\n\nThis expression was then frequently quoted by the Italian and international press during the 2011 investigation surrounding Silvio Berlusconi's underage prostitution charges, acquiring a quite different meaning as \"an orgy involving a powerful leader\"; it was allegedly taught to Silvio Berlusconi by Muammar al-Gaddafi, who was also the unwitting originator of the phrase Zenga Zenga.\n\nIn Italy, the term \"has become an instant, supposedly hilarious, household expression\".\n\nRecent explanations disagree on its meaning, or perhaps illustrate the range of its reference. It \"is said to be a sort of underwater orgy where nude young women allegedly encircled the nude host and/or his friends in his swimming pool\", \"an African-style ritual\" performed for male spectators by \"20 naked young women\", or erotic entertainment hosted by a rich host involving pole dancing and competitive striptease by skimpy-costumed \"women in nurses' outfits and police uniforms\" – but topless women, the prize being prostitution for the host.\n\nAn alternative explanation for its origins was proposed by actress Sabina Began, who claimed that it was a nickname based on her surname and that she had organized the parties.\n\nThe lexicographer Jonathon Green does not expect the term to make much headway, or to last, in English.\n\nThe bunga bunga culture sparked a social movement called \"Se Non Ora Quando\" in 2011, which included street protests.\n\nIn 2011, the faux-French, American band Nous Non Plus released a song entitled \"Bunga Bunga\". The cover of the single featured a picture of Silvio Berlusconi. The song lyrics list famous cities around the world (in French) while the video is a black and white show-reel of semi-nude dancing women.\n\nIn 2012, the term was used in the British motoring show \"Top Gear\" in Season 18, Episode 1. It was used to describe The Stig's Italian cousin, who emerged from a motor-home dressed in a suit, followed by three glamorous girls, to set a lap time in a Ferrari 458 Italia at the Autodromo Enzo e Dino Ferrari (Imola Circuit).\n\nIn 2013, the American band Cherry Poppin' Daddies used the term several times in the lyrics for their song \"The Babooch\", a satire of \"one-percenter\" lifestyles. The song's music video features clips of Berlusconi alongside other billionaire figures.\n\nIn 2014, comedians Maynard and Tim Ferguson started a podcast named Bunga Bunga.\n\n"}
{"id": "1209592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209592", "title": "Charles Booth (social reformer)", "text": "Charles Booth (social reformer)\n\nCharles James Booth (30 March 1840 – 23 November 1916) was an English social researcher and reformer known for his innovative work in documenting working class life in London at the end of the 19th century. His work, along with that of Benjamin Seebohm Rowntree, influenced government intervention against poverty in the early 20th century and contributed to the creation of Old Age pensions and free school meals for the poorest children.\n\nCharles Booth was born in Liverpool, Lancashire on 30 March 1840 to Charles Booth and Emily Fletcher. His father was a wealthy shipowner and corn merchant as well as being a prominent Unitarian. He attended the Royal Institution School in Liverpool before being apprenticed in the family business at the age of sixteen.\n\nBooth married Mary Macaulay in 1871, niece of the historian Thomas Babington Macaulay. She was also a cousin of the Fabian socialist and author Beatrice Webb.\nThey had 7 children, 3 sons and 4 daughters.\n\nHis eldest daughter Antonia married the Hon Sir Malcolm Macnaghten, and others married into the Ritchie and Gore Browne families.\n\nBooth's father died in 1860, leaving him in control of the family company. He entered the skins and leather business with his elder brother Alfred, and they set up Alfred Booth and Company with offices in Liverpool and New York City using a £20,000 inheritance.\n\nAfter learning the shipping trades, Booth was able to persuade Alfred and his sister Emily to invest in steamships and established a service to Pará, Maranhão and Ceará in Brazil. Booth himself went on the first voyage to Brazil on 14 February 1866. He was also involved in the building of a harbour at Manaus which overcame seasonal fluctuations in water levels. Booth described this as his \"monument\" (to shipping) when he visited Manaus for the last time in 1912.\n\nBooth was critical of the existing statistical data on poverty. By analysing census returns he argued that they were unsatisfactory and later sat on a committee in 1891 which suggested improvements which could be made to them.\n\nBooth publicly criticised the claims of the leader of the Social Democratic Federation H. M. Hyndman – leader of Britain's first socialist party. In the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" of 1885, Hyndman stated that 25% of Londoners lived in abject poverty. Booth investigated poverty in London, working with a team of investigators which included his cousin Beatrice Potter (Beatrice Webb) and the chapter on women's work was conducted by the budding economist Clara Collet. This research, which looked at incidences of pauperism in the East End of London, showed that 35% were living in abject poverty – even higher than the original figure. This work was published under the title \"Life and Labour of the People\" in 1889. A second volume, entitled \"Labour and Life of the People\", covering the rest of London, appeared in 1891. Booth also popularised the idea of a 'poverty line', a concept originally conceived by the London School Board. Booth set this line at 10 to 20 shillings, which he considered to be the minimum amount necessary for a family of 4 or 5 people to subsist.\n\nAfter the first two volumes were published Booth expanded his research. This investigation was carried out by Booth himself and his team of researchers. Nonetheless Booth continued to operate his successful shipping business while these investigations were taking place. The fruit of this research was a second expanded edition of his original work, published as \"Life and Labour of the People in London\" in nine volumes between 1892 and 1897. A third edition (now expanded to seventeen volumes) appeared 1902-3.\n\nHe used this work to argue for the introduction of Old Age Pensions which he described as \"limited socialism\". Booth argued that such reforms would help prevent socialist revolution from occurring in Britain. Booth was far from tempted by the ideals of socialism, but had sympathy with the working classes and, as part of his investigations, he took lodgings with working-class families and recorded his thoughts and findings in his diaries.\n\nThe London School of Economics keeps his work on an online searchable database.\n\nBooth's 1902 study included antisemitic references to the impact of Jewish immigration, comparing it to the \"slow rising of a flood\" and that \"no Gentile could live in the same house with these poor foreign Jews, and even as neighbours they are unpleasant; and, since people of this race, though sometimes quarrelsome amongst themselves, are extremely gregarious and sociable, each small street or group of houses invaded tends to become entirely Jewish\". Although Jews were statistically only a small part of the cigar trade in the United Kingdom, Booth saw the trade as \"almost entirely in the hands of the Jewish community\" in the East End.\n\n\"Life and Labour of the People in London\" can be seen as one of the founding texts of British sociology, drawing on both quantitative (statistical) methods and qualitative methods (particularly ethnography). Because of this, it was an influence on Chicago School sociology (notably the work of Robert E. Park) and later the discipline of community studies associated with the Institute of Community Studies in East London.\n\nThe importance of Booth's work in social statistics was recognised by the Royal Statistical Society, which in 1892 elected him president and awarded him the first Guy Medal in Gold. he was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1899.\n\nBooth had some involvement in politics, although he canvassed unsuccessfully as the Liberal parliamentary candidate in the General Election of 1865. Following the Conservative Party victory in municipal elections in 1866, his interest in active politics waned. This result changed Booth's attitudes, and he foresaw that he could influence people more by educating the electorate, rather than by being a representative in Parliament.\n\nHe rejected subsequent offers from Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone of elevation to the House of Lords as a Peer. Booth engaged in Joseph Chamberlain's Birmingham Education League, a survey which looked into levels of work and education in Liverpool. The survey found that 25,000 children in Liverpool were neither in school or work.\n\nWhile Booth's attitudes towards poverty might make him seem fairly left-wing, Booth actually became more conservative in his views in later life. Some of his investigators such as Beatrice Webb became Socialists as a result of this research, however Booth was critical of the way in which the Liberal Government appeared to support Trade Unions after they won the 1906 General Election.\n\nHe purchased William Holman Hunt's painting \"\"The Light of The World\"\" which was donated to St Paul's Cathedral in 1908.\n\nIn later life, Booth moved to Grace Dieu Manor near Thringstone, Leicestershire. He died on 23 November 1916 and was buried in the churchyard of Saint Andrew's church in the village. A memorial dedicated to him stands on the village green. There is also a blue plaque on the house where he lived in South Kensington, at 6 Grenville Place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20155525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20155525", "title": "Cliodynamics", "text": "Cliodynamics\n\nCliodynamics () is a transdisciplinary area of research integrating cultural evolution, economic history/cliometrics, macrosociology, the mathematical modeling of historical processes during the \"longue durée\", and the construction and analysis of historical databases. Cliodynamics treats history as science. Its practitioners develop theories that explain such dynamical processes as the rise and fall of empires, population booms and busts, spread and disappearance of religions. These theories are translated into mathematical models. Finally, model predictions are tested against data. Thus, building and analyzing massive databases of historical and archaeological information is one of the most important goals of cliodynamics.\n\nThe word \"cliodynamics\" is composed of \"clio-\" and \"-dynamics\". In Greek mythology, Clio is the muse of history. Dynamics, most broadly, is the study of how and why phenomena change with time.\n\nThe term was originally coined by Peter Turchin in 2003, and can be traced to the work of such figures as Ibn Khaldun Alexandre Deulofeu, Jack Goldstone, Sergey Kapitsa, Randall Collins, John Komlos, and Andrey Korotayev.\n\nMany historical processes are dynamic (a dynamic process is one that changes with time). Populations increase and decline, economies expand and contract, states grow and collapse. A very common approach, which has proved its worth in innumerable applications (particularly, but not exclusively, in the natural sciences), consists of taking a holistic phenomenon and splitting it up into separate parts that are assumed to interact with each other. This is the dynamical systems approach, because the whole phenomenon is represented as a system consisting of several elements (or subsystems) that interact and change dynamically; that is, over time. In the dynamical systems approach, one sets out explicitly with mathematical formulae how different subsystems interact with each other. This mathematical description is the model of the system, and one can use a variety of methods to study the dynamics predicted by the model, as well as attempt to test the model by comparing its predictions with observed empirical, dynamic evidence. Cliodynamics is the application of this same approach to the social sciences in general and to the study of historical dynamics in particular.\n\nCliodynamics practitioners apply mathematical models to explain macrohistorical patterns – things like the rise of empires, social discontent, civil wars, and state collapse. Although the focus is usually on the dynamics of large conglomerates of people, the approach of cliodynamics does not preclude the inclusion of human agency in its explanatory theories. Such questions can be explored with agent-based computer simulations.\n\nCliodynamics relies on large bodies of evidence to test competing theories on a wide range of historical processes. This typically involves building massive stores of evidence. The rise of digital history and various research technologies have allowed huge databases to be constructed in recent years. Some prominent databases utilized by cliodynamics practitioners include the following:\n\nAs of 2016, the main directions of academic study in cliodynamics are:\n\nThere are several established venues of peer reviewed cliodynamics research: \n\nCritics of the Cliodynamic approach often argue that the complex social formations of the past cannot and should not be reduced to quantifiable, analyzable 'data points', for doing so overlooks each historical society's peculiar circumstances and dynamics. Many historians and social scientists contend that there are no generalizable causal factors that can explain large numbers of cases, but that historical investigation should focus on the unique trajectories of each case, highlighting commonalities in outcomes where they exist. As Zhao notes, \"most historians believe that the importance of any mechanisms in history changes, and more important, there is no time-invariant structure that can organize all the historical mechanisms into a system\". Cliodynamicists, on the other hand, contend that there are large-scale, macrohistorical patterns that can explain the historical dynamics of the majority of known cases, and that these patterns can be uncovered through systematic, mathematical analysis. They argue that the ability of cliodynamics research to expose these patterns and to explain historical events demonstrates the feasibility of the approach.\n\nIsaac Asimov employed a fictional version of this discipline, what he called psychohistory, as a major plot device in his Foundation series of science fiction novels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9954363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9954363", "title": "Communal violence", "text": "Communal violence\n\nCommunal violence is a form of violence that is perpetrated across ethnic or communal lines, the violent parties feel solidarity for their respective groups, and victims are chosen based upon group membership. The term includes conflicts, riots and other forms of violence between communities of different religious faith or ethnic origins.\n\nUnited Nations Office on Drugs and Crime includes any conflict and form of violence between communities of different religious group, different sects or tribes of same religious group, clans, ethnic origins or national origin as communal violence. However, this excludes conflict between two individuals or two families.\n\nCommunal violence is found in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Australia.\n\nThe term was constructed by the British colonial authorities as it wrestled to manage violence between religious, ethnic and disparate groups in its colonies, particularly Africa and South Asia, in early 20th century.\n\nCommunal violence, in different parts of the world, is alternatively referred to as ethnic violence, non-State conflict, violent civil unrest, minorities unrest, mass racial violence, inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\nHuman history has experienced numerous episodes of communal violence. For example, in medieval Europe, Protestants clashed with Catholics, Christians clashed with Muslims while both perpetuated violence against Jews and Roma minorities. In 1561, Huguenots in Toulouse took out in a procession through the streets to express their solidarity for Protestant ideas. A few days later, the Catholics hunted down some of the leaders of the procession, beat them and burned them at the stake. In the French town of Pamiers, communal clashes were routine between Protestants and Catholics, such as during holy celebrations where the Catholics took out a procession with a statue of St. Anthony, sang and danced while they carried the statue around town. Local Protestants would year after year disrupt the festivities by throwing stones at the Catholics. In 1566, when the Catholic procession reached a Protestant neighborhood, the Protestants chanted \"kill, kill, kill !!\" and days of communal violence with numerous fatalities followed. In 1572, thousands of Protestants were killed by Catholics during communal violence in each of the following cities – Paris, Aix, Bordeaux, Bourges, Lyon, Meaux, Orleans, Rouen, Toulouse, and Troyes. In Switzerland, communal violence between the Reformation movement and Catholics marked the 16th century.\n\nThe Horn of Africa as well as West African regions have similar history of communal violence. Nigeria has seen centuries of communal violence between different ethnic groups particularly between Christian south and Islamic north. In 1964, after receiving independence from the British colonial rule, there were widespread communal violence in the ethnically diverse state of Zanzibar. The violent groups were Arabs and Africans, that expanded along religious lines, and the communal violence ultimately led to the overthrow of the Sultan of Zanzibar. Local radio announced the death of tens of thousands of \"stooges\", but later estimates for deaths from Zanzibar communal violence have varied from hundreds to 2,000-4,000 to as many as 20,000. In late 1960s and early 1970s, there were widespread communal violence against Kenyans and Asians in Uganda with waves of theft, physical and sexual violence, followed by expulsions by Idi Amin. Idi Amin mentioned his religion as justification for his actions and the violence. Coptic Christians have suffered communal violence in Egypt for decades, with frequency and magnitude increasing since 1920s.\n\n\nEast, South and Southeast Asia have recorded numerous instances of communal violence. For example, Singapore suffered a wave of communal violence in 20th century between Malays and Chinese. In Indian subcontinent, numerous 18th through 20th century records of the British colonial era mention communal violence between Hindus and Muslims, as well as Sunni and Shia sects of Islam, particularly during processions related to respective religious celebrations.\n\nThe frequency of communal violence in South Asia increased after the first partition of Bengal in 1905, where segregation, unequal political and economic rights were imposed on Hindus and Muslims by Lord Curzon, based on religion. The colonial rule was viewed by each side as favoring the other side, resulting in a wave of communal riots and 1911 reversal of Bengal partition and its re-unification. In 1919, after British General Dyer ordered his soldiers to fire on unarmed protestors inside a compound in Amritsar, killing 380 civilians, communal violence followed in India against British settlements. There were hundreds of incidents of communal violence between 1905 and 1947, many related to religious, political sovereignty questions including partition of India along religious lines into East Pakistan, West Pakistan and India. The 1946 to 1947 period saw some of the worst communal violence of 20th century, where waves of riots and violence killed between 100,000 and a million people, from Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and Jain religions, particularly in cities and towns near the modern borders of India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh. Examples of these communal violence include the so-called Direct Action Day, Noakhali riots and the Partition riots in Rawalpindi.\n\nThe 20th century witnessed inter-religious, intra-religious and ethnic communal violence in the Middle East, South Russia, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Indian law defines communal violence as, \"any act or series of acts, whether spontaneous or planned, resulting in injury or harm to the person and or property, knowingly directed against any person by virtue of his or her membership of any religious or linguistic minority, in any State in the Union of India, or Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes within the meaning of clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution of India\".\n\nIn Indonesia, communal violence is defined as that is driven by a sense of religious, ethnic or tribal solidarity. The equivalence of tribalism to ethnicity was referred locally as \"kesukuan\". Communal violence in Indonesia includes numerous localized conflicts between various social groups found on its islands.\n\nIn Kenya, communal violence is defined as that violence that occurs between different community who identify themselves based on religion, tribes, language, sect, race and others. Typically this sense of community identity comes from birth and is inherited. Similar definition has been applied for 47 African countries, where during 1990–2010, about 7,200 instances of communal violence and inter-ethnic conflicts has been seen.\n\nColm Campbell has proposed, after studying the empirical data and sequence of events during communal violence in South Africa, Palestinian Territories and Northern Ireland, that communal violence typically follows when there is degradation of rule of law, the state fails to or is widely seen as unable to provide order, security and equal justice, which then leads to mass mobilization, followed by radicalization of anger among one or more communities, and ultimately violent mobilization. Targeted mass violence by a few from one community against innocent members of other community, suppression of complaints, refusal to prosecute, killing peaceful demonstrators, imprisonment of people of a single community while refusal to arrest members of other community in conflict, perceived or actual prisoner abuse by the state are often the greatest mobilizers of communal violence.\n\nResearch suggests that ethnic segregation may also cause communal violence. Empirically estimating the effect of segregation on the incidence of violence across 700 localities in Rift Valley Province of Kenya after the contested 2007–2008 general election, Kimuli Kahara finds that local ethnic segregation increases communal violence by decreasing interethnic trust rather than by making it easier to organize violence. Even if a small minority of individuals prefer to live in ethnically homogenous settings due to fear of other ethnic groups or otherwise, it can result in high degrees of ethnic segregation. Kahara argues that such ethnic segregation decreases the possibility of positive contact across ethnic lines. Integration and the resultant positive interethnic contact reduces prejudice by allowing individuals to correct false beliefs about members of other ethnic groups, improving intergroup relations consequently. Thus, segregation is correlated with low levels of interethnic trust. This widespread mistrust along ethnic lines explains the severity of communal violence by implying that when underlying mistrust is high, it is easier for extremists and elites to mobilize support for violence, and that where violence against members of other ethnic groups is supported by the public, perpetrators of such violence are less likely to face social sanctions.\n\nIn China, the communal violence in Xinjiang province is called ethnic violence. Communal violence and riots have also been called non-State conflict, violent civil or minorities unrest, mass racial violence, social or inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36865726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36865726", "title": "Confession", "text": "Confession\n\nA confession is a statement – made by a person or by a group of persons – acknowledging some personal fact that the person (or the group) would ostensibly prefer to keep hidden. The term presumes that the speaker is providing information that he believes the other party is not already aware of, and is frequently associated with an admission of a moral or legal wrong:\nNot all confessions reveal wrongdoing, however. For example, a confession of love is often considered positive both by the confessor and by the recipient of the confession, and is a common theme in literature. With respect to confessions of wrongdoing, there are several specific kinds of confessions that have significance beyond the social. A legal confession involves an admission of some wrongdoing that has legal consequence, while the concept of confession in religion varies widely across various belief systems, and is usually more akin to a ritual by which the person acknowledges thoughts or actions considered sinful or morally wrong within the confines of the confessor's religion. In some religions, confession takes the form of an oral communication to another person. Socially, however, the term may refer to admissions that are neither legally nor religiously significant.\n\nConfession often benefits the one who is confessing . Paul Wilkes characterizes confession as \"a pillar of mental health\" because of its ability to relieve anxieties associated with keeping secrets.\nConfessants are more likely to confess when the expected benefits outweigh the marginal costs (when the benefit of the offense to them is high, the cost to the victim is low, and the probability of information leakage is high). People may undertake social confessions in order to relieve feelings of guilt or to seek forgiveness from a wronged party, but such confessions may also serve to create social bonds between the confessant and the confessor, and may prompt the listener to reply with confessions of their own. A person may therefore confess wrongdoing to another person as a means of creating such a social bond, or of extracting reciprocal information from the other person. A confession may be made in a self-aggrandizing manner, as a way for the confessant to claim credit for a misdeed for the purpose of eliciting a reaction to that claim.\n\nIn law, there is an exception to the hearsay rule that allows testimony concerning someone else's confession to be admitted if the statement had a great enough tendency \"to expose the declarant to civil or criminal liability\". The theory is that a reasonable person would not make such a false confession. In U.S. law, a confession must be voluntary in order to be admissible.\n\nConfessions (whether forced or otherwise) may feature in formal or informal show trials.\n\nPublic confessions play a role in struggle sessions\nand in other methods of social control and influence involving self-criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1409652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409652", "title": "Daniel Carter Beard", "text": "Daniel Carter Beard\n\nDaniel Carter \"Uncle Dan\" Beard (June 21, 1850 – June 11, 1941) was an American illustrator, author, youth leader, and social reformer who founded the Sons of Daniel Boone in 1905, which Beard later merged with the Boy Scouts of America (BSA).\n\nBeard was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, into a family of artists. As a youth, he explored the woods and made sketches of nature. His father was the artist James Henry Beard and his mother was Mary Caroline (Carter) Beard. His uncle was the artist William Holbrook Beard. He lived at 322 East Third Street in Covington, Kentucky near the Licking River, where he learned the stories of Kentucky pioneer life.\n\nHe started an early career as an engineer and surveyor. He attended art school in New York City. He wrote a series of articles for St. Nicholas Magazine that later formed the basis for \"The American Boy's Handy Book\". He was a member of the Student Art League, where he met and befriended Ernest Thompson Seton in 1883. He illustrated a number of books for Mark Twain, and for other authors such as Ernest Crosby.\n\nIn 1908 while living in Redding, Connecticut, Beard was among those on hand to welcome Mark Twain upon his arrival to the author's new villa Stormfield.\n\nBeard became the editor of \"Recreation\" magazine and wrote a monthly column for youth. He founded the Sons of Daniel Boone in 1905, basing it on American frontier traditions. He later moved his column to \"Woman's Home Companion\". After conflicts with a new editor, he moved to the \"Pictorial Review\". Since Women's Home Companion retained the rights to the name, he simply renamed the organization to \"Boy Pioneers of America\".\n\nBeard merged his organization into the Boy Scouts of America when it was founded in 1910. Beard became one of the first National Scout Commissioners of the Boy Scouts and served it for 30 years. He later became the editor of \"Boys' Life\" magazine, the BSA official magazine, and wrote a monthly column for youth. The work of both Beard and Ernest Thompson Seton are in large part the basis of the Traditional Scouting movement.\n\nBeard also helped his sister organize the Camp Fire Girls. Beard was a Freemason, initiated in the Mariners Lodge No. 67 (New York City). He was also an award for Masonic Scouters has been named in his honor.\n\nBeard founded Boy Scouts Troop 1 in Flushing, New York, which is believed to be one of the oldest continuously chartered Boy Scout Troops in the United States. Beard became an Eagle Scout at the age of 64 on February 15, 1915.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award, Dan Beard was recipient of the only \"gold Eagle badge\" awarded at the Second National Training Conference of Scout Executives held in 1922 in Blue Ridge, North Carolina.\n\nDan Beard was also involved with the Culver Academies' summer camp program for many years, which used his \"Sons of Daniel Boone\" program. This program still exists as the Academy's Culver Woodcraft Camp.\n\nBeard died on June 11, 1941, shortly before his 91st birthday at his home Brooklands in Suffern, New York. He was buried near his home at the Brick Church Cemetery in Spring Valley, New York. The National Program Director of the Boy Scouts of America, E. Urner Goodman, was selected to be in charge of the beloved youth leader's funeral in Suffern. An estimated 2,000 people lined the funeral route to the cemetery in Monsey, New York, where 127 Boy Scouts formed an honor guard and assisted with traffic control.\n\nThe Daniel Carter Beard Bridge carries I-471 across the Ohio River. A life-size bronze statue of Daniel Carter Beard and a Boy Scout, created by world-renowned sculptor Kenneth Bradford, stands at 322 East 3rd Street in Covington, Kentucky, Beard's boyhood home. The nearby Daniel Carter Beard Boyhood Home is now a National Historic Landmark in the Riverside Drive Historic District.\n\nJunior High School 189 Daniel Carter Beard is located in Flushing, Queens, New York; the Daniel Carter Beard Mall is a nearby park. The Daniel Carter Beard Elementary School is located in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe Dan Beard Council is the administrative body of the BSA in the Greater Cincinnati area.\n\nMany Scout camps have sites named after Beard including Philmont Scout Ranch in New Mexico, Forestburg Scout Reservation in Forestburg, New York and Broad Creek Memorial Scout Reservation in Maryland and Tama Hills in Tokyo, Japan. Other camps have programs named after Beard, such as the first-year camper program at McKee Scout Reservation in Kentucky.\n\nThe Forest Preserves of Cook County, Illinois, has long had a campground called Camp Dan Beard.\n\nFreemasons in the U.S. offer the Daniel Carter Beard Masonic Scouter Award for Masons who are involved with Scouting. The BSA offers the James E. West Fellowship Award; an advanced level is the 1910 Society which in turn includes levels of contributions—the Daniel Carter Beard is recognized for a gift of at least $100,000.\n\nMount Dan Beard, a peak in the Alaska Range near Denali in Denali National Park and Preserve, is named after Beard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45087456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45087456", "title": "Declinism", "text": "Declinism\n\nDeclinism is the belief that a society or institution is tending towards decline. Particularly, it is the predisposition, possibly due to cognitive bias, such as rosy retrospection, to view the past more favourably and future negatively. “The great summit of declinism,” according to Adam Gopnick, \"was established in 1918, in the book that gave decline its good name in publishing: the German historian Oswald Spengler’s best-selling, thousand-page work \"The Decline of the West\".\"\n\nThe belief has been traced back to Edward Gibbon's work, \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\", published between 1776 and 1788, where Gibbon argues that Rome collapsed due to the gradual loss of civic virtue among its citizens, who became lazy, spoiled and inclined to hire foreign mercenaries to handle the defence of state. He believed that that reason must triumph over superstition to save Europe's superpowers from a similar fate to the Roman Empire.\n\nSpengler's book \"The Decline of the West\", which gave Declinism its popular name, was released in the aftermath of the First World War and captured the pessimistic spirit of the times. Spengler wrote that history had seen the rise and fall of several \"civilizations\" (including the Egyptian, the Classical, the Chinese and the Mesoamerican). He claimed these go in cycles, typically spanning 1,000 years. Spengler believed that not only is Western Civilization in decline, but that decline is inevitable.\n\nThe United States in particular has a history of predicting its own downfall, beginning with European settlement. So called American declinism has been a recurring topic in the politics of the United States since the 1950s.\n\n“America is prone to bouts of 'declinism,'” \"The Economist\" has noted. Historian Victor Davis Hansen has identified several successive stages of American declinism. During the Great Depression, out-of-work Americans viewed the proud, dynamic “New Germany” with envy. In the 1950s, the success of Sputnik 1 and the spread of Communism led Americans to fear they were falling behind the Soviet Union. In the 1970s, Americans fretted over Japan's economic boom; two decades later, the European Union seemed the wave of the future. In the 21st century, America's worries have focused on the rise of China, with its massive exports and new megacities. Yet one after another of these concerns, Hansen points out, proved unfounded: “Fascism was crushed; Communism imploded; Japan is aging and shrinking; the European Union is cracking apart.”\n\nIn a 2011 book, Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum argued that the United States was in the midst of “its fifth wave of Declinism.” The first had come “with the 'Sputnik Shock' of 1957,” the second with the Vietnam War, the third with Jimmy Carter’s “malaise” and the rise of Japan, the fourth with the ascendancy of China.\n\nAmerican declinism can suddenly overtake commentators who had previously taken a sanguine view of the country's prospects. Robert Kagan has noted, for example, that the pundit Fareed Zakaria, who in 2004 “described the United States as enjoying a 'comprehensive uni-polarity' unlike anything seen since Rome” had, by 2008, begun “writing about the 'post-American world' and 'the rise of the rest.'”\n\nIn a piece which appeared in \"The Nation\" on 13 June 2017, author Tom Engelhardt described Donald Trump as America's \"first declinist candidate for president\".\n\nDeclinism has been found to be rather widespread in the United Kingdom. In a 2015 survey, 70% of Britons agreed with the statement that “things are worse than they used to be,” even though at the time Britons were in fact “richer, healthier and longer-living than ever before.” However, it was also mentioned that many of the things that older people mourn from their youths were no longer existent in modern society.\n\nBritish historian Robert Tombs suggested that the United Kingdom has faced several 'bouts' of Declinism, as far back as the 1880s when German competition in manufactured goods was first felt and then again in the 1960s and 1970s, with economic worries, rapid decolonisation and a perception of dwindling power and influence in every field. Tombs however, concluded that \"Declinism is at best a distortion of reality\" and denied suggestions that Britain was no longer the great power it once was.\n\nIn France, declinism has been described as a \"booming industry\" with popular authors such as Michel Onfray writing books and articles exploring failings of France and the West. French Declinsim has been related to the counter-Enlightenment of the early 19th century, and also to the late 1970s with the end of three decades of post World War 2 economic growth. In modern times, the phenomenon has picked up velocity and cut across the political spectrum with several variations of “déclinisme” emerging, from Catholic reactionaries to nonreligious thinkers questioning national identity and political corruption.\n\nDeclinism has been described as “a trick of the mind” and as “an emotional strategy, something comforting to snuggle up to when the present day seems intolerably bleak.”\n\nOne factor in declinism is the so-called “reminiscence bump,” meaning that older people tend “to best remember events that happened to them at around the ages of 10-30.” As one source puts it, “[t]he vibrancy of youth, and the thrill of experiencing things for the first time, creates a 'memory bump' compared with which later life does seem a bit drab.” Gopnick suggests that “the idea of our decline is emotionally magnetic, because life is a long slide down, and the plateau just passed is easier to love than the one coming up.” Citing the widespread love of “old songs,” he writes: “The long look back is part of the long ride home. We all believe in yesterday.”\n\nAnother factor is the so-called positivity effect, meaning that “as people get older, they tend to experience fewer negative emotions, and they’re more likely to remember positive things over negative things.”\n\nBoth of these factors can lead people to experience declinism. But so, contrarily, can the “negativity bias,” meaning that “emotionally negative events are likely to have more impact on your thoughts and behaviours than a similar, but positive, event.”\n\nAlan W. Dowd quotes Samuel P. Huntington as saying that declinism “performs a useful historical function” in that it “provides a warning and a goad to action in order to head off and reverse the decline that it says is taking place.” Dowd himself agrees, saying that declinism at its best “is an expression of the American tendency toward self-criticism and continual improvement.”\n\nJosef Joffe, on the contrary, emphasizes the fact “that obsessively fretting about your possible decline can be a good way to produce it.” Similarly, Robert Kagan has expressed concern that Americans are “in danger of committing pre-emptive superpower suicide out of a misplaced fear of their own declining power.”\n\nDeclinist literature includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "2660477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2660477", "title": "Digital anthropology", "text": "Digital anthropology\n\nDigital anthropology is the anthropological study of the relationship between humans and digital-era technology. The field is new, and thus has a variety of names with a variety of emphases. These include techno-anthropology, digital ethnography, cyberanthropology, and virtual anthropology.\n\nDigital technology uses binary codes of 0s and 1s to relay messages between machines. Most anthropologists who use the phrase \"digital anthropology\" are specifically referring to online and Internet technology. The study of humans' relationship to a broader range of technology may fall under other subfields of anthropological study, such as cyborg anthropology.\n\nThe Digital Anthropology Group (DANG) is classified as an interest group in the American Anthropological Association. DANG's mission includes promoting the use of digital technology as a tool of anthropological research, encouraging anthropologists to share research using digital platforms, and outlining ways for anthropologists to study digital communities. \n\nCyberspace itself can serve as a \"field\" site for anthropologists, allowing the observation, analysis, and interpretation of the sociocultural phenomena springing up and taking place in any interactive space.\n\nNational and transnational communities, enabled by digital technology, establish a set of social norms, practices, traditions, storied history and associated collective memory, migration periods, internal and external conflicts, potentially subconscious language features and memetic dialects comparable to those of traditional, geographically confined communities. This includes the various communities built around free and open source software, online platforms such as 4chan and Reddit and their respective sub-sites, and politically motivated groups like Anonymous, WikiLeaks, or the Occupy movement.\n\nA number of academic anthropologists have conducted traditional ethnographies of virtual worlds, the most prominent being Bonnie Nardi's study of World of Warcraft, and Tom Boellstorff's study of Second Life. Academic Gabriella Coleman has done ethnographic work on the Debian software community, and the Anonymous hacktivist network.\n\nAnthropological research can help designers adapt and improve technology. Australian anthropologist Genevieve Bell did extensive user experience research at Intel, which informed the company's approach to its technology, its users, and its market.\n\nMany digital anthropologists who study online communities use traditional methods of anthropological research. They participate in online communities in order to learn about their customs and worldviews, and back their observations up with private interviews, historical research, and quantitative data. Their product is an ethnography, a qualitative description of their experience and analyses. \n\nOther anthropologists and social scientists have conducted research that emphasizes data gathered by websites and servers. However, academics often have trouble accessing user data on the same scale as social media corporations like Facebook and data mining companies like Acxiom. Anthropologist [] suggests that digital anthropologists avoid relying too heavily on big data in the first place. Anthropology, he argues, has always been distinguished by its ability to the tell small, personal, and nuanced narratives that data doesn't reflect. \n\nIn terms of method, there is a disagreement in whether it is possible to conduct research exclusively online or if research will only be complete when the subjects are studied holistically, both online and offline. Tom Boellstorff, who conducted a three-year research as an avatar in the virtual world Second Life, defends the first approach, stating that it is not just possible but necessary to engage with subjects “in their own terms”. Others, such as Daniel Miller, have argued that an ethnographic research should not exclude learning about the subject's life outside of the internet.\n\nResearchers have also debated how best to describe the difference between the physical and the virtual. [/] believes that the barrier between the physical and the virtual is fading fast with technological advancement. [] disagrees, arguing that while the virtual has an influence on the physical world and vice versa, the two will remain distinctive entities in society. \n\nThe American Anthropological Association offers an online guide for students using digital technology to store and share data. Data can be uploaded to digital databases in order to store, share, and interpret it. Text and numerical analysis software can help produce metadata, while a codebook may help organize data. \n\nOnline fieldwork offers new ethical challenges. According to the AAA's ethics guidelines, anthropologists researching a community must make sure that all members of that community know they are being studied and have access to data the anthropologist produces. However, many online communities' interactions are publicly available for anyone to read, and may be preserved online for years. Digital anthropologists debate the extent to which \"lurking\" in online communities and sifting through public archives is ethical. \n\nThe AAA also asserts that anthropologists' ability to collect and store data at all is \"a privilege\", and researchers have an ethical duty to store digital data responsibly. This means protecting the identity of participants, sharing data with other anthropologists, and making backup copies of all data.\n\nWhile there is still a need for more long term studies, several surveys, articles and books have addressed the topic. Gabriella Coleman published the survey, Ethnographic Approaches to Digital Media in the Annual Review of Anthropology in 2010, focusing on digital media. The review evaluates the cultural politics of digital media, its vernacular culture, and its prosaic. She also provides descriptions on how ethnographers are documenting the ramifications of digital media on culture. In 2011, Jennifer Rode published an article on Human Factors in Computing Systems, also known as Human Computer Interaction (HCI). These yearly conferences are a reliable source of new data, publications, and academic discourse on the subject of digital anthropology and technological development. Rode's paper addresses the socio-technical gap related to the design of human and computer interactions and provides possible solutions on how ethnography can help bridge the gap. The paper was published for use at the CHI '11 Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems . Published in 2006, David Buckinham's \"Digital Generations: Children, Young People, and the New Media\" is a social commentary on the impact technology has on adolescents and children. The article, despite its primarily anecdotal information, provides insight into the discussion of how technology impacts creativity during childhood development - a vital time for learning. According to the article, technology can act as a type of inspiration for these children, empowering their creativity for the now and for the future.\n\nNumerous universities offer modules that cover the general area of digital anthropology, and some universities offer dedicated courses in digital anthropology (under various names), including University College London, Kansas State University, Binghamton University, Aalborg University, University of Colorado Boulder and University of Ottawa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1966908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966908", "title": "Economic collapse", "text": "Economic collapse\n\nEconomic collapse is any of a broad range of bad economic conditions, ranging from a severe, prolonged depression with high bankruptcy rates and high unemployment (such as the Great Depression of the 1930s), to a breakdown in normal commerce caused by hyperinflation (such as in Weimar Germany in the 1920s), or even an economically caused sharp rise in the death rate and perhaps even a decline in population (such as in countries of the former USSR in the 1990s).\n\nOften economic collapse is accompanied by social chaos, civil unrest and a breakdown of law and order.\n\nThere are few well documented cases of economic collapse. One of the best documented cases of collapse or near collapse is the Great Depression, the causes of which are still being debated.\n\"To understand the Great Depression is the Holy Grail of macroeconomics.\" —Ben Bernanke (1995)\n\nBernanke's comment addresses the difficulty of identifying specific causes when many factors may each have contributed to various extents.\n\nPast economic collapses have had political as well as financial causes. Persistent trade deficits, wars, revolutions, famines, depletion of important resources, and government-induced hyperinflation have been listed as causes.\n\nIn some cases blockades and embargoes caused severe hardships that could be considered economic collapse. In the U.S. the Embargo Act of 1807 forbade foreign trade with warring European nations, causing a severe depression in the heavily international trade-dependent economy, especially in the shipping industry and port cities, ending a great boom. The Union blockade of the Confederate States of America severely damaged the South's plantation owners; however, the South had little economic development. The blockade of Germany during World War I led to starvation of hundreds of thousands of Germans but did not cause economic collapse, at least until the political turmoil and the hyperinflation that followed. For both the Confederacy and Weimar Germany, the cost of the war was worse than the blockade. Many Southern plantation owners had their bank accounts confiscated and also all had to free their slaves without compensation. The Germans had to make war reparations.\n\nFollowing defeat in war, the conquering country or faction may not accept paper currency of the vanquished, and the paper becomes worthless. (This was the situation of the Confederacy.) Government debt obligations, primarily bonds, are often restructured and sometimes become worthless. Therefore, there is a tendency for the public to hold gold and silver during times of war or crisis.\n\nHyperinflation, wars, and revolutions cause hoarding of essentials and a disruption of markets. In some past hyperinflations, workers were paid daily and immediately spent their earnings on essential goods, which they often used for barter. Store shelves were frequently empty.\n\nMore stable foreign currencies, silver and gold (usually coins) were held and exchanged in place of local currency. The minting country of precious metal coins tended to be relatively unimportant. Jewelry was also used as a medium of exchange. Alcoholic beverages were also used for barter.\n\nDesperate individuals sold valuable possessions to buy essentials or traded them for gold and silver.\n\nIn the German hyperinflation, stocks held much more of their value than paper currency. Bonds denominated in the inflating currency may lose most or all value.\n\nDuring severe financial crises, sometimes governments close banks. Depositors may be unable to withdraw their money for long periods, as was true in the United States in 1933 under the Emergency Banking Act. Withdrawals may be limited. Bank deposits may be involuntarily converted to government bonds or to a new currency of lesser value in foreign exchange.\n\nDuring financial crises and even less severe situations, capital controls are often imposed to restrict or prohibit transferring or personally taking money, securities or other valuables out of a country. To end hyperinflations a new currency is typically issued. The old currency is often not worth exchanging for new.\n\nSee also: Financial repression\n\nThe Taiping Rebellion followed by internal warfare, famines and epidemics caused the deaths of over 100 million and greatly reduced the economy.\n\nFollowing Germany's defeat in World War I, political instability resulted in murders and assassinations of hundreds of political figures. (See: German Revolution of 1918–1919 and Kapp Putsch) Germany's finances were heavily strained by the war and reparations in accordance with the Treaty of Versailles. Unable to raise enough in taxes to run the government and make war reparations, the government resorted to printing money which resulted in great hyperinflation. One book on the hyperinflation, which includes quotes and a few first hand accounts, is \"When Money Dies\".\n\nThe hyperinflation eventually ended, it cleared government debt at the cost of the citizens' savings. Some believe that the hyperinflation of 1923 has helped fuel the eventual rise of the Nazi party and the rise of Hitler to power in 1933. Economists, however, tend to attribute Hitler's rise to the Deflation and the Great Depression beginning in 1929. Paul Krugman concluded that the 1923 hyperinflation didn’t bring Hitler to power; it was the Brüning deflation and depression. \nBefore 1929 the Nazi party was actually in decline with less than 3% of votes in the German federal election of 1928 (see election results of the Nazi Party).\n\nWhile arguably not a true economic collapse, the decade of the 1930s witnessed the most severe worldwide economic contraction since the start of the Industrial Revolution. In the US, the Depression began in the summer of 1929, soon followed by the stock market crash of October 1929. American stock prices continued to decline in fits and starts until they hit bottom in July 1932. In the first quarter of 1933, the banking system broke down: asset prices had collapsed, bank lending had largely ceased, a quarter of the American work force was unemployed, and real GDP per capita in 1933 was 29% below its 1929 value. The ensuing rapid recovery was interrupted by a major recession in 1937-38. The USA fully recovered by 1941, the eve of its entry in World War II, which gave rise to a boom as dramatic as the Depression that preceded it.\n\nWhile there were numerous bank failures during the Great Depression, most banks in developed countries survived, as did most currencies and governments. The most significant monetary change during the depression was the demise of the gold standard by most nations that were on it. In the U.S., the dollar was redeemable in gold until 1933 when U.S. citizens were forced to turn over their gold (except for 5 ounces) for fiat currency (See: Executive Order 6102) and were forbidden to own monetary gold for the next four decades. Subsequently, gold was revalued from $20.67 per ounce to $35 per ounce. U.S. dollars remained redeemable in gold by foreigners until 1971. Gold ownership was legalized in the U.S. in 1974, but not with legal tender status.\n\nAs bad as the Great Depression was, it took place during a period of high productivity growth, which caused real wages to rise. The high unemployment was partly a result of the productivity gains, allowing the number of hours of the standard work week to be cut while restoring economic output to previous levels after a few years. Workers who remained employed saw their real hourly earnings rise because wages remained constant while prices fell; however, overall earnings remained relatively constant because of the reduced work week. Converting the dollar to a fiat currency and devaluing against gold ensured the end of deflation and created inflation, which made the high debt accumulated during the 1920s boom easier to repay, although some of the debt was written off.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the Eastern Bloc, which relied on a stagnant form of planned economy, experienced a decade-long period of stagflation, and eventual collapse from which it did not recover, culminating with revolutions and the fall of communist regimes throughout Central and Eastern Europe and eventually in the Soviet Union. The process was accompanied by a gradual but important easing of restrictions on economic and political behaviour in the late 1980s, including the satellite states.\n\nThe collapse in the USSR was characterized by an increase in the death rate, especially by men over 50, with alcoholism a major cause. There was also an increase in violent crime and murder. The Russian population peaked in the 1990s and is lower today than two decades ago, as the demographics of Russia show.\n\nA firsthand account of conditions during the economic collapse was told by Dmitry Orlov, a former USSR citizen who became a US citizen but returned to Russia for a time during the crisis.\n\nAfter more or less stabilizing after the disintegration of the USSR, a severe financial crisis took place in the Russian Federation in August 1998. It was caused by low oil prices and government expenditure cuts after the end of the Cold War. Other nations of the former Soviet Union also experienced economic collapse, although a number of crises also involved armed conflicts, like in the break-away region Chechnya. The default by Russia on its government bonds in 1998 led to the collapse of highly leveraged hedge fund Long Term Capital Management, which threatened the world financial system. The U.S. Federal Reserve organized a bailout of LTCM which turned it over to a banking consortium.\n\nVideo documentary Argentine economic crisis\n\nIn Latvia, GDP declined more than 20% from 2008 to 2010, one of the worst recessions on record.\nIn Greece, GDP declined more than 26% starting in 2008.\n\nSince 2013, Venezuela has been suffering an economic crisis. It's the worst in Venezuelan history, caused by the economic policies of the president, Nicolás Maduro the successor of Hugo Chávez, the fall in oil prices and internal and external factors. Since 2014, Venezuela's GDP has been in recession, falling more 40%. The economy has collapsed, causing shortages of basics goods, economic downturn and hyperinflation since 2017. Also, there are drastic increases in the crime, corruption, poverty and hunger. Thousands of Venezuelans have fled to neighboring countries.\n\nSome economists (i.e. the Austrian School, in particular Ludwig von Mises), believe that government intervention and over-regulation of the economy can lead to the conditions for collapse. In particular, Austrian theoretical research has been focused on such problems emanating from socialist forms of economic organization. This however is not a theory of economic collapse involving the breakdown of freely functioning financial markets; rather, the focus is on economic malfunction and crisis emanating from state control.\n\nHowever, many Austrian economists also subscribe to what is called the \"ABCT\" ,or Austrian Business Cycle Theory. Economist Roger Garrison describes the bubble as merely a form of unsustainable boom (not a theory of all depression), as Mises and F.A. Hayek did, despite their disagreements on the exact workings of it. The essential part of the theory is that it is inherently unsustainable to try to manipulate monetary policy to boost both investment and consumption; usually through interest rate manipulation and bond-buying and such. The \"boom\" was created by \"malinvestments,\" as Mises called them; business decisions that are bad investments and unsustainable in the long run because lowering interest rates by padding the supply of money and credit will only work in the short-term, but will ultimately collapse because the government can only hold down interest rates so long before fear of inflation kicks in (and deflation comes at the peak of the business cycle), or they go into hyperinflation (which is completely outside the realm of the ABCT).\n\nIn \"The Science of Political Economy\", published in 1905, Henry George argued that because land is a scarce resource, it is particularly subject to speculation. George uses \"land\" to refer to ownership of a right to use a resource. It includes mining, water, fishing, and timber rights, road and rail rights-of way,\nand some patents. Today, we would add to \"land\" such items as\ntaxi medallions, telecommunications licenses and pollution \"rights\".\nHenry George followed his analysis with a remedy: eliminate all taxes\nexcept for a tax on land values. The \"single tax\", as it later became known, would\ninvigorate the economy by breaking up large idle holdings, making land available to\nthose who would use it. And it would suck the air out of speculative bubbles, damping\nthe boom and bust cycle. Henry George died before the publication of the series of books, and parts of the book are nothing more than an outline, essays and lectures as noted on the cover page. He also stated that the expansion of the money supply, should be 1 percent or thereabout, to maintain healthy growth, and discourage saving, and encourage spending, and he wanted a debt free currency. (Our current currency, as of 1913 is birthed by debt).\n\nRomanian American economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, a progenitor in economics and the paradigm founder of ecological economics, has argued that the carrying capacity of Earth—that is, Earth's capacity to sustain human populations and consumption levels — is bound to decrease sometime in the future as Earth's finite stock of mineral resources is presently being extracted and put to use; and consequently, that the world economy as a whole is heading towards an inevitable future collapse, leading to the demise of human civilisation itself.\n\nGeorgescu-Roegen is basing his pessimistic prediction on the two following considerations:\nTaken together, the Industrial Revolution in Britain in the second half of the 18th century has unintentionally thrust man's economy into a long, never-to-return overshoot-and-collapse trajectory with regard to the Earth's mineral stock. The world economy will continue growing until its inevitable and final collapse in the future. From that point on, ever deepening scarcities will aggravate social conflict throughout the globe and ultimately spell the end of mankind itself, Georgescu-Roegen conjectures.\n\nGeorgescu-Roegen was the paradigm founder of ecological economics and is also considered the main intellectual figure influencing the degrowth movement. Consequently, much work in these fields is devoted to discussing the existential impossibility of allocating Earth's finite stock of mineral resources evenly among an unknown number of present and future generations. This number of generations is likely to remain unknown to us, as there is no way — or only little way — of knowing in advance if or when mankind will ultimately face extinction. In effect, \"any\" conceivable intertemporal allocation of the stock will inevitably end up with universal economic decline at some future point. \n\nExamples:\n"}
{"id": "2787313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2787313", "title": "Eglantyne Jebb", "text": "Eglantyne Jebb\n\nEglantyne Jebb, (25 August 1876 – 17 December 1928) was a British social reformer and founder of the Save the Children organisation.\n\nShe was born in 1876 in Ellesmere, Shropshire, and grew up on her family's estate. The Jebbs were a well-off family and had a strong social conscience and commitment to public service. Her mother, Eglantyne Louisa Jebb, had founded the Home Arts and Industries Association, to promote Arts and Crafts among young people in rural areas; her sister Louisa would help found the Women's Land Army in World War I. Another sister, Dorothy Frances Jebb, who married the Labour MP Charles Roden Buxton, campaigned against the demonisation of the German people after the war.\nShe also served a faculty member at Wellesley College in 1929, teaching courses in English literature.\n\nShe was known as the \"White Flame\" because the flame of her dedicated love for children in distress burned to a white heat of passion all her life.\n\nHaving studied history at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, Jebb trained to become a school teacher, but a year's experience as a Primary School teacher, at St. Peter's Junior School in Marlborough, convinced her that this was not her vocation, though it increased her awareness of the difficulties and widespread nature of poverty faced by young children.\n\nShe moved to Cambridge to look after her sick mother. There she became involved in the Charity Organisation Society, which aimed to bring a modern scientific approach to charity work. This led her to carry out an extensive research project into conditions in the city, and in 1906 she published a book, \"Cambridge, a Study in Social Questions\" based on her research.\n\nThe Cambridge Independent Press, a weekly liberal-supporting newspaper published a number of articles covering Eglantyne's campaigning and political activities in Cambridge in the run up to the First World War. She was appointed to the Education Committee of Cambridge Borough Council in 1907, although in her first year only attended 13 of a possible 31 meetings. She was also on the committee of the newly formed League for Physical Education and Improvement, but resigned citing pressures from other workloads.\n\nUnder the watchful eye of Florence Ada Keynes Eglantyne and Florence's daughter Margaret set up and ran the Boy's employment registry, shortly followed by a similar one for girls. There is now a Blue Plaque above 82 Regent Street where the employment registry was sited.\n\nIn 1913 she was asked to undertake a journey to Macedonia on behalf of the Macedonian Relief Fund. She returned shortly before the First World War broke out, and soon was drawn into a project organised by Dorothy, who had begun importing European newspapers – including ones from Germany and Austria-Hungary for which a special licence had to be obtained from the government – and publishing extracts in English in the \"Cambridge Magazine\", which revealed that everyday life in the enemy countries was far worse than government propaganda suggested.\n\nAs the war was coming to an end, and the German and Austro-Hungarian economies came near to collapse, it was clear to Dorothy and Eglantyne that the children of these countries were suffering appallingly from the effects of the war and the Allied blockade, which continued even when an armistice was signed. A pressure group, the Fight the Famine Council, was set up in 1919 to persuade the British government to end the blockade.\n\nSoon, however, the focus shifted to organising relief. On 15 April 1919, the Council set up a fund to raise money for the German and Austrian children – the Save the Children Fund. Unexpectedly, this organisation, launched at the Royal Albert Hall in London on 19 May 1919, quickly raised a large sum of money from the British public, and officials were despatched to organise relief work.\n\nThe success of the Fund led Eglantyne and Dorothy to attempt to set up an international movement for children. The International Save the Children Union (\"Union International de Secours à l'Enfant\") was founded in Geneva in 1920, with the British Save the Children Fund and the Swedish Rädda Barnen as leading members.\n\nIn London, it was now Eglantyne who was in charge, and she ensured that the Fund adopted the professional approach she had learnt in the Charity Organisation Society. A manager, Lewis Golden, was recruited to put the organisation on a businesslike foundation. He adopted the innovative – and controversial – approach of taking full-page advertisements in national newspapers; it was highly effective, and raised very substantial amounts of income for the Fund's work.\n\nAs the problems in central Europe receded, there was a new focus of the Fund's attention – a refugee crisis in Greece and the surrounding areas, a consequence of the continuing conflict in the area. Then in 1921, just as this situation was coming under control, there was a new and bigger emergency. Partly as a consequence of the devastation of war, revolution and civil war, and partly due to the disastrous economic policies of the Bolshevik government, the people of Soviet Russia faced a famine as crops failed. A new fundraising effort brought a surge of donations, and a Save the Children team was dispatched to the city of Saratov, one of the main famine centres.\n\nIn all the work the Fund did, a major element in Eglantyne's thinking was the importance of a planned, research-based approach. In 1923, when the Russian relief effort was coming to an end, and the Fund's income was sharply reducing, she turned to another issue – that of children's rights. She headed to Geneva, to a meeting of the International Union, with a plan for a Children's Charter. The result was a short and clear document – drafted by Eglantyne – which asserted the rights of children and the duty of the international community to put children's rights in the forefront of planning. The Declaration of the Rights of the Child, or the Declaration of Geneva as it came to be known, was adopted a year later by the League of Nations.\n\nWith peace returning to Europe, and relief efforts in decline, the focus of the Save the Children movement shifted to promoting the Declaration. In 1925, the first International Child Welfare congress was held in Geneva. The Declaration was widely discussed and supported by organisations and governments. An expanded version would be adopted by the United Nations in 1959, and it was one of the main inspirations behind the 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nAfter many years of ill health due to a thyroid problem, including three operations for goitre, Eglantyne Jebb died in a nursing home in Geneva in 1928, and is buried there in St George's cemetery. Save the Children, which she and her sister Dorothy (who converted to the Society of Friends with her husband) founded in England in 1919 and as an international organisation based in Geneva the following year, remains active today. Also, the Church of England remembers her life and service annually on its liturgical calendar on 17 December.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2313093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2313093", "title": "Environmental security", "text": "Environmental security\n\nEnvironmental security examines threats posed by environmental events and trends to individuals, communities or nations. It may focus on the impact of human conflict and international relations on the environment, or on how environmental problems cross state borders.\n\nThe Millennium Project assessed definitions of environmental security and created a synthesis definition:\n\nEnvironmental security is environmental viability for life support, with three sub-elements: \n\nIt considers the abilities of individuals, communities or nations to cope with environmental risks, changes or conflicts, or limited natural resources. For example, climate change can be viewed a threat to environmental security. Human activity impacts CO emissions, impacting regional and global climatic and environmental changes and thus changes in agricultural output. This can lead to food shortages which will then cause political debate, ethnic tension, and civil unrest.\n\nEnvironmental security is an important concept in two fields: international relations and international development.\n\nWithin international development, projects may aim to improve aspects of environmental security such as food security or water security, but also connected aspects such as energy security, that are now recognised as Sustainable Development Goals at UN level. Targets for MDG 7 about environmental sustainability show international priorities for environmental security. Target 7B is about the security of fisheries on which many people depend for food. Fisheries are an example of a resource that cannot be contained within state borders. A conflict before the International Court of Justice between Chile and Peru about maritime borders and their associated fisheries is a case study for environmental security.\n\nThe Copenhagen School defines the referent object of environmental security as the environment, or some strategic part of it.\n\nHistorically, the definition of international security has varied over time. After World War II, definitions typically focused on the subject of realpolitik that developed during the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nAs tensions between the superpowers eased after the collapse of the Soviet Union, academic discussions of definitions of security significantly expanded to encompass a far broader range of threats to peace, including, particularly, environmental threats associated with the political implications of resource use or pollution. By the mid-1980s, this field of study was becoming known as \"environmental security\". Despite a wide range of semantic and academic debates over terms, it is now widely acknowledged that environmental factors play both direct and indirect roles in both political disputes and violent conflicts.\n\nIn the academic sphere environmental security is defined as the relationship between security concerns such as armed conflict and the natural environment. A small but rapidly developing field, it has become particularly relevant for those studying resource scarcity and conflict in the developing world. Prominent early researchers in the field include Felix Dodds, Norman Myers, Jessica Tuchman Mathews, Michael Renner, Richard Ullman, Arthur Westing, Michael Klare, Thomas Homer Dixon, Geoffrey Dabelko, Peter Gleick, Rita Floyd and Joseph Romm.\n\nAccording to Jon Barnett, environmental security emerged as an important concept in security studies because of some interrelated developments which started in 1960s. The first one was the increasing level of environmental consciousness in so called developed countries. Various occurrences and events triggered the growth of the environmental movement during this period of time. Rachel Carson's well-known book \"Silent Spring\" was one of the extraordinary publications of that time and brought greater degree of environmental awareness among ordinary people by warning them of the dangers to all natural systems including animals and food chain from the misuse of chemical pesticides such as DDT. Whilst Carson undoubtedly contributed to public debate at the time she was arguably not amongst the more radical 'social revolutionaries' who were also urging greater public awareness of environmental issues. Moreover, the number of largest well-known environmental non-governmental organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund (1961), Friends of the Earth (1969), and Greenpeace (1971) were founded during that time.\nThe second notable development which brings the emergence of concept of environmental security was number of scholars started to criticize the traditional notion of security and mainstream security debates in their work from 1970s by emphasizing its inability to handle environmental problems at national and international security level. First commentators were Richard Falk who published 'This Endangered Planet' (1971), and Harold and Margaret Sprout who wrote 'Toward a Politics of Planet Earth' (1971). These two commentators asserted in their book that the notion of security can no longer be centered only on military power, rather nations should collectively take measurements against common environmental problems since they pose threat to national well-being and thus international stability. These main ideas about environmental interdependence between countries and common security threat have remained key themes of environmental security studies. However, not until Richard Ullman publishes an academic article named \"Redefining Security\" (1983), radical departure from the dominant security discourse haven't happened. Ullman offered the following definition of national security threat as \"an action or sequence of events that (1) threatens drastically and over a relatively brief span of time to degrade the quality of life for the inhabitants of a state, or (2) threatens significantly to narrow the range of policy choices available to the government of a state, or to private, nongovernmental entities within the state\". Significant other scientists onward also linked the issue of security by focusing on the role of environmental degradation in causing violent conflict. Others, while recognizing the importance of environmental problems, argued that labeling them 'environmental security' was problematic and abandoned analytical rigor for normative and emotional power.\n\nEven though environmental degradation and climate change sometimes cause war and violent conflict within and between countries and other times not, it can weaken the national security of the state in number of profound ways. Environmental change can undermine the economic prosperity which plays big role in country’s military capacity and material power. In some developed countries, and in most developing countries, natural resources and environmental services tend to be important factors for economic growth and employment rate. Income from and employment in primary sectors such as agriculture, forestry, fishing, and mining, and from environmentally dependent services like torus, may all be adversely affected by environmental change. If natural capital base of an economy erodes, then so does the long-term capacity of its armed forces. Moreover, changes in environmental condition can exposes people to health threats, it can also undermine human capital and its well-being which are essential factors of economic development and stability of human society.\n\nClimate change also could, through extreme weather events, have a more direct impact on national security by damaging critical infrastructures such as military bases, naval yards and training grounds, thereby severely threatening essential national defense resources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27561089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27561089", "title": "General Maxwell R. Thurman Award", "text": "General Maxwell R. Thurman Award\n\nThe General Maxwell R. Thurman Award is awarded on behalf of the commanding general of the United States Army Medical Research and Materiel Command at the American Telemedicine Association (ATA) annual conference in recognition of someone who exhibits and demonstrates the following qualities and attributes: a natural born leader, an innovator, someone who fosters positive change, a champion of the soldier, and a pioneer of the advancement of technology to enhance the life of our service members. The award is named after four star General Maxwell R. Thurman, who was a champion of the soldier and a pioneer of advancing technology. His famous motto, which is engraved on the award is as follows: \"The mission of the Army Medical Department is to provide world class combat casualty care to America's most precious resource - It's Sons and Daughters - In Peace and War!\" This award was originally given out at the very first DoD \"Global Forum\" by its creator, BG Russ Zajtchuk in 1995 and is now an annual tradition at every ATA meeting. \n\nhttp://media.americantelemed.org/images/conf/05%20Conf/summary.thurman.jpg\nhttp://media.americantelemed.org/images/conf/02conf.thurmanaward.jpg\n"}
{"id": "1243126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1243126", "title": "George Ripley (transcendentalist)", "text": "George Ripley (transcendentalist)\n\nGeorge Ripley (October 3, 1802 – July 4, 1880) was an American social reformer, Unitarian minister, and journalist associated with Transcendentalism. He was the founder of the short-lived Utopian community Brook Farm in West Roxbury, Massachusetts.\n\nBorn in Greenfield, Massachusetts, George Ripley was pushed to attend Harvard College by his father and completed his studies in 1823. He went on graduate from the Harvard Divinity School and the next year married Sophia Dana. Shortly after, he became ordained as the minister of the Purchase Street Church in Boston, Massachusetts, where he began to question traditional Unitarian beliefs. He became one of the founding members of the Transcendental Club and hosted its first official meeting in his home. Shortly after, he resigned from the church to put Transcendental beliefs in practice by founding an experimental commune called Brook Farm. The community later converted to a model based on the work of Charles Fourier, although the community was never financially stable in either format.\n\nAfter Brook Farm's failure, Ripley was hired by Horace Greeley at the \"New York Tribune\". He also published the \"New American Cyclopaedia\", which made him financially successful. He built a national reputation as an arbiter of taste and literature before his death in 1880.\n\nRipley's ancestors had lived in Hingham, Massachusetts for 140 years before Jerome Ripley moved his family to Greenfield, a town in the western part of the state, in 1789. He was moderately successful as the owner of a general store and tavern and was a prominent member of the community. His son George Ripley was born in Greenfield on October 3, 1802, the ninth child in the family.\n\nGeorge Ripley's early life was heavily influenced by women. His nearest brother was thirteen years older than he was and he was raised primarily by his conservative mother, who was distantly related to Benjamin Franklin, and his sisters. He was sent to a private academy run by a Mr. Huntington in Hadley, Massachusetts to prepare for college. Before going to college, he spent three months in Lincoln with Ezra Ripley, a distant relative who was also the stepfather of Ralph Waldo Emerson. Although Ripley wanted to attend the religiously conservative Yale University, his Unitarian father pushed him to attend Harvard College, then known as a hotbed of liberal Unitarianism. Ripley was a good and dedicated student, although he was not popular with students because of his trust of the establishment. Early in his time at Harvard, he had sided with the administration during a student-led protest against poor food, and his attempts at reconciling the two sides prompted ridicule from his peers. Ripley, seeking a socially useful role, found work as a teacher in Fitchburg during winter vacation of his senior year. He graduated in 1823.\n\nDuring his time at the school, Ripley became disenchanted with his father and his home town, admitting \"no particular attachment to Greenfield\". He hoped to enroll at Andover but his father convinced him to stay in Cambridge to attend Harvard Divinity School. There, he was influenced by Levi Frisbie, Professor of Natural Religion, who was largely interested in moral philosophy, which he termed \"the science of the principles and obligations of duty\". Ripley was becoming very interested in more \"liberal\" religious views, what he wrote to his mother as \"so simple, scriptural, and reasonable\". He graduated in 1826. A year later, on August 22, 1827, he married Sophia Dana, a fact which he originally kept a secret from his parents. He asked his sister Marianne to inform them shortly after.\n\nRipley officially became a minister at Boston's Purchase Street Church on November 8, 1826, and became influential in the developing the Unitarian religion. These ten years of his tenure there were quiet and uneventful, until March 1836, when Ripley published a long article titled \"Schleiermacher as a Theologian\" in the \"Christian Examiner\". In it, Ripley praised Schleiermacher's attempt to create a \"religion of the heart\" based on intuition and personal communion with God. Later that year, he published a review of British theologian James Martineau's \"The Rationale of Religious Enquiry\" in the same publication. In the review, Ripley charged Unitarian church elders with religious intolerance because they forced the literal acceptance of miracles as a requirement for membership in their church. Andrews Norton, a leading theologian of the day, responded publicly and insisted that disbelief in miracles ultimately denied the truth of Christianity. Norton, formerly Ripley's teacher at the Divinity School, had been labeled by many as the \"hard-headed Unitarian Pope\", and began his public battle with Ripley in the \"Boston Daily Advertiser\" on November 5, 1836, in an open letter charging Ripley with academic and professional incompetence. Ripley contended that to insist upon the reality of miracles was to demand material proof of spiritual matters, and that faith needed no such external confirmation; but Norton and the mainstream of Unitarianism found this tantamount to heresy. This dispute laid the groundwork for the separation of a more extreme Transcendentalism from its liberal Unitarian roots. The debate between Norton and Ripley, which earned allies on both sides, continued until 1840.\n\nRipley met with Ralph Waldo Emerson, Frederic Henry Hedge, and George Putnam in Cambridge, Massachusetts on September 8, 1836, to discuss the formation of a new club. Ten days later, on September 18, 1836, Ripley hosted their first official meeting at his house. The group at this first meeting of what would become known as the \"Transcendental Club\" included Amos Bronson Alcott, Orestes Brownson, James Freeman Clarke, and Convers Francis as well as Hedge, Emerson, and Ripley. Future members would include Henry David Thoreau, William Henry Channing, Christopher Pearse Cranch, Sylvester Judd, and Jones Very. Female members included Sophia Ripley, Margaret Fuller, and Elizabeth Peabody. The group planned its meetings for times when Hedge was visiting from Bangor, Maine, leading to the early nickname \"Hedge's Club\". The name Transcendental Club was given to the group by the public and not by its participants. Hedge wrote: \"There was no club in the strict sense... only occasional meetings of like-minded men and women\", earning the nickname \"the brotherhood of the 'Like-Minded'\". Beginning in 1839, Ripley edited \"Specimens of Foreign Standard Literature\": fourteen volumes of translations meant to demonstrate the breadth of Transcendental thoughts.\n\nAmid the Panic of 1837, many began to criticize social institutions. That year, Ripley gave a sermon titled \"The Temptations of the Times\", suggesting that the major problem in the country was \"the inordinate pursuit, the extravagant worship of wealth\". Ripley had been asked by church proprietors to avoid controversial topics in his sermons. He said, \"Unless a minister is expected to speak out on all subjects which are uppermost in his mind, with no fear of incurring the charge of heresy or compromising the interests of his congregation, he can never do justice to himself, to his people, or the truth which he is bound to declare\". In May 1840, he offered his resignation from the Purchase Street Church but was convinced to stay. He soon decided he should leave the ministry altogether and, on October 3, 1840, he read a 7,300-word lecture, \"Letter Addressed to the Congregational Church in Purchase Street\", expressing his dissatisfaction with Unitarianism.\n\nBecause of his experience with the \"Specimens\" translations, Ripley was chosen to be the managing editor of the Transcendental publication \"The Dial\" at its inception, working alongside its first editor Margaret Fuller. In addition to overseeing distribution, subscriptions, printing, and finances, Ripley also contributed essays and reviews. In October 1841, he resigned his post with \"The Dial\" as he prepared for an experiment in communal living. As he told Emerson, although he was happy seeing all the Transcendental thoughts in print, he could not be truly happy \"without the attempt to realize them\".\n\nIn the late 1830s Ripley became increasingly engaged in \"Associationism\", an early Fourierist socialist movement. In October 1840 he announced to the Transcendental Club his plan to form an Associationist community based on Fourier's Utopian plans. His goals were lofty. As he wrote, \"If wisely executed, it will be a light over this country and this age. If not the sunrise, it will be the morning star.\"\n\nRipley and his wife formed a joint stock company in 1841 along with 10 other initial investors. Shares of the company were sold for $500 apiece with a promise of five percent of the profits to each investor. The founding membership of the original community included Nathaniel Hawthorne. They chose the Ellis Farm in West Roxbury, Massachusetts as the site of their experiment, which they named Brook Farm. Its were about from Boston; a pamphlet described the land as a \"place of great natural beauty, combining a convenient nearness to the city with a degree of retirement and freedom from unfavorable influences unusual even in the country\". The land, however, turned out to be difficult to farm and the community struggled with financial difficulties as it built greenhouses and craft shops.\n\nBrook Farm was initially based mostly on the ideals of Transcendentalism; its founders believed that by pooling labor they could sustain the community and still have time for literary and scientific pursuits. The experiment meant to serve as an example for the rest of the world, established on the principles of \"industry without drudgery, and true equality without its vulgarity\". Many in the community wrote of how much they enjoyed their experience. One participant, a man named John Codman, joined the community at the age of 27 in 1843. He wrote, \"It was for the meanest a life above humdrum, and for the greatest something far, infinitely far beyond. They looked into the gates of life and saw beyond charming visions, and hopes springing up for all\". In their free time, the members of Brook Farm enjoyed music, dancing, card games, drama, costume parties, sledding, and skating. Hawthorne, eventually elected treasurer of the community, did not enjoy his experience. He wrote to his wife-to-be Sophia Peabody, \"labor is the curse of the world, and nobody can meddle with it without becoming proportionately brutified\".\n\nMany outside the community were also critical, especially in the press. The New York \"Observer\", for example, suggested that, \"The Associationists, under the pretense of a desire to promote order and morals, design to overthrow the marriage institution, and in the place of the divine law, to substitute the 'passions' as the proper regulator of the intercourse of the sexes\", concluding that they were \"secretly and industriously aiming to destroy the foundation of society\".\n\nIn 1844, the community, perpetually struggling financially, drafted an entirely new constitution and committed to following more closely the Fourierist model. Not everyone at the community supported the transition, and many left. Many were disappointed that the new, more structured daily routine de-emphasized the carefree leisure time that had been a trademark. Ripley himself became a celebrity proponent of Fourierism and organized conventions throughout New England to discuss the community.\n\nBy May 1846, troubled by the financial difficulties at Brook Farm, Ripley had made an informal split from the community. By its closure a year later, Brook Farm had amassed a total debt of $17,445. Ripley was devastated at the failure of his experiment and told a friend, \"I can now understand how a man would feel if he could attend his own funeral\". His personal life was also taxed. His wife had converted to Catholicism in 1846, encouraged by Orestes Brownson, and had become doubtful of his Associationist politics; the Ripleys' relationship became strained by the 1850s.\n\nAfter Brook Farm, George Ripley began to work as a freelance journalist. In 1849 he was employed by Horace Greeley at the \"New York Tribune\", taking the role left vacant by Margaret Fuller. Greeley had been a proponent of Brook Farm's conversion to Fourierism. Ripley started his role with the \"Tribune\" at $12 a week and, at this wage, was not able to pay off the debt of Brook Farm until 1862. As a critic, he believed in high moral standards for literature but offered good-natured praise in the majority of his reviews. Greeley took advantage of Ripley's cheerful style of writing to boost circulation amid significant competition. Ripley wrote a \"Gotham Gossip\" column and many articles discussing local personalities and notable public events, including speeches by Henry Clay and Frederick Douglass. He stayed away from philosophy of theology, despite some efforts to persuade him to write on the subject. As he told a friend, he had \"long since lost... immediate interest in that line of speculation\".\n\nRipley then edited \"Harper's Magazine\". Together with Bayard Taylor he compiled a \"Handbook of Literature and the Fine Arts\" (1852).\n\nWith Charles A. Dana, he edited the 16 volume \"The New American Cyclopaedia\" (1857–1863), reissued as \"The American Cyclopaedia\" (1873–1876). It sold in the millions and its immediate earnings amounted to over $100,000.\n\nHe also continued his critical work and in 1860 reviewed \"On the Origin of Species\" by Charles Darwin. He was one of the few contemporary critics to be sympathetic to Darwin, although he was reluctant to show he was convinced of the theories.\n\nIn 1861 Sophia Ripley died. George Ripley remarried, to Louisa Sclossberger, in 1865, and was a part of the Gilded Age New York literary scene for the remainder of his life. Because of his convivial nature, he was careful to avoid the city's rampant literary feuds at the time. He became a public figure with a national reputation and, known as an arbiter of taste, he helped establish the National Institute of Literature, Art, and Science in 1869. In his later years, he began suffering frequent illnesses, including a bout with influenza in 1875 which prevented him from traveling to Germany. He also suffered from gout and rheumatism.\n\nRipley was found dead at his desk on July 4, 1880, slumped over his work. Pallbearers at his funeral included Frederick Augustus Porter Barnard, George William Curtis, and Whitelaw Reid. At the time of his death, Ripley had become financially successful; the \"New American Cyclopaedia\" had earned him royalties of nearly $1.5 million. A biography entitled \"George Ripley\" (Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1882) was written by Octavius Brooks Frothingham.\n\nRipley built a wide reputation as a critic. Contemporary publications rated him as one of the most important critics of the day, including the \"Hartford Courant\", the \"Springfield Republican\", the New York \"Evening Gazette\", and the Chicago \"Daily Tribune\". Henry Theodore Tuckerman commended Ripley as \"a scholar and an aesthetic as well as technical critic: [he] knows public taste and the laws of literature\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13305402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305402", "title": "Global brain", "text": "Global brain\n\nThe global brain is a neuroscience-inspired and futurological vision of the planetary information and communications technology network that interconnects all humans and their technological artifacts. As this network stores ever more information, takes over ever more functions of coordination and communication from traditional organizations, and becomes increasingly intelligent, it increasingly plays the role of a brain for the planet Earth.\n\nProponents of the global brain hypothesis claim that the Internet increasingly ties its users together into a single information processing system that functions as part of the collective nervous system of the planet. The intelligence of this network is collective or distributed: it is not centralized or localized in any particular individual, organization or computer system. Therefore, no one can command or control it. Rather, it self-organizes or emerges from the dynamic networks of interactions between its components. This is a property typical of complex adaptive systems.\n\nThe World-wide web in particular resembles the organization of a brain with its webpages (playing a role similar to neurons) connected by hyperlinks (playing a role similar to synapses), together forming an associative network along which information propagates. This analogy becomes stronger with the rise of social media, such as Facebook, where links between personal pages represent relationships in a social network along which information propagates from person to person.\nSuch propagation is similar to the spreading activation that neural networks in the brain use to process information in a parallel, distributed manner.\n\nAlthough some of the underlying ideas were already expressed by Nikola Tesla in the late 19th century and were written about by many others before him, the term “global brain” was coined in 1982 by Peter Russell in his book \"The Global Brain\". How the Internet might be developed to achieve this was set out in 1986. The first peer-reviewed article on the subject was published by Gottfried Mayer-Kress in 1995, while the first algorithms that could turn the world-wide web into a collectively intelligent network were proposed by Francis Heylighen and Johan Bollen in 1996.\n\nReviewing the strands of intellectual history that contributed to the global brain hypothesis, Francis Heylighen distinguishes four perspectives: \"“organicism”\", \"“encyclopedism”\", \"“emergentism”\" and \"“evolutionary cybernetics”\". He asserts that these developed in relative independence but now are converging in his own scientific re-formulation.\n\nIn the 19th century, the sociologist Herbert Spencer saw society as a social organism and reflected about its need for a nervous system. Entomologist William Wheeler developed the concept of the ant colony as a spatially extended organism, and in the 1930s he coined the term superorganism to describe such an entity. This concept was later adopted by thinkers such as Gregory Stock in his book Metaman and Joel de Rosnay to describe planetary society as a superorganism.\n\nThe mental aspects of such an organic system at the planetary level were perhaps first broadly elaborated by palaeontologist and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. In 1945, he described a coming “planetisation” of humanity, which he saw as the next phase of accelerating human “socialisation”. Teilhard described both socialization and planetization as irreversible, irresistible processes of \"macrobiological development\" culminating in the emergence of a noosphere, or global mind (see Emergentism below).\n\nThe more recent living systems theory describes both organisms and social systems in terms of the \"critical subsystems\" (\"organs\") they need to contain in order to survive, such as an internal transport system, a resource reserve, and a decision-making system. This theory has inspired several thinkers, including Peter Russell and Francis Heylighen to define the global brain as the network of information processing subsystems for the planetary social system.\n\nIn the perspective of encyclopedism, the emphasis is on developing a universal knowledge network. The first systematic attempt to create such an integrated system of the world's knowledge was the 18th century \"Encyclopédie\" of Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert. However, by the end of the 19th century, the amount of knowledge had become too large to be published in a single synthetic volume. To tackle this problem, Paul Otlet founded the science of documentation, now called information science. In the 1930s he envisaged a World Wide Web-like system of associations between documents and telecommunication links that would make all the world's knowledge available immediately to anybody. H. G. Wells proposed a similar vision of a collaboratively developed world encyclopedia that would be constantly updated by a global university-like institution. He called this a World Brain, as it would function as a continuously updated memory for the planet, although the image of humanity acting informally as a more organic global brain is a recurring motif in other of his works.\n\nTim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, too, was inspired by the free-associative possibilities of the brain for his invention. The brain can link different kinds of information without any apparent link otherwise; Berners-Lee thought that computers could become much more powerful if they could imitate this functioning, i.e. make links between any arbitrary piece of information. The most powerful implementation of encyclopedism to date is Wikipedia, which integrates the associative powers of the world-wide-web with the collective intelligence of its millions of contributors, approaching the ideal of a global memory. The Semantic web, also first proposed by Berners-Lee, is a system of protocols to make the pieces of knowledge and their links readable by machines, so that they could be used to make automatic inferences, thus providing this brain-like network with some capacity for autonomous \"thinking\" or reflection.\n\nThis approach focuses on the emergent aspects of the evolution and development of complexity, including the spiritual, psychological, and moral-ethical aspects of the global brain, and is at present the most speculative approach. The global brain is here seen as a natural and emergent process of planetary evolutionary development. Here again Pierre Teilhard de Chardin attempted a synthesis of science, social values, and religion in his The Phenomenon of Man, which argues that the \"telos\" (drive, purpose) of universal evolutionary process is the development of greater levels of both complexity and consciousness. Teilhard proposed that if life persists then planetization, as a biological process producing a global brain, would necessarily also produce a global mind, a new level of planetary consciousness and a technologically supported network of thoughts which he called the \"noosphere\". Teilhard's proposed technological layer for the noosphere can be interpreted as an early anticipation of the Internet and the Web.\n\nPhysicist and philosopher Peter Russell elaborates a similar view, and stresses the importance of personal spiritual growth, in order to build and to achieve synergy with the spiritual dimension of the emerging superorganism. This approach is most popular in New Age circles, which emphasize growth in consciousness rather than scientific modelling or the implementation of technological and social systems.\n\nSystems theorists and cyberneticists commonly describe the emergence of a higher order system in evolutionary development as a “metasystem transition” (a concept introduced by Valentin Turchin) or a “major evolutionary transition”. Such a metasystem consists of a group of subsystems that work together in a coordinated, goal-directed manner. It is as such much more powerful and intelligent than its constituent systems. Francis Heylighen has argued that the global brain is an emerging metasystem with respect to the level of individual human intelligence, and investigated the specific evolutionary mechanisms that promote this transition\n\nIn this scenario, the Internet fulfils the role of the network of “nerves” that interconnect the subsystems and thus coordinates their activity. The cybernetic approach makes it possible to develop mathematical models and simulations of the processes of self-organization through which such coordination and collective intelligence emerges.\n\nIn 1994 Kevin Kelly, in his popular book \"\", posited the emergence of a \"hive mind\" from a discussion of cybernetics and evolutionary biology.\n\nIn 1996, Francis Heylighen and Ben Goertzel founded the Global Brain group, a discussion forum grouping most of the researchers that had been working on the subject of the global brain to further investigate this phenomenon. The group organized the first international conference on the topic in 2001 at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.\n\nAfter a period of relative neglect, the Global Brain idea has recently seen a resurgence in interest, in part due to talks given on the topic by Tim O'Reilly, the Internet forecaster who popularized the term Web 2.0, and Yuri Milner, the social media investor. In January 2012, the Global Brain Institute (GBI) was founded at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel to develop a mathematical theory of the “brainlike” propagation of information across the Internet. In the same year, Thomas W. Malone and collaborators from the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence have started to explore how the global brain could be “programmed” to work more effectively, using mechanisms of collective intelligence. The complexity scientist Dirk Helbing and his NervousNet group have recently started developing a \"Planetary Nervous System\", which includes a \"Global Participatory Platform\", as part of the large-scale FuturICT project, thus preparing some of the groundwork for a Global Brain.\n\nIn July 2017 Elon Musk founded the company Neuralink, which aims to create a Neural Lace, which is a concept invented by the novelist Iain M. Banks and basically refers to a machine interface woven into the brain, to allow the user to access all available human information. A core driver behind this business idea is Mr Musk’s argument, that human beings soon have to embrace brain implants to stay relevant in a world which, he believes, will soon be dominated by artificial intelligence. The firm raised $27m from 12 Investors in 2017 .\n\nA common criticism of the idea that humanity would become directed by a global brain is that this would reduce individual diversity and freedom, and lead to mass surveillance. This criticism is inspired by totalitarian forms of government, as exemplified by George Orwell's character of \"Big Brother\". It is also inspired by the analogy between collective intelligence or swarm intelligence and insect societies, such as beehives and ant colonies, in which individuals are essentially interchangeable. In a more extreme view, the global brain has been compared with the Borg, the race of collectively thinking cyborgs conceived by the Star Trek science fiction franchise.\n\nGlobal brain theorists reply that the emergence of distributed intelligence would lead to the exact opposite of this vision. The reason is that effective collective intelligence requires diversity of opinion, decentralization and individual independence, as demonstrated by James Surowiecki in his book The Wisdom of Crowds. Moreover, a more distributed form of decision-making would decrease the power of governments, corporations or political leaders, thus increasing democratic participation and reducing the dangers of totalitarian control.\n\n\n\n\nFor more references, check the GBI bibliography:\n\n"}
{"id": "8278567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8278567", "title": "Horatio Clarence Hocken", "text": "Horatio Clarence Hocken\n\nHoratio Clarence Hocken (October 12, 1857 – February 18, 1937) was a Canadian politician, Mayor of Toronto, social reformer, a founder of what became the \"Toronto Star\" and Grand Master of the Grand Orange Lodge of British America from 1914-1918.\n\nBorn in Toronto in what was pre-Confederation Canada West, Hocken had a media career as a printer, publisher and journalist. After working as a typesetter at the \"Toronto Globe\" at which he led a strike, Hocken, in 1892, Hocken was a foremen in the print room of the \"Toronto News\" when the Typographical Union went on strike. He and 20 other strikers founded the \"Evening Star\" as a strike paper with Hocken as the new paper's business manager. He subsequently left the \"Star\" and returned to the \"News\" where he became city editor. In 1905 he purchased \"The Orange Sentinel\", a weekly newspaper serving supporters of the Orange Order.\n\nHe served on the Toronto Board of Control from 1907 until 1910 when he made his first unsuccessful bid for the mayor's office and again from 1911 until 1912. He served as mayor from 1912 to 1914. He is credited with approving the Bloor Viaduct. As mayor, Hocken supported opening city parks to public use rather than being restricted to the use of athletic societies arguing that parks are for \"walking in, not for athletic sports\". He built public baths, installed a sewage treatment plant and a filtration plant, and the extension of the sewer system. Hocken's term also saw the distribution of free milk to children living in slums and the establishment of a public health nursing program. His reforms saw the death rate from communicable disease drop from 114 per 100,000 to 27 per 100,000. Hocken also supported the creation of a public housing company that built houses and rented them for cost. The city, under his stewardship, also purchased an abattoir and cold storage facility to help keep small butchers from being driven out of business by \"the great meat trust.\"\n\nHocken's career in federal politics began when he was elected to the House of Commons of Canada for the Unionist Party at the Toronto West riding in the 1917 federal election. He was re-elected in Toronto West in the 1921 federal election, this time under the Conservative Party. When the riding boundaries were changed in 1924, he was re-elected in the Toronto West Centre riding in the 1925 and 1926 federal elections. He served in the 13th to the 16th Canadian Parliaments consecutively until he left federal politics in 1930.\n\nHocken was appointed a member of the Senate of Canada from 30 December 1933 and remained in that office until death.\n\nHe married Isabella Page in 1880. They had four children. He died two days after she did.\n\n"}
{"id": "44409729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409729", "title": "Individual mobility", "text": "Individual mobility\n\nIndividual human mobility is the study that describes how individual humans move within a network or system. The concept has been researched by a number of fields originating in the study of demographics. Understanding human mobility has many applications in diverse areas, including spread of diseases, mobile viruses, city planning, traffic engineering, financial market forecasting, and nowcasting of economic well-being.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a surge in large data sets available on human movements. These data sets are usually obtained from cell phone or GPS data, with varying degrees of accuracy. For example, cell phone data is usually recorded whenever a call or a text message has been made or received by the user, and contains the location of the tower that the phone has connected to as well as the time stamp. In urban areas, user and the telecommunication tower might be only a few hundred meters away from each other, while in rural areas this distance might well be in region of a few kilometers. Therefore, there is varying degree of accuracy when it comes to locating a person using cell phone data. These datasets are anonymized by the phone companies so as to hide and protect the identity of actual users. As example of its usage, researchers used the trajectory of 100,000 cell phone users within a period of six months, while in much larger scale trajectories of three million cell phone users were analyzed.\nGPS data are usually much more accurate even though they usually are, because of privacy concerns, much harder to acquire. Massive amounts of GPS data describing human mobility are produced, for example, by on-board GPS devices on private vehicles. The GPS device automatically turns on when the vehicle starts, and the sequence of GPS points the device produces every few seconds forms a detailed mobility trajectory of the vehicle. Some recent scientific studies compared the mobility patterns emerged from mobile phone data with those emerged from GPS data.\n\nResearchers have been able to extract very detailed information about the people whose data are made available to public. This has sparked a great amount of concern about privacy issues. As an example of liabilities that might happen, New York City released 173 million individual taxi trips. City officials used a very weak cryptography algorithm to anonymize the license number and medallion number, which is an alphanumeric code assigned to each taxi cab. This made it possible for hackers to completely de-anonymize the dataset, and even some were able to extract detailed information about specific passengers and celebrities, including their origin and destination and how much they tipped.\n\nAt the large scale, when the behaviour is modelled over a period of relatively long duration (e.g. more than one day), human mobility can be described by three major components:\n\nBrockmann, by analysing banknotes, found that the probability of travel distance follows a scale-free random walk known as Lévy flight of form formula_4 where formula_5. This was later confirmed by two studies that used cell phone data and GPS data to track users. The implication of this model is that, as opposed to other more traditional forms of random walks such as brownian motion, human trips tend to be of mostly short distances with a few long distance ones. In brownian motion, the distribution of trip distances are govern by a bell-shaped curve, which means that the next trip is of a roughly predictable size, the average, where in Lévy flight it might be an order of magnitude larger than the average.\n\nSome people are inherently inclined to travel longer distances than the average, and the same is true for people with lesser urge for movement. Radius of gyration is used to capture just that and it indicates the characteristic distance travelled by a person during a time period t. Each user, within his radius of gyration formula_2, will choose his trip distance according to formula_1.\n\nThe third component models the fact that humans tend to visit some locations more often than what would have happened under a random scenario. For example, home or workplace or favorite restaurants are visited much more than many other places in a user's radius of gyration. It has been discovered that formula_8 where formula_9, which indicates a sublinear growth in different number of places visited by an individual .\nThese three measures capture the fact that most trips happen between a limited number of places, with less frequent travels to places outside of an individual's radius of gyration.\n\nAlthough the human mobility is modeled as a random process, it is surprisingly predictable. By measuring the entropy of each person's movement, it has been shown that there is a 93% potential predictability. This means that although there is a great variance in type of users and the distances that each of them travel, the overall characteristic of them is highly predictable. Implication of it is that in principle, it is possible to accurately model the processes that are dependent on human mobility patterns, such as disease or mobile virus spreading patterns.\n\nOn individual scale, daily human mobility can be explained by only 17 Network motifs. Each individual, shows one of these motifs characteristically, over a period of several months. This opens up the possibility to reproduce daily individual mobility using a tractable analytical model\n\nInfectious diseases spread across the globe usually because of long-distance travels of carriers of the disease. These long-distance travels are made using air transportation systems and it has been shown that \"network topology, traffic structure, and individual mobility patterns are all essential for accurate predictions of disease spreading\". On a smaller spatial scale the regularity of human movement patterns and its temporal structure should be taken into account in models of infectious disease spread. Cellphone viruses that are transmitted via bluetooth are greatly dependent on the human interaction and movements. With more people using similar operating systems for their cellphones, it's becoming much easier to have a virus epidemic.\n\nIn Transportation Planning, leveraging the characteristics of human movement, such as tendency to travel short distances with few but regular bursts of long-distance trips, novel improvements have been made to Trip distribution models, specifically to Gravity model of migration \n\n"}
{"id": "42199148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42199148", "title": "Internal conflict in Azawad", "text": "Internal conflict in Azawad\n\nThe Internal conflict in Azawad has been a two-year-long insurgency in Northern Mali between a pro-independence ultra Nationalist group, the MNLA and a coalition of Islamists terror groups. The conflict began when Northern Mali declared itself independent from the government creating the un-recognized state of Azawad. Both the Islamists and MNLA formed an alliance in combatting the Malian government. An internal conflict sprung up over the imposing of sharia law in the new state and the MNLA distancing itself from the coalition to a democratic state. Islamists gained popularity amongst anti-Tuareg tribes that helped it overthrow MNLA authority in Gao. Both sides clashed repeatedly leading to the Battle of Gao where the MNLA were driven from the North's two main cities, Gao and Timbuktu. The MNLA soon lost all of its strongholds in the North in a matter of months. They went into hiding secretly gaining support and strength. The beginning of 2013 led the start of the French intervention in Mali that ousted the Islamists from the North's cities and brought back Malian authority. The MNLA supported the French and Chadian forces in military operations against Islamists sanctuaries in the mountains. The MNLA recaptured several important towns in the Kidal Region but refused to dis-arm or hand them over to the Malian government. A series of Islamists sponsored terror attacks plagued MNLA forces for siding with the French. Checkpoints and bases were targeted with suicide bombings that targeted MNLA members. A peace deal was reached with the Malian army in June that let the army transverse freely in MNLA occupied zones that were under Malian jurisdiction. Ethnic violence sprung over the murder of a Tuareg Government officers family. The MNLA responded by harassing and murdering Fulani civilians who create a majority of Islamists rebels. The Islamists stepped up their attacks in one such instance massacring 30 Tuareg merchants. The MNLA has since been battling Islamists.\n\nSince its Independence in April 2012, the MNLA has been skeptical of Islamist influence over their new state's future and the implementation of sharia law. Various countries including France have denounced the MNLA's cooperation with terror groups and refused to recognize its new status due to various incidents in its fight against the Malian government which included a massacre that killed 93 Malian soldiers allegedly carried out by Islamists. Two main incidents occurred on the streets of Gao that caused confusion when civilians waving the Malian flag were fired upon by MNLA members which was denied by the MNLA itself, blamed on Islamists. Many did not support the new state of Azawad and Tuareg dominance over their land. Islamists popularity and influence grew in numbers eventually outnumbering MNLA defenders in Gao. The city was taken on June 27, over an argument that escalated into a full-scale battle. The MNLA Secretary General Bilal Ag Acherif was wounded in the battle that also killed four colonels. The MNLA's headquarters and any government building was looted along with the Azawad flag being replaced with sharia. Timbuktu was evacuated by the MNLA a day later after an ultimatum to leave. Resistance grew against Islamic rule in MNLA supported towns but never posed a great threat. On 16 November, the MNLA launched an offensive attack to reclaim their former city base of Gao from Islamists. They did not make it far before their army routed and was chased across the Niger border. Nine MNLA members were wounded, including one seriously. Islamists casualties were 13 dead. Four days later the Islamists launched their own offensive against towns with MNLA presence. The town of Ménaka's defenders were capitulated in a two-day siege that killed one MNLA member and seven pro-MNLA selfdefense volunteers including a prominent political leader Alwabegat Ag Salakatou. Its disputed how many Islamists were killed. The MNLA hoped to establish Ménaka as a central base from which to launch counter-attacks. In December, the now displaced MNLA began peace talks with the Malian government and relinquished its previous goal for Independence in favor of self-rule in Northern Mali. Almost half of the MNLA's combatants deserted for better pay in Islamists factions since the declaration of Independence in April 2012. At this time the MNLA controlled no big localities and was only strong in rural desert areas in the North, having been driven off from its proposed state cities in the South. Troop build ups in the MNLA ranks were reportedly preparing for another offensive.\n\nAt the start of 2013, the MNLA retook its key town of Kidal after it was abandoned by French air-strikes. The Azawad flag was raised in every town they took each one without a fight. Islamists guerrillas operating the Adrar des Ifoghas mountains launched an offensive of their own terrorizing MNLA dominated towns with suicide bombings. The first hit the town of Khalil on 22 February, after an explosion ripped at an MNLA checkpoint killing three members. The second in that week killed seven members at another checkpoint in Kidal. Fighting resumed the next month leading to the Battle of In Arab. Five members were killed in a day long battle with an elite terrorist brigade led by Mokhtar belMokhtar, the Signatories of Blood. In June 2013, the MNLA agreed on a cease-fire with the Malian army allowing them to have authority over MNLA occupied towns, granting autonomy for Tuareg civilians, and dis-arming the MNLA with an exception for self-defense purposes into a political organization. The MNLA also agreed upon taking back its claim for Independence instead for greater autonomy. The peace-deal lasted over three months before both sides claimed it was breached. In November, the Islamists suspected murder of members of a Tuareg Malian army general's family led to an ethnic conflict between MNLA Tuareg and Islamists dominated Fulani. The situation escalated in February 2014, when 30-35 Tuareg merchants were massacred at the hands of Fulani Islamists. Reprisal attacks targeting Fulani Islamists resumed into an armed confrontation that killed a MNLA member.\n"}
{"id": "54609028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54609028", "title": "Katharine Peabody Loring", "text": "Katharine Peabody Loring\n\nKatharine Peabody Loring (May 21, 1849 – August 16, 1943) was an American educator. She was head of the history department at the Society to Encourage Studies at Home, the first correspondence school in the United States, where she developed a lifelong companionship with well-known diarist Alice James. She was also a trustee of the Beverly Public Library in Beverly, Massachusetts, and president of the Beverly Historical Society from 1918 to 1941.\n\nKatharine Peabody Loring was born in Beverly, Massachusetts, on May 21, 1849, to Caleb William Loring, president of the Plymouth Cordage Company, and Elizabeth Peabody. Her name was occasionally misspelled as Katherine in many letters. The Loring family were descendants of Thomas Loring, who came to Hingham, MA, from Devonshire, England, and they were influential in Massachusetts. Her grandfather Charles Greeley Loring was a landowner in Prides Crossing, Beverly, Massachusetts, which was passed on to Loring's father, Caleb, who built a new house in 1852. The family often moved between the Prides Crossing home, Burnside, and the family house in Boston until 1872, when they all moved permanently to Beverly.\n\nIn the spring of 1888, while travelling to Florida and South Carolina with her father and sister, Loring met Annie Adams Fields and Sarah Orne Jewett, with whom she was a lifelong friend.\n\nDespite lacking formal education, Loring was an avid reader and travelled widely, unusual for women at the time. Both her brothers, William Caleb Loring, a justice of Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, and Augustus Peabody Loring, a Republican politician and member of the Constitutional Convention of 1917, often consulted with her.\n\nBecause of her interest in politics and foreign affairs, Loring helped Anna Ticknor found the Society to Encourage Studies at Home in 1873 to contribute to women's education. She became head of the history department, the largest of the society's departments, a position she held for 20 years. Her sister, Louisa Putnam Loring, also helped out at the school. Louisa suffered from tuberculosis and often had to be taken care of by Loring. Loring and her sister were involved in the American Red Cross locally together. Louisa was also a good friend of John Singer Sargent who took a watercolor of Louisa and Katharine Loring, \"Study in Green\", destroyed by fire in 1969.\n\nIn 1871 Katharine Loring, together with Julia Ward Howe, founded the Saturday Morning Club, an organization for women's communal and intellectual growth in Boston. In addition to women's organizations, Loring was also a key stakeholder for the establishment of the Beverly Public Library, of which she was also a trustee; other organizations she was involved with were: the Mayflower Club in Boston, the Royal Red Cross during World War I, the Women's Education Association, the Harvard Annex (a private program for the instruction of women by Harvard faculty), the Beverly Improvement Society and the Massachusetts Library Club. She was also president of the Beverly Historical Society for 23 years, from 1918 to 1941, advocating the acquisition of the John Balch House and the John Hale House, both properties currently in the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nLoring and James first met in December 1873. In 1875, James joined the Society and taught history alongside Loring, who was the head of the department. In the summer of 1879, Alice James wrote to Sara Darwin: \n\nLoring and James journeyed to the White Mountains in New Hampshire in the spring of 1880. During the journey they also visited Lake Winnepesaukee, Newport, Rhode Island, and Cape Cod. On May 21, 1881, Loring and James left for England, arriving on May 30. Initially staying in Richmond at the Star and Garter Hotel, on July 18 they moved temporarily to Kew to the house of Asa Gray, a Harvard botanist, and Jane Loring Gray, Loring's aunt. The Kew arrangements were unsuitable to James' needs, and they relocated to Sevenoaks at the end of July, and London, at 10 Clarges Street, in mid-August. In the beginning of September, with Henry James leaving for Scotland, James and Loring moved to his rooms at 4 Bolton Street. At the end of the month, they were back to the United States. Loring and James moved to England in 1884. James died on March 6, 1892.\n\nAccording to Leon Edel, Henry James loosely based his characters Olive Chancellor and Verena Tarrant in \"The Bostonians\" upon Loring and his sister.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, when the nouveau riche arrived to Beverly from New York, they started to buy the old-Bostonian family mansions. Henry Clay Frick proposed to Katharine Loring to buy their Prides Crossing property, to which Loring replied, \"Goodness! what on earth would I do with a million dollars?\"\n\nThe Loring sisters participated in humanitarian activities throughout World War I. They also did relief work after the Great Salem fire of 1914 and were active in combatting tuberculosis: Louise Loring was the founder and president of the Aiken, South Carolina Sanitarium, director of the Beverly Hospital, and founder of the Anti-Tuberculosis Society in Beverly. In 1917, Katharine helped compile the Loring family genealogy and in 1932 she wrote \"The Earliest Summer Residents of the North Shore and Their Houses\".\n\nAlways low-sighted, Katharine Loring became completely blind in old age, and taught herself braille. She died 94 years old, on August 16, 1943. She was buried with her sister Louisa, who died earlier in 1924, at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "52572062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52572062", "title": "Legion Hacktivist Group", "text": "Legion Hacktivist Group\n\nLegion is a hacktivist group that has attacked some rich and powerful people in India by hacking their twitter handlers. The group claims to have access to many email servers in India and has the encryption keys used by Indian banks over the Internet.\n\nLegion came in news when it launched its series of attacks starting with Rahul Gandhi, the current president of Indian National Congress.\n\nReports say that not only Rahul's twitter handler was hacked but his mail server was also hacked. The very next day, INC's twitter handler was also hacked and tweeted irrelevant content. The group then hacked twitter handlers of Vijay Mallya, Barkha Dutt and Ravish Kumar.\n"}
{"id": "44744172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44744172", "title": "List of Astronomy Outreach Resources in Europe", "text": "List of Astronomy Outreach Resources in Europe\n\nThis is a List of Astronomy Outreach Resources in Europe originally started as an initiative within the framework of the Astronet EU FP7 project.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28180056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180056", "title": "List of active separatist movements in Europe", "text": "List of active separatist movements in Europe\n\nThis is a list of currently active separatist movements in Europe. Separatism often refers to full political secession, though separatist movements may seek nothing more than greater autonomy or to be recognised as a national minority.\n\nWhat is and is not considered an autonomist or secessionist movement is sometimes contentious. Entries on this list must meet three criteria:\n\nUnder each region listed is one or more of the following:\n\nVarious ethnic groups in Europe are seeking greater autonomy or independence. In the European Union (EU), several of these groups are members of the European Free Alliance (EFA). In some cases, the group seeks to unify into a different state – in cases where this does not involve the creation of a new state entity, this is considered to be irredentism. Analogous irredentist movements are included in the list of active irredentist movements.\n Northern Epirus\n\n\n\n or Flemish Community (the latter includes )\n\n\n Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia\n\n Moravia\n Czech Silesia\n\n\n\n\n French Basque Country\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOccitania\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Abkhazia\n\n Bavaria\n\n\n East Frisia\n\n\n North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate\n\n Baden-Württemberg\n\n Emilia-Romagna\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSouthern Italy \n\nNorthern Italy\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n North Kosovo\n\n Polish National-Territorial Region \n\nAlbanian community in Macedonia\n\n\n\n Transnistria\n\n\n\n Frisia\n\n Groningen\n\n\n Upper Silesia\n\n Kashubia\n\nHungarian community in Romania\n\n\n Karelia\n\n\n\nInsurgency in the North Caucasus\n\n\n\n Vojvodina\n\n Sandžak\n\n\n\nSouthern Slovakia:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Basque Country (autonomous community)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditionally, there are a number of almost extinct secessionist or soveranist movements in other autonomous communities and historical territories, e.g. Extremadura and Murcia.\n\n\nLocal secessionist (mostly autonomist) movements include Aranesism, Bercianism, Cartagenism, Majorcanism, Manchego autonomism, Navarrism, Valencian Blaverism and Eastern Andalusian autonomism.\n\n\n\n Canton of Jura or wider Jura region (including the three districts of Bernese Jura and the Laufen District)\n\n\n\n\n\n Subcarpathian Ruthenia\n\n\n\n\n\nNorthern Ireland\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLondon\n\nCanvey Island\n\n\n\nNorth East England or North East Combined Authority area (which excludes Tees Valley)\n\nNorthern Isles\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855237", "title": "List of hoaxes", "text": "List of hoaxes\n\nThe following are lists of hoaxes:\n\nThese are some claims that have been revealed, or proven definitively, to be deliberate public hoaxes. This list does not include hoax articles published on or around April 1, a long list of which can be found in the \"List of April Fools' Day jokes\" article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Proven hoaxes of exposure\" are semi-comical or private sting operations. They usually encourage people to act foolishly or credulously by falling for patent nonsense that the hoaxer deliberately presents as reality. See also \"culture jamming\".\n\n\nDeliberate hoaxes, or journalistic fraud, that drew widespread attention include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6422875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6422875", "title": "List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.", "text": "List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nStreets named after Martin Luther King Jr. can be found in many cities of the United States and in nearly every major metropolis. There are also a number of other countries that have honored Martin Luther King Jr., including Italy and Israel. The number of streets named after King is increasing every year, and about 70% of these streets are in Southern states: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Texas. King's home state of Georgia had the most, with 75 streets as of 2001; this had increased to 105 as of 2006.\n\nAs of 2003, there were over 600 American cities that had named a street after King. By 2004, this number had grown to 650, according to NPR. In 2006, Derek Alderman, a cultural geographer at East Carolina University, reported the number had increased to 730, with only 11 states in the country without a street named after King (Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Maine, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Dakota, and Vermont). In 2014 he estimated that there were over 900 streets named after King in 41 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico.\n\nThirteen cities have freeways named after Dr. King: Staten Island, New York; Jacksonville Florida; Norfolk, Virginia; Fayetteville, North Carolina; Louisville, Kentucky; Memphis, Tennessee; Akron, Ohio; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Fort Worth, Texas; Colorado Springs, Colorado; San Diego, California; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Bucks County); and Camden, New Jersey.\n\nThe following is a list of streets named after King in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe \"Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. memorial highway\" includes various portions:\n\nAlso:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44598343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44598343", "title": "Members of Bund Schweizerischer Frauenvereine", "text": "Members of Bund Schweizerischer Frauenvereine\n\nThe Members of Bund Schweizerischer Frauenvereine (BSF) comprises as of November 2014 more than 150 nationwide member organizations, listed by name and year of participation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2220463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2220463", "title": "Missing white woman syndrome", "text": "Missing white woman syndrome\n\nMissing white woman syndrome is a phenomenon noted by social scientists and media commentators of the extensive media coverage, especially in television, of missing person cases involving young, white, upper-middle-class women or girls. The phenomenon is defined as the Western media's undue focus on upper-middle-class white women who disappear, with the disproportionate degree of coverage they receive being compared to cases of missing women of color and missing men and women of lower social classes. Although the term was coined to describe disproportionate coverage of missing person cases, it is sometimes used to describe similar disparities in news coverage of other violent crimes. Instances have been cited in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and South Africa.\n\nPBS news anchor Gwen Ifill is said to be the originator of the phrase. Charlton McIlwain, a professor at New York University, defines the syndrome as white women perpetually occupying a privileged role as violent crime victims in news media reporting, and concludes that missing white woman syndrome functions as a type of racial hierarchy in the cultural imagery of the West. Professor Eduardo Bonilla-Silva categorizes the racial component of missing white woman syndrome as a form of racial grammar, through which white supremacy is normalized by implicit or even invisible standards.\n\nMissing white woman syndrome has led to a number of right-wing tough on crime measures that were named for white women who disappeared and were subsequently found harmed. Moody, Dorris and Blackwell (2008) concluded that in addition to race and class, factors such as supposed attractiveness, body size and youthfulness function as unfair criteria in the determination of newsworthiness in coverage of missing women. Also noteworthy was that news coverage of missing black women was more likely to focus on the victim's baggage, such as abusive boyfriends or a troubled past, while coverage of white women tends to focus on their roles as mothers or daughters.\n\nWith regard to missing children, statistical research which compares national media reports with FBI data shows that there is marked under-representation of African American children in media reports relative to non-African American children. A subsequent study found that girls from minority groups were the most under-represented in these missing-children news reports by a very large margin.\n\nZach Sommers, a sociologist at Northwestern University, noted that while there is a sizable body of research that shows that white people are more likely than people of color to appear in news coverage as victims of violent crime there is relatively little when it comes to missing persons cases. In 2013, Sommers cross-referenced the missing persons coverage of four national and local media outlets against the FBI's missing persons database. Sommers found black people received disproportionately less coverage than whites and men received disproportionately less coverage than women; Sommers could not directly assess the number of missing white women in the FBI files due to how the data was structured but concluded that there was circumstantial—although not statistically conclusive—evidence that white women received disproportionate coverage. In the same study, professor Eduardo Bonilla-Silva elucidated that the subtle standard of placing a premium on white lives in the news helps to maintain and reinforce a racial hierarchy with whites at the top. For example, black women are members of both a marginalized racial group and a marginalized gender group. Crucially, though, black women have an “intersectional experience [that] is greater than the sum of racism and sexism.” In other words, like white women, black women are subject to sexism, but the form of that sexism differs for black women because of the compounding effects of racial discrimination; with missing white woman syndrome being a pertinent manifestation of this social phenomenon. Sociologists note that the tone of media coverage for black female victims differs markedly from coverage of white female victims in that the former are more likely to be blamed for purportedly putting themselves in harm's way, either knowingly or unknowingly. Victim blaming in this context reinforces the notion that black female victims are not only less innocent, but also less worthy of rescue relative to white women. Other observers note the lack of publicity given to black female victims of police brutality in news coverage, attributing the silence to a tradition of “sexism and patriarchy” in American society.\n\nA report that aired on CNN noted the differences between the level of media coverage given to Caucasian women like Laci Peterson and Natalee Holloway, who disappeared in 2002 and 2005 respectively, and LaToyia Figueroa, a pregnant Black Hispanic woman. Figueroa disappeared in Philadelphia the same year Holloway disappeared. Figueroa and her unborn daughter were found murdered. The San Francisco Chronicle published an article detailing the disparity between the coverage of the Peterson case and that of Evelyn Hernandez, a Hispanic woman who was nine months pregnant when she disappeared in 2002.\n\nKym Pasqualini, president of the National Center for Missing Adults, observed that media outlets tend to focus on \"damsels in distress\" – typically, affluent young white women and teenagers.\n\nIn a 2016 \"Esquire\" article about the disappearance of Tiffany Whitton, journalist Tom Junod observed that women of lower social status such as Whitton, a 26-year-old unemployed drug addict who was on parole, do not get much media attention as \"media outlets are ruthlessly selective, and they tend to prefer women who are white, pretty, and, above all, innocent\". Whitton's mother stated that producers of shows like \"Nancy Grace\" told her they weren't interested in her daughter's case. Dr. Cory L. Armstrong wrote in the \"Washington Post\" that \"the pattern of choosing only young, white, middle-class women for the full damsel treatment says a lot about a nation that likes to believe it has consigned race and class to irrelevance\". \n\nAccording to a study published in \"The Law and Society Association\", aboriginal women who go missing in Canada receive 27 times less news coverage than white women; they also receive \"dispassionate and less-detailed, headlines, articles, and images.\"\n\nUniversity of Leicester Criminology Professor Yvonne Jewkes cites the murder of Milly Dowler, the murder of Sarah Payne, and the Soham murders as examples of \"eminently newsworthy stories\" about girls from \"respectable\" middle-class families and backgrounds whose parents used the news media effectively. She writes that, in contrast, the street murder of Damilola Taylor, a 10-year- old boy from Nigeria, initially received little news coverage, with reports initially concentrating upon street crime levels and community policing, and largely ignoring the victim. Even when Damilola's father flew into the UK from Nigeria to make press statements and television appearances, the level of public outcry did not, Jewkes asserts, reach \"the near hysterical outpourings of anger and sadness that accompanied the deaths of Sarah, Milly, Holly, and Jessica\".\n\nIn January 2006, London Police Commissioner Ian Blair described the media as institutionally racist. As an example, he had referred to the murder of two young girls in Soham in 2002. He said \"almost nobody\" understood why it became such a big story. Two cases of missing white girl syndrome that have been given as contrasting examples: the murder of Hannah Williams and the murder of Danielle Jones. It was suggested that Jones received more coverage than Williams because Jones was a middle-class schoolgirl, whilst Williams was from a working-class background with a stud in her nose and estranged parents.\n\nSandile Memela, chief director for social cohesion at South Africa's Department of Arts and Culture, noted amidst the Oscar Pistorius trial that there existed substantial differences between how media outlets reported on the murders of Reeva Steenkamp and Zanele Khumalo; two South African models, respectively white and black, who had been murdered by their boyfriends under nearly identical circumstances. Memela asserted that the discrepancy between the media coverage of the Steenkamp and Khumala murders amounted to \"structural racism\" within South African society, and stated: \"As a country we seem to have chosen to ignore the agony, pain and suffering of the Khumalo family for no other reason than that they are black.\"\n\nOn September 11, 2014, the South African news network SABC3 aired an investigative report which raised concerns around the “Missing White Woman Syndrome”; where the death of Steenkamp was juxtaposed with the death of Zanele Khumalo.\n\nSocial commentaries pointed to media bias in the coverage of soldier Jessica Lynch versus that of her fellow soldiers, Shoshana Johnson and Lori Piestewa. All three were ambushed in the same attack during the Iraq War on March 23, 2003, with Piestewa being killed and Lynch and Johnson being injured and taken prisoner. Lynch, a young, blonde, white woman, received far more media coverage than Johnson (a black woman and a single mother) and Piestewa (a Hopi from an impoverished background, and also a single mother), with media critics suggesting that the media gave more attention to the woman with whom audiences supposedly more readily identify.\nLynch herself leveled harsh criticism at this disproportionate coverage that focused only on her, stating in a congressional testimony before the United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform:\n\nIn October 2013, a girl estimated to be about 4 years of age was found in the custody of a Roma couple in Greece and was presumed to have been abducted. The story about the \"blonde angel\" and the search for her biological parents received international media coverage. A Romani rights activist commented on the case to say \"imagine if the situation were reversed and the children were brown and the parents were white\". The child was later identified as Maria Ruseva. Her biological mother was a Bulgarian Roma who gave Maria up for adoption.\n\nCritics have also cited excessive media coverage of murder trials where the defendant is female, white, young and attractive, and included them along with Missing White Woman Syndrome instances in an all-encompassing narrative nicknamed the \"woman in jeopardy\" or \"damsel in distress\" genre. In such cases, the media will focus on the accused, rather than the victim as in Missing White Woman Syndrome cases, and they will be more ambiguous about their guilt than in other criminal cases regardless of evidence. Cited examples include Amanda Knox, Jodi Arias and Casey Anthony.\n\nThe following missing person cases have been cited as instances of missing white woman syndrome; media commentators on the phenomenon regard them as garnering a disproportionate level of media coverage relative to contemporary cases involving missing girls or women of non-white ethnicities, and missing males of all ethnicities. The date of death or disappearance is given in parentheses.\n\nThe following missing person cases have been expressly compared to contemporary missing person cases labeled as examples of \"Missing White Woman Syndrome\", in order to hightlight differences in coverage between them. The date of death or disappearance is given in parentheses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1703440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703440", "title": "Novelty item", "text": "Novelty item\n\nA novelty item is an object which is specifically designed to serve no practical purpose, and is sold for its uniqueness, humor, or simply as something new (hence \"novelty\", or newness). The term also applies to practical items with fanciful or nonfunctional additions, such as novelty slippers. The term is normally applied to small objects, and is generally not used to describe larger items such as roadside attractions. Items may have an advertising or promotional purpose, or be a souvenir.\n\nThis term covers a range of small manufactured goods, such as collectables, gadgets and executive toys. Novelty items are generally devices that do not primarily have a practical function. Toys for adults are often classed as novelties. Some products have a brief period as a novelty item when they are actually new, only to become an established, commonly used product, such as the Hula Hoop or the Frisbee.\n\nOthers may have an educational element, such as Crooke's radiometer, Newton's cradle or the drinking bird, often popular as an executive toy. Sex toys are often described as novelty items (varying from this definition, as they do serve a practical purpose), and some products sold in sex shops may not have any practical sexual function, if operating primarily as a humorous gift, such as sex dice. Some food products may be considered novelty items, especially when first introduced, such as deep-fried Mars bars.\n\nThe French mathematician and astronomer Pierre Hérigone (1580–1643) describes a novelty item that was a camera obscura in the form of a goblet. Hérigone's device was constructed so that the user could spy on others while taking a drink. Its 45-degree mirror had a stylized opening for the lens and the lid bore a magnifying lens at the top.\n\nLenticular printing was developed in the 1940s, and is used extensively in the production of novelty items. Paper clothing, which has some practical purpose, was briefly novel in the United States in the 1960s.\nOne of the more popular novelty items in recent history was the singing Big Mouth Billy Bass, manufactured by Gemmy Industries. It is estimated that over 20 million original pieces were sold in 12 months during 2000 and 2001.\nNovelty items based on mathematical objects, such as Klein bottles and Penrose triangles, have been manufactured. Models of Möbius strips are sometimes made in place of regular bands, such as rings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "387430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387430", "title": "Odalisque", "text": "Odalisque\n\nAn odalisque () was a chambermaid or a female attendant in a Turkish seraglio, particularly the court ladies in the household of the Ottoman sultan.\n\nThe word \"odalisque\" is French in form and originates from the Turkish \"odalık\", meaning \"chambermaid\", from \"oda\", \"chamber\" or \"room\". It can also be transliterated \"odahlic\", \"odalisk\", and \"odaliq\".\n\nJoan DelPlato has described the term's shift in meaning from Turkish to English and French:\n\nThe English and French term odalisque (rarely odalique) derives from the Turkish 'oda', meaning \"chamber\"; thus an odalisque originally meant a chamber girl or attendant. In western usage, the term has come to refer specifically to the harem concubine. By the eighteenth century the term odalisque referred to the eroticized artistic genre in which a nominally eastern woman lies on her side on display for the spectator.\n\nAn \"odalık\" was not a concubine of the harem, but a maid, although it was possible that she could become one. An \"odalık\" was ranked at the bottom of the social stratification of a harem, serving not the man of the household, but rather, his concubines and wives as personal chambermaids. \"Odalık\" were usually slaves given as gifts to the sultan by wealthy Turkish men. Generally, an \"odalık\" was never seen by the sultan but instead remained under the direct supervision of his mother, the Valide Sultan.\n\nIf an \"odalık\" was of extraordinary beauty or had exceptional talents in dancing or singing, she would be trained as a possible concubine. If selected, an \"odalık\" trained as a court lady would serve the sultan sexually and only after such sexual contact would she change in status, becoming thenceforth one of the consorts of the sultan.\n\nIn contrast to European depictions of nude harem women, they more often wore androgynous robes resembling those worn by the male pages of the palace. The conditions of the Ottoman harem \"resembled a monastery for young girls more than the bordello of European imagination.\"\n\nW. S. Gilbert refers to the \"Grace of an odalisque on a divan\" in Colonel Calverley's song \"If You Want A Receipt For That Popular Mystery\" from the Gilbert and Sullivan opera \"Patience.\"\n\nIn popular use, the word \"odalisque\" also may refer to a mistress, concubine or paramour of a wealthy man.\n\nDuring the 19th century, \"odalisques\" became common fantasy figures in the artistic movement known as Orientalism, being featured in many erotic paintings from that era. \n\nBy the later 19th century, Turkish writers such as Melek Hanum used the word odalisque to refer to slave-concubines when writing in English:\nIf any lady possesses a pretty-looking slave, the fact soon gets known. The gentlemen who wish to buy an odalisque or a wife, make their offers. Many Turks, indeed, prefer to take a slave as a wife, as, in such case, there is no need to dread fathers, mothers, or brothers-in-law, and other undesirable relations.\nIn 2011, the Law Society of British Columbia brought a discipline hearing against an unnamed lawyer for referring to another lawyer's client as living with an odalisque. The Law Society found the use of the word, though an extremely poor choice, did not rise to the level of professional misconduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "27240903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27240903", "title": "Online vetting", "text": "Online vetting\n\nOnline vetting, also known as cyber-vetting is increasingly being used by potential employers and other acquaintances to vet people's online presence or \"internet reputation\" (\"netrep\") on social network services such as Facebook, MySpace, Twitter, Bebo, and LinkedIn. Employers may check profiles, posts, and photographs for indications that the candidate is unsuitable.\n\nA survey in 2007 found that half of UK employees would be outraged if their employers looked up information about them on social networking sites, and 56% thought it would be unethical. Employer surveys found that between approximately 20-67% of employers conduct internet searches, including of social networking sites, and that some have turned down applicants as a result of their searches. 21% of colleges and universities surveyed said they looked at the social networking of prospective students, usually for those applying for scholarships and other limited awards and programmes. Prospective political appointees to the Obama administration were asked to list all their blog posts, any emails, text messages, and instant messages that could suggest a conflict of interest or public source of embarrassment, the URLs of any sites that featured them in a personal or professional capacity, and all of their online aliases.\n\nJob applicants have been refused due to criticising previous employers and discussing company information online, as well as for posting provocative and inappropriate photographs, drinking or drug use, poor communication skills, making discriminatory comments, and lying about qualifications. Several companies offer online reputation management services, including helping to remove embarrassing information from websites.\n\nAnother recent research findings conducted with recruiters published in 2017 listed three primary function of a cybervetting process:\n\n\nThe cybervetting is so contradictory that most of the participants didn’t acknowledge its usage regardless the familiarity they have with this theme. Only a few number of participants talked openly about having cybervetting current candidates.\n\nLegal experts have warned human resources departments about vetting prospective employees online, due to the possibility of discrimination and the unreliability of this information. The chairman of the UK Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety argued that it was \"possibly illegal, but certainly unethical\". While the Information Commissioner's Office advised that just looking at information on someone's social networking profiles would not be illegal, an employment law specialist noted that under the Data Protection Act 1998, processing and storing the information or using it to make discriminatory decisions could be.\n\nAge discrimination might result from such a practice, due to the age profile of users of social networking sites. Failed candidates may be able to use discrimination legislation to ask about vetting operations and even ask for IT records to check access to social networks. In the US, vetting using social networking sites risks breaching the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), which requires employers to gain the consent of applicants before doing a background check, state laws that limit the consideration of off-duty conduct in making employment decisions, and any searches risk breaching prohibitions against commercial use contained in the terms of service of the social networking sites.\n\nIn 2006, a trainee teacher at a high school in Pennsylvania was denied her teaching degree after her supervisor found a picture she posted on MySpace captioned \"Drunken pirate\" and deemed it \"unprofessional\". She sued, arguing that by acting on the basis of her legal out-of-hours behavior Millersville University had breached her First Amendment rights, but a federal district court ruled that the photograph was not \"protected speech\" under the First Amendment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "566253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566253", "title": "Open relationship", "text": "Open relationship\n\nAn open relationship is an intimate relationship which is consensually non-monogamous. This term may sometimes refer to polyamory, but it is often used to signify a primary emotional and intimate relationship between two partners who agree to have sexual relationships but not romantic relationships with other people. The nature of the openness in the relationship, including what outside sexual contact is permissible, varies widely.\nOpen relationships include any type of romantic relationship (dating, marriage, etc.) that is open. The concept of an open relationship has been recognized since the 1970s.\n\nTo a large degree, open relationships are a generalization of the concept of a relationship beyond monogamous relationships. A form of open relationship is the open marriage, in which the participants in a marriage have an open relationship.\n\nThere are several different styles of open relationships. Some examples include:\n\n\nThe term open relationship is sometimes used interchangeably with the closely related term polyamory, but the two concepts are not identical. \nThe main unifying element to open relationship styles is non-exclusivity of romantic or sexual relationships.\n\nSome believe that open relationships occur more frequently in certain demographics, such as the young rather than the old in America, including, more specifically, the college-educated middle-class, rather than the uneducated working-class, or people of certain ethnic and/or other racial minorities. Open relationships may also be more common among females rather than males, especially those in the same categories, such as college-educated, middle-class, white, younger Americans. This may be because women have more to gain by stressing this idea of equal rights, and that the women’s rights movement supports the idea of open relationships.\n\nA 1974 study showed that male students who either cohabit or live in a communal group are more likely to become involved in open relationships than females, and are still more interested in the concept than females even if not participating in open relationships. A survey taken by gay men's \"health and life magazine\", \"FS Magazine\", 41% of gay men interviewed have been in an open relationship and of the men who have been in open relationships, 27% believe that it is a good thing.\n\nMany couples within open relationships are dual-career, meaning that both primary partners have a stable job and/or a career. Both men and women in these, especially in closed groups, are also more likely to be in managerial jobs. Most also are either childfree, or post child-rearing.\n\nAn open relationship may form for various reasons. These include:\n\nMany couples consider open relationships, but choose not to follow through with the idea. If a person attempts to approach their committed monogamous partner about transitioning to an open relationship, the monogamous partner may convince or coerce them to either stay monogamous or pursue a new partner. There may also be concern that when beginning an open relationship, a partner may become only concerned in their personal development and pay less attention to their partner.\n\nJealousy is often present in monogamous relationships, and adding one or more partners to the relationship may cause it to increase. Results of some studies have suggested that jealousy remains a problem in open relationships because the actual involvement of a third party is seen as a trigger. In Constantine & Constantine (1971), the researchers found that 80% of participants in open marriages had experienced jealousy at one point or another.\n\nCultural pressure may also dissuade initiating or switching to an open relationship. There is a commonly held societal stereotype that those involved in open relationships are less committed or mature than those who are in monogamous relationships; and films, media, and self-help books present the message that to desire more than one partner means not having a \"true\" relationship. In the post-WWII 1950s-1970s, it was traditional to \"date around\" (with guidelines such not going out with one particular suitor twice in a row) until ready to start \"going steady\" (the onset of exclusivity and sexual exploration); since then, non-exclusive dating around has lost favour and going directly to steady (now known simply as exclusive dating) has been elevated instead. Desiring an open relationship is these days often claimed to be a phase that a person is passing through before being ready to \"settle down\". The logistics of an open relationship may be difficult to cope with, especially if the partners reside together, split finances, own property, or parent children.\n\nAny sexual contact outside of a strictly monogamous or polyfidelitous relationship increases the possibility that one member of the group will contract a sexually transmitted infection and pass it into the group.\n\nNeither barrier device use (such as condoms) nor more vigilant STI testing and vaccination can eliminate such risk, but can reduce the statistical increase attributable to nonmonogamy.\n\nOne of the most significant factors that aids a relationship in being successful is that it is about making the relationship fit the needs of all parties involved. No two open relationships will be the same, and the relationship will change due to the current circumstances at each specific moment. The style of the open relationship will mirror the parties' involved values, goals, desires, needs and philosophies.\n\nThe most successful relationships have been those that take longer to establish. By taking the time to develop a clear idea of what both partners want out of the openness of a relationship, it allows the parties involved to self-reflect, process their emotions, deal with possible conflicts, and (for those transitioning from monogamy to nonmonogamy) find ways to cope with the change.\n\nNegotiating the details of the open relationship is important throughout the communication process. Topics that are commonly found in negotiations between couples include honesty, the level of maintenance, trust, boundaries and time management.\n\nOther tools that couples utilize in the negotiation process include allowing partners to veto new relationships, prior permission, and interaction between partners. This helps to reassure each partner in the relationship that their opinion is important and matters. However, although ability to veto can be a useful tool in negotiation, a successful negotiation and open relationship can still occur without it. Some reject veto power because they believe it limits their partner from experiencing a new relationship and limits their freedom.\n\nTypes of boundaries include physical, which is along the lines of not touching someone without permission being given; sexual boundaries; and emotional boundaries, which is avoiding the discussion of specific emotions. Boundaries help to set out rules for what is and is not acceptable to the members of the relationship. They also help people to feel safe and that they are just as important in the open relationship as their partners.\n\nExamples of boundaries that are set could include:\n\nSome couples create a physical relationship contract. These can be useful in not only negotiating, but also clearly articulating the needs, wants, limits, expectations, and commitments that are expected of the parties involved.\n\nAdequate time management can contribute to the success of an open relationship. Even though having a serious commitment with one partner is common, negotiating the time spent among all partners is still important. Although the desire to give an unlimited amount of love, energy, and emotion to others is common, the limited amount of time in a day limits the actual time spent with each partner. Some find that if they cannot evenly distribute their time, they forego a partner. Time management can also be related to equity theory, which stresses the importance of fairness in relationships.\n\nSwinging is a form of open relationship in which the partners in a committed relationship engage in sexual activities with others at the same time. Swingers may regard the practice as a recreational or social activity that adds variety or excitement into their otherwise conventional sex lives or for curiosity. Swingers who engage in casual sex maintain that sex among swingers is often more frank and deliberative and therefore more honest than infidelity. Some couples see swinging as a healthy outlet and means to strengthen their relationship. Swinging can take place in various contexts, including spontaneous sexual activity involving partner swapping at an informal social gathering of friends, a formal swinger party or partner-swapping party, and a regular gathering in a sex club (or swinger club) or residence.\n\nPolyamory is the practice, desire, or acceptance of having more than one intimate relationship at a time with the knowledge and consent of everyone involved. It is often described as consensual, ethical, or responsible nonmonogamy. The word is sometimes used in a broader sense to refer to sexual or romantic relationships that are not sexually exclusive, though there is disagreement on how broadly it applies; an emphasis on ethics, honesty, and transparency all around is widely regarded as the crucial defining characteristic.\n\nWhile \"open relationship\" is sometimes used as a synonym for \"polyamory\" or \"polyamorous relationship\", the terms are not synonymous. The \"open\" in \"open relationship\" usually refers to the sexual aspect of a nonclosed relationship, whereas \"polyamory\" refers to the extension of a relationship by allowing bonds to form (which may be sexual or otherwise) as additional long-term relationships.\n\nThe terms \"polyamory\" and \"friends with benefits\" are fairly recent, having come about within the past few decades though non-monogamy has existed since prehistoric times.\n\nA subset of polyamory is group marriage or polyfidelity. This type of relationship functions as an expanded marriage, where no member is sexually or romantically involved with anyone other than the group's members.\n\n"}
{"id": "41058575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41058575", "title": "Orientation camps in Hong Kong", "text": "Orientation camps in Hong Kong\n\nIn Hong Kong's universities and higher education institutions, orientation camps (), also known as “Ocamp”, are held by different student organizations in order to welcome new students before their first academic year. There are different types of orientation camps. “Big ocamps” (大O) are organized by the students' union or constituent colleges, while “small ocamp” (細O) are usually organized by faculty or departmental societies with a view to welcome students who study in the same faculty. The duration of ocamps is usually two to seven days.\n\nThe aim of organizing Ocamps is to enable freshmen in meeting new friends through getting along with a group of freshmen in the camp. Also, it aims to let freshmen understand and then adapt to the lifestyle and culture in university. It also boosts the sense of belongings of students to the university. Furthermore, some Ocamps like to spread messages to students, for example, standing up against injustice etc.\n\nThere is no accurate information about the first orientation camp in Hong Kong but the earliest ocamp recorded was in the 1970s, held by University of Hong Kong. Then other universities started organizing it following Hong Kong University.\n\nIn each group, there will be two to four group leaders, mostly voluntary senior students (Year 2 or above) and also some alumni. They are known as “Group Mother” (組媽) and “Group Father” (組爸) as their role in the groups is to take care of the freshmen, i.e. the “group sons” (組仔) and “group daughters” (組女). They also have to design and create some handy gifts to the freshmen such as bags, hand fans and bracelets, which represent their groups.\n\n\"Dem beat\" (demonstration of beat), also known as \"dem cheers\" in some universities, means shouting slogans with a certain beat or rhythm created by claps and steps. All groups (either as university houses or colleges) have their own beat. The aim of this activity is to promote team spirit and togetherness.\n\n“Campfire” is held at night in which house captains start a fire together with torches and then all participants form a circle surrounding the fire and dance with music. Some common songs are \"My Bonnie Lies over the Ocean\", \"Dschinghis Khan\" (Cantonese version) and \"Pieces of Sea Wave and Spray\". Before the activity ends, captains will share their feelings towards the camp.\n\nSituation Game, known as “Sit. Game”, in which committees of the camp first gather all participants in a venue, usually a sports centre. The committees deceive the participants by creating a situation that all group leaders have to leave the camp immediately. Group leaders sometimes cry in front of the participants to make the situation more convincing. They then ask freshmen to speak out if there is any solution towards the situation. Before the committees announce the truth, they let participant enjoy their “last moment” with their leaders. Situation Game aims to teach and encourage participants to stand out and give voice to unfairness. Besides, it consolidates the relationship in groups including participants and group leaders.\n\nStudents are required to complete different tasks set by the committee as they run around in the city in limited time. By completing each task, students can get a certain score. At the end of the day, the team getting the highest score will be crowned the champion.\n\nWater game (水戰) is a common game in orientation camp. It is the game playing with water such as playing in the beach or playing with water guns. Participants will absolutely get wet.\n\nAs a pastime after the conclusion of all planned activities in a day, “room games\" (房 Game) are often played. Room games often last overnight. Participants will follow committees' instructions and play. Usually the games involve some penalties for the losers.\n\nPopular room activities include \"First Impression\".\n\nIn recent years, orientation camp has sparked controversy owing to the games played there as criticized for ethical problems.\n\nFor example, in 2004 Hong Kong Polytechnic University's Health and Social Sciences Faculty freshmen were asked to kiss strangers on the lips, some of whom might develop a bad feeling during such an activity.\n\nBesides, games requiring close contact between the participants have been long described as being obscene and having too much intimacy. These include the “caterpillar game” as both the girls and boys in participation are required to wrap their legs around one another's waist. Another example is the ‘jumbo’ held by students at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) in 2013, where the females were asked to lay down above the male's body.\n\nActivities of cheers have also been condemned by some mass media for the inappropriate slogans used by students, which simply aim to verbally abuse the others. For example, in 2002, in the ocamp held by the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), students from Shaw College slandered girls from New Asia College with the use of chants. Some wordings were said to be even discriminating the disabled. According to a daily news article, the Chairperson of Joint Committee on New Student Orientation of CUHK, Kenneth W.Y. Leung, responded that the committee will explain the problems instead of launching a censorship as they believe the self-discipline of students.\n"}
{"id": "8045210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8045210", "title": "Public affairs (broadcasting)", "text": "Public affairs (broadcasting)\n\nIn broadcasting, public affairs radio or television programs focus on matters of politics and public policy. Among commercial broadcasters, such programs are often only to satisfy Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulatory expectations and are not scheduled in prime time. Public affairs television programs are usually broadcast at times when few listeners or viewers are tuned in (or even awake) in the U.S., in time slots known as graveyard slots; such programs can be frequently encountered at times such as 5-6 a.m. on a Sunday.\n\nPublic affairs coverage is carried as digital subchannels of existing state network Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member public television stations.\n\nGovernment-access television (GATV) is cable channel capacity for local government bodies and other legislative entities to access the cable television systems to televise public affairs meetings.\n\nAt some (particularly national) broadcasters, \"Public Affairs\" may be a special unit, separate from the news department, dedicated to producing long-form public-affairs programming, as at the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation prior to 1992. As of 2012, C-SPAN's three networks are the most widely known and widely available public affairs channels in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "200933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200933", "title": "Public switched data network", "text": "Public switched data network\n\nA public switched data network (PSDN) is a network for providing data services via a system of multiple wide-area networks, similar in concept to the public switched telephone network (PSTN). A PSDN may use a variety of switching technologies, including packet switching, circuit switching, and message switching. A packet-switched PSDN may also be called a packet-switched data network.\n\nOriginally the term PSDN referred only to Packet Switch Stream (PSS), an X.25-based packet-switched network, mostly used to provide leased-line connections between local area networks and the Internet using permanent virtual circuits (PVCs). Today, the term may refer not only to Frame Relay and Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), both providing PVCs, but also to Internet Protocol (IP), GPRS, and other packet-switching techniques.\n\nWhilst there are several technologies that are superficially similar to the PSDN, such as Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) and the Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) technologies, they are not examples of it. ISDN utilizes the PSTN circuit-switched network, and DSL uses point-to-point circuit switching communications overlaid on the PSTN local loop (copper wires), usually utilized for access to a packet-switched broadband IP network.\n"}
{"id": "53487778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53487778", "title": "Rebecca Naylor Hazard", "text": "Rebecca Naylor Hazard\n\nRebecca Ann Naylor Hazard (née Rebecca Ann Naylor; November 10, 1826 - March 1, 1912) was a 19th-century American philanthropist, suffragette, reformer, and writer from the U.S. state of Ohio. With a few other women, she formed the Woman Suffrage Association of Missouri and an Industrial Home for Girls in St. Louis. She organized a society known as the Freedmen's Aid Society, and served as president of the American Woman Suffrage Association.\n\nRebecca Naylor was born in Woodsfield, Ohio, November 10, 1826, the daughter of Robert F. Naylor (born in Pennsylvania, but lived mostly in Virgini) and Mary Bettis Archbold (of Virginia). Till the age of 14, she studied at Monroe Institute and the Marietta Seminary. The family then removed to Cincinnati, Ohio, and later to Quincy, Illinois. In Quincy, in 1844, while still a teenager, she married William Tweedy Hazard, of Newport, Rhode Island. \n\nThe husband was not a college man. His occupation during most of his life was that of a manufacturer (flour mills). Five children were born to the couple. In 1850, the family removed to St. Louis, Missouri. For many years, domestic affairs claimed the attention of Hazard. \n\nIn 1854, she united with other women in establishing an Industrial Home for Girls in St. Louis. For five years she was on the board of managers of that institution, which has sheltered thousands of homeless children. At the breaking out of the American Civil War, Hazard, who was an ardent Unionist, engaged in hospital work, including the care of sick and wounded soldiers. She helped to organize the Union Aid Society and served as a member of the executive committee in the great Western Sanitary Fair. Finding that large numbers of African American women and children were by the exigencies of war helplessly stranded in the city, Hazard sought means for their relief. They were in a deplorable condition, and, as the supplies contributed to the soldiers could not be used for them, she organized a society known as the Freedmen's Aid Society, for their special benefit. At the close of the war, that society was merged in an orphan asylum. Closely following that work came the establishment of a home for women, which was maintained under great difficulties for some years, before being abandoned. With Mary Foote Henderson, Hazard co-founded the School of Design for women in the field of decorative art. It later became part of the Woman’s Exchange.\n\nDeeply impressed with the disabilities under which women labor in being deprived of political rights, Hazard, Virginia Minor, Anna Clapp, Lucretia Hall, and Penelope Allen, met in May 1867, and formed the Woman Suffrage Association of Missouri, the first society bearing the name, and having for its sole object the ballot for woman. Devoted to this cause, Hazard gave it her attention for many years, filling the various offices of the association, and also serving one term as president of the American Woman Suffrage Association. In 1870, the city of St. Louis, falling under evil counsels, framed into law the Social Evil Ordinance. Realizing the danger to good morals, Hazard at once engaged in the conflict for the overthrow of law. Three years later, she met with other women and organized an appeal to the legislature through a petition campaign to rescind it. The law was repealed by the Missouri Legislature in 1874. The call for the formation of the association for the advancement of women, known as the Woman's Congress, was signed by Hazard, and she continued to be a member of that body, contributing at various times to its sessions the following papers: \"Home Studies for Women,\" \"Business Opportunities for Women,\" and \"Crime and its Punishment.\" \n\nAfter the death of her husband, in 1879, Hazard mostly retired from public work, but at her home in Kirkwood, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis, a class of women met each week for study and mutual improvement. As a result of these studies, Hazard published two papers on the \"Divina Commedia.\" She also wrote a volume on the war period in St. Louis. Her contributions to local and other papers were numerous. Hazard was a member of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and of the American Akademe, a philosophical society having headquarters in Jacksonville, Illinois. She died in Kirkwood in 1912.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17396251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17396251", "title": "Sex: The Revolution", "text": "Sex: The Revolution\n\nSex: The Revolution was a four-part 2008 American documentary miniseries that aired on VH1 and The Sundance Channel. It chronicled the rise of American interest in sexuality from the 1950s through the 1990s.\n\nThe version shown on VH1 was pixelated to censor nudity including in discussions of censorship of nudity. VH1 Latin America aired the uncensored version.\n\n\"Save It 'Til Marriage:\" first aired Monday, May 12, 2008, focused on sexual repression of the 1950s\n\n\"The Big Bang:\" first aired Tuesday, May 13, 2008, the sexual explosion of the 1960s\n\n\"Do Your Thing:\" first aired Wednesday, May 14, 2008, the sexual independence of the 1970s\n\n\"Tainted Love:\" first aired Thursday, May 15, 2008, the tail end of the revolution during the late 1970s and early 1980s. And the beginning of AIDS.\n\n"}
{"id": "31422045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31422045", "title": "Sexual stigma", "text": "Sexual stigma\n\nSexual stigma is a form of social stigma against people who are perceived to be non-heterosexual because of their beliefs, identities or behaviors. Privileged individuals, or the majority group members, are the main contributors of placing sexual stigmas on individuals and their minority group. It is those who hold a higher status that determine within a society which groups are deemed unworthy of a higher status by labeling their specific actions or beliefs. Stereotypes are then produced which further the debilitating effects of the label(s) placed on group members with non-heterosexual beliefs or practices.\n\nTodd D. Nelson mentions the perspective of structural sexual stigma, which is basically heterosexism. Using an adaptation of institutional racism, heterosexism describes the mechanisms by which sexual minority members are disadvantaged. Everyday interactions and exposures to stereotypes of a sexual minority group have become a growing incidence through institutional settings and social gatherings. The embedding of sexual stigma within societal practices has ultimately reinforced the occurrence of prejudice and discrimination against homosexuals and the heterosexuals who support them.\n\nThere are several manifestations of sexual stigma these have been identified as enacted sexual stigma, felt sexual stigma and internalized sexual stigma.\n\n\nThe stigmatization of any group is found unpopular by most people who disagree with the treatment of others due to a personal trait they can not change. However, the following study looked into the effects of stigma and behavior and actually found that the chances of risk behavior could decrease with the presence of particular stigmas. Although the findings concluded that risk behavior correlated with stigma, it is not condoning the presence of sexual stigma within society. Deborah Preston and colleagues conducted a study that looked directly at homosexuality in rural communities and how stigma affected the outcome of sexual risk behavior. This study also focused on the increasing prevalence of HIV/AIDS in rural communities, which was considered the risk in behavior and the effects associated with it.\n\nThe focus of stigma ended up correlating with risk at the end of the study. It was found that self-esteem and family stigma was related to the level of sexual risk behavior. Men whose family was found tolerant of homosexuality were more likely to participate in modified high risk behavior. However, men with families intolerant of homosexual ideas were less willing to take sexual risks in fear of the consequences his family members might encounter, such as becoming stigmatized themselves. This finding referred to as family stigma ultimately determined behavior in this particular study. Preston’s article concludes that perhaps stigma ultimately influences the behavior of minority members in order to avoid the negativity that has been associated with homosexuality in rural communities.\n\n\nHomosexual stereotypes claim gay men are more feminine in speech patterns, body language, and physical appearance. They are said to be more comfortable around women or other homosexuals.\n\nLesbian stereotypes claim that gay women are more masculine. They are labeled butch ( a female that looks and acts like a male). They are stereotyped as having short hair and dressing masculine. Their body language is similar to a heterosexual males. They are associated with being more comfortable around men or other homosexuals. Their mates are to be considered lipstick lesbians or the more feminine of the two partners.\nTransvestites are frequently mislabeled as homosexual. Transvestites or \"cross-dressers\" are less identifiable of their sexual preferences due to their discretion.\n\n\nHistorically, gay men have been the focus of most negative attributions. Lesbianism has been more discreet in the Western world. Gay was the label used to describe homosexuality. The \"coming out\" of women created labels. Homosexual became the male gender specific label and lesbian became the female gender specific label. It is suggested that because of the discretion of lesbianism, the dominating negative attitude developed and continues with gay men. Studies have indicated that heterosexual males have stronger negative attitudes towards homosexuality than heterosexual females. These attitudes are measured by the societal roles of both genders. Heterosexual females are less likely to be threatened in their role with a greater acceptance of same sex orientation. Heterosexual males have more societal pressure which contributes to ambiguity and a harsher negative attitude towards homosexuality. The attitudes of same sex orientation seemed much more positive with college students. The age of the participants did change the results of the views on homosexuality.\n\nA study of responses after viewing gay images resulted that heterosexual men were more negative towards homosexuality than women. The responses of heterosexual women's attitudes were similar for both gay men and women and equally moderate. Heterosexual men had little to no response with lesbian photos but extreme responses with homosexuals. Images of gay men caused heterosexual males to respond by showing signs of physical discomfort and overactive reflexes, this increased to rapid breathing when shown images of gay couples. These responses indicate heterosexual men were more comfortable with a gay man than with a couple \"acting gay\". This response information indicates that heterosexual males are more comfortable with homosexuals individually. They are not comfortable with the act of being gay. Heterosexual men see it as a lifestyle choice. This view on gay men and their choice is one characteristic of The Attribution-Value Model.\n\nResearch based on men who were told they tested poorly on a masculine knowledge based test reacted with greater negative attitudes or scapegoated homosexuality. Men who took a personality test and were told they had more feminine personality traits expressed extreme negative attitudes with homosexuals that displayed feminine characteristics and more tolerable of homosexuals that were identifiably more masculine.\n\n\nHomosexual adults are frequent targets of discrimination and violence.￼￼ Homophobia is a range of negative attitudes attributed to homosexuals and homosexual behavior that often leads to prejudice, discrimination and hate. Homophobic individuals often separate themselves from other groups and form a group based on that individual hatred. Homosexual adults are frequent targets of discrimination and violence. Male violence occurs more often with homosexuals because of the lack of understanding and the fear of being considered one of \"them\". Male masculinity in society is a stereoype that is important to many males and homosexuality is the opposite of that. Hate crimes are violence towards a group that is viewed as not equal to or different than a more dominant group. This threat is fear activated. These crimes often end in extreme violence and cause the need for homosexual identity concealment. This concealment leads to psychological distress. This distress leads to psychological disorders and self-hatred.\n\nSexual stigma causes discrimination. Heteronormativity is the discrimination of any group other than a heterosexual group. It creates inequality in the workplace and in society. Mays and Cochran surveyed homosexuals in the workplace. Homosexuals are four times more likely to lose employment and earn 11-27% less than heterosexual men with similar qualifications.\n\n\nThe legal issue of same sex unions may be attributed to sexual stigmatization. Marriage gives legal recognition of partnership and rights to resources and protections. Survey data indicates that large numbers of lesbian, gay, and bisexual Americans want to marry if given opportunity and many have done so, including those registered in domestic partnership or civil unions. Civil unions and domestic partnerships are huge advancements but are undermining to marriage. Same-sex marriage in the United States was not recognized federally until June 2013. The stigma remains among some that same sex orientation is a psychological condition. The DSM-IV does not support this.\n\n"}
{"id": "4185087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4185087", "title": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927", "text": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927\n\nSickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1927:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to sickness insurance for agricultural workers...\n\nThe principles contained in this convention were subsequently revised and included in ILO Convention C130.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 21 states. One state that has ratified, Uruguay, has subsequently denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "875785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875785", "title": "Social effects of evolutionary theory", "text": "Social effects of evolutionary theory\n\nThe social effects of evolutionary thought have been considerable. As the scientific explanation of life's diversity has developed, it has often displaced alternative, sometimes very widely held, explanations. Because the theory of evolution includes an explanation of humanity's origins, it has had a profound impact on human societies. Some have vigorously denied acceptance of the scientific explanation due to its perceived religious implications (e.g. its implied rejection of the special creation of humans presumably described in the Bible). This has led to a vigorous conflict between creation and evolution in public education, primarily in the United States.\n\nThe theory of evolution by natural selection has also been adopted as a foundation for various ethical and social systems, such as social Darwinism, an idea that preceded the publication of The Origin of Species, popular in the 19th century, which holds that \"the survival of the fittest\" (a phrase coined in 1851 by Herbert Spencer, 6 years before Darwin published his theory of evolution) explains and justifies differences in wealth and success among societies and people. A similar interpretation was one created by Darwin's cousin, Francis Galton, known as eugenics, which claimed that human civilization was subverting natural selection by allowing the less bright and less healthy to survive and out-breed the more smart and more healthy.\n\nLater advocates of this theory suggested radical and often coercive social measures in an attempt to \"correct\" this imbalance. Thomas Huxley spent much time demonstrating through a series of thought experiments that it would not only be immoral, but impossible, Stephen Jay Gould and others have argued that social Darwinism is based on misconceptions of evolutionary theory, and many ethicists regard it as a case of the is-ought problem. After the atrocities of the Holocaust became linked with eugenics, it greatly fell out of favor with public and scientific opinion, though it was never universally accepted by either, and at no point in Nazi literature is Charles Darwin or the scientific theory of evolution mentioned.\n\nIn his book \"The End of Faith\", Sam Harris argues that Nazism was largely a continuation of Christian anti-Semitism. Jim Walker compiled a list of 129 quotes from Mein Kampf in which Hitler described himself as a Christian, or mentioned God, Jesus or a biblical passage. Some argue that six million of the people killed during the Holocaust were killed because of their religion (Judaism) not their race, \"strength,\" or any reason with an obvious link to the mechanism of Darwinian evolution. Hitler often used Christian beliefs like, \"Jews killed Jesus,\" to justify his anti-Semitism.\n\nThe notion that humans share ancestors with other animals has also affected how some people view the relationship between humans and other species. Many proponents of animal rights hold that if animals and humans are of the same nature, then rights cannot be distinct to humans.\n\nCharles Darwin, in fact, considered \"sympathy\" to be one of the most important moral virtues — and that it was, indeed, a product of natural selection and a trait beneficial to social animals (including humans). Darwin further argued that the most \"sympathetic\" societies would consequently be the most \"successful.\" He also stated that our sympathy should be extended to \"all sentient beings\":\n\nThomas Huxley, \"Darwin's Bulldog\", spent much of his book Evolution and Ethics debunking Social Darwinism, piece by piece. The following is a summary of his arguments in the \"Prolegomena\", the most detailed and comprehensive of the two sections devoted to it. It should be noted that Huxley is here attempting to disprove the science behind Social Darwinism; as such, the moral arguments only come in later in the essay.\n\nConsider a garden. Without constant upkeep, it would return to the \"state of nature\", even the very walls surrounding it crumbling in sufficient time, but by constant diligence of the gardener, may be maintained in a \"state of art\". This \"state of art\" is not permanent: It is instead the replacement of natural selection by artificial selection through the human energy expended in maintaining it.\n\nThis artificial selection is, however, part of natural selection: It is the action upon a set of species by the human species by way of the human species expending energy through evolved intelligence on its choice of selection. It is thus no less natural than, for example, a predator expending energy through evolved instinct on preferentially hunting a certain prey species. The presence of humans may change the dynamic, but in a perfectly natural way. Hence, it is part of the \"cosmic process\", that is natural laws, even though the \"histological process\" may remove many aspects of the \"struggle for existence\" that is a key part of the natural laws that apply to biology, from its preferred plant species by substituting human work for work done by the species itself.\nNot only is the state of nature hostile to the state of art of the garden; but the principle of the horticultural process, by which the latter is created and maintained, is antithetic to that of the cosmic process. The characteristic feature of the latter is the intense and unceasing competition of the struggle for existence. The characteristic of the former is the elimination of that struggle, by the removal of the conditions which give rise to it. The tendency of the cosmic process is to bring about the adjustment of the forms of plant life to the current conditions; the tendency of the horticultural process is the adjustment of the conditions to the needs of the forms of plant life which the gardener desires to raise.\nNature uses unrestricted breeding to let hundreds compete for the natural resources that would only support one, and uses frost and drought to kill off the weak and unlucky, requiring not just strength, but \"flexibility and good fortune.\" However, a gardener restricts multiplication, gives each plant sufficient space and nourishment, protects from frost and drought—and, in every other way, attempts to modify the conditions to benefit the forms that most nearly approach the result he desires. However, though the gardener's actions may have circumvented natural selection, he can still improve the species, should he find them wanting, through selective breeding. The struggle for existence is not actually required for improvement: only heritability, variation, and some form of selective pressure.\n\nCan we then apply this to humans? Let's see how far we can take the analogy with respect to colonization:\nSuppose a shipload of English colonists sent to form a settlement, in such a country as Tasmania was in the middle of the last century. On landing, they find themselves in the midst of a state of nature, widely different from that left behind them in everything but the most general physical conditions. The common plants, the common birds and quadrupeds, are as totally distinct as the men from anything to be seen on the side of the globe from which they come. The colonists proceed to put an end to this state of things over as large an area as they desire to occupy. They clear away the native vegetation, extirpate or drive out the animal population, so far as may be necessary, and take measures to defend themselves from the re-immigration of either. In their place, they introduce English grain and fruit trees; English dogs, sheep, cattle, horses; and English men; in fact, they set up a new Flora and Fauna and a new variety of mankind, within the old state of nature. Their farms and pastures represent a garden on a great scale, and themselves the gardeners who have to keep it up, in watchful antagonism to the old regime. Considered as a whole, the colony is a composite unit introduced into the old state of nature; and, thenceforward, a competitor in the struggle for existence, to conquer or be vanquished.\n\nUnder the conditions supposed, there is no doubt of the result, if the work of the colonists be carried out energetically and with intelligent combination of all their forces. On the other hand, if they are slothful, stupid, and careless; or if they waste their energies in contests with one another, the chances are that the old state of nature will have the best of it. The native savage will destroy the immigrant civilized man; of the English animals and plants some will be extirpated by their indigenous rivals, others will pass into the feral state and themselves become components of the state of nature. In a few decades, all other traces of the settlement will have vanished.\nHowever, as yet we lack an organized gardener. Let us imagine an idealized one: an administrative authority of intelligence and foresight as much greater than men as men are to their livestock. The unwanted native species - men, animals, or plants - are all weeded out and destroyed. Those to replace them are chosen with a view to his ideal of the colony, just as a gardener tries to create through his selection his ideal garden. And, finally, to ensure that no struggle for existence between the colonists interferes with the struggle against nature, he provides them with sufficient food, housing, and so on. \"With every step of this progress in civilization, the colonists would become more and more independent of the state of nature; more and more, their lives would be conditioned by a state of art. In order to attain his ends, the administrator would have to avail himself of the courage, industry, and co-operative intelligence of the settlers; and it is plain that the interest of the community would be best served by increasing the proportion of persons who possess such qualities, and diminishing that of persons devoid of them. In other words, by selection directed towards an ideal.\"\n\nHowever, though this might create a paradise where every aspect of nature works to support its colonists, problems arise: \"as soon as the colonists began to multiply, the administrator would have to face the tendency to the reintroduction of the cosmic struggle into his artificial fabric, in consequence of the competition, not merely for the commodities, but for the means of existence. When the colony reached the limit of possible expansion, the surplus population must be disposed of somehow; or the fierce struggle for existence must recommence and destroy that peace, which is the fundamental condition of the maintenance of the state of art against the state of nature.\n\nIf the administrator is guided purely by scientific considerations, he would work to restrict the population by removing \"the hopelessly diseased, the infirm aged, the weak or deformed in body or in mind, and the excess of infants born,\" just as a \"gardener pulls up defective and superfluous plants, or the breeder\ndestroys undesirable cattle. Only the strong and the healthy, carefully matched, with a view to the progeny best adapted to the purposes of the administrator, would be permitted to perpetuate their kind.\"\n\nAnd so we have reached Social Darwinism. However, we do not have an idealized administrator:\n\nOf the more thoroughgoing of the multitudinous attempts to apply the principles of cosmic evolution, or what are supposed to be such, to social and political problems, which have appeared of late years, a considerable proportion appear to me to be based upon the notion that human society is competent to furnish, from its own resources, an administrator of the kind I have imagined. The pigeons, in short, are to be their own Sir John Sebright. A despotic government, whether individual or collective, is to be endowed with the preternatural intelligence, and with what, I am afraid, many will consider the preternatural ruthlessness, required for the purpose of carrying out the principle of improvement by selection, with the somewhat drastic thoroughness upon which the success of the method depends. Experience certainly does not justify us in limiting the ruthlessness of individual \"saviors of society\"; and, on the well-known grounds of the aphorism which denies both body and soul to corporations, it seems probable (indeed the belief is not without support in history) that a collective despotism, a mob got to believe in its own divine right by demagogic missionaries, would be capable of more thorough work in this direction than any single tyrant, puffed up with the same illusion, has ever achieved. But intelligence is another affair. The fact that \"saviors of society\" take to that trade is evidence enough that they have none to spare. And such as they possess is generally sold to the capitalists of physical force on whose resources they depend. However, I doubt whether even the keenest judge of character, if he had before him a hundred boys and girls under fourteen, could pick out, with the least chance of success, those who should be kept, as certain to be serviceable members of the polity, and those who should be chloroformed, as equally sure to be stupid, idle, or vicious. The \"points\" of a good or of a bad citizen are really far harder to discern than those of a puppy or a short-horn calf; many do not show themselves before the practical difficulties of life stimulate manhood to full exertion. And by that time the mischief is done. The evil stock, if it be one, has had time to multiply, and selection is nullified.\nHowever, humans are not cattle, nor flowers: the organization of human society is kept together by\n\n...bonds of such a singular character, that the attempt to perfect society after his fashion would run serious risk of loosening them. They do not even correspond to social insects such as bees: With bees, \"The members of the society are each organically predestined to the performance of one particular class of functions only. If they were endowed with desires, each could desire to perform none but those offices for which its organization specially fits it; and which, in view of the good of the whole, it is proper it should do. Among mankind, on the contrary, there is no such predestination to a sharply defined place in the social organism. However much men may differ in the quality of their intellects, the intensity of their passions, and the delicacy of their sensations, it cannot be said that one is fitted by his organization to be an agricultural laborer and nothing else, and another to be a landowner and nothing else. Moreover, with all their enormous differences in natural endowment, men agree in one thing, and that is their innate desire to enjoy the pleasures and to escape the pains of life; and, in short, to do nothing but that which it pleases them to do, without the least reference to the welfare of the society into which they are born, checked only by sympathy, familial and social bonds, and fear of the judgment of ones fellow man. \"Every forward step of social progress brings men into closer relations with their fellows, and increases the importance of the pleasures and pains derived from sympathy.\n\nIn short, he describes a creation of morality.\n\nSince morality is what keeps the desire for selfishness in check, it is necessary to the propagation of society, with one requirement: the punishment of wrongdoers being necessary for the continuation of society, self-restraint must not be taken so far that wrongdoers may act unrestrained: Without the protection of society against them, \"The followers of the \"golden rule\" may indulge in hopes of heaven, but they must reckon with the certainty that other people will be masters of the earth.\"\n\nHuxley sums up this section of his argument against Social Darwinism:\nI have further shown cause for the belief that direct selection, after the fashion of the horticulturist and the breeder, neither has played, nor can play, any important part in the evolution of society; apart from other reasons, because I do not see how such selection could be practiced without a serious weakening, it may be the destruction, of the bonds which hold society together. It strikes me that men who are accustomed to contemplate the active or passive extirpation of the weak, the unfortunate, and the superfluous; who justify that conduct on the ground that it has the sanction of the cosmic process, and is the only way of ensuring the progress of the race; who, if they are consistent, must rank medicine among the black arts and count the physician a mischievous preserver of the unfit; on whose matrimonial undertakings the principles of the stud have the chief influence; whose whole lives, therefore, are an education in the noble art of suppressing natural affection and sympathy, are not likely to have any large stock of these commodities left. But, without them, there is no conscience, nor any restraint on the conduct of men, except the calculation of self-interest, the balancing of certain present gratifications against doubtful future pains; and experience tells us how much that is worth. Every day, we see firm believers in the hell of the theologians commit acts by which, as they believe when cool, they risk eternal punishment; while they hold back from those which are opposed to the sympathies of their associates.\nHuxley finishes with a series of short, further evidences against Social Darwinism, including:\n\n\nBefore Darwin's argument and presentation of the evidence for evolution, Western religions generally discounted or condemned any claims that diversity of life is the result of an evolutionary process, as did most scientists in the English scientific establishment. However, evolution was accepted by some religious groups such as the Unitarian church and the liberal Anglican theologians who went on to publish \"Essays and Reviews\". as well as by many scientists in France and Scotland and some in England, notably Robert Edmund Grant. Literal or authoritative interpretations of Scripture hold that a supreme being directly created humans and other animals as separate \"Created kinds\", which to some means species. This view is commonly referred to as creationism. From the 1920s to the present in the US, there has been a strong religious backlash to the teaching of evolution theory, particularly by conservative evangelicals. They have expressed concerns about the effects of the teaching of evolution on society and their faith (see Creation-evolution controversy).\n\nIn response to the wide scientific acceptance of the theory of evolution, many religions have formally or informally synthesized the scientific and religious viewpoints. Several important 20th century scientists (Fisher, Dobzhansky) whose work confirmed Darwin's theory, were also Christians who saw no incompatibility between their experimental and theoretical confirmations of evolution and their faith. Some religions have adopted a theistic evolution viewpoint, where God provides a divine spark that ignited the process of evolution and (or), where God has guided evolution in one way or another.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church, beginning in 1950 with Pope Pius XII's encyclical Humani Generis, took up a neutral position with regard to evolution. \"The Church does not forbid that...research and discussions, on the part of men experienced in both fields, take place with regard to the doctrine of evolution, in as far as it inquires into the origin of the human body as coming from pre-existent and living matter.\"\n\nIn an October 22, 1996, address to the Pontifical Academy of Science, Pope John Paul II updated the Church's position, recognizing that Evolution is \"more than a hypothesis\" - \"In his encyclical Humani Generis, my predecessor Pius XII has already affirmed that there is no conflict between evolution and the doctrine of the faith regarding man and his vocation... Today, more than a half-century after the appearance of that encyclical, some new findings lead us toward the recognition of evolution as more than an hypothesis. In fact it is remarkable that this theory has had progressively greater influence on the spirit of researchers, following a series of discoveries in different scholarly disciplines.\"\n\nClassical figures have not discussed the subject as it has only come up in the 19th century. Contemporaries have come up with several distinct stances. One stance is that adaptation, or evolution on a micro scale, is accepted within a species, but cross-species evolution, that is evolution from one species into another species, is not as the human beginning is considered to be miraculous. However, this traditional thought would not conflict with the view that human-like beings could have been created around the same time as human beings, which, in this view, would explain the fossil records that look human but are not. Another stance is that since evolution is the simplest explanation it is the most reasonable to accept under the condition that it is not random but occurs only with the permission of God every step of the way. One particular argument that supports the idea that evolution is possible is the one stating that in that the stages of human development in evolution are akin to the distinct stages of development acknowledged in the Koran. The final stance completely rejects cross-species evolution across all organisms, but approves of adaptation (micro evolution).\n\nMany important political figures on the left have never publicized their views on biology, and so their opinions of evolutionary theory are unknown. To some extent, Marxists are the exception. Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels and Vladimir Lenin supported Darwin's evolutionary theory. Marx even sent Darwin a copy of his book \"Das Kapital\", though Darwin never wrote back to him. Karl Marx's work was based on a material view of the world that showed natural causes and effects for all aspects of human society and economy. He recognized that Darwin's work provided a similar material explanation for all of nature, thus supporting Marx's worldview.\n\nIn 1861 Karl Marx wrote to his friend Ferdinand Lassalle, \"Darwin’s work is most important and suits my purpose in that it provides a basis in natural science for the historical class struggle. ... Despite all shortcomings, it is here that, for the first time, 'teleology' in natural science is not only dealt a mortal blow but its rational meaning is empirically explained.\"\n\nMost later Marxists agreed with this view, but some – particularly those in the early Soviet Union – believed that evolutionary theory conflicted with their economic and social ideals. As a result, they came to support Lamarckism instead – the idea that an organism can pass on characteristics that it acquired during its lifetime to its offspring. This led to the practice of Lysenkoism, which caused agricultural problems.\n\nIn his book, \"\", anarcho-communist Peter Kropotkin argued that co-operation and mutual aid are as important in the evolution of the species as competition and mutual strife, if not more so.\n\nOn the contemporary moderate left, some authors such as Peter Singer (in his book, \"A Darwinian Left\") support Darwinism but reach different political and economic lessons than more conservative observers. Richard Dawkins' book, \"The Selfish Gene\", has a chapter, \"Nice guys finish first,\" that attempts to explain the role of altruism and cooperation in evolution and how social animals not only cannot survive without such traits, but how evolution will create them. Dawkins explains that when an animal sacrifices itself or uses its resources for the survival of other members of the same species, its genes, present on the other animals, survive. For example, if a mother dies to save three of its pups, one and a half copies (on average) of its genes will survive, because there is a 50% chance of a particular gene being present in its offspring. Dawkins also made a documentary of the same name. According to the documentary, Dawkins added that chapter as a way of overcoming modern day misinterpretations of the concept of \"survival of the fittest\".\n\n\"Social Darwinism\" is a derogatory term associated with the 19th century Malthusian theory developed by Whig philosopher Herbert Spencer. It is associated with evolutionary theory but now widely regarded as unwarranted. Social Darwinism was later expanded by others into ideas about \"survival of the fittest\" in commerce and human societies as a whole, and led to claims that social inequality, sexism, racism and imperialism were justified. However, these ideas contradict Darwin's own views, and contemporary scientists and philosophers consider these ideas to be neither mandated by evolutionary theory nor supported by data.\n\nSocial Darwinism is further linked with nationalism and imperialism. During the age of New Imperialism, the concepts of evolution justified the exploitation of \"lesser breeds without the law\" by \"superior races.\" To elitists, strong nations were composed of white people who were successful at expanding their empires, and as such, these strong nations would survive in the struggle for dominance. With this attitude, Europeans, except for Christian missionaries, seldom adopted the customs and languages of local people under their empires. Christian missionaries, on the other hand, were the very first individuals to meet new peoples and develop writing systems for local inhabitants' languages that lacked one. Being critics of Darwinism, they ardently opposed slavery and provided an education and religious instruction to the new peoples they interacted with since they felt that this was their duty as Christians.\n\n"}
{"id": "45360866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45360866", "title": "Sociotechnology", "text": "Sociotechnology\n\nSociotechnology (short for \"social technology\") is the study of processes on the intersection of society and technology. Vojinović and Abbott define it as \"the study of processes in which the social and the technical are indivisibly combined\".\nSociotechnology is an important part of socio-technical design, which is defined as \"designing things that participate in complex systems that have both social and technical aspects\".\n\nThe term has been attributed to Mario Bunge. He defines it as a grouping of social engineering and management science. He sees it thus as a form of technology, distinguished from other branches of it such as engineering, biotechnology, information technology and general technology. Its goal is to help engineer sociosystems and evaluate their performance, while making use of social science research. In short, sociotechnology can be seen as the creation, modification and maintenance of social systems.\n\nWriting on sociotechnical change, Bijker wrote: \"Society is not determined by technology, nor is technology determined by society. Both emerge as two sides of the sociotechnical coin.\"\n\nTechnology is the sum of ways in which social groups construct the material objects of their civilizations. The things made are socially constructed just as much as technically constructed. The merging of these two things, construction and insight, is sociotechnology. \"For example, we typically build a bridge when there’s some expectation that people need to get from Point A to Point B, and there’s something they need to bypass along the way (e.g. a river, a canyon, another road). Failure to consider the social factors as well as the technical factors could lead to a \"bridge to nowhere\" – and we all know at least one person who’s had a problem with those\".\n\nBusiness use \"richness and reach\". The richness and reach strategy has evolved with technology. Richness is the ability to understand the information being passed for example calling someone is less rich than face to face contact. Reach is the number of people who exchange the information. In the past it was easier to complete richness and reach, but now with new technologies like video chatting, it is easier for business to do fulfill both richness and reach. Positive economics is the study of existing (or historical) means of exchange- a social science such as sociology, history, and political sciences. Normative economics is the social technology because it attempts to create different kinds of economic arrangements.\n\nAccelerating growth of technology is a major problem and cause of destabilization of a communicational world. Paul Virilio believes that the \"real\" is being mistaken by virtual and the virtual world destroys physical presence. Marshall McLuhan wrote about the extension of human senses and the nervous system into the world through electronic media. Essentially he believes that the mind, the self, and consciousness are made from already created technology, media, and language as opposed to create naturally like those who made technology, media, and language. The image of one’s self becomes aware of itself in a world of technology. Consciousness and desire become less individualistic and turns into more already constituted social forms. The response to how someone feels something, what it means, and how it feels (for example feeling \"attached\" to someone after losing your virginity to them) is already set up through media communication (show, music, movies, articles). People will anticipate that they will be attached because of what they already know about it, so when it happens they do feel attached because that is how they were programmed to feel. People have turned to technology to create their \"self\" and determine how they feel and act. The conscious mind does not move into a world-as-other mindset but into an already constituted world.\n\nLewis Mumford believed the world of relying on technology began with early human experiments in industrialization including coal mines because coal and iron built and powered industrialization. It has come to the point where communication is relied on technology. Conversation turned into talking through a machine (texting, phone calls, social media).\n\nThe difference between the past and present technology is the extent of social binding. The more social forces it binds together the more powerful the technology is. For example, the attack on the World Trade Center as opposed to the attack of Pearl Harbor. It took a year to see the film of the attack on the American battleships. Because of this, people were more unaware and it was less of a big deal than what 9-11 was. During the terrorist attack in 2001, everything was broadcast in the moment. People were seeing the destruction with their own eyes in the moment, causing more ridicule and passion for the situation.\n\nFurbie and Tamagotchi are electronic toys made for children that make noises and demand for care. These toys caused children to form a companionship with robots instead of human beings. Paro is a robotic baby seal that was created in Japan to perform therapeutic functions. Paro had positive psychological results for those in nursing homes. A woman constantly argued with her son and turned to the Paro for comfort and confided in the Paro instead of fixing things with her son. Society has turned to demanding more intimacy from sociable robots then from each other. People that use the robots for comfort feel like they are being comforted by someone even though they are actually alone. These robotic characters cause people to have a relationship with technology while avoiding the trouble of human interaction.\n\nScience and technology are big contributions to the economic development, but can also lead to negative side effects as it evolves. For example, people care more about materialistic things than the negative influences they have created in human morals and education. For example, it is more important for people to know words to songs than to remember things for their test. There are other problems due to the development of new technologies such as the conservation of the environment because there is a demand for more products which leads to more destruction of environment to build more to sell from. Many social problems have appeared in society and cannot seem to be solved by natural science and technology alone. It requires the need for social sciences as well. Social technology is the strategy used to help solve the wrong behaviors in the world that are caused by social problems like how to solve the issue of people being invested in materialistic goods more than morals, so that they economy can still continue to grow, and society can be a better place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "512519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512519", "title": "Strip poker", "text": "Strip poker\n\nStrip poker is a party game and a variation of the traditional poker where players remove clothing when they lose a round. Any form of poker can be adapted to a strip form; however, it is usually played with simple variants with few betting rounds, like five-card draw. Strip poker can be played by single-sex groups or by mixed groups in social situations and intended to generate an atmosphere of fun, and to lighten the social atmosphere by the removal of clothing. Sometimes the game is played to heighten the sexual atmosphere, though the game itself is regarded as non-sexual. Like other adult or adolescent party games, activities besides removing clothing and playing cards might be involved. (\"Truth or Dare?\" type options are often included.) Strip poker has also been adapted for a person to play alone, either by use of video games or online; and several television shows have been based on the game.\n\nIn some rule sets, players who fold before the flop are not required to remove clothing. As such, a player who is uncomfortable removing clothing (or, more commonly, a player who does not want to remove all their clothing first) can simply fold very often or every time before the flop, essentially playing a \"tight\" pre-flop strategy. Using this strategy, a player could stay clothed for the entire game simply by folding their hands.\n\nStrip poker requires a different overall strategy from poker played with betting chips since the maximum loss on a hand of strip poker is (typically) one item of clothing. In a betting environment, a player who stays in the pot with a weak hand is liable to lose many chips in a single hand. In strip poker, the risk of staying in a hand is significantly limited, so players can play hands with lower probabilities than they would in a cash game. For example, in a cash game, because it occurs only 8% of the time, an inside straight draw might be a poor hand to play, hence the saying \"Never draw to an inside straight.\" In strip poker, when the potential loss is only one item of clothing whether you fold or call, an 8% chance to win the hand is better than the alternative.\n\nWhile it has been suggested that strip poker originated in New Orleans in the United States around the same time as original poker in the 19th century, played in brothels, the term is only attested since 1916. Strip poker most likely began as a prank among boys, and as late as the 1930s, the current mixed-gender version was called \"mixed strip poker\" in England to differentiate it from the all-male variety.\n\nStrip poker games are presented in a number of films, including:\n\nStrip poker based television shows include:\n\nStrip poker productions on pay per view or DVD often feature pinup models. Examples include:\nBoth examples featured \"Playboy\" models, World Wrestling Entertainment models and other pinup models in a no-limit Texas Hold'em competition. \"National Lampoon's Strip Poker\" was filmed at the Hedonism II resort in Negril, Jamaica. \"Strip Poker Invitational\" productions were filmed in Las Vegas. Both productions aired on Pay-Per-View in 2005.\n\nStrip poker on music video:\n\nIn 1982, an American computer game company, Artworx, produced a \"Strip Poker\" game for the Apple II computer. It has been ported to many other computers since then, and is still available today. Many others followed. Strip poker is featured as an Easter Egg in the Windows 8 card suite Card Hero.\n\nAs with all forms of poker, strip poker also has variations. Recently, strip poker has been available online. One can visit one of these sites, choose a male or female opponent, and play strip poker. In this game strip poker online or a strip poker web cam game is conducted using virtual chips. The first player pays only for the time spent in the private poker room. Usually this game is played between two players, the girl from the site and the strip poker site visitor. Both players can communicate with each other through web cams. Game rules can be varied; usually the players discuss them before the game begins.\n\n\"Video Strip Games\" is becoming a popular addition to online game websites with the introduction of higher speed internet connections. This includes video: strip poker, blackjack, pool, darts, hangman, etc. The list goes on. This was not really a viable solution to stream the games in the past because of high bandwidth costs and slow performance. Even mobile devices can play video strip games with almost no issues.\n\nMany other games besides poker have \"strip\" variants. In particular, many \"strip mahjong\" video games have been published, especially by Japanese software companies. In 2013, the concept of Strip Sports Betting was launched in the United States by creating live internet broadcasts using models and pornstars who bet on football games and take their clothes off as they lose.\n\n"}
{"id": "4996362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4996362", "title": "Structural pluralism", "text": "Structural pluralism\n\nStructural pluralism is \"the potential for political competition in communities\". The degree of structural pluralism is used to examine how societies are structured, and specifically is a way to explain coverage differences in media markets. Structural pluralism is studied in philosophical, sociological and communication literature.\n\nStructural pluralism is what makes civic community a unique form of civil society (Morton, 2000). Structural pluralism represents the extent to which the community has an open and inclusive structure that permits minority voices and opinions to be heard when citizens and citizen groups are addressing community problems (Young, 1999).\n\nCommunities are discussed in terms of having common institutions, such as governing or other political bodies, religious, educational and economic institutions. These bodies or institutions help to maintain the social order within the community.\n\nThis concept comes from the field of sociology, but prior to that, stems from writings by Hegel (1821) on civic society. This comes also from the functionalist writings of Émile Durkheim and Herbert Spencer (Hindman, 1999).\n\nDurkheim writes that there are two organizating principle types of societies, that most like the premodern communities, called mechanical solidarity in which ethnic and extended families were central; and that called organic solidarity which examines the relationships of interdependence based on other components, such as work, and social organizations (Durkheim, 1933). These are equated to today's rural and urban societies respectively.\n\nOlien, Donohue and Tichenor (1978; Tichenor, Olien, & Donohue, 1980) helped to fold this concept into the communication discipline when they noted that structural pluralism has an effect on the way in which news is presented. Through several studies and publications, they built a model of structural pluralism, and later showed how power relationships work through a systems approach (Donohue, Olien, & Tichenor, 1985; Tichenor, Olien, & Donohue, 1980).\n\nAs media are typically supportive of the social system and institutions, as well as dependent upon them for gaining access to and gathering material that will be useful to the public, they often reflect the power structure of the community. Movements, groups or discussions that are critical of the social structure are often excluded from newspapers in communities where there is a strongly centralized power structure. An example of such a community would be a town in which a significant portion of adults are employed by one business or industry. Criticism of this business or industry may erode the faith of community members in it and lead to social unrest.\n\nInitially the work of the Olien, Tichenor and Donohue camp allowed us to see how diversity in communities is reflected in the reporting style of news organizations. Conflict within communities is more often reported in larger and less homogeneous areas.\n\nHowever, prior to the Olien, Tichenor, Donohue writings came those of Breed (1958) and Paletz, Reichert and McIntyre (1971). In their original pieces, the lack of criticism by the press on central powerholders was discussed.\n\nOther studies of the impact of structural pluralism on journalism have looked shown that women are more often represented in areas that are more ethnically diverse (Armstrong, 2002); that newspapers in more diverse communities will be less likely to ignore protest stories or report them in an abbreviated fashion (Stein, et al., 2003); and others.\n\nStructural pluralism has been discussed in law journals as a paradigmatic shift regarding the privatization of government entities (Roberts, 2001).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38714", "title": "World", "text": "World\n\nThe world is the planet Earth and all life upon it, including human civilization. In a philosophical context, the \"world\" is the whole of the physical Universe, or an ontological world (the \"world\" of an individual). In a theological context, the \"world\" is the material or the profane sphere, as opposed to the celestial, spiritual, transcendent or sacred spheres. \"End of the world\" scenarios refer to the end of human history, often in religious contexts.\n\nThe history of the world is commonly understood as spanning the major geopolitical developments of about five millennia, from the first civilizations to the present. In terms such as world religion, world language, world government, and world war, the term \"world\" suggests an international or intercontinental scope without necessarily implying participation of every part of the world.\n\nThe world population is the sum of all human populations at any time; similarly, the world economy is the sum of the economies of all societies or countries, especially in the context of globalization. Terms such as \"world championship\", \"gross world product\", and \"world flags\" imply the sum or combination of all sovereign states.\n\nThe English word \"world\" comes from the Old English \"weorold (-uld), weorld, worold (-uld, -eld)\", a compound of \"wer\" \"man\" and \"eld\" \"age,\" which thus means roughly \"Age of Man.\"\nThe Old English is a reflex of the Common Germanic \"*wira-alđiz\", also reflected in Old Saxon \"werold\", Old Dutch \"werilt\", Old High German \"weralt\", Old Frisian \"warld\" and Old Norse \"verǫld\" (whence the Icelandic \"veröld\").\n\nThe corresponding word in Latin is \"mundus\", literally \"clean, elegant\", itself a loan translation of Greek \"cosmos\" \"orderly arrangement.\" While the Germanic word thus reflects a mythological notion of a \"domain of Man\" (compare Midgard), presumably as opposed to the divine sphere on the one hand and the chthonic sphere of the underworld on the other, the Greco-Latin term expresses a notion of creation as an act of establishing order out of chaos.\n\n\"World\" distinguishes the entire planet or population from any particular country or region: \"world affairs\" pertain not just to one place but to the whole world, and \"world history\" is a field of history that examines events from a global (rather than a national or a regional) perspective. \"Earth\", on the other hand, refers to the planet as a physical entity, and distinguishes it from other planets and physical objects.\n\n\"World\" was also classically used to mean the material universe, or the cosmos: \"The worlde is an apte frame of heauen and earthe, and all other naturall thinges contained in them.\" The earth was often described as \"the center of the world\".\n\nThe term can also be used attributively, to mean \"global\", or \"relating to the whole world\", forming usages such as world community or world canonical texts.\n\nBy extension, a \"world\" may refer to any planet or heavenly body, especially when it is thought of as inhabited, especially in the context of science fiction or futurology.\n\n\"World\", in its original sense, when qualified, can also refer to a particular domain of human experience.\n\n\nIn philosophy, the term world has several possible meanings. In some contexts, it refers to everything that makes up reality or the physical universe. In others, it can mean have a specific ontological sense (see world disclosure). While clarifying the concept of world has arguably always been among the basic tasks of Western philosophy, this theme appears to have been raised explicitly only at the start of the twentieth century and has been the subject of continuous debate. The question of what the world is has by no means been settled.\n\nThe traditional interpretation of Parmenides' work is that he argued that the everyday perception of reality of the physical world (as described in \"doxa\") is mistaken, and that the reality of the world is 'One Being' (as described in aletheia): an unchanging, ungenerated, indestructible whole.\n\nIn his Allegory of the Cave, Plato distinguishes between forms and ideas and imagines two distinct worlds: the sensible world and the intelligible world.\n\nIn Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's philosophy of history, the expression \"Weltgeschichte ist Weltgericht\" (World History is a tribunal that judges the World) is used to assert the view that History is what judges men, their actions and their opinions. Science is born from the desire to transform the World in relation to Man; its final end is technical application.\n\n\"The World as Will and Representation\" is the central work of Arthur Schopenhauer.\nSchopenhauer saw the human will as our one window to the world behind the representation; the Kantian thing-in-itself. He believed, therefore, that we could gain knowledge about the thing-in-itself, something Kant said was impossible, since the rest of the relationship between representation and thing-in-itself could be understood by analogy to the relationship between human will and human body.\n\nTwo definitions that were both put forward in the 1920s, however, suggest the range of available opinion. \"The world is everything that is the case,\" wrote Ludwig Wittgenstein in his influential \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", first published in 1921. This definition would serve as the basis of logical positivism, with its assumption that there is exactly one world, consisting of the totality of facts, regardless of the interpretations that individual people may make of them.\n\nMartin Heidegger, meanwhile, argued that \"the surrounding world is different for each of us, and notwithstanding that we move about in a common world\". The world, for Heidegger, was that into which we are always already \"thrown\" and with which we, as beings-in-the-world, must come to terms. His conception of \"world disclosure\" was most notably elaborated in his 1927 work \"Being and Time\".\n\nIn response, Sigmund Freud proposed that we do not move about in a common world, but a common thought process. He believed that all the actions of a person are motivated by one thing: lust. This led to numerous theories about reactionary consciousness.\n\nSome philosophers, often inspired by David Lewis, argue that metaphysical concepts such as possibility, probability, and necessity are best analyzed by comparing \"the\" world to a range of possible worlds; a view commonly known as modal realism.\n\nMythological cosmologies often depict the world as centered on an \"axis mundi\" and delimited by a boundary such as a world ocean, a world serpent or similar. In some religions, worldliness (also called carnality) is that which relates to this world as opposed to other worlds or realms.\n\nIn Buddhism, the world means society, as distinct from the monastery. It refers to the material world, and to worldly gain such as wealth, reputation, jobs, and war. The spiritual world would be the path to enlightenment, and changes would be sought in what we could call the psychological realm.\n\nIn Christianity, the term often connotes the concept of the fallen and corrupt world order of human society, in contrast to the World to Come. The world is frequently cited alongside \"the flesh\" and \"the Devil\" as a source of temptation that Christians should flee. Monks speak of striving to be \"\"in\" this world, but not \"of\" this world\"—as Jesus said—and the term \"worldhood\" has been distinguished from \"monkhood\", the former being the status of merchants, princes, and others who deal with \"worldly\" things.\n\nThis view is clearly expressed by king Alfred the Great of England (d. 899) in his famous Preface to the \"Cura Pastoralis\":\nAlthough Hebrew and Greek words meaning \"world\" are used in Scripture with the normal variety of senses, many examples of its use in this particular sense can be found in the teachings of Jesus according to the Gospel of John, e.g. 7:7, 8:23, 12:25, 14:17, 15:18-19, 17:6-25, 18:36. For contrast, a relatively newer concept is Catholic imagination.\n\n\"Contemptus mundi\" is the name given to the recognition that the world, in all its vanity, is nothing more than a futile attempt to hide from God by stifling our desire for the good and the holy. This view has been criticized as a \"pastoral of fear\" by modern historian Jean Delumeau.\n\nDuring the Second Vatican Council, there was a novel attempt to develop a positive theological view of the World, which is illustrated by the pastoral optimism of the constitutions \"Gaudium et spes\", \"Lumen gentium\", \"Unitatis redintegratio\" and \"Dignitatis humanae\".\n\nIn Eastern Christian monasticism or asceticism, the world of mankind is driven by passions. Therefore, the passions of the World are simply called \"the world\". Each of these passions are a link to the world of mankind or order of human society. Each of these passions must be overcome in order for a person to receive salvation (theosis). The process of theosis is a personal relationship with God. This understanding is taught within the works of ascetics like Evagrius Ponticus, and the most seminal ascetic works read most widely by Eastern Christians, the Philokalia and the Ladder of Divine Ascent (the works of Evagrius and John Climacus are also contained within the Philokalia). At the highest level of world transcendence is hesychasm which culminates into the Vision of God.\n\n\"Orbis Catholicus\" is a Latin phrase meaning \"Catholic world\", per the expression Urbi et Orbi, and refers to that area of Christendom under papal supremacy. It is somewhat similar to the phrases secular world, Jewish world and Islamic world.\n\n\"Dunya\" derives from the root word \"dana\" that means to bring near. In that sense, \"dunya\" is \"what is brought near\".\n\nHinduism is an Indian religion and \"dharma\", or a way of life, widely practised in the Indian subcontinent. It includes a number of Indian religious traditions with a loose sense of interconnection, as different from Jainism and Buddhism, and (since medieaval and modern times) Islam and Christianity. Hinduism has been called the oldest religion in the world,\n"}
