{"id": "55657946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55657946", "title": "Adaptation (arts)", "text": "Adaptation (arts)\n\nAn adaptation is a transfer of a work of art from one medium to another.\n\nSome common examples are:\n\nThere is, however, no end to potential media involved in adaptation. Adaptation is the practice of transcoding (changing the code or 'language' used in a medium) as well as the assimilation of a work of art to other cultural, linguistic, semiotic, aesthetic or other norms. Recent approaches to the expanding field Adaptation Studies reflect these expansion of our perspective. Adaptation occurs as a special case of intertextual and intermedial exchange and the copy-paste culture of digital technologies has produced \"new intertextual forms engendered by emerging technologies—mashups, remixes, reboots, samplings, remodelings, transformations— \" that \"further develop the impulse to adapt and appropriate, and the ways in which they challenge the theory and practice of adaptation and appropriation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50388769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50388769", "title": "Animalier school", "text": "Animalier school\n\nAnimalier school or animalier movement was a roughly late 18th century to late 19th century movement and school of art, which took as its subject in various figurative forms the animal kingdom or Kingdom Animalia. The movement predominantly centered around Paris, France, and Italy, with some offshoots in England, Germany, and North America. \n\nSome examples of animalier artists and their subjects are George Stubbs and Jules Moigniez (paintings and sculpture of horses), Antoine-Louis Barye (sculpture of bulls and humans), and Rembrandt Bugatti (felines, human figures, and zoo animals).\n\n Animals as a visual motif were used in ancient art and in tribal art, in animal style art and objects but were not generally represented as figurative, anatomically correct, creatures. The Celtic-Germanic animal style with its \"combination of abstract and organic shapes, of formal discipline and imaginative freedom, became an important element ... in the art of the Dark Ages.\" During the Baroque period in France and England, a 1670 commissioned terracotta model for a sculpture of Louis XIV titled \"Equestrian Statue of Louis XIV\" by Gian Lorenzo Bernini was rejected on the grounds that it was not suitable to the dignity of the king.\n\nThe term animalier was first used by the French press and salon jurors, often as a derogatory term. The Paris salon thought animal subjects too common for fine art, but with the opening of the new Paris Jardin des Plantes zoo and the Ménagerie du Jardin des plantes, interest in animal art increased. The Dukes of Orleans, Luynes, Montpensier, and Nemours were soon to become Barye's patrons. In 1882 Edouard Manet created a portrait in pastel on canvas of the animalier artist Julien de La Rochenoire, which has been owned by the Getty Museum since 2014. The art of George Stubbs became a favorite of collector Paul Mellon, who donated many of Stubbs' paintings to the Yale Center for British Art.\n\nIt has been observed that \"many animal sculptures were modeled in plaster for exhibition and cast later in bronze editions. The size and variety of an edition depended on the popularity of the piece at exhibition, and many Barye, Mêne, and Fratin pieces were so popular that they were cast in very large editions.\"\nArtists of the animalier movement were referred to as \"les animaliers\". Important artists of the animalier movement included Antoine-Louis Barye (1796–1875), Rembrandt Bugatti (1884–1916), George Stubbs (1724–1806), Alfred Dedreux (1810–1860), Christopher Fratin (1801–1864), Alexandre Guionnet, Pierre-Jules Mêne (1810–1879). Rosa Bonheur (1822–1899), Isidore Bonheur (1827–1901), Anna Hyatt Huntington (1876–1973), Paul-Edouard Delabrierre (1829–1912), Alfred Dubucand (1828–1894), Jules Moigniez (1835–1894) and Émile-Coriolan Guillemin (1841–1907).\n\nMany beautiful replicas are made of animalier sculpture, which may be cast or molded in any size and of any material. The most desirable of these are exact in detail and made from the same material, such as cast iron, spelter, or cast bronze, as used in the artist's original sculpture. Most of the original animalier sculptors used the traditional lost wax process of casting prevalent at the time. Alexandre Guionnet was exceptional in that he worked in wood. Modern reproductions of the original sculptures frequently use patinated verdigris cast bronze or iron, or bonded marble resin (pulverized reconstituted marble combined with resin glue), as well as various other materials and techniques, such as a composite of Capiz placuna placenta oyster shells, also known as window oyster shells, which come primarily from the Philippines (where they are known as \"kapiz\").\n"}
{"id": "7396781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7396781", "title": "Apolista", "text": "Apolista\n\nApolista is a native South American nation of western Bolivia. Sedentary farmers, hunters, gatherers and fishers, they spoke an Arawakan languages now gravely endangered, if not extinct. From 1713, they were gathered at a variety of missions with other nations, and rapidly lost their traditional culture to the point that a realistic census count is no longer possible.\n\nThis was taken from ‘Peoples, Nations and Cultures’ by Professor John Mackenzie\n"}
{"id": "37118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37118", "title": "Arabic calligraphy", "text": "Arabic calligraphy\n\nArabic calligraphy is the artistic practice of handwriting and calligraphy based on the Arabic alphabet. It is known in Arabic as \"khatt\" (), derived from the word 'line', 'design', or 'construction'.\nKufic is the oldest form of the Arabic script.\n\nAlthough most Islamic calligraphy is in Arabic and most Arabic calligraphy is Islamic, the two are not identical. Coptic Christian manuscripts in Arabic, for example, may make use of calligraphy. Likewise, there is Islamic calligraphy in Persian.\n\n"}
{"id": "17813978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17813978", "title": "Arvind Sharma", "text": "Arvind Sharma\n\nArvind Sharma is the Birks Professor of Comparative Religion at McGill University. Sharma's works focus on comparative religion, Hinduism, philosophy of religion and the role of women in religion. Some of his more widely read works include \"Our Religions\" and \"Women in World Religions\", which were edited by him. \"Feminism in World Religions\" was selected as a Outstanding Academic Book (1999).\n\nArvind Sharma was born on the 13th of January 1940 in Varanasi, India . Raised in a family that traditionally worked in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), he followed suit and joined the IAS in 1962 after a distinguished academic career. \n\nHe served in the State of Gujarat until 1968, when he moved to the United States to pursue higher studies in economics at the University of Syracuse, obtaining a Masters in economics in 1970. While pursuing the role of non-economic factors in economic development he became interested in religion and joined Harvard Divinity School in 1972. After obtaining a Masters in Theological Studies, concentrating on comparative religion, he earned his PhD from the Department of Sanskrit and Indian Studies in 1978. His doctorate work involved the first ever translation in English of Abhinavagupta's commentary on the Bhagavad Gita.\n\nWhile at Harvard he was recruited in 1976 by the newly founded Department of Studies in Religion at the University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia. In 1980 he moved to the University of Sydney, from where he was hired by McGill University in Canada in 1987. In 1994 he was appointed the Birks Professor of Comparative Religion at McGill University, where he continues to teach as of 2018. \n\nThe archives fonds of Arvind Sharma is held at McGill University Archives (MUA)\n\nArvind Sharma , Faculty of Religious Studies, McGill University, retrieved 2015-04-10.</ref>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10855498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10855498", "title": "Biocultural anthropology", "text": "Biocultural anthropology\n\nBiocultural anthropology can be defined in numerous ways. It is the scientific exploration of the relationships between human biology and culture. \"Instead of looking for the biology underlying biological roots of human behavior, biocultural anthropology attempts to understand how culture affects our biological capacities and limitations.\"\n\nPhysical anthropologists throughout the first half of the 20th century viewed this relationship from a racial perspective; that is, from the assumption that typological human biological differences lead to cultural differences. After World War II the emphasis began to shift toward an effort to explore the role culture plays in shaping human biology. The shift towards understanding the role of culture to human biology led to the development of Dual inheritance theory in the 1960s. In relation to, and following the development of Dual-inheritance theory, biocultural evolution was introduced and first used in the 1970s.\n\n\nBiocultural methods focus on the interactions between humans and their environment to understand human biological adaptation and variation. Contemporary biocultural anthropologists view culture as having several key roles in human biological variation:\n\nWhile biocultural anthropologists are found in many academic anthropology departments, usually as a minority of the faculty, certain departments have placed considerable emphasis on the \"biocultural synthesis\". Historically, this has included Emory University, the University of Alabama, UMass Amherst (especially in biocultural bioarchaeology) , and the University of Washington , each of which built Ph.D. programs around biocultural anthropology; Binghamton University, which has a M.S. program in biomedical anthropology; Oregon State University, University of Kentucky and others. Paul Baker, an anthropologist at Penn State whose work focused upon human adaptation to environmental variations, is credited with having popularized the concept of \"biocultural\" anthropology as a distinct subcategory of anthropology in general. Khongsdier argues that biocultural anthropology is the future of anthropology because it serves as a guiding force towards greater integration of the subdisciplines.\n\nOther anthropologists, both biological and cultural, have criticized the biocultural synthesis, generally as part of a broader critique of \"four-field holism\" in U.S. anthropology (see anthropology main article). Typically such criticisms rest on the belief that biocultural anthropology imposes holism upon the biological and cultural subfields without adding value, or even destructively. For instance, contributors in the edited volume \"Unwrapping the Sacred Bundle: Reflections on the Disciplining of Anthropology\" argued that the biocultural synthesis, and anthropological holism more generally, are artifacts from 19th century social evolutionary thought that inappropriately impose scientific positivism upon cultural anthropology.\n\nSome departments of anthropology have fully split, usually dividing scientific from humanistic anthropologists, such as Stanford's highly publicized 1998 division into departments of \"Cultural and Social Anthropology\" and \"Anthropological Sciences\". Underscoring the continuing controversy, this split is now being reversed over the objections of some faculty. Other departments, such as at Harvard, have distinct biological and sociocultural anthropology \"wings\" not designed to foster cross subdisciplinary interchange.\n\nBiocultural approaches were derived from biology and science yet social theorists are feeling encroached upon. The Biocultural approach has also not been a central concern to anthropologists which is a contributor to the splitting of the approach into sociocultural anthropology and biosocial anthropology. Biocultural research has shown to contain a few challenges to the researcher. \"In general we are much more experienced in measuring the biological than the cultural. It is also difficult to precisely define what is meant by constructs such as socioeconomic status, poverty, rural, and urban. Operationalizing key variables so that they can be measured in ways that are enthnographically valid as well as replicable. Defining and measuring multiple causal pathways.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46862330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46862330", "title": "Book Citation Index", "text": "Book Citation Index\n\nThe Book Citation Index (BCI, BKCI) is an online subscription-based scientific citation indexing service maintained by Clarivate Analytics and is part of the Web of Science Core Collection. It was first launched in 2011 and indexes over 60,000 editorially selected books, starting from 2005. Books in the index are electronic and print scholarly texts that contain articles based on original research and/or reviews of such literature.\n\nThe index covers series and non-series books as long as they include full footnotes and the index has two separate editions, a Science edition and a Social Sciences & Humanities edition. The Science edition covers physics and chemistry, engineering, computing and technology, clinical medicine, life sciences, and agriculture and biology. Currently both series only contain books that date back to 2005.\n\nIn their 2014 book \"Beyond Bibliometrics: Harnessing Multidimensional Indicators of Scholarly Impact\", Blaise Cronin and Cassidy R. Sugimoto noted that \"for impact assessment of book-based fields, bibliometricians need a database with large numbers of books\" and that while the Book Citation Index did meet this need, Google Books also fulfilled this purpose and was not only free, but was (at the time) more comprehensive for bibliometric analyses. A 2013 article in the \"Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology\" remarked on the index's opportunities and limitations. It stated that the \"most significant limitations to this potential application are the high share of publications without address information, the inflation of publication counts, the lack of cumulative citation counts from different hierarchical levels, and inconsistency in citation counts between the cited reference search and the book citation index.\" They also stated that the Book Citation Index was \"a first step toward creating a reliable and necessary citation data source for monographs — a very challenging issue, because, unlike journals and conference proceedings, books have specific requirements, and several problems emerge not only in the context of subject classification, but also in their role as cited publications and in citing publications.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55387572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55387572", "title": "Britain's Lost Masterpieces", "text": "Britain's Lost Masterpieces\n\nBritain's Lost Masterpieces is a factual BBC Four television series that aims to uncover overlooked art masterpieces in public collections, in conjunction with Art UK. It is presented by Bendor Grosvenor and a companion. In series 1 this was Jacky Klein; in series 2, Emma Dabiri. Programmes also feature the art restorer, Simon Rollo Gillespie.\n\nSeries one, comprising three episodes, aired in September—October 2016.\n\nSeries two was aired in September–October 2017. \n"}
{"id": "5517266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5517266", "title": "Buddhist art", "text": "Buddhist art\n\nBuddhist art is the artistic practices that are influenced by Buddhism. It includes art media which depict Buddhas, bodhisattvas, and other entities; notable Buddhist figures, both historical and mythical; narrative scenes from the lives of all of these; mandalas and other graphic aids to practice; as well as physical objects associated with Buddhist practice, such as vajras, bells, stupas and Buddhist temple architecture. Buddhist art originated on the Indian subcontinent following the historical life of Siddhartha Gautama, 6th to 5th century BCE, and thereafter evolved by contact with other cultures as it spread throughout Asia and the world.\n\nBuddhist art followed believers as the dharma spread, adapted, and evolved in each new host country. It developed to the north through Central Asia and into Eastern Asia to form the Northern branch of Buddhist art, and to the east as far as Southeast Asia to form the Southern branch of Buddhist art. In India, Buddhist art flourished and co-developed with Hindu and Jain art, with cave temple complexes built together, each likely influencing the other.\n\nDuring the 2nd to 1st century BCE, sculptures became more explicit, representing episodes of the Buddha’s life and teachings. These took the form of votive tablets or friezes, usually in relation to the decoration of stupas.\nAlthough India had a long sculptural tradition and a mastery of rich iconography, the Buddha was never represented in human form, but only through Buddhist symbolism. This period may have been aniconic.\n\nArtists were reluctant to depict the Buddha anthropomorphically, and developed sophisticated aniconic symbols to avoid doing so (even in narrative scenes where other human figures would appear). This tendency remained as late as the 2nd century CE in the southern parts of India, in the art of the Amaravati School (see: Mara's assault on the Buddha).\nIt has been argued that earlier anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha may have been made of wood and may have perished since then. However, no related archaeological evidence has been found.\n\nThe earliest works of Buddhist art in India date back to the 1st century BCE The\nMahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya became a model for similar structures in Burma\nand Indonesia. The frescoes at Sigiriya are said to be even older than the\nAjanta Caves paintings.\n\nAnthropomorphic representations of the Buddha started to emerge from the 1st century CE in Northern India. The two main centers of creation have been identified as Gandhara in today’s North West Frontier Province, in Pakistan, and the region of Mathura, in central northern India.\n\nHellenistic culture was introduced in Gandhara during the conquests of Alexander the Great in 332 BCE. Chandragupta Maurya (reign: 321–298 BCE), founder of the Mauryan Empire, conquered the Macedonian satraps during the Seleucid-Mauryan War of 305–303 BCE. Chandragupta's grandson Ashoka (reign: 268-232 BCE), who formed the largest Empire in the Indian subcontinent, converted to Buddhism following the Kalinga War. Abandoning an expansionist ideology, Ashoka worked to spread the religion and philosophy throughout his empire as described in the edicts of Ashoka. Ashoka claims to have converted the Greek populations within his realm to Buddhism:\n\nAfter the overthrow of the Mauryan Empire by the Shunga Empire, the Greco-Bactrian and subsequently the Indo-Greek Kingdoms invaded north-western India. They facilitated the spread of Greco-Buddhist art style to other parts of the subcontinent. The Indo-Greek King Menander I was renown as a great patron of Buddhism, attaining the title of an arhat. Meanwhile Pushyamitra Shunga persecuted Buddhism, presumably to further erase the legacy of the Mauryan Empire. This led to the decline of Buddhist art east of Mathura.\n\nGandharan Buddhist sculpture displays Hellenistic artistic influence in the forms of human figures and ornament. Figures were much larger than any known from India previously, and also more naturalistic, and new details included wavy hair, drapery covering both shoulders, shoes and sandals, and acanthus leaf ornament.\nThe art of Mathura tends to be based on an Indian tradition, exemplified by the anthropomorphic representation of divinities such as the Yaksas, although in a style rather archaic compared to the later representations of the Buddha. The Mathuran school contributed clothes covering the left shoulder of thin muslin, the wheel on the palm, the lotus seat.\n\nMathura and Gandhara also influenced each other. During their artistic florescence, the two regions were even united politically under the Kushans, both being capitals of the empire. It is still a matter of debate whether the anthropomorphic representations of Buddha was essentially a result of a local evolution of Buddhist art at Mathura, or a consequence of Greek cultural influence in Gandhara through the Greco-Buddhist syncretism.\n\nThis iconic art was characterized from the start by a realistic idealism, combining realistic human features, proportions, attitudes and attributes, together with a sense of perfection and serenity reaching to the divine. This expression of the Buddha as both man and God became the iconographic canon for subsequent Buddhist art.\n\nRemains of early Buddhist painting in India are vanishingly rare, with the later phases of the Ajanta Caves giving the great majority of surviving work, created over a relatively short up to about 480 CE. These are highly sophisticated works, evidently produced in a well-developed tradition, probably painting secular work in palaces as much as religious subjects.\n\nBuddhist art continued to develop in India for a few more centuries. The pink sandstone sculptures of Mathura evolved during the Gupta period (4th to 6th century CE) to reach a very high fineness of execution and delicacy in the modeling. The art of the Gupta school was extremely influential almost everywhere in the rest of Asia. At the end of the 12th century CE, Buddhism in its full glory came to be preserved only in the Himalayan regions in India. These areas, helped by their location, were in greater contact with Tibet and China - for example the art and traditions of Ladakh bear the stamp of Tibetan and Chinese influence.\n\nAs Buddhism expanded outside of India from the 1st century CE, its original artistic package blended with other artistic influences, leading to a progressive differentiation among the countries adopting the faith.\n\nThe Silk Road transmission of Buddhism to Central Asia, China and ultimately Korea and Japan started in the 1st century CE with a semi-legendary account of an embassy sent to the West by the Chinese Emperor Ming (58-75 AD). However, extensive contacts started in the 2nd century CE, probably as a consequence of the expansion of the Kushan Empire into the Chinese territory of the Tarim Basin, with the missionary efforts of a great number of Central Asian Buddhist monks to Chinese lands. The first missionaries and translators of Buddhists scriptures into Chinese, such as Lokaksema, were either Parthian, Kushan, Sogdian or Kuchean.\n\nCentral Asian missionary efforts along the Silk Road were accompanied by a flux of artistic influences, visible in the development of Serindian art from the 2nd through the 11th century in the Tarim Basin, modern Xinjiang. Serindian art often derives from the Greco-Buddhist art of the Gandhara district of what is now Pakistan, combining Indian, Greek and Roman influences. Silk Road Greco-Buddhist artistic influences can be found as far as Japan to this day, in architectural motifs, Buddhist imagery, and a select few representations of Japanese gods.\n\nThe art of the northern route was also highly influenced by the development of Mahāyāna Buddhism, an inclusive branch of Buddhism characterized by the adoption of new texts, in addition to the traditional āgamas, and a shift in the understanding of Buddhism. Mahāyāna goes beyond the traditional Early Buddhist ideal of the release from suffering (duḥkha) of arhats, and emphasizes the bodhisattva path. The Mahāyāna sutras elevate the Buddha to a transcendent and infinite being, and feature a pantheon of bodhisattvas devoting themselves to the Six Perfections, ultimate knowledge (Prajñāpāramitā), enlightenment, and the liberation of all sentient beings. Northern Buddhist art thus tends to be characterized by a very rich and syncretic Buddhist pantheon, with a multitude of images of the various buddhas, bodhisattvas, and heavenly beings (devas).\n\nBuddhist art in Afghanistan (old Bactria) persisted for several centuries until the spread of Islam in the 7th century. It is exemplified by the Buddhas of Bamyan. Other sculptures, in stucco, schist or clay, display very strong blending of Indian post-Gupta mannerism and Classical influence, Hellenistic or possibly even Greco-Roman.\n\nAlthough Islamic rule was somewhat tolerant of other religions \"of the Book\", it showed little tolerance for Buddhism, which was perceived as a religion depending on \"idolatry\". Human figurative art forms also being prohibited under Islam, Buddhist art suffered numerous attacks, which culminated with the systematic destructions by the Taliban regime. The Buddhas of Bamyan, the sculptures of Hadda, and many of the remaining artifacts at the Afghanistan museum have been destroyed.\n\nThe multiple conflicts since the 1980s also have led to a systematic pillage of archaeological sites apparently in the hope of reselling in the international market what artifacts could be found.\n\nCentral Asia long played the role of a meeting place between China, India and Persia. During the 2nd century BCE, the expansion of the Former Han to the West led to increased contact with the Hellenistic civilizations of Asia, especially the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom.\n\nThereafter, the expansion of Buddhism to the North led to the formation of Buddhist communities and even Buddhist kingdoms in the oasis of Central Asia. Some Silk Road cities consisted almost entirely of Buddhist stupas and monasteries, and it seems that one of their main objectives was to welcome and service travelers between East and West.\n\nThe eastern part of Central Asia (Chinese Turkestan (Tarim Basin, Xinjiang) in particular has revealed an extremely rich Serindian art (wall paintings and reliefs in numerous caves, portable paintings on canvas, sculpture, ritual objects), displaying multiple influences from Indian and Hellenistic cultures. Works of art reminiscent of the Gandharan style, as well as scriptures in the Gandhari script Kharoshti have been found. These influences were rapidly absorbed however by the vigorous Chinese culture, and a strongly Chinese particularism develops from that point.\n\nBuddhism arrived in China around the 1st century CE, and introduced new types of art into China, particularly in the area of statuary. Receiving this distant religion, strong Chinese traits were incorporated into Buddhist art.\nIn the 5th to 6th centuries, the Northern Dynasties developed rather symbolic and abstract modes of representation, with schematic lines. Their style is also said to be solemn and majestic. The lack of corporeality of this art, and its distance from the original Buddhist objective of expressing the pure ideal of enlightenment in an accessible and realistic manner, progressively led to a change towards more naturalism and realism, leading to the expression of Tang Buddhist art.\n\nSites preserving Northern Wei Dynasty Buddhist sculpture:\n\nFollowing a transition under the Sui Dynasty, Buddhist sculpture of the Tang evolved towards a markedly lifelike expression. Because of the dynasty's openness to foreign influences, and renewed exchanges with Indian culture due to the numerous travels of Chinese Buddhist monks to India, Tang dynasty Buddhist sculpture assumed a rather classical form, inspired by the Indian art of the Gupta period. During that time, the Tang capital of Chang'an (today's Xi'an) became an important center for Buddhism. From there Buddhism spread to Korea, and Japanese missions to Tang China helped it gain a foothold in Japan.\n\nHowever, foreign influences came to be negatively perceived in China towards the end of the Tang dynasty. In the year 845, the Tang emperor Wuzong outlawed all \"foreign\" religions (including Christian Nestorianism, Zoroastrianism and Buddhism) in order to support the indigenous religion, Taoism. He confiscated Buddhist possessions, and forced the faith to go underground, therefore affecting the development of the religion and its arts in China.\n\nChán Buddhism however, as the origin of Japanese Zen, continued to prosper for some centuries, especially under the Song Dynasty (960-1279), when Chan monasteries were great centers of culture and learning.\n\nEarly paintings by Chán monks tended to eschew the meticulous realism of Gongbi painting in favour of vigorous, monochrome paintings, attempting to express the impact of enlightenment through their brushwork.\n\nThe rise of Neo-Confucianism under Zhu Xi in the twelfth century resulted in considerable criticism of the monk-painters. Connected as they were with the then-unpopular school of Chan Buddhism, their paintings were discarded and ignored. Some paintings survived after being transported to Japan by visiting Zen monks, but the school of Chan painting gradually diminished.\n\nDuring the Qing Dynasty, Manchu emperors supported Buddhist practices for a range of political and personal reasons. The Shunzhi Emperor was a devotee of Chan Buddhism, while his successor, the Kangxi Emperor promoted Tibetan Buddhism, claiming to be the human embodiment of the bodhisattva Manjusri. However, it was under the rule of the third Qing ruler, the Qianlong Emperor, that imperial patronage of the Buddhist arts reached its height in this period. He commissioned a vast number of religious works in the Tibetan style, many of which depicted him in various sacred guises.\n\nWorks of art produced during this period are characterized by a unique fusion of Tibetan and Chinese artistic approaches. They combine a characteristically Tibetan attention to iconographic detail with Chinese-inspired decorative elements. Inscriptions are often written in Chinese, Manchu, Tibetan, Mongolian and Sanskrit, while paintings are frequently rendered in vibrant colors.\n\nAdditionally, the Qianlong Emperor initiated a number of large-scale construction projects; in 1744 he rededicated the Yonghe Temple as Beijing's main Tibetan Buddhist monastery, donating a number of valuable religious paintings, sculptures, textiles and inscriptions to the temple. The Xumi Fushou Temple, and the works housed within, is another project commissioned by the Qianlong Emperor that embodies the unique blend of Tibetan and Manchu artistic styles that characterized Buddhist art produced in China under Qianlong's reign.\n\nAfter the Qianlong Emperor's abdication in 1795, the popularity of Tibetan Buddhism at the Qing court declined. The motives behind the Qing emperors' promotion of Tibetan Buddhism have been interpreted as a calculated act of political manipulation, and a means of forging ties between Manchu, Mongolian, and Tibetan communities, though this has been challenged by recent scholarship.\n\nThe popularization of Buddhism in China has made the country home to one of the richest collections of Buddhist arts in the world. The Mogao Caves near Dunhuang and the Bingling Temple caves near Yongjing in Gansu province, the Longmen Grottoes near Luoyang in Henan province, the Yungang Grottoes near Datong in Shanxi province, and the Dazu Rock Carvings near Chongqing municipality are among the most important and renowned Buddhist sculptural sites. The Leshan Giant Buddha, carved out of a hillside in the 8th century during the Tang Dynasty and looking down on the confluence of three rivers, is still the largest stone Buddha statue in the world.\n\nKorean Buddhist art generally reflects an interaction between other Buddhist influences and a strongly original Korean culture. Additionally, the art of the steppes, particularly Siberian and Scythian influences, are evident in early Korean Buddhist art based on the excavation of artifacts and burial goods such as Silla royal crowns, belt buckles, daggers, and comma-shaped gogok. The style of this indigenous art was geometric, abstract and richly adorned with a . Although many other influences were strong, Korean Buddhist art, \"bespeaks a sobriety, taste for the right tone, a sense of abstraction but also of colours that curiously enough are in line with contemporary taste\" (Pierre Cambon, \"Arts asiatiques- Guimet\"').\n\nThe first of the Three Kingdoms of Korea to officially receive Buddhism was Goguryeo in 372. However, Chinese records and the use of Buddhist motifs in Goguryeo murals indicate the introduction of Buddhism earlier than the official date. The Baekje Kingdom officially recognized Buddhism in 384. The Silla Kingdom, isolated and with no easy sea or land access to China, officially adopted Buddhism in 535 although the foreign religion was known in the kingdom due to the work of Goguryeo monks since the early 5th century. The introduction of Buddhism stimulated the need for artisans to create images for veneration, architects for temples, and the literate for the Buddhist sutras and transformed Korean civilization. Particularly important in the transmission of sophisticated art styles to the Korean kingdoms was the art of the \"barbarian\" Tuoba, a clan of non-Han Chinese Xianbei people who established the Northern Wei Dynasty in China in 386. The Northern Wei style was particularly influential in the art of the Goguryeo and Baekje. Baekje artisans later transmitted this style along with Southern Dynasty elements and distinct Korean elements to Japan. Korean artisans were highly selective of the styles they incorporated and combined different regional styles together to create a specific Korean Buddhist art style.\nWhile Goguryeo Buddhist art exhibited vitality and mobility akin with Northern Wei prototypes, the Baekje Kingdom was also in close contact with the Southern Dynasties of China and this close diplomatic contact is exemplified in the gentle and proportional sculpture of the Baekje, epitomized by Baekje sculpture exhibiting the fathomless smile known to art historians as the Baekje smile. The Silla Kingdom also developed a distinctive Buddhist art tradition epitomized by the Bangasayusang, a half-seated contemplative maitreya whose Korean-made twin, the Miroku Bosatsu, was sent to Japan as a proselytizing gift and now resides in the Koryu-ji Temple in Japan. Buddhism in the Three Kingdoms period stimulated massive temple-building projects, such as the Mireuksa Temple in the Baekje Kingdom and the Hwangnyongsa Temple in Silla. Baekje architects were famed for their skill and were instrumental in building the massive nine-story pagoda at Hwangnyongsa and early Buddhist temples in Yamato Japan such as Hōkō-ji (Asuka-dera) and Hōryū-ji. 6th century Korean Buddhist art exhibited the cultural influences of China and India but began to show distinctive indigenous characteristics. These indigenous characteristics can be seen in early Buddhist art in Japan and some early Japanese Buddhist sculpture is now believed to have originated in Korea, particularly from Baekje, or Korean artisans who immigrated to Yamato Japan. Particularly, the semi-seated Maitreya form was adapted into a highly developed Korean style which was transmitted to Japan as evidenced by the Koryu-ji Miroku Bosatsu and the Chugu-ji Siddhartha statues. Although many historians portray Korea as a mere transmitter of Buddhism, the Three Kingdoms, and particularly Baekje, were instrumental as active agents in the introduction and formation of a Buddhist tradition in Japan in 538 or 552.\n\nDuring the Unified Silla period, East Asia was particularly stable with China and Korea both enjoying unified governments. Early Unified Silla art combined Silla styles and Baekje styles. Korean Buddhist art was also influenced by new Tang Dynasty styles as evidenced by a new popular Buddhist motif with full-faced Buddha sculptures. Tang China was the cross roads of East, Central, and South Asia and so the Buddhist art of this time period exhibit the so-called international style. State-sponsored Buddhist art flourished during this period, the epitome of which is the Seokguram Grotto.\n\nThe fall of the Unified Silla Dynasty and the establishment of the Goryeo Dynasty in 918 indicates a new period of Korean Buddhist art. The Goryeo kings also lavishly sponsored Buddhism and Buddhist art flourished, especially Buddhist paintings and illuminated sutras written in gold and silver ink. . The crowning achievement of this period is the carving of approximately 80,000 woodblocks of the Tripitaka Koreana which was done twice.\n\nThe Joseon Dynasty actively suppressed Buddhism beginning in 1406 and Buddhist temples and art production subsequently decline in quality in quantity although beginning in 1549, Buddhist art does continue to be produced. .\n\nBefore the introduction of Buddhism, Japan had already been the seat of various cultural (and artistic) influences, from the abstract linear decorative art of the indigenous Neolithic Jōmon from around 10500 BC to 300 BC, to the art during the Yayoi and Kofun periods, with developments such as Haniwa art.\n\nThe cultural exchange between India and Japan was not direct, as Japan received Buddhism through Korea, China, Central Asia and eventually India. The Japanese discovered Buddhism in the 6th century when missionary monks travelled to the islands together with numerous scriptures and works of art. The cultural contact between Indian Dharmic civilization and Japan through the adoption of Buddhist ideas and aesthetic has contributed to the development of a national cultural order in the subsequent century. The Buddhist religion was adopted by the state in the following century. Being geographically at the end of the Silk Road, Japan was able to preserve many aspects of Buddhism at the very time it was disappearing in India, and being suppressed in Central Asia and China.\n\nFrom 711, numerous temples and monasteries were built in the capital city of Nara, including a five-story pagoda, the Golden Hall of the Horyuji, and the Kōfuku-ji temple. Countless paintings and sculptures were made, often under governmental sponsorship. Indian, Hellenistic, Chinese and Korean artistic influences blended into an original style characterized by realism and gracefulness. The creation of Japanese Buddhist art was especially rich between the 8th and 13th centuries during the periods of Nara, Heian and Kamakura.\nJapan developed an extremely rich figurative art for the pantheon of Buddhist deities, sometimes combined with Hindu and Shinto influences. This art can be very varied, creative and bold.\n\nFrom the 12th and 13th, a further development was Zen art, and it faces golden days in Muromachi Period, following the introduction of the faith by Dogen and Eisai upon their return from China. Zen art is mainly characterized by original paintings (such as sumi-e) and poetry (especially haikus), striving to express the true essence of the world through impressionistic and unadorned \"non-dualistic\" representations. The search for enlightenment \"in the moment\" also led to the development of other important derivative arts such as the Chanoyu tea ceremony or the Ikebana art of flower arrangement. This evolution went as far as considering almost any human activity as an art with a strong spiritual and aesthetic content, first and foremost in those activities related to combat techniques (martial arts).\n\nBuddhism remains very active in Japan to this day. Still around 80,000 Buddhist temples are preserved. Many of them are in wood and are regularly restored.\n\nTantric Buddhism started as a movement in eastern India around the 5th or the 6th century. Many of the practices of Tantric Buddhism are derived from Brahmanism (the usage of mantras, yoga, or the burning of sacrificial offerings). Tantrism became the dominant form of Buddhism in Tibet from the 8th century. Due to its geographical centrality in Asia, Tibetan Buddhist art received influence from Indian, Nepali, Greco-Buddhist and Chinese art.\n\nOne of the most characteristic creations of Tibetan Buddhist art are the mandalas, diagrams of a \"divine temple\" made of a circle enclosing a square, the purpose of which is to help Buddhist devotees focus their attention through meditation and follow the path to the central image of the Buddha.\nArtistically, Buddhist Gupta art and Hindu art tend to be the two strongest inspirations of Tibetan art.\n\nIn 10th to 11th centuries, Tabo Monastery in Himachal Pradesh, Northern India (at that time part of Western Tibet Kingdom) serves an important role as an intermediary between India and Tibet cultural exchange, especially Buddhist art and philosophy. Notable example of Tibetan Buddhist art in Tabo is its exquisite frescoes.\n\nChinese influence was predominant in the north of Vietnam (Tonkin) between the 1st and 9th centuries, and Confucianism and Mahayana Buddhism were prevalent. Overall, the art of Vietnam has been strongly influenced by Chinese Buddhist art.\n\nIn the south thrived the former kingdom of Champa (before it was later overtaken by the Vietnamese from the north). Champa had a strongly Indianized art, just as neighboring Cambodia. Many of its statues were characterized by rich body adornments. The capital of the kingdom of Champa was annexed by Vietnam in 1471, and it totally collapsed in the 1720s, while Cham people remain an abundant minority across Southeast Asia.\n\nThe orthodox forms of Buddhism, also known as Southern Buddhism are still practised in Sri Lanka, Myanmar (Burma), Thailand, Laos, and Cambodia. During the 1st century CE, the trade on the overland Silk Road tended to be restricted by the rise of the Parthian empire in the Middle East, an unvanquished enemy of Rome, just as Romans were becoming extremely wealthy and their demand for Asian luxury was rising. This demand revived the sea connections between the Mediterranean Sea and China, with India as the intermediary of choice. From that time, through trade connections, commercial settlements, and even political interventions, India started to strongly influence Southeast Asian countries. Trade routes linked India with southern Burma, central and southern Siam, lower Cambodia and southern Vietnam, and numerous urbanized coastal settlements were established there.\nFor more than a thousand years, Indian influence was therefore the major factor that brought a certain level of cultural unity to the various countries of the region. The Pali and Sanskrit languages and the Indian script, together with Mahayana and Theravada Buddhism, Brahmanism and Hinduism, were transmitted from direct contact and through sacred texts and Indian literature such as the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. This expansion provided the artistic context for the development of Buddhist art in these countries, which then developed characteristics of their own.\n\nBetween the 1st and 8th centuries, several kingdoms competed for influence in the region (particularly the Cambodian Funan then the Burmese Mon kingdoms) contributing various artistic characteristics, mainly derived from the Indian Gupta style. Combined with a pervading Hindu influence, Buddhist images, votive tablets and Sanskrit inscriptions are found throughout the area. Between 8th- and 12th-century, under the patronage of Pala dynasty, arts and ideas of Buddhism and Hinduism co-developed and became increasingly intermeshed. However, with Muslim invasion and sacking of monasteries in India, states Richard Blurton, \"Buddhism collapsed as a major force in India\".\n\nBy the 8th to 9th century, Sailendran Buddhist art were developed and flourished in Medang Mataram kingdom of Central Java, Indonesia. This period marked the renaissance of Buddhist art in Java, as numerous exquisite monuments were built, including Kalasan, Manjusrigrha, Mendut and Borobudur stone mandala. The traditions would continue to the 13th century Singhasari Buddhist art of East Java.\n\nFrom the 9th to the 13th centuries, Southeast Asia had very powerful empires and became extremely active in Buddhist architectural and artistic creation. The Sri Vijaya Empire to the south and the Khmer Empire to the north competed for influence, but both were adherents of Mahayana Buddhism, and their art expressed the rich Mahayana pantheon of the Bodhisattvas.\nThe Theravada Buddhism of the Pali canon was introduced to the region around the 13th century from Sri Lanka, and was adopted by the newly founded ethnic Thai kingdom of Sukhothai. Since in Theravada Buddhism of the period, Monasteries typically were the central places for the laity of the towns to receive instruction and have disputes arbitrated by the monks, the construction of temple complexes plays a particularly important role in the artistic expression of Southeast Asia from that time.\n\nFrom the 14th century, the main factor was the spread of Islam to the maritime areas of Southeast Asia, overrunning Malaysia, Indonesia, and most of the islands as far as the Southern Philippines. In the continental areas, Theravada Buddhism continued to expand into Burma, Laos and Cambodia.\n\nAccording to tradition, Buddhism was introduced in Sri Lanka in the 3rd century BCE by Indian missionaries under the guidance of Thera Mahinda, the son of the Mauryan Emperor Ashoka. Prior to the expansion of Buddhism, the indigenous population of Sri Lanka lived in an animistic world full of superstition. The assimilation and conversion of the various pre-Buddhist beliefs was a slow process. In order to gain a foothold among the rural population, Buddhism needed to assimilate the various categories of spirits and other supernatural beliefs. The earliest monastic complex was the Mahāvihāra at Anurādhapura founded by Devānampiyatissa and presented to Mahinda Thera. The Mahāvihāra became the centre of the orthodox Theravāda doctrine and its supreme position remained unchallenged until the foundation of the Abhayagiri Vihāra around BC 89 by Vaţţagāmaņĩ.\n\nThe Abhayagiri Vihāra became the seat of the reformed Mahāyāna doctrines. The rivalry between the monks of the Mahāvihāra and the Abhayagiri led to a further split and the foundation of the Jetavanarama near the Mahāvihāra. The main feature of Sinhala Buddhism was its division into three major groups, or \"nikāyas\", named after the three main monastic complexes at Anurādhapura; the Mahāvihāra, the Abhayagiri, and the Jetavanārāma. This was the result in the deviations in the disciplinary rules \"(vinaya)\" and doctrinal disputes. All the other monasteries of Sri Lanka owed ecclesiastical allegiance to one of the three. Sri Lanka is famous for its creations of Buddhist sculptures made of stone and cast in bronze alloy.\n\nA neighbor of India, Myanmar (Burma) was naturally strongly influenced by the eastern part of Indian territory. The Mon of southern Burma are said to have been converted to Buddhism around 200 BC under the proselytizing of the Indian king Ashoka, before the schism between Mahayana and Hinayana Buddhism.\n\nEarly Buddhist temples are found, such as Beikthano in central Myanmar, with dates between the 1st and the 5th centuries. The Buddhist art of the Mons was especially influenced by the Indian art of the Gupta and post-Gupta periods, and their mannerist style spread widely in Southeast Asia following the expansion of the Mon Empire between the 5th and 8th centuries.\n\nLater, thousands of Buddhist temples were built at Bagan, the capital, between the 11th and 13th centuries, and around 2,000 of them are still standing. Beautiful jeweled statues of the Buddha are remaining from that period. Creation managed to continue despite the seizure of the city by the Mongols in 1287.\n\nDuring the Ava period, from the 14th to 16th centuries, the Ava (Innwa) style of the Buddha image was popular. In this style, the Buddha has large protruding ears, exaggerated eyebrows that curve upward, half-closed eyes, thin lips and a hair bun that is pointed at the top, usually depicted in the bhumisparsa mudra.\n\nDuring the Konbaung dynasty, at the end of the 18th century, the Mandalay style of the Buddha image emerged, a style that remains popular to this day. There was a marked departure from the Innwa style, and the Buddha's face is much more natural, fleshy, with naturally-slanted eyebrows, slightly slanted eyes, thicker lips, and a round hair bun at the top. Buddha images in this style can be found reclining, standing or sitting. Mandalay-style Buddhas wear flowing, draped robes.\n\nAnother common style of Buddha images is the Shan style, from the Shan people, who inhabit the highlands of Myanmar. In this style, the Buddha is depicted with angular features, a large and prominently pointed nose, a hair bun tied similar to Thai styles, and a small, thin mouth.\n\nCambodia was the center of the Funan kingdom, which expanded into Burma and as far south as Malaysia between the 3rd and 6th centuries. Its influence seems to have been essentially political, most of the cultural influence coming directly from India.\n\nLater, from the 9th to 13th centuries, the Mahayana Buddhist and Hindu Khmer Empire dominated vast parts of the Southeast Asian peninsula, and its influence was foremost in the development of Buddhist art in the region. Under the Khmer, more than 900 temples were built in Cambodia and in neighboring Thailand. The royal patronage for Khmer Buddhist art reached its new height with the patronage of Jayavarman VII, a Buddhist king that built Angkor Thom walled city, adorned with the smiling face of Lokeshvara in Angkor Thom \"dvaras\" (gates) and \"prasat\" towers Bayon. Angkor was at the center of this development, with a Buddhist temple complex and urban organization able to support around 1 million urban dwellers. A great deal of Cambodian Buddhist sculpture is preserved at Angkor; however, organized looting has had a heavy impact on many sites around the country.\n\nOften, Khmer art manages to express intense spirituality through divinely beaming expressions, in spite of spare features and slender lines.\n\nThe Thai Buddhist art encompasses period for more than a millennia, from pre Thai culture of Dvaravati and Srivijaya, to the first Thai capital of Thai 13th century Sukhothai, all the way to succeeding Thai kingdoms of Ayutthaya and Rattanakosin.\n\nFrom the 1st to the 7th centuries, Buddhist art in Thailand was first influenced by direct contact with Indian traders and the expansion of the Mon kingdom, leading to the creation of Hindu and Buddhist art inspired from the Gupta tradition, with numerous monumental statues of great virtuosity.\n\nFrom the 9th century, the various schools of Thai art then became strongly influenced by Cambodian Khmer art in the north and Sri Vijaya art in the south, both of Mahayana faith. Up to the end of that period, Buddhist art is characterized by a clear fluidness in the expression, and the subject matter is characteristic of the Mahayana pantheon with multiple creations of Bodhisattvas.\n\nFrom the 13th century, Theravada Buddhism was introduced from Sri Lanka around the same time as the ethnic Thai kingdom of Sukhothai was established. The new faith inspired highly stylized images in Thai Buddhism, with sometimes very geometrical and almost abstract figures.\n\nDuring the Ayutthaya period (14th-18th centuries), the Buddha came to be represented in a more stylistic manner with sumptuous garments and jeweled ornamentations. Many Thai sculptures or temples tended to be gilded, and on occasion enriched with inlays.\n\nThe ensuing period of Thonburi and Rattanakosin Kingdom saw the further development of Thai Buddhist art. By the 18th century, Bangkok was established as the royal center of the kingdom of Siam. Subsequently, the Thai rulers filled the city with imposing Buddhist monuments to demonstrate their Buddhist piety as well as to showcase their authority. Among others are the celebrated Wat Phra Kaew which hosts the Emerald Buddha. Other Buddhist temples in Bangkok includes Wat Arun with \"prang\" style towers, and Wat Pho with its famous image of Reclining Buddha.\n\nLike the rest of Southeast Asia, Indonesia seems to have been most strongly influenced by India from the 1st century CE. The islands of Sumatra and Java in western Indonesia were the seat of the empire of Sri Vijaya (8th-13th century), which came to dominate most of the area around the Southeast Asian peninsula through maritime power. The Sri Vijayan Empire had adopted Mahayana and Vajrayana Buddhism, under a line of rulers named the Sailendra. The Sailendras was the ardent temple builder and the devoted patron of Buddhism in Java. Sri Vijaya spread Mahayana Buddhist art during its expansion into the Southeast Asian peninsula. Numerous statues of Mahayana Bodhisattvas from this period are characterized by a very strong refinement and technical sophistication, and are found throughout the region. One of the earliest Buddhist inscription in Java, the Kalasan inscription dated 778, mentioned about the construction of a temple for the goddess Tara.\nExtremely rich and refined architectural remains are found in Java and Sumatra. The most magnificent is the temple of Borobudur (the largest Buddhist structure in the world, built around 780-850 AD), built by Sailendras. This temple is modelled after the Buddhist concept of universe, the Mandala which counts 505 images of the seated Buddha and unique bell-shaped stupa that contains the statue of Buddha. Borobudur is adorned with long series of bas-reliefs narrated the holy Buddhist scriptures. The oldest Buddhist structure in Indonesia probably is the Batujaya stupas at Karawang, West Java, dated from around the 4th century. This temple is some plastered brick stupas. However, Buddhist art in Indonesia reach the golden era during the Sailendra dynasty rule in Java. The bas-reliefs and statues of Boddhisatva, Tara, and Kinnara found in Kalasan, Sewu, Sari, and Plaosan temple is very graceful with serene expression, While Mendut temple near Borobudur, houses the giant statue of Vairocana, Avalokitesvara, and Vajrapani.\n\nIn Sumatra Sri Vijaya probably built the temple of Muara Takus, and Muaro Jambi. The most beautiful example of classical Javanese Buddhist art is the serene and delicate statue of Prajnaparamita (the collection of National Museum Jakarta) the goddess of transcendental wisdom from Singhasari kingdom. The Indonesian Buddhist Empire of Sri Vijaya declined due to conflicts with the Chola rulers of India, then followed by Majapahit empire.\n\nMany contemporary artists have made use of Buddhist themes. Notable examples are Bill Viola, in his video installations, John Connell, in sculpture, and Allan Graham in his multi-media \"Time is Memory\".\n\nIn the UK The Network of Buddhist Organisations has interested itself in identifying Buddhist practitioners across all the arts. In 2005 it co-ordinated the UK-wide Buddhist arts festival, \"A Lotus in Flower\"; in 2009 it helped organise the two-day arts conference, \"Buddha Mind, Creative Mind\". As a result of the latter an association of Buddhist artists was formed.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34569610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34569610", "title": "Chonga", "text": "Chonga\n\nChonga is a Spanish-derived term used especially in South Florida, often to indicate a working-class, sexualized, aggressive, and emotionally expressive young woman.\n\nChongas are also a distinct subculture, believed to have developed in Miami in the late 20th century. Members are typically young, working-class Latina women. In South Florida the term is usually considered a pejorative, though some young women are proud to identify themselves as such. While feminist scholarship on chongas is limited, early work by gender studies scholar Jillian Hernandez has suggested that the chonga identity is an \"emerging icon\", and that it can be empowering for working-class women.\n\nThe intended meaning of the term \"chonga\" varies depending on the context in which it is used. The most specific meaning of the term denotes a member of the chonga subculture—young, usually working class and Latina women—who dress and often act in a sexualized, brash, sometimes aggressive manner. The term also has three looser meanings: as a synonym for prostitute; to refer to a woman who acts \"gangsta\" or in a thug like manner; and among female friends, as a jovial way to greet each other, as an alternative to \"girlfriend!\"\n\nUsage of the term to refer to young women is believed to have arisen in Miami, and only became prominent in the early 21st century. The same word has long been used in Latin American countries such as Peru and Ecuador to refer to a brothel; the modern US usage of the word may be related to this, or might have arisen independently among Floridian Cuban-Americans. \n\n\"Chonga\" has lexical similarities with several other Spanish terms, some of which have been in use for centuries. These include: \n\nAccording to the journalist Tamara Lush, Chonga subculture may have first appeared in Miami during the 1980s. Early chongas were usually Cuban teenagers whose parents had recently immigrated to the US. In the 1990s, chongas often wore white shorts with a colored thong underneath, basketball jerseys, and fake gold jewelry. Over the years the style evolved, with for instance tight jeans becoming more popular than shorts.\n\n21st-century chongas will often exhibit at least some of the following characteristics: \n\nNot all chongas live up to these stereotypes; for example, sometimes women whose conduct is the most overtly sexualized will in fact be among the least interested in actual heterosexual encounters—in some cases chonga behavior is perhaps best understood as a kind of bonding between female friends.\n\nUntil 2007, chongas have rarely appeared in the media, despite their high visibility in real life. One of the rare exceptions was the \"Cheerleaders\" (2000) set of art photographs by Luis Gispert. In popular culture, the few exceptions include Bratz dolls which have a chonga-like appearance; the chonga-like characters Lydia and Melina in the television comedy MADtv; and the chonga-like character Tina in the movie \"Do the Right Thing\". Chongas became considerably more common in popular culture after the 2007 release of Chongalicious, a YouTube viral video. Hernandez noted that the only depiction she's aware of that accurately showed chongas in their social context was the 2007 \"Bratz girls\" exhibition by the \"GisMo Collective\" (Jessica Gispert and Crystal Molinary).\n\nAccording to a 2009 article by gender studies scholar Jillian Hernandez, feminist literature covering chongas remains sparse, even after their profile was raised by the \"Chongalicious\" video. Hernandez contrasts this with the extensive body of work on Chicana feminism, which explores the \"chola\" and \"chusma\" phenomena. Hernandez argues the chonga image has become iconic in Miami, and states that the aesthetic appeal of the chonga can be considerable, which in her opinion partly explains why the \"cheerleaders\" set of photographs was successful in launching Gispert's international career.\n\nThe portrayal of chongas in the media can, however, be problematic, sometimes even repressive, as powerful negative images contribute to Latinas internalizing pressure to conform which originates from the dominant Anglo-American culture. Stereotypical representations of chongas can play a role in the United States' wider culture wars, adding to concerns about the sexuality of some Latina women being \"out of control\" with their perceived high rate of reproduction. Citing earlier work by Isabel Molina Guzmán, Hernandez relates this to the Elián González affair, where the media portrayal of Marisleysis González as having the chonga-like characteristic of emotional excess contributed to the degradation of the privileged, \"model minority status\" that Cuban Americans had previously enjoyed.\n\nIn her own research, Hernandez found that most people she questioned considered \"chonga\" a pejorative term. One respondent even went as far as to say the term sums up all the negative Latina stereotypes. A few asserted that while they know several chongas, they don't know any who self-identify as such. Sometimes Latina women will admit they went through a brief \"chonga\" phase in their early teens, but later came to view the style as uncool. Yet some chongas chose to retain the identity into their twenties. Hernandez also found that some young woman are proud to call themselves chongas. Several expressed pride in their sexual attractiveness. The creators of \"Chongalicious\", who are themselves middle class, found they had considerably more male attention while pretending to be chongas, one of them saying back in 2007 that \"I think we would have boyfriends if we were real chongas.\" Hernandez suggests that the chonga sub culture is in several ways a positive thing, representing women who are not shamed into invisibility by their low-class status or ethnic identity. She anticipates a broadening and deepening of feminist scholarship on chongas, to uncover the ways in which the chonga identity can be helpful to young women exploring their \"bodies and pleasures\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2232929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2232929", "title": "Chronotope", "text": "Chronotope\n\nIn literary theory and philosophy of language, the chronotope is how configurations of time and space are represented in language and discourse. The term was taken up by Russian literary scholar M.M. Bakhtin who used it as a central element in his theory of meaning in language and literature. The term itself comes from the Russian ', which in turn is derived from the Greek ' ('time') and \"\" ('space'); it thus can be literally translated as \"time-space.\" Bakhtin developed the term in his 1937 essay \"Forms of Time and of the Chronotope in the Novel\" (). Here Bakhtin showed how different literary genres operated with different configurations of time and space, which gave each genre its particular narrative character. For example, the chronotopic frame of the epic differed from that of the hero adventure or the comedy.\n\nIn the philosophy of language and philology, Bakhtin scholars Caryl Emerson and Michael Holquist state that the chronotope is \"a unit of analysis for studying language according to the ratio and characteristics of the temporal and spatial categories represented in that language\". Specific chronotopes are said to correspond to particular genres, or relatively stable ways of speaking, which themselves represent particular worldviews or ideologies. To this extent, a chronotope is both a cognitive concept and a narrative feature of language.\n\nIn \"Forms of Time and of the Chronotope in the Novel,\" Bakhtin defines the chronotope thus:\n\nThe concept of the chronotope has been most widely used in literary studies. The scholar Timo Müller for example argued that analysis of chronotopes highlights the environmental dimension of literary texts because it draws attention to the concrete physical spaces in which stories take place. Müller discusses the chronotope of the road, which for Bakhtin was a meeting place but in recent literature no longer brings people together in this way because automobiles have changed the way we perceive the time and space of the road. Car drivers want to minimize the time they spend on the road. They are rarely interested in the road as a physical space, the natural environment around the road, or the environmental implications of their driving. This contrasts with earlier literary examples such as Robert Frost's poem \"The Road Not Taken\" or John Steinbeck's novel \"The Grapes of Wrath\", where the road is described as part of the natural environment and the travelers are interested in that environment.\n\nLinguistic anthropologist Keith Basso invoked \"chronotopes\" in discussing Western [Apache] stories linked with places. In the 1980s when Basso was writing, geographic features reminded the Western Apache of \"the moral teachings of their history\" by recalling to mind events that occurred there in important moral narratives. By merely mentioning \"it happened at [the place called] 'men stand above here and there,'\" storyteller Nick Thompson could remind locals of the dangers of joining \"with outsiders against members of their own community.\" Geographic features in the Western Apache landscape are chronotopes, Basso says, in precisely the way Bakhtin defines the term when he says they are \"points in the geography of a community where time and space intersect and fuse. Time takes on flesh and becomes visible for human contemplation; likewise, space becomes charged and responsive to the movements of time and history and the enduring character of a people. ...Chronotopes thus stand as monuments to the community itself, as symbols of it, as forces operating to shape its members' images of themselves\" (qtd. in Basso 1984: 44–45).\n\nAnthropologist of syncretism Safet HadžiMuhamedović built upon Bakhtin’s term in his ethnography of the Field of Gacko in the southeastern Bosnian highlands. In \"Waiting for\" \"Elijah: Time and Encounter in a Bosnian Landscape\", he argued that people and landscapes may sometimes be trapped between timespaces and thus \"schizochronotopic\" (from the Greek σχίζειν (\"skhizein\"): \"to split\"). He described two overarching chronotopes as \"collective timespace themes\", both of which relied on certain kinds of past and laid claims to the Field’s future. One was told through proximities, the other through distances between religious communities. For HadžiMuhamedović, schizochronotopia is a rift occurring within the same body/landscape, through which the past and the present of place have rendered each other unbidden. \n\nThe chronotope has also been adopted for the analysis of classroom events and conversations, for example by Raymond Brown and Peter Renshaw in order to view \"student participation in the classroom as a dynamic process constituted through the interaction of past experience, ongoing involvement, and yet-to-be-accomplished goals\" (2006: 247–259). Kumpulainen, Mikkola, and Jaatinen (2013) examined the space–time configurations of students’ technology-mediated creative learning practices over a year-long school musical project in a Finnish elementary school. The findings of their study suggest that \"blended practices appeared to break away from traditional learning practices, allowing students to navigate in different time zones, spaces, and places with diverse tools situated in their formal and informal lives\" (2013: 53).\n\n"}
{"id": "49870344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49870344", "title": "Creative computing", "text": "Creative computing\n\nCreative computing covers the interdisciplinary area at the cross-over of the creative arts and computing. Issues of creativity include knowledge discovery, for example. \n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" describes creative computing as follows:\n\nCreative computing is interdisciplinary in nature and topics relating to it include applications, development method, evaluation, modeling, philosophy, principles, support environment, and theory.\n\nThe term \"creative computing\" is used both in the United Kingdom and the United States (e.g., at Harvard University and MIT).\n\nA number of university degree programmes in Creative Computing exist, for example at:\n\n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Inderscience Publishers, covering creativity in computing and the other way around. The editor-in-chief is Hongji Yang (Bath Spa University).\n\nThe journal was established in 2013 and is abstracted and indexed in CSA, ProQuest, and DBLP databases.\n\n"}
{"id": "42517321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42517321", "title": "Double-take (comedy)", "text": "Double-take (comedy)\n\nA double-take is a nonverbal communication in which a second look is taken at something with a marked physical reaction such as shock, astonishment, or amazement. In theatrical terms, a 'take' is a physical reaction to seeing something. Comic characters often perform a double take because of the absurd world in which they are performing, and their audiences are often in a similar position when they have had an instant to reflect on a comic performance. With correct timing a double-take seldom fails to get a laugh. The double-take has probably been in the comedians repertoire for centuries and the term has been in general use since at least the 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "42472514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42472514", "title": "Epochalism", "text": "Epochalism\n\nEpochalism is an attitude of respect for the progressive spirit of the age and for social and technological advancement, which was contrasted by Clifford Geertz with what he termed the (essentialist) valorisation of traditional values. He viewed this distinction as a central social polarity pervading developing nations.\n\nMore broadly, the term used has been used to describe the post-Fordist, postmodern belief that the current era or epoch represents a fundamental clean break with the past; is something unique in human history; and due to this radical change, previous rules will no longer apply.\n\nEpochalism in the developing world can be seen purely as a progressive force, favouring movement toward secularisation and industrial advance, as opposed to a regressive return to the traditional values of community and Gemeinschaft. However, in practice the situation is likely to be more complicated: nationalist struggles for independence have often relied on essentialist appeals to authentic ethnic communities and cultural practices, as well as to epochalism, in order to free themselves from dependence on a Western model/Western control.\n\nThe rapid rise of the World Wide Web led many digerati to see it as an unprecedented human phenomenon, wholly divorced from all past experience. Evgeny Morozov used the term epochalism to describe the prevalent 21st-century belief that \"one is living in truly exceptional times – an intellectual fallacy I call 'epochalism. Previous technological advances, as with the age of railways or the age of broadcasting, had of course made very similar claims for themselves; and A. E. Housman a century before had denounced the mind \"which commands no outlook upon the past or the future, but believes that the fashion of the present, unlike all fashions heretofore, will endure perpetually\". \n\nLate modernity however, with its shortening of awareness of time-spans and its focus on the present, makes the short-sightedness of epochalism - with what Morozov saw as its dark fetishism of Internet-based solutions - an increasingly plausible intellectual posture.\n\n"}
{"id": "795780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795780", "title": "Ethos", "text": "Ethos\n\nEthos ( or ) is a Greek word meaning \"character\" that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence emotions, behaviours, and even morals. Early Greek stories of Orpheus exhibit this idea in a compelling way. The word's use in rhetoric is closely based on the Greek terminology used by Aristotle in his concept of the three artistic proofs or modes of persuasion.\n\n\"Ethos\" (, ; \"plurals:\" \"ethe\", ; \"ethea\", ) is a Greek word originally meaning \"accustomed place\" (as in \"the habitats of horses\", \"Iliad\" 6.511, 15.268), \"custom, habit\", equivalent to Latin \"mores\".\n\n\"Ethos\" forms the root of \"ethikos\" (), meaning \"moral, showing moral character\". As an adjective in the neuter plural form \"ta ethika\" (), used for the study of morals, it is the origin of the modern English word \"ethics\".\n\nIn modern usage, ethos denotes the disposition, character, or fundamental values particular to a specific person, people, corporation, culture, or movement. For example, the poet and critic T. S. Eliot wrote in 1940 that \"the general ethos of the people they have to govern determines the behaviour of politicians\". Similarly the historian Orlando Figes wrote in 1996 that in Soviet Russia of the 1920s \"the ethos of the Communist party dominated every aspect of public life\".\nEthos may change in response to new ideas or forces. For example, according to the Jewish historian Afrie Krampf, ideas of economic modernization which were imported into Palestine in the 1930s brought about \"the abandonment of the agrarian ethos and the reception of...the ethos of rapid development\".\n\nIn rhetoric, ethos is one of the three artistic proofs (\"pistis\", πίστις) or modes of persuasion (other principles being \"logos\" and \"pathos\") discussed by Aristotle in 'Rhetoric' as a component of argument. Speakers must establish ethos from the start. This can involve \"moral competence\" only; Aristotle however broadens the concept to include expertise and knowledge. Ethos is limited, in his view, by what the speaker says. Others however contend that a speaker's ethos extends to and is shaped by the overall moral character and history of the speaker—that is, what people think of his or her character before the speech has even begun (cf Isocrates).\n\nAccording to Aristotle, there are three categories of ethos:\n\n\nIn a sense, ethos does not belong to the speaker but to the audience. Thus, it is the audience that determines whether a speaker is a high- or a low-ethos speaker. Violations of ethos include:\n\n\nCompletely dismissing an argument based on any of the above violations of ethos is an informal fallacy (Appeal to motive). The argument may indeed be suspect; but is not, in itself, invalid.\n\nFor Aristotle, a speaker's ethos was a rhetorical strategy employed by an orator whose purpose was to \"inspire trust in his audience\" (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). \"Ethos\" was therefore achieved through the orator's \"good sense, good moral character, and goodwill\", and central to Aristotelian virtue ethics was the notion that this \"good moral character\" was increased in virtuous degree by habit (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). Aristotle links virtue, habituation, and \"ethos\" most succinctly in Book II of \"Nichomachean Ethics\": \"Virtue, then, being of two kinds, intellectual and moral, intellectual virtue in the main owes both its birth and its growth to teaching [...] while moral virtue comes about as a result of habit, whence also its name \"ethike\" is one that is formed by a slight variation from the word \"ethos\" (habit)\" (952). Discussing women and rhetoric, scholar Karlyn Kohrs Campbell notes that entering the public sphere was considered an act of moral transgression for females of the nineteenth century: \"Women who formed moral reform and abolitionist societies, and who made speeches, held conventions, and published newspapers, entered the public sphere and thereby lost their claims to purity and piety\" (13). Crafting an ethos within such restrictive moral codes, therefore, meant adhering to membership of what Nancy Fraser and Michael Warner have theorized as counterpublics. While Warner contends that members of counterpublics are afforded little opportunity to join the dominant public and therefore exert true agency, Nancy Fraser has problematized Habermas's conception of the public sphere as a dominant \"social totality\" by theorizing \"subaltern counterpublics\", which function as alternative publics that represent \"parallel discursive arenas where members of subordinated social groups invent and circulate counterdiscourses, which in turn permit them to formulate oppositional interpretations of their identities, interests, and needs\" (67).\n\nThough feminist rhetorical theorists have begun to offer more nuanced ways to conceive of ethos, they remain cognizant of how these classical associations have shaped and still do shape women's use of the rhetorical tool. Johanna Schmertz draws on Aristotelian ethos to reinterpret the term alongside feminist theories of subjectivity, writing that, \"Instead of following a tradition that, it seems to me, reads ethos somewhat in the manner of an Aristotelian quality proper to the speaker's identity, a quality capable of being deployed as needed to fit a rhetorical situation, I will ask how ethos may be dislodged from identity and read in such a way as to multiply the positions from which women may speak\" (83). Rhetorical scholar and professor Kate Ronald's claim that \"ethos is the appeal residing in the tension between the speaker's private and public self\", (39) also presents a more postmodern view of ethos that links credibility and identity. Similarly, Nedra Reynolds and Susan Jarratt echo this view of ethos as a fluid and dynamic set of identifications, arguing that \"these split selves are guises, but they are not distortions or lies in the philosopher's sense. Rather they are 'deceptions' in the sophistic sense: recognitions of the ways one is positioned multiply differently\" (56).\n\nRhetorical scholar Michael Halloran has argued that the classical understanding of ethos \"emphasizes the conventional rather than the idiosyncratic, the public rather than the private\" (60). Commenting further on the classical etymology and understanding of \"ethos\", Halloran illuminates the interdependence between \"ethos\" and cultural context by arguing that \"To have ethos is to manifest the virtues most valued by the culture to and for which one speaks\" (60). While scholars do not all agree on the dominant sphere in which ethos may be crafted, some agree that ethos is formed through the negotiation between private experience and the public, rhetorical act of self-expression. Karen Burke LeFevre's argument in \"Invention as Social Act\" situates this negotiation between the private and the public, writing that ethos \"appears in that socially created space, in the 'between', the point of intersection between speaker or writer and listener or reader\" (45-46).\n\nAccording to Nedra Reynolds, \"ethos, like postmodern subjectivity, shifts and changes over time, across texts, and around competing spaces\" (336). However, Reynolds additionally discusses how one might clarify the meaning of ethos within rhetoric as expressing inherently communal roots. This stands in direct opposition to what she describes as the claim \"that ethos can be faked or 'manipulated'\" because individuals would be formed by the values of their culture and not the other way around (336). Rhetorical scholar John Oddo also suggests that ethos is negotiated across a community, and not simply a manifestation of the self (47). In the era of mass-mediated communication, Oddo contends, one's ethos is often created by journalists and dispersed over multiple news texts. With this in mind, Oddo coins the term intertextual ethos, the notion that a public figure's \"ethos is constituted within and across a range of mass media voices\" (48).\n\nIn \"Black Women Writers and the Trouble with Ethos\", scholar Coretta Pittman notes that race has been generally absent from theories of ethos construction, and that this concept is troubling for black women. Pittman writes, \"Unfortunately, in the history of race relations in America, black Americans' ethos ranks low among other racial and ethnic groups in the United States. More often than not, their moral characters have been associated with a criminalized and sexualized ethos in visual and print culture\" (43).\n\nThe ways in which characters were constructed is important when considering ethos, or character, in Greek tragedy. Augustus Taber Murray explains that the depiction of a character was limited by the circumstances under which Greek tragedies were presented. These include the single unchanging scene, necessary use of the chorus, small number of characters limiting interaction, large outdoor theatres, and the use of masks, which all influenced characters to be more formal and simple. Murray also declares that the inherent characteristics of Greek tragedies are important in the makeup of the characters. One of these is the fact that tragedy characters were nearly always mythical characters. This limited the character, as well as the plot, to the already well-known myth from which the material of the play was taken. The other characteristic is the relatively short length of most Greek plays. This limited the scope of the play and characterization, so that the characters were defined by one overriding motivation toward a certain objective from the beginning of the play.\n\nHowever, Murray clarifies that strict constancy is not always the rule in Greek tragedy characters. To support this, he points out the example of Antigone who, even though she strongly defies Creon in the beginning of the play, begins to doubt her cause and plead for mercy as she is led to her execution.\n\nSeveral other aspects of the character element in ancient Greek tragedy are worth noting. One of these, which C. Garton discusses, is the fact that either because of contradictory action or incomplete description, the character cannot be viewed as an individual, or the reader is left confused about the character. One method of reconciling this would be to consider these characters to be flat, or type-caste, instead of round. This would mean that most of the information about the character centers around one main quality or viewpoint. Comparable to the flat character option, the reader could also view the character as a symbol. Examples of this might be the Eumenides as vengeance, or Clytemnestra as symbolizing ancestral curse. Yet another means of looking at character, according to Tycho von Wilamowitz and Howald, is the idea that characterisation is not important. This idea is maintained by the theory that the play is meant to affect the viewer or reader scene by scene, with attention being only focused on the section at hand. This point of view also holds that the different figures in a play are only characterised by the situation surrounding them, and only enough so that their actions can be understood.\n\nGaret makes three more observations about character in Greek tragedy. The first is an abundant variety of types of characters in Greek tragedy. His second observation is that the reader or viewer's need for characters to display a unified identity that is similar to human nature is usually fulfilled. Thirdly, characters in tragedies include incongruities and idiosyncrasies.\n\nAnother aspect stated by Garet is that tragedy plays are composed of language, character, and action, and the interactions of these three components; these are fused together throughout the play. He explains that action normally determines the major means of characterisation. Another principle he states is the importance of these three components' effect on each other; the important repercussion of this being character's impact on action.\n\nAugustus Taber Murray also examines the importance and degree of interaction between plot and character. He does this by discussing Aristotle's statements about plot and character in his Poetics: that plot can exist without character, but character cannot exist without plot, and so character is secondary to plot. Murray maintains that Aristotle did not mean that complicated plot should hold the highest place in a tragedy play. This is because the plot was, more often than not, simple and therefore not a major point of tragic interest. Murray conjectures that people today do not accept Aristotle's statement about character and plot because to modern people, the most memorable things about tragedy plays are often the characters. However, Murray does concede that Aristotle is correct in that \"[t]here can be no portrayal of character [...] without at least a skeleton outline of plot\".\n\nEthos, or character, also appears in the visual art of famous or mythological ancient Greek events in murals, on pottery, and sculpture, referred to generally as pictorial narrative. Aristotle even praised the ancient Greek painter Polygnotos because his paintings included characterization. The way in which the subject and his actions are portrayed in visual art can convey the subject's ethical character and through this the work's overall theme, just as effectively as poetry or drama can. This characterisation portrayed men as they ought to be, which is the same as Aristotle's idea of what ethos or character should be in tragedy. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 178) Professor Mark D. Stansbury-O'Donnell states that pictorial narratives often had ethos as its focus, and was therefore concerned with showing the character's moral choices. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 175) David Castriota, agreeing with Stansbury-O'Donnell's statement, says that the main way Aristotle considered poetry and visual arts to be on equal levels was in character representation and its effect on action. However, Castriota also maintains about Aristotle's opinion that \"his interest has to do with the influence that such ethical representation may exert upon the public\". Castriota also explains that according to Aristotle, \"[t]he activity of these artists is to be judged worthy and useful above all because exposure of their work is beneficial to the polis\". Accordingly, this was the reason for the representation of character, or ethos, in public paintings and sculptures. In order to portray the character's choice, the pictorial narrative often shows an earlier scene than when the action was committed. Stansbury-O'Donnell gives an example of this in the form of a picture by the ancient Greek artist Exekia which shows the Greek hero Ajax planting his sword in the ground in preparation to commit suicide, instead of the actual suicide scene. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 177.) Additionally, Castriota explains that ancient Greek art expresses the idea that character was the major factor influencing the outcome of the Greeks' conflicts against their enemies. Because of this, \"ethos was the essential variable in the equation or analogy between myth and actuality\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53476644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53476644", "title": "Fabula crepidata", "text": "Fabula crepidata\n\nA fabula crepidata or fabula cothurnata is a Latin tragedy with Greek subjects. The genre probably originated in adaptations of Greek tragedy (hence the names, coming from \"crepida\" = \"sandal\" and \"cothurnus\") beginning in the early third century B.C. Only nine have survived intact, all by Seneca. Of the plays written by Lucius Livius Andronicus, Gnaeus Naevius, Quintus Ennius, Marcus Pacuvius, Lucius Accius, and others, only titles, small fragments, and occasionally brief summaries are left. Ovid's \"Medea\" also did not survive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56027886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56027886", "title": "Family resemblance (anthropology)", "text": "Family resemblance (anthropology)\n\nFamily resemblance refers to physical similarities shared between close relatives, especially between parents and children and between siblings. In psychology, the similarities of personality are also observed.\n\nHeritability, defined as a measure of family resemblance, causes traits to be genetically passed from parents to offspring (heredity), allowing evolutionarily advantageous traits to persist through generations. Despite sharing parents, siblings do not inherit identical genes, making studies on identical twins (who have identical DNA) especially effective at analyzing the role genetics play in phenotypic similarity. Studies have found that generational resemblance of many phenotypic traits results from the inheritance of multiples genes that collectively influence a trait (additive genetic variance). There is evidence of heritability in personality traits. For example, one study found that approximately half of personality differences in high-school aged fraternal and identical twins were due to genetic variation - and another study suggests that no one personality trait is more heritable than another.\n\nFamily resemblance is also shaped by environmental factors, temperature, light, nutrition, exposure to drugs, the time that different family members spend in shared and non-shared environments, are examples of factors found to influence phenotype. Phenotypes found to be largely environmentally determined in humans include personality, height, and weight. Twin studies have shown that more than half of the variation in a few major aspects of personality are environmentally determined, and that environmental factors even affect traits like immune response and how children handle stress. Additionally, anomalous findings, such as second-degree relatives of alcoholics, showing surprising similarities to them have led some researchers’ attempts in generating better models that account for the environmental impacts on influences like cultural inheritance, family structure and head of household, which have been shown to influence family resemblance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31568822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31568822", "title": "Faux Faulkner contest", "text": "Faux Faulkner contest\n\nThe Faux Faulkner contest was an annual parody essay contest founded in 1989 by Dean Faulkner Wells, niece of Nobel laureate William Faulkner, with her husband Lawrence Wells, and sponsored by Yoknapatawpha Press and the Center for the Study of Southern Culture. It was held 16 times until 2005. The contest attracted as many as 750 entries in a single year from several countries as well as each of the 50 United States. The winners were published annually in \"Hemispheres\" magazine (the onboard magazine for United Airlines and the contest's corporate sponsor) and often received coverage in other major media outlets such as \"USA Today\" and MSNBC. The contest has been on hold since 2005 while it seeks a new corporate sponsor.\n\nThe objective of the contest is to create the best entry to parody William Faulkner's uniquely artistic style of writing, his themes, his plots, or his characters, in a short-short story of 500 words or less.\n\n"}
{"id": "5744837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5744837", "title": "Friction of distance", "text": "Friction of distance\n\nThe concept of friction of distance is based on the notion that distance usually requires some amount of effort, energy, time, and/or other resources to overcome. Because of this \"friction\", spatial interactions, especially transport and the particular case of human migration, will tend to take place more often over shorter distances; amount and intensity of interaction will decay with distance. Regardless of physical friction, the various costs are metaphorically assumed to correspond to forces that impede movements.\n\nFriction, be it physical or metaphorical, may be a continuous, smooth function or may contain jumps; it may be constant, linear, or nonlinear or a combination of jumps and proportional effects, as with Intermodal freight transport and Intermodal passenger transport.\n"}
{"id": "21078734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21078734", "title": "Futures of American Studies", "text": "Futures of American Studies\n\nThe Futures of American Studies is a weeklong academic summer institute dedicated to presenting new work and critiquing the field of American Studies held at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire. The first Futures of American Studies Institute was held in the summer of 1997. Donald E. Pease, Professor of English at Dartmouth College, founded, organizes, and directs the annual Institute.\n\nAfter the School of Criticism and Theory left Dartmouth for Cornell University in 1995, Dartmouth faculty member Donald E. Pease started the Futures Institute as an alternative summer program for faculty and graduate students. In 2017 the Futures Institute celebrated the twentieth anniversary of its founding.\n\nThe Institute is divided into two daily plenary sessions, which feature current work from Institute faculty, and multiple three-hour research seminars in which all participants present and discuss their own work-in-progress. Speakers in the plenary sessions typically examine the relation between emergent and residual practices in the field of American Studies from a variety of interdisciplinary perspectives. Participants come from a variety of programs and schools and represent fields as diverse as American history, social geography, American literature, gender studies, and the digital humanities. The Institute welcomes participants who are involved in a range of disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields and who are interested in current critical debates in American Studies.\n\nAlong with Institute Director Donald E. Pease, the institute co-directors were 2016 are:\n\nAlong with Institute Director Donald E. Pease, the institute co-directors were 2014 are:\n\nAlong with Institute Director Donald E. Pease, the institute co-directors were 2012 are:\n\nEach year the Futures Institute brings practicing Americanists and well-known critics and theorists working outside American studies. Notable plenary speakers from the Institute's history include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162025", "title": "Gender identity", "text": "Gender identity\n\nGender identity is the personal sense of one's own gender. Gender identity can correlate with assigned sex at birth, or can differ from it. All societies have a set of gender categories that can serve as the basis of the formation of a person's social identity in relation to other members of society. In most societies, there is a basic division between gender attributes assigned to males and females, a gender binary to which most people adhere and which includes expectations of masculinity and femininity in all aspects of sex and gender: biological sex, gender identity, and gender expression. Some people do not identify with some, or all, of the aspects of gender assigned to their biological sex; some of those people are transgender, genderqueer or non-binary. There are some societies that have third gender categories.\n\nCore gender identity is usually formed by age three. After age three, it is extremely difficult to change, and attempts to reassign it can result in gender dysphoria. Both biological and social factors have been suggested to influence its formation.\n\nThere are several theories about how and when gender identity forms, and studying the subject is difficult because children's lack of language requires researchers to make assumptions from indirect evidence. John Money suggested children might have awareness of, and attach some significance to gender, as early as 18 months to two years; Lawrence Kohlberg argues that gender identity does not form until age three. It is widely agreed that core gender identity is firmly formed by age three. At this point, children can make firm statements about their gender and tend to choose activities and toys which are considered appropriate for their gender (such as dolls and painting for girls, and tools and rough-housing for boys), although they do not yet fully understand the implications of gender. After age three, core gender identity is extremely difficult to change, and attempts to reassign it can result in gender dysphoria. Gender identity refinement extends into the fourth to sixth years of age, and continues into young adulthood.\n\nMartin and Ruble conceptualize this process of development as three stages: (1) as toddlers and preschoolers, children learn about defined characteristics, which are socialized aspects of gender; (2) around the ages of 5–7 years, identity is consolidated and becomes rigid; (3) after this \"peak of rigidity,\" fluidity returns and socially defined gender roles relax somewhat. Barbara Newmann breaks it down into four parts: (1) understanding the concept of gender, (2) learning gender role standards and stereotypes, (3) identifying with parents, and (4) forming gender preference.\n\nAccording to UN agencies, discussions relating to comprehensive sexuality education raise awareness of topics, such as gender and gender identity.\n\nAlthough the formation of gender identity is not completely understood, many factors have been suggested as influencing its development. In particular, the extent to which it is determined by socialization (environmental factors) versus innate (biological) factors is an ongoing debate in psychology, known as \"nature versus nurture\". Both factors are thought to play a role. Biological factors that influence gender identity include pre- and post-natal hormone levels. While genetic makeup also influences gender identity, it does not inflexibly determine it.\n\nSocial factors which may influence gender identity include ideas regarding gender roles conveyed by family, authority figures, mass media, and other influential people in a child's life. When children are raised by individuals who adhere to stringent gender roles, they are more likely to behave in the same way, matching their gender identity with the corresponding stereotypical gender patterns. Language also plays a role: children, while learning a language, learn to separate masculine and feminine characteristics and subconsciously adjust their own behavior to these predetermined roles. The social learning theory posits that children furthermore develop their gender identity through observing and imitating gender-linked behaviors, and then being rewarded or punished for behaving that way, thus being shaped by the people surrounding them through trying to imitate and follow them.\n\nA well-known example in the nature versus nurture debate is the case of David Reimer, otherwise known as \"John/Joan\". As a baby, Reimer went through a faulty circumcision, losing his male genitalia. Psychologist John Money convinced Reimer's parents to raise him as a girl. Reimer grew up as a girl, dressing in girl clothes and surrounded by girl toys, but did not feel like a girl. After he tried to commit suicide at age 13, he was told that he had been born with male genitalia, which he underwent surgery to reconstruct. This response went against Money's hypothesis that biology had nothing to do with gender identity or human sexual orientation.\n\nSeveral prenatal, biological factors, including genes and hormones, may affect gender identity. The biochemical theory of gender identity suggests that people acquire gender identities through such factors rather than socialization.\n\nHormonal influences are also complex; sex-determining hormones are produced at an early stage of foetal development, and if prenatal hormone levels are altered, phenotype progression may be altered as well, and the natural predisposition of the brain toward one sex may not match the genetic make-up of the fetus or its external sexual organs.\n\nHormones may affect differences between males' and females' verbal and spatial abilities, memory, and aggression; prenatal hormone exposure affects how the hypothalamus regulates hormone secretion later in life, with \"women's sex hormones usually follow[ing] a monthly cycle [while] men’s sex hormones do not follow such a pattern.\"\n\nA survey of the research literature from 1955–2000 suggests that more than one in every hundred individuals may have some intersex characteristic. An intersex human or other animal is one possessing any of several variations in sex characteristics including chromosomes, gonads, sex hormones, or genitals that, according to the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, \"do not fit typical binary notions of male or female bodies\". An intersex variation may complicate initial sex assignment and that assignment may not be consistent with the child's future gender identity. Reinforcing sex assignments through surgical and hormonal means may violate the individual's rights.\n\nA 2005 study on the gender identity outcomes of female-raised 46,XY persons with penile agenesis, cloacal exstrophy of the bladder, or penile ablation, found that 78% of the study subjects were living as female, as opposed to 22% who decided to initiate a sex change to male in line with their genetic sex. The study concludes: \"The findings clearly indicate an increased risk of later patient-initiated gender re-assignment to male after female assignment in infancy or early childhood, but are nevertheless incompatible with the notion of a full determination of core gender identity by prenatal androgens.\"\n\nA 2012 clinical review paper found that between 8.5% and 20% of people with intersex variations experienced gender dysphoria. Sociological research in Australia, a country with a third 'X' sex classification, shows that 19% of people born with atypical sex characteristics selected an \"X\" or \"other\" option, while 52% are women, 23% men, and 6% unsure. At birth, 52% of persons in the study were assigned female, and 41% were assigned male.\n\nA study by Reiner & Gearhart provides some insight into what can happen when genetically male children with cloacal exstrophy are sexually assigned female and raised as girls, according to an 'optimal gender policy' developed by John Money: in a sample of 14 children, follow-up between the ages of 5 to 12 showed that 8 of them identified as boys, and all of the subjects had at least moderately male-typical attitudes and interests, providing support for the argument that genetic variables affect gender identity and behavior independent of socialization.\n\nSome studies have investigated whether or not there is a link between biological variables and transgender or transsexual identity. Several studies have shown that sexually dimorphic brain structures in transsexuals are shifted away from what is associated with their birth sex and towards what is associated with their preferred sex. In particular, the bed nucleus of a stria terminalis or BSTc (a constituent of the basal ganglia of the brain which is affected by prenatal androgens) of trans women is similar to cisgender women's and unlike men's. Similar brain structure differences have been noted between gay and heterosexual men, and between lesbian and heterosexual women. Another study suggests that transsexuality may have a genetic component.\n\nResearch suggests that the same hormones that promote differentiation of sex organs in utero also elicit puberty and influence the development of gender identity. Different amounts of these male or female sex hormones within a person can result in behavior and external genitalia that do not match up with the norm of their sex assigned at birth, and in a person acting and looking like their identified gender.\n\nIn 1955, John Money proposed that gender identity was malleable and determined by whether a child was raised as male or female in early childhood. Money's hypothesis has since been discredited, but scholars have continued to study the effect of social factors on gender identity formation. In the 1960s and 1970s, factors such as the absence of a father, a mother's wish for a daughter, or parental reinforcement patterns were suggested as influences; more recent theories suggesting that parental psychopathology might partly influence gender identity formation have received only minimal empirical evidence, with a 2004 article noting that \"solid evidence for the importance of postnatal social factors is lacking.\" A 2008 study found that the parents of gender-dysphoric children showed no signs of psychopathological issues aside from mild depression in the mothers.\n\nIt has been suggested that the attitudes of the child's parents may affect the child's gender identity, although evidence is minimal.\n\nParents who do not support gender nonconformity are more likely to have children with firmer and stricter views on gender identity and gender roles. Recent literature suggests a trend towards less well-defined gender roles and identities, as studies of parental coding of toys as masculine, feminine, or neutral indicate that parents increasingly code kitchens and in some cases dolls as neutral rather than exclusively feminine. However, Emily Kane found that many parents still showed negative responses to items, activities, or attributes that were considered feminine, such as domestic skills, nurturance, and empathy. Research has indicated that many parents attempt to define gender for their sons in a manner that distances the sons from femininity, with Kane stating that \"the parental boundary maintenance work evident for sons represents a crucial obstacle limiting boys options, separating boys from girls, devaluing activities marked as feminine for both boys and girls, and thus bolstering gender inequality and heteronormativity.\"\n\nMany parents form gendered expectations for their child before it is even born, after determining the child's sex through technology such as ultrasound. The child thus arrives to a gender-specific name, games, and even ambitions. Once the child's sex is determined, most children are raised in accordance with it to be a man or a woman, fitting a male or female gender role defined partly by the parents.\n\nWhen considering the parents' social class, lower-class families typically hold traditional gender roles, where the father works and the mother, who may only work out of financial necessity, still takes care of the household. However, middle-class \"professional\" couples typically negotiate the division of labor and hold an egalitarian ideology. These different views on gender from a child's parents can shape the child's understanding of gender as well as the child's development of gender.\n\nWithin a study conducted by Hillary Halpern it was hypothesized, and proven, that parent behaviors, rather than parent beliefs, regarding gender are better predictors for a child's attitude on gender. It was concluded that a mother's behavior was especially influential on a child's assumptions of the child's own gender. For example, mothers who practiced more traditional behaviors around their children resulted in the son displaying fewer stereotypes of male roles while the daughter displayed more stereotypes of female roles. No correlation was found between a father's behavior and his children's knowledge of stereotypes of their own gender. It was concluded, however, that fathers who held the belief of equality between the sexes had children, especially sons, who displayed fewer preconceptions of their opposite gender.\n\nGender identity can lead to security issues among individuals that do not fit on a binary scale. In some cases, a person's gender identity is inconsistent with their biological sex characteristics (genitals and secondary sex characteristics), resulting in individuals dressing and/or behaving in a way which is perceived by others as outside cultural gender norms. These gender expressions may be described as gender variant, transgender, or genderqueer (there is an emerging vocabulary for those who defy traditional gender identity), and people who have such expressions may experience gender dysphoria (traditionally called Gender Identity Disorder or GID). Transgender individuals are greatly affected by language and gender pronouns before, during, and after their transition.\n\nIn recent decades it has become possible to reassign sex surgically. Some people who experience gender dysphoria seek such medical intervention to have their physiological sex match their gender identity; others retain the genitalia they were born with (see transsexual for some of the possible reasons) but adopt a gender role that is consistent with their gender identity.\n\nThe terms \"gender identity\" and \"core gender identity\" were first used with their current meaning — one's personal experience of one's own gender — sometime in the 1960s. To this day they are usually used in that sense, though a few scholars additionally use the term to refer to the sexual orientation and sexual identity categories \"gay\", \"lesbian\" and \"bisexual\".\n\nIn late-19th-century medical literature, women who chose not to conform to their expected gender roles were called \"inverts\", and they were portrayed as having an interest in knowledge and learning, and a \"dislike and sometimes incapacity for needlework\". During the mid 1900s, doctors pushed for corrective therapy on such women and children, which meant that gender behaviors that were not part of the norm would be punished and changed. The aim of this therapy was to push children back to their \"correct\" gender roles and thereby limit the number of children who became transgender.\n\nIn 1905, Sigmund Freud presented his theory of psychosexual development in \"Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality\", giving evidence that in the pregenital phase children do not distinguish between sexes, but assume both parents have the same genitalia and reproductive powers. On this basis, he argued that bisexuality was the original sexual orientation and that heterosexuality was resultant of repression during the phallic stage, at which point gender identity became ascertainable. According to Freud, during this stage, children developed an Oedipus complex where they had sexual fantasies for the parent ascribed the opposite gender and hatred for the parent ascribed the same gender, and this hatred transformed into (unconscious) transference and (conscious) identification with the hated parent who both exemplified a model to appease sexual impulses and threatened to castrate the child's power to appease sexual impulses. In 1913, Carl Jung proposed the Electra complex as he both believed that bisexuality did not lie at the origin of psychic life, and that Freud did not give adequate description to the female child (Freud rejected this suggestion).\n\nDuring the 1950s and '60s, psychologists began studying gender development in young children, partially in an effort to understand the origins of homosexuality (which was viewed as a mental disorder at the time). In 1958, the Gender Identity Research Project was established at the UCLA Medical Center for the study of intersex and transsexual individuals. Psychoanalyst Robert Stoller generalized many of the findings of the project in his book \"Sex and Gender: On the Development of Masculinity and Femininity\" (1968). He is also credited with introducing the term \"gender identity\" to the International Psychoanalytic Congress in Stockholm, Sweden in 1963. Behavioral psychologist John Money was also instrumental in the development of early theories of gender identity. His work at Johns Hopkins Medical School's Gender Identity Clinic (established in 1965) popularized an interactionist theory of gender identity, suggesting that, up to a certain age, gender identity is relatively fluid and subject to constant negotiation. His book \"Man and Woman, Boy and Girl\" (1972) became widely used as a college textbook, although many of Money's ideas have since been challenged.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Judith Butler began lecturing regularly on the topic of gender identity, and in 1990, she published \"Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity\", introducing the concept of gender performativity and arguing that both sex and gender are constructed.\n\n, there is some changing of views and new discrepancies about the best way to deal with gender nonconformity. Medical practitioners, as well as an increasing number of parents, generally no longer support or believe in the idea of conversion therapy, which is now widely discredited as unethical and ineffective. In the UK, all major counselling and psychotherapy bodies, as well as the NHS, have concluded that conversion therapy to 'cure' sexual orientation is dangerous and work is being done to extend this position to include gender identity.\n\nOn the other hand, there are still a number of clinicians who continue to believe that there should be interventions for gender nonconforming children. They believe that stereotypical gender-specific toys and games will encourage children to behave in their traditional gender roles.\n\nTranssexual self-identified people sometimes wish to undergo physical surgery to refashion their primary sexual characteristics, secondary characteristics, or both, because they feel they will be more comfortable with different genitalia. This may involve removal of penis, testicles or breasts, or the fashioning of a penis, vagina or breasts. In the past, sex assignment surgery has been performed on infants who are born with ambiguous genitalia. However, current medical opinion is strongly against this procedure, since many adults have regretted that these decisions were made for them at birth. Today, sex reassignment surgery is performed on people who choose to have this change so that their anatomical sex will match their gender identity.\n\nIn the United States, it was decided under the Affordable Care Act that health insurance exchanges would have the ability to collect demographic information on gender identity and sexual identity through optional questions, to help policymakers better recognize the needs of the LGBT community.\n\nGender dysphoria (previously called \"gender identity disorder\" or GID in the DSM) is the formal diagnosis of people who experience significant dysphoria (discontent) with the sex they were assigned at birth and/or the gender roles associated with that sex: \"In gender identity disorder, there is discordance between the natal sex of one's external genitalia and the brain coding of one's gender as masculine or feminine.\" The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (302.85) has five criteria that must be met before a diagnosis of gender identity disorder can be made, and the disorder is further subdivided into specific diagnoses based on age, for example gender identity disorder in children (for children who experience gender dysphoria).\n\nThe concept of gender identity appeared in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in its third edition, DSM-III (1980), in the form of two psychiatric diagnoses of gender dysphoria: gender identity disorder of childhood (GIDC), and transsexualism (for adolescents and adults). The 1987 revision of the manual, the DSM-III-R, added a third diagnosis: gender identity disorder of adolescence and adulthood, nontranssexual type. This latter diagnosis was removed in the subsequent revision, DSM-IV (1994), which also collapsed GIDC and transsexualism into a new diagnosis of gender identity disorder. In 2013, the DSM-5 renamed the diagnosis \"gender dysphoria\" and revised its definition.\n\nThe authors of a 2005 academic paper questioned the classification of gender identity problems as a mental disorder, speculating that certain DSM revisions may have been made on a tit-for-tat basis when certain groups were pushing for the removal of homosexuality as a disorder. This remains controversial, although the vast majority of today's mental health professionals follow and agree with the current DSM classifications.\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles, a document on the application of international human rights law, provide in the preamble a definition of gender identity as each person's deeply felt internal and individual experience of gender, which may or may not correspond with the sex assigned at birth, including the person's sense of the body (which may involve, if freely chosen, modification of bodily appearance or function by medical, surgical or other means) and other experience of gender, including dress, speech and mannerism. Principle 3 states that \"Each person’s self-defined [...] gender identity is integral to their personality and is one of the most basic aspects of self-determination, dignity and freedom. No one shall be forced to undergo medical procedures, including sex reassignment surgery, sterilisation or hormonal therapy, as a requirement for legal recognition of their gender identity.\" and Principle 18 states that \"Notwithstanding any classifications to the contrary, a person's sexual orientation and gender identity are not, in and of themselves, medical conditions and are not to be treated, cured or suppressed.\" Relating to this principle, the \"Jurisprudential Annotations to the Yogyakarta Principles\" observed that \"Gender identity differing from that assigned at birth, or socially rejected gender expression, have been treated as a form of mental illness. The pathologization of difference has led to gender-transgressive children and adolescents being confined in psychiatric institutions, and subjected to aversion techniques — including electroshock therapy — as a 'cure'.\" The \"Yogyakarta Principles in Action\" says \"it is important to note that while 'sexual orientation' has been declassified as a mental illness in many countries, 'gender identity' or 'gender identity disorder' often remains in consideration.\" These Principles influenced the UN declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity\nIn 2015, gender identity was part of a Supreme Court case in the United States called Obergefell v Hodges in which marriage was no longer restricted between man and woman.\n\nSome people, and some societies, do not construct gender as a binary in which everyone is either a boy or a girl, or a man or a woman. Those who exist outside the binary fall under the umbrella terms \"non-binary\" or \"genderqueer\". Some cultures have specific gender roles that are distinct from \"man\" and \"woman.\" These are often referred to as \"third genders\".\n\nIn some Polynesian societies, fa'afafine are considered to be a third gender. They are anatomically male, but dress and behave in a manner considered typically feminine. According to Tamasailau Sua'ali'i (\"see references\"), fa'afafine in Samoa at least are often physiologically unable to reproduce. Fa'afafine are accepted as a natural gender, and neither looked down upon nor discriminated against. Fa'afafine also reinforce their femininity with the fact that they are only attracted to and receive sexual attention from straight masculine men. They have been and generally still are initially identified in terms of labour preferences, as they perform typically feminine household tasks.\nThe Samoan Prime Minister is patron of the Samoa Fa'afafine Association. Translated literally, fa'afafine means \"in the manner of a woman.\"\n\nIn some cultures of Asia, a hijra is usually considered to be neither a man nor a woman. Most are anatomically male or intersex, but some are anatomically female. The hijra form a third gender role, although they do not enjoy the same acceptance and respect as males and females in their cultures. They can run their own households, and their occupations are singing and dancing, working as cooks or servants, sometimes prostitutes, or long-term sexual partners with men. Hijras can be compared to transvestites or drag queens of contemporary western culture.\n\nThe khanith form an accepted third gender in Oman. The khanith are male homosexual prostitutes whose dressing is male, featuring pastel colors (rather than white, worn by men), but their mannerisms female. Khanith can mingle with women, and they often do at weddings or other formal events. Khaniths have their own households, performing all tasks (both male and female). However, similarly to men in their society, khaniths can marry women, proving their masculinity by consummating the marriage. Should a divorce or death take place, these men can revert to their status as khaniths at the next wedding.\n\nMany indigenous North American Nations had more than two gender roles. Those who belong to the additional gender categories, beyond cisgender man and woman, are now often collectively termed \"two-spirit\" or \"two-spirited.\" There are parts of the community that take \"two-spirit\" as a category over an identity itself, preferring to identify with culture or Nation-specific gender terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "723048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723048", "title": "Grave goods", "text": "Grave goods\n\nGrave goods, in archaeology and anthropology, are the items buried along with the body.\n\nThey are usually personal possessions, supplies to smooth the deceased's journey into the afterlife or offerings to the gods. Grave goods may be classed as a type of votive deposit. Most grave goods recovered by archaeologists consist of inorganic objects such as pottery and stone and metal tools but organic objects that have since decayed were also placed in ancient tombs. Funerary art is a broad term but generally means artworks made specifically to decorate a burial place, such as miniature models of possessions including slaves or servants for \"use\" in the afterlife.\n\nWhere grave goods appear, grave robbery is a potential problem. Etruscans would scratch the word \"śuθina\", Etruscan for \"from a tomb\", on grave goods buried with the dead to discourage their reuse by the living. The tomb of pharaoh Tutankhamun is famous because it was one of the few Egyptian tombs that was not thoroughly looted in ancient times.\n\nGrave goods can be regarded as a sacrifice intended for the benefit of the deceased in the afterlife. Closely related are customs of ancestor worship and offerings to the dead, in modern western culture related to All Souls' Day (Day of the Dead), in East Asia the \"hell bank note\" and related customs.\nAlso closely related is the custom of retainer sacrifice, where servants or wives of a deceased chieftain are interred with the body.\nAs the inclusion of expensive grave goods and of slaves or retainers became a sign of high status in the Bronze Age, the prohibitive cost led to the development of \"fake\" grave goods, where artwork meant to \"depict\" grave goods or retainers is produced for the burial and deposited in the grave in place of the actual sacrifice.\n\nThere are disputed claims of intentional burial of Neanderthals as old as 130,000 years. Similar claims have been made for early anatomically modern humans as old as 100,000 years. The earliest undisputed cases of burials are found in modern human sites of the Upper Palaeolithic.\n\nBeads made of basalt deposited in graves in the Fertile Crescent\ndate to the end of the Upper Paleolithic, beginning in about the 12th to 11th millennium BC.\n\nThe distribution of grave goods are a potential indicator of the social stratification of a society. Thus, early Neolithic graves tend to show equal distribution of goods, suggesting a more or less classless society, while in Chalcolithic and Bronze Age burials, rich grave goods are concentrated in \"chieftain\" graves (barrows), indicating social stratification. It is also possible that burial goods indicate a level of concern and consciousness in regard to an afterlife and related sense of spirituality.\n\nThe expression of social status in rich graves is taken to extremes in the royal graves of the Bronze Age. In the Theban Necropolis in Ancient Egypt, the pyramids and the royal graves in the Valley of the Kings are among the most elaborate burials in human history. This trend is continued into the Iron Age. An example of an extremely rich royal grave of the Iron Age is the Terracotta Army of Qin Shi Huang.\n\nIn the sphere of the Roman Empire, early Christian graves lack grave goods, and grave goods tend to disappear with the decline of Greco-Roman polytheism in the 5th and 6th centuries. Similarly, the presence of grave goods in the Early Middle Ages in Europe has often been taken as evidence of paganism, although during the period of conversion in Anglo-Saxon England and the Frankish Empire (7th century), the situation may be more complicated.\nIn the Christian Middle Ages, high-status graves are marked on the exterior, with tomb effigies or expensive tomb stones rather than by the presence of grave goods.\n\nThe practice of placing grave goods with the dead body has thus an uninterrupted history beginning in the Upper Paleolithic, if not the Middle Paleolithic, upheld until comparatively recent times, in many regions of the world ceasing only with Christianization.\n\nThe importance of grave goods, from the simple behavioural and technical to the metaphysical, in archaeology cannot be overestimated.\nBecause of their almost ubiquitous presence throughout the world and throughout prehistory, in many cases the excavation of every-day items placed in burials is the main source of such artifacts in a given prehistoric culture. \nHowever, care must be taken to avoid naive interpretation of grave goods as an objective sample of artifacts in use in a culture. Because of their ritual context, grave goods may represent a special class of artifacts, in some instances produced especially for burial. \nArtwork produced for the burial itself is known as funerary art, while grave goods in the narrow sense are items produced for actual use that are placed in the grave, but in practice the two categories overlap.\n\nGrave goods in Bronze Age and Iron Age cemeteries are a good indicator of relative social status; \nin a 2001 study on an Iron Age cemetery in Pontecagnano Faiano, Italy, a correlation was found between the quality of grave goods and Forensic indicators on the skeletons, showing that skeletons in wealthy tombs tended to show substantially less evidence of biological stress during adulthood, with fewer broken bones or signs of hard labor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36683470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36683470", "title": "Hamburg Dramaturgy", "text": "Hamburg Dramaturgy\n\nThe Hamburg Dramaturgy () is a highly influential work on drama by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, written between 1767 and 1769. It was not originally conceived as a unified and systematical book, but rather as series of essays on the theater, which Lessing wrote as commentary on the short-lived Hamburg National Theater. This collection of 101 short essays represents one of the first sustained critical engagements with the potential of theater as a vehicle for the advancement of humanistic discourse. In many ways, the \"Hamburg Dramaturgy\" defined the new field of dramaturgy, and also introduced the term.\n\nDuring the time Lessing wrote the \"Hamburg Dramaturgy,\" there was a new movement of German theatre, based on self-reflection. Actors were beginning to perform the inner and outer lives of their characters at the same time. One of Lessing's most famous and renowned quotes from the compilation considers the responsibilities of the actor and the playwright: “The great discernment of the drama critic lies in his ability to distinguish, whenever he feels pleasure or displeasure, to what extent that feeling should be credited to the writer or to the actor”\n\nThe idea of a journal with Lessing as a dramatic critic to reflect on the Hamburg National Theater's efforts was conceived by the theatre's founder Johann Friedrich Löwen, and Abel Seyler, \"the power behind the throne,\" who at first reluctantly agreed, but was eventually won over by the journal's success. Because the plays of the new German Bourgeoisie theatre became more detailed and complicated, the audience often felt confused or left out; Lessing’s development of the \"Hamburg Dramaturgy\" was in part a reaction to this.\n\nTopics covered by Lessing in the series of essays include Aristotle's theory of tragedy, acting theory, the role of theater in society, the means by which theater achieves its emotional effects, criticism of the actor and the play, issues of translation, and a nascent theory of the psychology of emotions. Lessing's writings were influential for many German theater artists who came after, notably Bertolt Brecht.\n\nThe analysis of the actor, according to Lessing, is grey area for a dramaturge. It is important to know that with an actor's performance, the circumstances are a large factor to the performance, whereas, for example, the text itself is easier to judge because it simply involves literary analysis. When analyzing an actor's performance, current events, environment, and mentality of the actor must all be taken into account. When Lessing published his essays, numerous actors from Hamburg plays were upset with Lessing's carelessness and disregard of their talents in his essay.\n\nIn 1890, Helen Zimmern published an English translation of the text, which was re-published by Dover in 1962. Zimmern's translation omits nearly 30% of the original text. Translators Wendy Arons and Sara Figal, with editor Natalya Baldyga, are producing a new, complete, and fully annotated translation of the text; the essays are being published online at MediaCommons Press and will be published in print form by Routledge.\n\nLessing's collection of essays are still being used as references today for the topic of dramaturgy, especially as a reference for art of theatre as an outlet for self-reflection, and how circumstances of the era during which a play was written affects how the audience perceives the work.\n\n"}
{"id": "333614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333614", "title": "History of homosexuality", "text": "History of homosexuality\n\nSocietal attitudes towards same-sex relationships have varied over time and place, from expecting all males to engage in same-sex relationships, to casual integration, through acceptance, to seeing the practice as a minor sin, repressing it through law enforcement and judicial mechanisms, and to proscribing it under penalty of death. \nIn a 1976 study, Gwen Broude and Sarah Greene compared attitudes towards and frequency of homosexuality in the ethnographic studies available in the Standard cross-cultural sample. They found that out of 42 communities: homosexuality was accepted or ignored in 9; 5 communities had no concept of homosexuality; 11 considered it undesirable but did not set punishments; and 17 strongly disapproved and punished. Of 70 communities, homosexuality was reported to be absent or rare in frequency in 41, and present or not uncommon in 29.\n\nIt was frequent in ancient Greece. However, in later cultures influenced by Abrahamic religions, the law and the church established sodomy as a transgression against divine law or a crime against nature.\n\nMany historical figures, including Socrates, Lord Byron, Edward II, and Hadrian, have had terms such as \"gay\" or \"bisexual\" applied to them; some scholars, such as Michel Foucault, have regarded this as risking the anachronistic introduction of a contemporary social construct of sexuality foreign to their times, though others challenge this.\n\nA common thread of constructionist argument is that no one in antiquity or the Middle Ages experienced homosexuality as an exclusive, permanent, or defining mode of sexuality. John Boswell has countered this argument by citing ancient Greek writings by Plato, which describe individuals exhibiting exclusive homosexuality.\n\nAmong Indigenous peoples of the Americas prior to European colonization, a number of Nations had respected ceremonial and social roles for homosexual, bisexual, and gender-nonconforming individuals in their communities; in many contemporary Native American and First Nations communities, these roles still exist. While each Indigenous culture has their own names for these individuals, a modern, pan-Indian term that has been adopted by consensus is \"Two-Spirit\". Two Spirit people are generally recognized early in life, and raised in the appropriate manner, learning from the tribal Elders the customs, spiritual and social duties fulfilled by these special people in the community.\n\nHomosexual and gender-variant individuals were also common among other pre-conquest civilizations in Latin America, such as the Aztecs, Mayans, Quechuas, Moches, Zapotecs, and the Tupinambá of Brazil.\nThe Spanish conquerors were horrified to discover sodomy openly practiced among native peoples, and attempted to crush it out by subjecting the \"berdaches\" (as the Spanish called them) under their rule to severe penalties, including public execution, burning and being torn to pieces by dogs.\n\nIn East Asia, same-sex love has been referred to since the earliest recorded history.\n\nHomosexuality in China, known as the \"pleasures of the bitten peach,\" \"the cut sleeve,\" or \"the southern custom,\" has been recorded since approximately 600 BCE. These euphemistic terms were used to describe behaviors, not identities (recently some fashionable young Chinese tend to euphemistically use the term \"brokeback,\" 斷背 \"duanbei\" to refer to homosexual men, from the success of director Ang Lee's film \"Brokeback Mountain\"). The relationships were marked by differences in age and social position. However, the instances of same-sex affection and sexual interactions described in the classical novel \"Dream of the Red Chamber\" seem as familiar to observers in the present, as do equivalent stories of romances between heterosexual people during the same period.\n\nHomosexuality in Japan, variously known as shudo or nanshoku, has been documented for over one thousand years and had some connections to the Buddhist monastic life and the samurai tradition. This same-sex love culture gave rise to strong traditions of painting and literature documenting and celebrating such relationships.\n\nSimilarly, in Thailand, \"kathoey\", or \"ladyboys,\" have been a feature of Thai society for many centuries, and Thai kings had male as well as female lovers. While \"kathoey\" may encompass simple effeminacy or transvestism, it most commonly is treated in Thai culture as a third gender. They are generally accepted by society, and Thailand has never had legal prohibitions against homosexuality or homosexual behavior.\n\nThe earliest Western documents (in the form of literary works, art objects, and mythographic materials) concerning same-sex relationships are derived from ancient Greece.\n\nThe formal practice, an erotic yet often restrained relationship between a free-born (i.e. not a slave or freedman) adult male and a free-born adolescent, was valued for its pedagogic benefits and as a means of population control, though occasionally blamed for causing disorder. Plato praised its benefits in his early writings but in his late works proposed its prohibition. In the \"Symposium\" (182B-D), Plato equates acceptance of homosexuality with democracy, and its suppression with despotism, saying that homosexuality \"is shameful to barbarians because of their despotic governments, just as philosophy and athletics are, since it is apparently not in best interests of such rulers to have great ideas engendered in their subjects, or powerful friendships or physical unions, all of which love is particularly apt to produce\".\n\nAristotle, in his \"Politics\", dismissed Plato's ideas about abolishing homosexuality (2.4); he explains that barbarians like the Celts accorded it a special honour (2.6.6), while the Cretans used it to regulate the population (2.7.5).\n\nLittle is known of female homosexuality in antiquity. Sappho, born on the island of Lesbos, was included by later Greeks in the canonical list of nine lyric poets. The adjectives deriving from her name and place of birth (\"sapphic\" and \"lesbian\") came to be applied to female homosexuality beginning in the 19th century. Sappho's poetry centers on passion and love for various personages and both genders. The narrators of many of her poems speak of infatuations and love (sometimes requited, sometimes not) for various females, but descriptions of physical acts between women are few and subject to debate. There is no evidence that she ran an academy for girls.\n\nIn ancient Rome, the young male body remained a focus of male sexual attention, but relationships were between older free men and slaves or freed youths who took the receptive role in sex. Every emperor with the exception of Claudius took male lovers. The Hellenophile emperor Hadrian is renowned for his relationship with Antinous. However, by 390 A.D., Emperor Theodosius I made homosexuality a legally punishable offense for the passive partner: \"All persons who have the shameful custom of condemning a man's body, acting the part of a woman's to the sufferance of alien sex (for they appear not to be different from women), shall expiate a crime of this kind in avenging flames in the sight of the people.\" In 558, toward the end of his reign, Justinian expanded the proscription to the active partner as well, warning that such conduct can lead to the destruction of cities through the \"wrath of God\". Notwithstanding these regulations, taxes on brothels of boys available for homosexual sex continued to be collected until the end of the reign of Anastasius I in 618.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, wealthy cities in northern Italy—Florence and Venice in particular—were renowned for their widespread practice of same-sex love, engaged in by a considerable part of the male population and constructed along the classical pattern of Greece and Rome. But even as many of the male population were engaging in same-sex relationships, the authorities, under the aegis of the Officers of the Night, were prosecuting, fining, and imprisoning a good portion of that population. The eclipse of this period of relative artistic and erotic freedom was precipitated by the rise to power of the moralizing monk Girolamo Savonarola.\n\nThe relationships of socially prominent figures, such as King James I and the Duke of Buckingham, served to highlight the issue, including in anonymously authored street pamphlets: \"The world is chang'd I know not how, For men Kiss Men, not Women now;...Of J. the First and Buckingham: He, true it is, his Wives Embraces fled, To slabber his lov'd Ganimede\" \n\nThe anonymous \"Love Letters Between a Certain Late Nobleman and the Famous Mr. Wilson\" was published in 1723 in England and was presumed by some modern scholars to be a novel.\n\nThe 1749 edition of John Cleland's popular novel \"Fanny Hill\" includes a homosexual scene, but this was removed in its 1750 edition. Also in 1749, the earliest extended and serious defense of homosexuality in English, \"Ancient and Modern Pederasty Investigated and Exemplified\", written by Thomas Cannon, was published, but was suppressed almost immediately. It includes the passage: \"Unnatural Desire is a Contradiction in Terms; downright Nonsense. Desire is an amatory Impulse of the inmost human Parts.\" Around 1785 Jeremy Bentham wrote another defense, but this was not published until 1978. Executions for sodomy continued in the Netherlands until 1803 and in England until 1835.\n\nBetween 1864 and 1880 Karl Heinrich Ulrichs published a series of twelve tracts, which he collectively titled \"Research on the Riddle of Man-Manly Love.\" In 1867 he became the first self-proclaimed homosexual person to speak out publicly in defense of homosexuality when he pleaded at the Congress of German Jurists in Munich for a resolution urging the repeal of anti-homosexual laws. \"Sexual Inversion\" by Havelock Ellis, published in 1896, challenged theories that homosexuality was abnormal, as well as stereotypes, and insisted on the ubiquity of homosexuality and its association with intellectual and artistic achievement. Although medical texts like these (written partly in Latin to obscure the sexual details) were not widely read by the general public, they did lead to the rise of Magnus Hirschfeld's Scientific Humanitarian Committee, which campaigned from 1897 to 1933 against anti-sodomy laws in Germany, as well as a much more informal, unpublicized movement among British intellectuals and writers, led by such figures as Edward Carpenter and John Addington Symonds. Beginning in 1894 with \"Homogenic Love\", Socialist activist and poet Edward Carpenter wrote a string of pro-homosexual articles and pamphlets, and \"came out\" in 1916 in his book \"My Days and Dreams\". In 1900, Elisar von Kupffer published an anthology of homosexual literature from antiquity to his own time, \"Lieblingminne und Freundesliebe in der Weltliteratur\". His aim was to broaden the public perspective of homosexuality beyond its being viewed simply as a medical or biological issue, but also as an ethical and cultural one. In a backlash to this, the Third Reich specifically targeted LGBT people in the Holocaust. \n\nThere are a handful of accounts by Arab travelers to Europe during the mid-1800s. Two of these travelers, Rifa'ah al-Tahtawi and Muhammad sl-Saffar, show their surprise that the French sometimes deliberately mis-translated love poetry about a young boy, instead referring to a young female, to maintain their social norms and morals.\n\nAmong many Middle Eastern Muslim cultures egalitarian or age-structured homosexual practices were, and remain, widespread and thinly veiled. The prevailing pattern of same-sex relationships in the temperate and sub-tropical zone stretching from Northern India to the Western Sahara is one in which the relationships were—and are—either gender-structured or age-structured or both. In recent years, egalitarian relationships modeled on the western pattern have become more frequent, though they remain rare. Same-sex intercourse officially carries the death penalty in several Muslim nations: Saudi Arabia, Iran, Mauritania, northern Nigeria, Sudan, and Yemen.\n\nToday, governments in the Middle East often ignore, deny the existence of, or criminalize homosexuality. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, during his 2007 speech at Columbia University, asserted that there were no gay people in Iran. Gay people may live in Iran, however they are forced to keep their sexuality veiled from the hostile society, funded and encouraged by government legislation and traditional norms.\n\nIn the ancient Assyrian society, if a man were to have sex with another man of equal status or a cult prostitute, it was thought that trouble will leave him and he will have good fortune. Some ancient religious Assyrian texts contain prayers for divine blessings on homosexual relationships. Freely pictured art of anal intercourse, practiced as part of a religious ritual, dated from the 3rd millennium BC and onwards. Homosexuality was an integral part of temple life in parts of Mesopotamia, and no blame appears to have attached to its practice outside of worship. Despite this, homosexual relationships with royal attendants, between soldiers, and those where a social better was submissive or penetrated were treated as rape or seen as bad omens, and punishments were applied.\n\nThe \"Laws of Manu\", the foundational work of Hindu law, mentions a \"third sex\", members of which may engage in nontraditional gender expression and homosexual activities. The Kama Sutra, written in the 4th century, describes techniques by which homosexuals perform fellatio. Further, such homosexual men were also known to marry, according to the Kama Sutra: \"There are also third-sex citizens, sometimes greatly attached to one another and with complete faith in one another, who get married together.\" (KS 2.9.36). The sculptures at the Khajuraho temple in ancient India, which was built in approximately 1000 CE, depict same-sex relationships between men, indicating that homosexuality in ancient India was not necessarily repressed, and may even have been broadly accepted by the society.\n\nIn many societies of Melanesia, especially in Papua New Guinea, same-sex relationships were an integral part of the culture until the middle of the last century. The Etoro and Marind-anim for example, even viewed heterosexuality as sinful and celebrated homosexuality instead. In many traditional Melanesian cultures a prepubertal boy would be paired with an older adolescent who would become his mentor and who would \"inseminate\" him (orally, anally, or topically, depending on the tribe) over a number of years in order for the younger to also reach puberty. Many Melanesian societies, however, have become hostile towards same-sex relationships since the introduction of Christianity by European missionaries.\n\nHomosexuality in ancient Egypt is a passionately disputed subject within Egyptology: historians and egyptologists alike debate what kind of view the Ancient Egyptians society fostered about homosexuality. Only a handful of direct hints have survived to this day and many possible indications are only vague and offer plenty of room for speculation.\n\nThe best known case of possible homosexuality in Ancient Egypt is that of the two high officials Nyankh-Khnum and Khnum-hotep. Both men lived and served under pharaoh Niuserre during the 5th Dynasty (c. 2494–2345 BC). Nyankh-Khnum and Khnum-hotep each had families of their own with children and wives, but when they died their families apparently decided to bury them together in one and the same mastaba tomb. In this mastaba, several paintings depict both men embracing each other and touching their faces nose-on-nose. These depictions leave plenty of room for speculation, because in Ancient Egypt the nose-on-nose touching normally represented a kiss.\n\nEgyptologists and historians disagree about how to interpret the paintings of Nyankh-khnum and Khnum-hotep. Some scholars believe that the paintings reflect an example of homosexuality between two married men and prove that the Ancient Egyptians accepted same-sex relationships. Other scholars disagree and interpret the scenes as an evidence that Nyankh-khnum and Khnum-hotep were twins, even possibly conjoined twins. No matter what interpretation is correct, the paintings show at the very least that Nyankh-khnum and Khnum-hotep must have been very close to each other in life as in death.\n\nIt remains unclear, what exact view the Ancient Egyptians fostered about homosexuality. Any document and literature that actually contains sexual orientated stories, never name the nature of the sexual deeds, but instead uses stilted and flowery paraphrases. While the stories about Seth and his sexual behavior may reveal rather negative thoughts and views, the tomb inscription of Nyankh-khnum and Khnum-hotep may instead suggest that homosexuality was likewise accepted. Ancient Egyptian documents never clearly say that same-sex relationships were seen as reprehensible or despicable. And no Ancient Egyptian document mentions that homosexual acts were set under penalty. Thus, a straight evaluation remains problematic.\n\nIn the 19th century Mwanga II (1868–1903) the Kabaka of Buganda regularly had sex with his male page.\n\nIn Ethiopia Bieber (1909) “encountered Uranism” among the Semitic Harari people and noted that “sodomy is not foreign to the Harari. Albeit not as commonly, it also occurs among the Galla [Oromo] and Somal[i].” He also noted mutual masturbation by both sexes and all ages for all three peoples, and specified that among the Harari, Uranism was practiced as often between\nmen as between men and boys. More recently, Gamst (1969) reported homosexual relations among shepherd boys of the Cushitic-speaking Qemant (Kemant) of central Ethiopia. Among Amhara peasants, Messing (1957) found (better-accepted) male transvestites, who they view as “god’s mistakes.” Wändarwäräd (“literally male-female”) with visible male sexual characteristics, but whose structure is popularly believed to be defective. Among the Maale of southern Ethiopia, “a small minority [of men] crossed over to feminine roles. Called ashtime, these (biological) males dressed like women, performed female tasks, cared for their own houses, and apparently had sexual relations with men,” according to Donald Donham (1990).\n\nCross-gender homosexuality not tied to possession cults has been reported in a number of East African societies. Needham (1973) described a religious leadership role called mugawe among the Meru of Kenya which includes wearing women's clothes and hairstyle. Mugawe are frequently homosexual, and sometimes are married to a man. Bryk (1964) reported active (i.e., insertive)\nKikuyu pederasts called onek. and also mentioned “homoerotic bachelors” among the pastoralist Nandi and Maragoli (Wanga).\n\nThe term \"homosexuality\" was invented in the 19th century, with the term \"heterosexuality\" invented later in the same century to contrast with the earlier term. The term \"bisexuality\" was invented in the 20th century as sexual identities became defined by the predominate sex to which people are attracted and thus a label was needed for those who are not predominantly attracted to one sex. This points out that the history of sexuality is not solely the history of different-sex sexuality plus the history of same-sex sexuality, but a broader conception viewing of historical events in light of our modern concept or concepts of sexuality taken at its most broad and/or literal definitions.\n\nHistorical personalities are often described using modern sexual identity terms such as \"straight\", \"bisexual\", \"gay\" or \"queer\". Those who favour the practice say that this can highlight such issues as discriminatory historiography by, for example, putting into relief the extent to which same-sex sexual experiences are excluded from biographies of noted figures, or to which sensibilities resulting from same-sex attraction are excluded from literary and artistic consideration of important works, and so on. As well as that, an opposite situation is possible in the modern society: some LGBT-supportive researchers stick to the homosexual theories, excluding other possibilities.\n\nHowever, many, especially in the academic world, regard the use of modern labels as problematic, owing to differences in the ways that different societies constructed sexual orientation identities and to the connotations of modern words like \"queer\". For example, in many societies same-sex sex acts were expected, or completely ignored, and no identity was constructed on their basis at all. Academic works usually specify which words will be used and in which context. Readers are cautioned to avoid making assumptions about the identity of historical figures based on the use of the terms mentioned above.\n\nGreek men had great latitude in their sexual expression, but their wives were severely restricted and could hardly move about the town unsupervised if she was old enough that people would ask whose mother she was, not whose wife she was.\n\nMen could also seek adolescent boys as partners as shown by some of the earliest documents concerning same-sex pederastic relationships, which come from Ancient Greece. Often adolescent boys were favored over women. One ancient saying claimed that \"Women are for business, boys are for pleasure.\" Though slave boys could be bought, free boys had to be courted, and ancient materials suggest that the father also had to consent to the relationship. Such relationships did not replace marriage between man and woman, but occurred before and during the marriage. A mature man would not usually have a mature male mate, but there were exceptions (among whom Alexander the Great) He would be the \"erastes\" (lover) to a young \"eromenos\" (loved one). Dover suggests that it was considered improper for the eromenos to feel desire, as that would not be masculine. Driven by desire and admiration, the erastes would devote himself unselfishly by providing all the education his eromenos required to thrive in society. In recent times, Dover's theory suggests that questioned in light of massive evidence of ancient art and love poetry, a more emotional connection than earlier researchers liked to acknowledge. Some research has shown that ancient Greeks believed semen to be the source of knowledge and that these relationships served to pass wisdom on from the erastes to the eromenos.\n\nThe \"conquest mentality\" of the ancient Romans shaped Roman homosexual practices. In the Roman Republic, a citizen's political liberty was defined in part by the right to preserve his body from physical compulsion or use by others; for the male citizen to submit his body to the giving of pleasure was considered servile. As long as a man played the penetrative role, it was socially acceptable and considered natural for him to have same-sex relations, without a perceived loss of his masculinity or social standing. Sex between male citizens of equal status, including soldiers, was disparaged, and in some circumstances penalized harshly. The bodies of citizen youths were strictly off-limits, and the \"Lex Scantinia\" imposed penalties on those who committed a sex crime \"(stuprum)\" against a freeborn male minor. Male slaves, prostitutes, and entertainers or others considered \"infames\" (of no social standing) were acceptable sex partners for the dominant male citizen to penetrate.\n\n\"Homosexual\" and \"heterosexual\" were thus not categories of Roman sexuality, and no words exist in Latin that would precisely translate these concepts. A male citizen who willingly performed oral sex or received anal sex was disparaged. In courtroom and political rhetoric, charges of effeminacy and passive sexual behaviors were directed particularly at \"democratic\" politicians \"(populares)\" such as Julius Caesar and Mark Antony. Until the Roman Empire came under Christian rule, there is only limited evidence of legal penalties against men who were presumably \"homosexual\" in the modern sense.\n\nThrough the medieval period, homosexuality was generally condemned and thought to be the moral of the story of Sodom and Gomorrah. Historians debate if there were any prominent homosexuals and bisexuals at this time, but it is argued that figures such as Edward II, Richard the Lionheart, Philip II Augustus, and William Rufus were engaged in same-sex relationships.\n\nAlso, historian Allan A. Tulchin recently argued that a form of male same-sex marriage existed in Medieval France, and possibly other areas in Europe, as well. There was a legal category called \"enbrotherment\" (affrèrement) that allowed two men to share living quarters, pool their resources, and effectively live as a married couple. The couple shared \"one bread, one wine, one purse.\" The article received considerable attention in the English-language press, since Tulchin may have discovered the earliest form of same-sex marriage. Tulchin's views have also sparked significant controversy, as they challenge the generally held view that the medieval period was one of the most anti-gay in history.\n\n\n\n\nFor events in Germany see the articles on Magnus Hirschfeld and History of Gays during the Holocaust.\n\nFreud, among others, argued that neither predominantly different- nor same-sex sexuality were the norm, instead that what is called \"bisexuality\" is the normal human condition thwarted by society.\n\nIn 1948 Alfred Kinsey publishes \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\", popularly known as the Kinsey Reports.\n\nHomosexuality was deemed to be a psychiatric disorder for many years, although the studies this theory was based on were later determined to be flawed. In 1973 homosexuality was declassified as a mental illness in the United Kingdom. In 1986 all references to homosexuality as a psychiatric disorder were removed from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) of the American Psychiatric Association.\n\nDuring the Sexual Revolution, the different-sex sexual ideal became completely separated from procreation, yet at the same time was distanced from same-sex sexuality. Many people viewed this freeing of different-sex sexuality as leading to more freedom for same-sex sexuality.\n\nThe Stonewall riots were a series of violent conflicts between New York City police officers and the patrons of the Stonewall Inn, a gay hangout in Greenwich Village. The riot began on Friday, June 27, 1969, during a routine police raid, when transwomen and men, gay men and women, street queens, and other street people fought back in the spirit of the civil rights movements of the era. This riot ended on the morning of 28 June, but smaller demonstrations occurred in the neighborhood throughout the remainder of the week. In the aftermath of the riots, many gay rights organizations formed such as the Gay Liberation Front (GLF). A year later the first Gay Pride March was held to mark the anniversary of the uprising.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256405", "title": "Interlinear gloss", "text": "Interlinear gloss\n\nIn linguistics and pedagogy, an interlinear gloss is a gloss (series of brief explanations, such as definitions or pronunciations) placed between lines (\"inter-\" + \"linear\"), such as between a line of original text and its translation into another language. When glossed, each line of the original text acquires one or more lines of transcription known as an interlinear text or interlinear glossed text (IGT)interlinear for short. Such glosses help the reader follow the relationship between the source text and its translation, and the structure of the original language. In its simplest form, an interlinear gloss is simply a literal, word-for-word translation of the source text.\n\nInterlinear glosses have been used for a variety of purposes over a long period of time. One common usage has been to annotate bilingual textbooks for language education. This sort of interlinearization serves to help make the meaning of a source text explicit without attempting to formally model the structural characteristics of the source language.\n\nSuch annotations have occasionally been expressed not through interlinear layout, but rather, through enumeration of words in the object and meta language. One such example is Wilhelm von Humboldt's annotation of Classical Nahuatl:\n\nThis \"inline\" style allows examples to be included within the flow of text, and for the word order of the target language to be written in an order which approximates the target language syntax. (In the gloss here, \"mache es\" is reordered from the corresponding source order to approximate German syntax more naturally.) Even so, this approach requires the readers to \"re-align\" the correspondences between source and target forms.\n\nMore modern 19th and 20th-century approaches took to glossing vertically, aligning the same sort of word-by-word content in such a way that the metalanguage terms were placed vertically below the source language terms. In this style, the given example might be rendered thus (here English gloss):\n\nNote that here word ordering is determined by the syntax of the object language.\n\nFinally, modern linguists have adopted the practice of using abbreviated grammatical category labels. A 2008 publication which repeats this example labels it as follows:\n\nThis approach is denser and also requires effort to read, but it is less reliant on the grammatical structure of the metalanguage for expressing the semantics of the target forms.\n\nIn computing, special text markers are provided in Specials (Unicode block) to indicate the start and end of interlinear glosses.\n\nA semi-standardized set of parsing conventions and grammatical abbreviations is explained in the Leipzig Glossing Rules.\n\nAn interlinear text will commonly consist of some or all of the following, usually in this order, from top to bottom: \nand finally \n\nAs an example, the following Taiwanese clause has been transcribed with five lines of text: \nIn linguistics, it has become standard to align the words and to gloss each transcribed morpheme separately. That is, \"koat-tēng\" in line 1 above would either require a hyphenated two-word gloss, or be transcribed without a hyphen, for example as \"koattēng.\" Grammatical terms are commonly abbreviated and printed in to keep them distinct from translations, especially when they are frequent or important for analysis. Varying levels of analysis may be detailed. For example, in a Lezgian text using standard romanization,\n\nHere every Lezgian morpheme is set off with hyphens and glossed separately. Since many of these are difficult to gloss in English, the roots are translated, but the grammatical suffixes are glossed with three-letter grammatical abbreviations.\n\nThe same text may be glossed at a different level of analysis:\n\nHere the Lezgian morphemes are translated into English as much as possible; only those which correspond to English are set off with hyphens.\n\nA more colloquial gloss would be:\n\nHere the gloss is word for word; rather than setting off Lezgian morphemes with hyphens, the English words in the gloss are joined with periods when more than one is required to translate a Lezgian word.\n\nIn interlinear morphological glosses, various forms of punctuation separate the glosses. Typically, the words are aligned with their glosses; within words, a hyphen is used when a boundary is marked in both the text and its gloss, a period when a boundary appears in only one. That is, there should be the same number of words separated with spaces in the text and its gloss, as well as the same number of hyphenated morphemes within a word and its gloss. This is the basic system, and can be applied universally. For example,\n\nAn underscore may be used instead of a period, as in \"go_out-\", when a single word in the source language happens to correspond to a phrase in the glossing language, though a period would still be used for other situations, such as Greek \"oikíais\" house. 'to the houses'.\n\nHowever, sometimes finer distinctions may be made. For example, clitics may be separated with a double hyphen (or, for ease of typing, an equal sign) rather than a hyphen:\n\nAffixes which case discontinuity (infixes, circumfixes, transfixes, etc.) may be set off by angle brackets, and reduplication with tildes, rather than with hyphens:\n\nMorphemes which cannot be easily separated out, such as umlaut, may be marked with a backslash rather than a period:\n\nA few other conventions which are sometimes seen are illustrated in the Leipzig Glossing Rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47275784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47275784", "title": "Intersex human rights", "text": "Intersex human rights\n\nIntersex people are born with sex characteristics, such as chromosomes, gonads, or genitals, that, according to the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, \"do not fit typical binary notions of male or female bodies.\"\n\nIntersex people face stigmatisation and discrimination from birth, particularly when an intersex variation is visible. In some countries (particularly in Africa and Asia) this may include infanticide, abandonment and the stigmatization of families. Mothers in East Africa may be accused of witchcraft, and the birth of an intersex child may be described as a curse.\n\nIntersex infants and children, such as those with ambiguous outer genitalia, may be surgically and/or hormonally altered to fit perceived more socially-acceptable sex characteristics. However, this is considered controversial, with no firm evidence of good outcomes. Such treatments may involve sterilization. Adults, including elite female athletes, have also been subjects of such treatment. Increasingly these issues are recognized as human rights abuses, with statements from UN agencies, the Australian parliament, and German and Swiss ethics institutions. Intersex organizations have also issued joint statements over several years, including the Malta declaration by the third International Intersex Forum.\n\nImplementation of human rights protections in legislation and regulation has progressed more slowly. In 2011, Christiane Völling won the first successful case brought against a surgeon for non-consensual surgical intervention. In 2015, the Council of Europe recognized for the first time a right for intersex persons to \"not\" undergo sex assignment treatment. In April 2015, Malta became the first country to outlaw nonconsensual medical interventions to modify sex anatomy, including that of intersex people.\n\nOther human rights and legal issues include the right to life, protection from discrimination, access to justice and reparations, access to information, and legal recognition. Few countries so far protect intersex people from discrimination, or provide access to reparations for harmful practices.\n\nResearch indicates a growing consensus that diverse intersex bodies are normal—if relatively rare—forms of human biology, and human rights institutions are placing increasing scrutiny on medical practices and issues of discrimination against intersex people. A 2013 first international pilot study. Human Rights between the Sexes, by Dan Christian Ghattas, found that intersex people are discriminated against worldwide:\nThe Council of Europe highlights several areas of concern:\n\n\nHowever, the implementation, codification and enforcement of intersex human rights remains slow. These actions take place through legislation, regulation and court cases, detailed below.\n\nMultiple organizations have highlighted appeals to LGBT rights recognition that fail to address the issue of unnecessary \"normalising\" treatments on intersex children, using the portmanteau term \"pinkwashing\". In June 2016, Organisation Intersex International Australia pointed to contradictory statements by Australian governments, suggesting that the dignity and rights of LGBTI (LGBT and intersex) people are recognized while, at the same time, harmful practices on intersex children continue.\n\nIn August 2016, Zwischengeschlecht described actions to promote equality or civil status legislation without action on banning \"intersex genital mutilations\" as a form of pinkwashing. The organization has previously highlighted evasive government statements to UN Treaty Bodies that conflate intersex, transgender and LGBT issues, instead of addressing harmful practices on infants.\n\nIntersex people face stigmatisation and discrimination from birth. In some countries, particularly in Africa and Asia, this may include infanticide, abandonment and the stigmatization of families. Mothers in east Africa may be accused of witchcraft, and the birth of an intersex child may be described as a curse. Abandonments and infanticides have been reported in Uganda, Kenya, south Asia, and China. In 2015, it was reported that an intersex Kenyan adolescent, Muhadh Ishmael, was mutilated and later died. He had previously been described as a curse on his family.\n\nNon-consensual medical interventions to modify the sex characteristics of intersex people take place in all countries where the human rights of intersex people have been explored. Such interventions have been criticized by the World Health Organization, other UN bodies such as the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, and an increasing number of regional and national institutions. In low and middle income countries, the cost of healthcare may limit access to necessary medical treatment at the same time that other individuals experience coercive medical interventions.\n\nSeveral rights have been stated as affected by stigmatization and coercive medical interventions on minors:\n\nThese issues have been addressed by a rapidly increasing number of international institutions. In 2012, the Swiss National Advisory Commission on Biomedical Ethics reported. In 2013, they included the UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and the Australian Senate. In 2015 they included the Council of Europe, the United Nations Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the World Health Organization. In April 2015, Malta became the first country to outlaw coercive medical interventions. In the same year, the Council of Europe became the first institution to state that intersex people have the right \"not\" to undergo sex affirmation interventions.\n\nFor Intersex Awareness Day, October 26, UN experts including the Committee against Torture, the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, along with the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and United Nations Special Rapporteurs called for an urgent end to human rights violations against intersex persons, including in medical settings. The experts also called for the investigation of human rights abuses, access to reparations, and the implementation of anti-discrimination measures:\n\nIn 2017, the human rights non-governmental organizations Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch published major reports on the rights of children with intersex conditions.\n\nAlthough not many cases of children with intersex conditions are available, a case taken to the Constitutional Court of Colombia led to changes in their treatment. The case restricted the power of doctors and parents to decide surgical procedures on children's ambiguous genitalia after the age of five, while continuing to permit interventions on younger children. Due to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Colombia on Case 1 Part 1 (SU-337 of 1999), doctors are obliged to inform parents on all the aspects of the intersex child. Parents can only consent to surgery if they have received accurate information, and cannot give consent after the child reaches the age of five. By then the child will have, supposedly, realized their gender identity. The court case led to the setting of legal guidelines for doctors' surgical practice on intersex children.\n\nIn April 2015, Malta became the first country to outlaw non-consensual medical interventions in a \"Gender Identity Gender Expression and Sex Characteristics Act\". The Act recognizes a right to bodily integrity and physical autonomy, explicitly prohibiting modifications to children's sex characteristics for social factors:\n\nThe Act was widely welcomed by civil society organizations.\n\nIn January 2016, the Ministry of Health of Chile ordered the suspension of unnecessary normalization treatments for intersex children, including irreversible surgery, until they reach an age when they can make decisions on their own. The regulations were superseded in August 2016.\n\nPreimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD or PIGD) refers to genetic testing of embryos prior to implantation (as a form of embryo profiling), and sometimes even of oocytes prior to fertilization. PGD is considered in a similar fashion to prenatal diagnosis. When used to screen for a specific genetic condition, the method makes it highly likely that the baby will be free of the condition under consideration. PGD thus is an adjunct to assisted reproductive technology, and requires in vitro fertilization (IVF) to obtain oocytes or embryos for evaluation. The technology allows discrimination against those with intersex traits.\n\nGeorgiann Davis argues that such discrimination fails to recognize that many people with intersex traits led full and happy lives. Morgan Carpenter highlights the appearance of several intersex variations in a list by the UK Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority of \"serious\" \"genetic conditions\" that may be de-selected, including 5 alpha reductase deficiency and androgen insensitivity syndrome, traits evident in elite women athletes and \"the world's first openly intersex mayor\". Organisation Intersex International Australia has called for the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council to prohibit such interventions, noting a \"close entanglement of intersex status, gender identity and sexual orientation in social understandings of sex and gender norms, and in medical and medical sociology literature\".\n\nIn 2015, the Council of Europe published an Issue Paper on \"Human rights and intersex people\", remarking:\n\nA handful of jurisdictions so far provide explicit protection from discrimination for intersex people. South Africa was the first country to explicitly add intersex to legislation, as part of the attribute of 'sex'. Australia was the first country to add an independent attribute, of 'intersex status'. Malta was the first to adopt a broader framework of 'sex characteristics', through legislation that also ended modifications to the sex characteristics of minors undertaken for social and cultural reasons. Bosnia-Herzegovina listed as \"sex characteristics\" Greece prohibits discrimination and hate crimes based on \"sex characteristics\", since 24 December 2015.\n\nAn Australian survey of 272 persons born with atypical sex characteristics, published in 2016, found that 18% of respondents (compared to an Australian average of 2%) failed to complete secondary school, with early school leaving coincident with pubertal medical interventions, bullying and other factors.\n\nA 2015 Australian survey of people born with atypical sex characteristics found high levels of poverty, in addition to very high levels of early school leaving, and higher than average rates of disability. An \"Employers guide to intersex inclusion\" published by Pride in Diversity and Organisation Intersex International Australia also discloses cases of discrimination in employment.\n\nDiscrimination protection intersects with involuntary and coercive medical treatment. Maltese protections on grounds of sex characteristics provides explicit protection against unnecessary and harmful modifications to the sex characteristics of children.\n\nIn May 2016, the United States Department of Health and Human Services issued a statement explaining Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act stating that the Act prohibits \"discrimination on the basis of intersex traits or atypical sex characteristics\" in publicly-funded healthcare, as part of a prohibition of discrimination \"on the basis of sex\".\n\nIn 2013, it was disclosed in a medical journal that four unnamed elite female athletes from developing countries were subjected to gonadectomies (sterilization) and partial clitoridectomies (female genital mutilation) after testosterone testing revealed that they had an intersex condition. Testosterone testing was introduced in the wake of the Caster Semenya case, of a South African runner subjected to testing due to her appearance and vigor. There is no evidence that innate hyperandrogenism in elite women athletes confers an advantage in sport. While Australia protects intersex persons from discrimination, the Act contains an exemption in sport.\n\nAccess to reparation appears limited, with a scarcity of legal cases.\n\nIn Germany in 2011, Christiane Völling won what may be the first successful case against her medical treatment. The surgeon was ordered to pay €100,000 in damages after a legal battle that began in 2007, thirty years after the removal of her reproductive organs.\n\nOn August 12, 2005, the mother of a child, Benjamín, filed a lawsuit against the Maule Health Service after the child's male gonads and reproductive system were removed without informing the parents of the nature of the surgery. The child had been raised as a girl. The claim for damages was initiated in the Fourth Court of Letters of Talca, but ended up in the Supreme Court of Chile. On November 14, 2012, the Court sentenced the Maule Health Service for \"lack of service\" and to pay compensation of 100 million pesos for moral and psychological damages caused to Benjamín, and another 5 million for each of the parents.\n\nIn the United States the \"M.C. v. Aaronson\" case, advanced by interACT with the Southern Poverty Law Center was brought before the courts in 2013. In 2015, the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit dismissed the case, stating that, \"it did not “mean to diminish the severe harm that M.C. claims to have suffered” but that a reasonable official in 2006 did not have fair warning from then-existing precedent that performing sex assignment surgery on sixteen-month-old M.C. violated a clearly established constitutional right.\" In July 2017, it was reported that the case had been settled out of court by the Medical University of South Carolina for $440,000, without admission of liability.\n\nIn 2015, Michaela Raab sued doctors in Nuremberg, Germany who failed to properly advise her. Doctors stated that they \"were only acting according to the norms of the time - which sought to protect patients against the psychosocial effects of learning the full truth about their chromosomes.\" On 17 December 2015, the Nuremberg State Court ruled that the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg Clinic must pay damages and compensation.\n\nWith the rise of modern medical science in Western societies, many intersex people with ambiguous external genitalia have had their genitalia surgically modified to resemble either female or male genitals. Surgeons pinpointed the birth of intersex babies as a \"social emergency\". A secrecy-based model was also adopted, in the belief that this was necessary to ensure “normal” physical and psychosocial development. Disclosure also included telling people that they would never meet anyone else with the same condition. Access to medical records has also historically been challenging. Yet the ability to provide free, informed consent depends on the availability of information.\n\nThe Council of Europe and World Health Organization acknowledge the necessity for improvements in information provision, including access to medical records.\n\nSome intersex organizations claim that secrecy-based models have been perpetuated by a shift in clinical language to Disorders of sex development. Morgan Carpenter of Organisation Intersex International Australia quotes the work of Miranda Fricker on \"hermeneutical injustice\" where, despite new legal protections from discrimination on grounds of intersex status, \"someone with lived experience is unable to even make sense of their own social experiences\" due to the deployment of clinical language and \"no words to name the experience\".\n\nAccording to the Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions, few countries have provided for the legal recognition of intersex people. The Forum states that the legal recognition of intersex people is:\n\n\nIn some jurisdictions, access to any form of identification document can be an issue.\n\nLike all individuals, some intersex individuals may be raised as a particular sex (male or female) but then identify with another later in life, while most do not. Like non-intersex people, some intersex individuals may not identify themselves as either exclusively female or exclusively male. A 2012 clinical review suggests that between 8.5-20% of persons with intersex conditions may experience gender dysphoria, while sociological research in Australia, a country with a third 'X' sex classification, shows that 19% of people born with atypical sex characteristics selected an \"X\" or \"other\" option, while 52% are women, 23% men and 6% unsure.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, access to any birth certificate may be an issue, including a birth certificate with a sex marker. \n\nIn 2014, in the case of \"Baby 'A' (Suing through her Mother E.A) & another v Attorney General & 6 others [2014]\", a Kenyan court ordered the Kenyan government to issue a birth certificate to a five-year-old child born in 2009 with ambiguous genitalia. In Kenya a birth certificate is necessary for attending school, getting a national identity document, and voting. Many intersex persons in Uganda are understood to be stateless due to historical difficulties in obtaining identification documents, despite a birth registration law that permits intersex minors to change assignment.\n\nThe Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions states that:\nAccess to a birth certificate with a correct sex marker may be an issue for people who do not identify with their sex assigned at birth, or it may only be available accompanied by surgical requirements.\n\nThe passports and identification documents of Australia and some other nationalities have adopted \"X\" as a valid third category besides \"M\" (male) and \"F\" (female), at least since 2003. In 2013, Germany became the first European nation to allow babies with characteristics of both sexes to be registered as \"indeterminate gender\" on birth certificates, amidst opposition and skepticism from intersex organisations who point out that the law appears to mandate exclusion from male or female categories. The Council of Europe acknowledged this approach, and concerns about recognition of third and blank classifications in a 2015 Issue Paper, stating that these may lead to \"forced outings\" and \"lead to an increase in pressure on parents of intersex children to decide in favour of one sex.\" The Issue Paper argues that \"further reflection on non-binary legal identification is necessary\":\n\nRead country-specific pages on intersex rights via the links on the country name, where available.\n<onlyinclude>\n\n<section begin=africa />\n<section end=africa />\n\n<section begin=americas />\n<section end=americas />\n\n<section begin=asia />\n<section end=asia />\n\n<section begin=europe />\n<section end=europe />\n\n<section begin=oceania />\n<section end=oceania />\n</onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56087517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56087517", "title": "Iron-Age-Danube project", "text": "Iron-Age-Danube project\n\n\"“Monumentalized Early Iron Age Landscapes in the Danube river basin”\" \n\nIron-Age-Danube is a cross-border project and is part of the Interreg Danube Transnational Programme of the European Union. \n\nIn the Iron-Age-Danube project the early Iron Age landscapes in the Danube river basin are explored with the help of modern technology and traditional archaeological tools. The participating partners from Austria, Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia work together to promote the concept of archaeological landscapes beyond single archaeological sites in these countries.\n\nThe project is funded by the European Union with about 2.169.200 EUR from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). These ERDF resources make 85% of the total project volume which is about 2.552.000 EUR.\n\nThe Iron-Age-Danube project lasts from the 1st of January 2017 till the 30th of June 2019.\n\nThe major goal of the project is to communicate a lively image of archaeological research and the Iron Age landscapes to the visitors and to raise the awareness for the importance of archaeological monuments for the human history. \n\nThe project Iron-Age-Danube ignores borderlines between the countries and researches the remains of the Hallstatt period (Iron Age) in the Danube region. The data of this research will help to understand the way of living in the past and the needs of the heritage today.\n\nAnother goal is the protection of the monuments and landscapes as well as their sustainable use for the tourism. To strengthen the local tourism, already existing archaeological parks or trails will be revitalised. New visitor programs in form of digital and analogous tools will be developed and implemented in 9 micro-regions. The micro-regions are: Großklein and Strettweg (Austria), Jalžabet and Kaptol (Croatia), Poštela and Dolenjske Toplice (Slovenia) and Százhalombatta, Süttő and Sopron (Hungary).\n\nThe project partners and associated partners in Austria, Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia are: \n\nOn the 31st of January 2018 the European Year of Cultural Heritage was officially launched by the European Commission and the Iron-Age-Danube project was granted the honor to use the EYCH 2018 logo.\n\nIn June 2018 the Iron-Age-Danube Project was selected by an Independent Jury as one of 21 finalists for the RegioStars Awards in the 2018 edition. The voting for this year’s public choice award started on the 3rd of July 2018.\n\nAt the beginning of July the project partners in Vienna became a part of the road trip project and took the two young travellers with them to do some aerial archaeology.\n\n"}
{"id": "595099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595099", "title": "John Allen Paulos", "text": "John Allen Paulos\n\nJohn Allen Paulos (born July 4, 1945) is an American professor of mathematics at Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He has gained fame as a writer and speaker on mathematics and the importance of mathematical literacy. Paulos writes about many subjects, especially of the dangers of mathematical innumeracy; that is, the layperson's misconceptions about numbers, probability, and logic.\n\nPaulos was born in Denver Colorado and grew up in Chicago, Illinois and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In an interview he described himself as lifelong skeptic. He went to high school in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. After his Bachelor of Mathematics at University of Wisconsin (1967) and his Master of Science at University of Washington (1968) he received his Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Wisconsin–Madison (1974). He was also part of the Peace Corps in the seventies.\n\nHis academic work is mainly in mathematical logic and probability theory.\n\nHis book \"Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and its Consequences\" (1988) was a bestseller and \"A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper\" (1995) extended the critique. In his books Paulos discusses innumeracy with quirky anecdotes, scenarios and facts, encouraging readers in the end to look at their world in a more quantitative way.\n\nHe has also written on other subjects often \"combining disparate disciplines\", such as the mathematical and philosophical basis of humor in \"Mathematics and Humor\" and \"I Think, Therefore I Laugh\", the stock market in \"A Mathematician Plays the Stock Market\", quantitative aspects of narrative in \"Once Upon a Number\", the arguments for God in \"Irreligion\", and most recently \"bringing mathematics to bear on...biography\" in \"A Numerate Life\".\n\nPaulos also wrote a mathematics-tinged column for the UK newspaper \"The Guardian\" and is a Committee for Skeptical Inquiry fellow (formally known as Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP)).\n\nPaulos has appeared frequently on radio and television, including a four-part BBC adaptation of \"A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper\" and appearances on the Lehrer News Hour, 20/20, Larry King, and David Letterman.\n\nIn 2001 Paulos taught a course on quantitative literacy for journalists at the Columbia University School of Journalism. The course stimulated further programs at Columbia and elsewhere in precision and data-driven journalism.\n\nHis long-running \"ABCNews.com\" monthly column \"Who's Counting\" deals with mathematical aspects of stories in the news. All the columns over a 10- year period are archived here.\n\nHe is married and the father of two.\n\nPaulos tweets frequently at @JohnAllenPaulos \n\nPaulos received the 2013 JPBM (Joint Policy Board for Mathematics) Award for Communicating Mathematics on a Sustained Basis to Large Audiences.\n\nPaulos received the 2003 AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science) Award for Promoting the Public Understanding of Science and Technology.\n\nIn 2002 he received the University Creativity Award at Temple University\n\nPaulos' article \"Counting on Dyscalculia,\" which appeared in Discover Magazine in 1994, won a Folio Award that year\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52520560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52520560", "title": "Juana María Rodríguez", "text": "Juana María Rodríguez\n\nJuana María Rodríguez is a professor of Ethnic Studies, Gender and Women's Studies, and Performance Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. Her scholarly writing in queer theory, critical race theory, and performance studies highlights the intersection of race, gender, sexuality and embodiment in constructing subjectivity.\n\nBorn Juana María de la Caridad Rodríguez y Hernández in Placetas, Cuba, Rodríguez emigrated to the United States in 1963 with her family. She has two siblings: and her sister Dinorah de Jesús Rodríguez,an experimental filmmaker and visual artist who works between Havana and Miami, and her brother René. Rodríguez identifies as queer and bisexual, and has published work about what she terms \"bisexual erasure.\"\n\nDescribing herself as an \"accidental academic\" in reference to her working class upbringing, Rodríguez attended City College of San Francisco before graduating with a Bachelor's degree from San Francisco State University in Liberal Studies. Her graduate degrees include a Masters in English and Comparative Literature from Columbia University, and a Ph.D. in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley where she studied with Norma Alarcón, Judith Butler, VèVè A. Clark, and Gerald Vizenor.\n\nBefore joining the faculty at Berkeley, Rodríguez was an Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, and an Associate Professor of Women and Gender Studies at the University of California, Davis where she served as Director of the Cultural Studies Graduate Group.\n\nAt Berkeley, she is affiliated with the Center for Race and Gender, the Center for New Media, the Center for the Study of Sexual Culture and the Haas Institute for a Fair and Equitable Society, where she was a founding member of the LGBTQ Citizen Cluster.\n\nIn 2014, she was appointed to the University of California President's Advisory Committee on LGBT Students, Staff, and Faculty Member by Janet Napolitano.\n\nThe author of two books, \"Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces\" (NYU Press, 2003) and \"Sexual Futures, Queer Gestures, and Other Latina Longings\" (NYU 2014), Rodríguez has also published essays in \"; Women & Performance: a journal of feminist theory; Radical History Review; PMLA; MELUS; Profession\" and others\".\" Rodríguez's work is considered part of queer of color critique, an intervention into queer theory that argues that sexuality can not be understood or analyzed outside of the ways it is mutually constituted by race and other dimensions of difference.\n\nRodríguez's first book, \"Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces\" (NYU Press, 2003) introduced the idea of queer \"latinidad\" as a way to disarticulate the ways that history, geography, colonialism, ethnicity, nationality, language, religion, legal status, immigration status, class, color, and the politics of location exist to complicate facile notions of Latino identity. In that book, Rodríguez identifies three case studies that involve different understandings of ethnic and sexual identity: activism through the queer Latino/a HIV prevention agency Proyecto ContraSIDA por Vida; law through the asylum case of Marcelo Tenorio, a gay Brazilian who was granted political asylum in the United States based on sexual persecution; and cyberspace by examining the internet chatrooms of the IRC (Internet Relay Chat) an early form of digital connectivity.\n\nIn her chapter on the IRC, \"'Welcome to the Global Stage': Confessions of a Latina Cyber-Slut\" in \"Queer Latinidad\", Rodríguez documents the use of the \"@\" or arroba in words like Latin@, amig@s, or nostr@s seen in the Spanish language digital spaces she studied, as a \"creative linguistic intervention in the highly gendered structure of Spanish.\" She writes, \"Unlike the slash in words such as Latinos/as or amigas/os, which maintains a gender binary while attempting to be inclusive, the @ or \"at sign,\" literally marks where an individual is at in terms of gender.\" She has also discussed the use of the \"x\" in terms such as Latinx and other approaches to the ungendering or queering of Spanish, although she also argues that gender can also be a site of pleasure and affirmation.\n\nRodriguez's second book \"Sexual Futures, Queer Gestures, and Other Latina Longings\" (NYU Press 2014) looks at queer kinship practices, sodomy laws in Puerto Rico, Latin dance styles, commercials, pornography, burlesque, queer pride marches, alongside sexual practices such as BDSM, polyamory, daddy-play, and butch-femme role playing to examine the relationship between sexual politics and sexual practices. In the book and elsewhere, she highlights how the politics of respectability that surround sexuality inhibit the potential for more radical interventions into public policy and law around sexuality. Throughout the book, she uses the idea of gesture to emphasize non-verbal ways of communicating gendered and ethnic identity, and as a metaphor to think about activist practices that are partial, in-process and incomplete. The book features queer performance artist Xandra Ibarra, and explores the taboo subject of racialized sexual violence.\n\nRodríguez's work is often specifically praised for the ways in which it deals explicitly with queer sexual practices and forms of gender expression such as butch and femme. She frequently uses her own sexual experiences, or what she terms \"sexual archives\" to illuminate her ideas on racialized abjection, feminine subjection, sexual vulnerability, and femme identity. In her writing, she often references the sensory, particularly touch, as a way to articulate an embodied sexual practice and a writing practice rooted in sociality. In reviews of her work, reviewers frequently remark on her lyrical use of language.\n\nIn 2015, her book, \"Sexual Futures, Queer Gestures, and Other Latina Longings\" won the Alan Bray Memorial Book Prize, by the GL/Q Caucus of the Modern Language Association and was a Lambda Literary Foundation Finalist for LGBT Studies.\n\nAt the University of California, Berkeley, she has won the Social Science Division, Distinguished Teaching Award and the Graduate Assembly's Faculty Mentor Award.\n\nA member of the American Studies Association, the Modern Language Association, and the National Women's Studies Association, she was chair of the Modern Language Association's Committee on the Status of Literatures of People of Color in the United States and edited a collection of essays entitled the \"Affirmative Activism Project\" on diversity in higher education. She was also elected to the National Council of the American Studies Association for a three-year term in 2013.\n\nA frequent public speaker and writer, Rodríguez has also published articles on the Orlando Pulse shooting, diversity in Higher Education, gay marriage, and bisexuality.\n"}
{"id": "41721159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41721159", "title": "Law and religion", "text": "Law and religion\n\nLaw and religion is the interdisciplinary study of relationships between law, especially public law, and religion. Voge Magazine reports that during the late 1900, a new law and religion approach emerged that progressively built its own contribution to religious studies. Over a dozen scholarly organizations and committees were formed by 1983, and a scholarly quarterly, the Journal of Law and Religion, was first published that year. The \"Ecclesiastical Law Journal\" began publication in 1987. \"The Rutgers Journal of Law and Religion\" was founded in 1999. \"The Oxford Journal of Law and Religion\" was founded in England in 2012. \n\nMany departments and centers have been created around the world during the last decades. For example, the Brigham Young University law school in 2000 created \"The International Center for Law and Religion Studies.\" It has an international mission and its annual symposium (which began in 1993) has brought to campus over 1000 scholars, human rights activists, judges from supreme courts, and government ministers dealing with religious affairs from more than 120 countries. \n\nAs of 2012, major law and religion organizations in the U.S. included 500 law professors, 450 political scientists, and specialists in numerous other fields such as history and religious studies. Between 1985 and 2010, the field saw the publication of some 750 books and 5000 scholarly articles, according to Emory Law Professor John Witte, Jr..\n\nScholars in the field are not only focused on strictly legal issues about religious freedom or non establishment but also on the study of religions as they are qualified through judicial discourses or legal understanding on religious phenomena. For example, \"The Oxford Journal of Law and Religion\" seeks to cover:\n\nExponents look at canon law, natural law, and state law, often in comparative perspective. Specialists have explored themes in western history regarding Christianity and justice and mercy, rule and equity, discipline and love. Common topics of interest include marriage and the family, and human rights. Moving beyond Christianity, scholars have looked at law and religion links in the Muslim Middle East, Asian ancestral religions, occult altercations, pagan Rome and any realm in which religious beliefs form the basis of or contradict governmental law.\n\nWithin Christianity, studies range from textual analysis of early Christians' relationship with Jewish Law, the effect of law on the Protestant Reformation, and modern day issues like homosexual unions, the ordination of women to the diaconate and priesthood, and consciences objectors to war. \n\nImportant studies have appeared regarding secularization. In particular the issue of wearing religion symbols in public, such as headscarves that are banned in French schools, have received scholarly attention in the context of human rights and feminism.\n\nIn Thailand, the constitutional monarchy that was established in the 1930s integrated traditional Buddhist concepts of cosmic law and religion with modern methods of public administration and legal authority. The result was the formation of a unique civic religion based on the three-way formula of nation, religion, and kingship. This new tradition has evolved and provides a framework for both the symbolic discourse as well as practical actions in modern Thai legal culture.\n\n\n\n\nr"}
{"id": "1828083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828083", "title": "Linguistic turn", "text": "Linguistic turn\n\nThe linguistic turn was a major development in Western philosophy during the early 20th century, the most important characteristic of which is the focusing of philosophy and the other humanities primarily on the relationship between philosophy and language.\n\nVery different intellectual movements were associated with the \"linguistic turn\", although the term itself is commonly thought popularised by Richard Rorty's 1967 anthology \"The Linguistic Turn\", in which it means the turn towards linguistic philosophy. According to Rorty, who later dissociated himself from linguistic philosophy and analytic philosophy generally, the phrase \"the linguistic turn\" originated with philosopher Gustav Bergmann.\n\nTraditionally, the linguistic turn is taken to also mean the birth of analytic philosophy. One of the results of the linguistic turn was an increasing focus on logic and philosophy of language, and the cleavage between ideal language philosophy and ordinary language philosophy.\n\nAccording to Michael Dummett, the linguistic turn can be dated to Gottlob Frege's 1884 work \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\", specifically paragraph 62 where Frege explores the identity of a numerical proposition. \n\nIn order to answer a Kantian question about numbers, \"How are numbers given to us, granted that we have no idea or intuition of them?\" Frege invokes his \"context principle\", stated at the beginning of the book, that only in the context of a proposition do words have meaning, and thus finds the solution to be in defining \"the sense of a proposition in which a number word occurs.\" Thus an ontological and epistemological problem, traditionally solved along idealist lines, is instead solved along linguistic ones.\n\nThis concern for the logic of propositions and their relationship to \"facts\" was later taken up by the notable analytic philosopher Bertrand Russell in \"On Denoting\", and played a weighty role in his early work in logical atomism.\n\nLudwig Wittgenstein, an associate of Russell, was one of the progenitors of the linguistic turn. This follows from his ideas in his \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" that philosophical problems arise from a misunderstanding of the logic of language, and from his remarks on language games in his later work. His later work (specifically \"Philosophical Investigations\") significantly departs from the common tenets of analytic philosophy and might be viewed as having some resonance in the post-structuralist tradition. \n\nW. V. O. Quine describes the historical continuity of the linguistic turn with earlier philosophy in \"Two Dogmas of Empiricism\": \"Meaning is what essence becomes when it is divorced from the object of reference and wedded to the word.\"\n\nLater in the twentieth century, philosophers like Saul Kripke in \"Naming and Necessity\" drew metaphysical conclusions from closely analyzing language.\n\nDecisive for the linguistic turn in the humanities were the works of yet another tradition, namely the Continental structuralism of Ferdinand de Saussure. Structuralism was the initial outcome of Saussure's linguistic turn, which later led to poststructuralism with the input of Friedrich Nietzsche's ideas. Influential poststructuralist theorists include Judith Butler, Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, Gilles Deleuze, Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida. The power of language, more specifically of certain rhetorical tropes, in historical discourse was explored by Hayden White.\n\nThese various movements often lead to the notion that language 'constitutes' reality, a position contrary to intuition and to most of the Western tradition of philosophy. The traditional view (what Derrida called the 'metaphysical' core of Western thought) saw words as functioning labels attached to concepts. According to this view, there is something like 'the \"real\" chair', which exists in some external reality and corresponds roughly with a concept in human thought, \"chair\", to which the linguistic word \"chair\" refers. However, the founder of structuralism, Ferdinand de Saussure, held that definitions of concepts cannot exist independently from a linguistic system defined by difference, or, to put it differently, that a concept of something cannot exist without being named. Thus differences between meanings structure our perception; there is no \"real\" chair except insofar as we are manipulating symbolic systems. We would not even be able to recognize a chair \"as\" a chair without simultaneously recognising that a chair is \"not\" everything else - in other words a chair is defined as being a specific collection of characteristics which are themselves defined in certain ways, and so on, and all of this within the symbolic system of language. Thus, a large part of what we think of as \"reality\" is really a convention of naming and characterising, a convention which is itself called \"language\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21105447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21105447", "title": "List of anonymous masters", "text": "List of anonymous masters\n\nIn art history, an anonymous master is an Old Master whose work is known, but whose name is lost.\n\nOnly in the Renaissance did individual artists in Western Europe acquire personalities known by their peers (some listed by Vasari in his \"Lives of the Artists\"), such as those known by :\n\nThe idea of a named and recognised painter originated among art historians early in the 20th century, who were attributing works they recognised to known painters. They later went back on some of these attributions, renaming as anonymous the painters they had formerly named. One example is the case of Pier Francesco Fiorentino, to whom Bernard Berenson attributed a number of works which were later re-attributed to Pseudo Pier Francesco Fiorentino, a Florence copyist. Some painters have even been described as anonymous (even many times like Barthélemy Eyck) before later being recognised. They thus held several names historically (those who are noted on the page devoted to them), although doubts continue surrounding some, such as Giovanni Gaddi (after 1333 – 1383) maybe the \"Master of the Misericordia dell’Accademia\".\n\nMaster of the Plump-Cheeked Madonnas==Artists==\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn recent years the names of a variety of artists who were formerly listed as \"anonymous\" have become known; accordingly scholarly writings and museum labels have been changed to reflect their new identities. Much the most famous of these is the Master of Flémalle (c 1378–1445), painter of the comté de Hainaut, who was established as Robert Campin. Other examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "270468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270468", "title": "Media ecology", "text": "Media ecology\n\nMedia ecology theory is the study of media, technology, and communication and how they affect human environments. The theoretical concepts were proposed by Marshall McLuhan in 1964, while the term \"media ecology\" was first formally introduced by Neil Postman in 1968. \n\nEcology in this context refers to the environment in which the medium is used – what they are and how they affect society. Neil Postman states, \"if in biology a 'medium' is something in which a bacterial culture grows (as in a Petri dish), in media ecology, the medium is 'a technology within which a [human] culture grows.'\" In other words, \"Media ecology looks into the matter of how media of communication affect human perception, understanding, feeling, and value; and how our interaction with media facilitates or impedes our chances of survival. The word ecology implies the study of environments: their structure, content, and impact on people. An environment is, after all, a complex message system which imposes on human beings certain ways of thinking, feeling, and behaving.\" \n\nMedia ecology argues that media act as extensions of the human senses in each era, and communication technology is the primary cause of social change. McLuhan is famous for coining the phrase, \"the medium is the message\", which is an often-debated phrase believed to mean that the medium chosen to relay a message is just as important (if not more so) than the message itself. McLuhan proposed that media influence the progression of society, and that significant periods of time and growth can be categorized by the rise of a specific technology during that period.\n\nAdditionally, scholars have compared media broadly to a system of infrastructure that connect the nature and culture of a society with media ecology being the study of \"traffic\" between the two.\n\nIn 1934, Marshall McLuhan enrolled as a student at Cambridge University, a school which pioneered modern literary criticism. During his studies at Cambridge, he became acquainted with one of his professors, I.A. Richards, a distinguished English professor, who would inspire McLuhan's later scholarly works. McLuhan admired Richards' approach to the critical view that English studies are themselves nothing but a study of the process of communication. Richards believed that \"words won't stay put and almost all verbal constructions are highly ambiguous\". This element of Richards' perspective on communication influenced the way in which McLuhan expressed many of his ideas using metaphors and phrases such as \"The Global Village\" and \"The Medium Is the Message\" two of his most well known phrases that encapsulate the theory of Media Ecology. \n\nMcLuhan used the approaches of Richards, William Empson, and Harlold Innis as an \"entrée to the study of media\". However, it took many years of work before he was able to successfully fulfill their approaches. McLuhan determined that \"if words were ambiguous and best studied not in terms of their 'content' but in terms of their effects in a given context and if the effects were often subliminal, the same might be true of other human artifacts, the wheel, the printing press, the telegraph and the TV\". This led to the emergence of his ideas on Media Ecology.\n\nIn addition to his scholarly work, McLuhan was also a well known media personality of his day. He appeared on television shows, in magazine articles, and even had a small cameo in the movie \"Annie Hall\".\n\nFew theories receive the kind of household recognition that Media Ecology received, due directly to McLuhan's role as a pop culture icon. He was an excellent debater and public speaker, but his writing was not always what would normally pass in academia.\n\nInspired by McLuhan, Neil Postman founded the Program in Media Ecology at New York University in 1971, as he further developed the theory McLuhan had established. According to Postman, media ecology emphasizes the environments in which communication and technologies operate and spread information and the effects these have on the receivers. \"Such information forms as the alphabet, the printed word, and television images are not mere instruments which make things easier for us. They are environments - like language itself, symbolic environments with in which we discover, fashion, and express humanity in particular ways.\"\n\nPostman focused on media technology, process, and structure rather than content and considered making moral judgments the primary task of media ecology. \"I don't see any point in studying media unless one does so within a moral or ethical context.\" Postman's media ecology approach asks three questions: What are the moral implications of this bargain? Are the consequences more humanistic or antihumanistic? Do we, as a society, gain more than we lose, or do we lose more than we gain?\n\nMedia ecology is a contested term within media studies for it has different meanings in European and North American contexts. The North American definition refers to an interdisciplinary field of media theory and media design involving the study of media environments. The European version of media ecology is a materialist investigation of media systems as complex dynamic systems. In Russia, a similar theory was independently developed by Yuri Rozhdestvensky. In more than five monographs, Rozhdestvensky outlined the systematic changes which take place in society each time new communication media are introduced, and connected these changes to the challenges in politics, philosophy and education. He is a founder of the vibrant school of ecology of culture.\n\nThe European version of media ecology rejects the North American notion that ecology means environment. Ecology in this context is used \"because it is one of the most expressive [terms] language currently has to indicate the massive and dynamic interrelation of processes and objects, beings and things, patterns and matter\". Following theorists such as Felix Guattari, Gregory Bateson, and Manuel De Landa, the European version of media ecology (as practiced by authors such as Matthew Fuller and Jussi Parikka) presents a post-structuralist political perspective on media as complex dynamical systems.\n\nAlong with McLuhan , Postman and Harold Innis, media ecology draws from many authors, including the work of Walter Ong, Lewis Mumford, Jacques Ellul, Félix Guattari, Eric Havelock, Susanne Langer, Erving Goffman, Edward T. Hall, George Herbert Mead, Margaret Mead, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Benjamin Lee Whorf, and Gregory Bateson.\n\n\nThese three assumptions can be understood as: media are everywhere all the time; media determine what we know and how we feel about what we know; and media connect us to others. Communication media have penetrated the lives of almost all people on the planet, arranging people into an interconnected human community.\n\nMcLuhan believed there are three inventions that transformed the world: the phonetic alphabet, the printing press, and the telegraph. Due to these technologies, the world was taken from one era into the next. In order to understand the effects of symbolic environment, McLuhan split history into four periods: the tribal age, the literary age, the print age, and the electronic age (information age). Throughout the structure of their distinctive methods of communication (e.g., oral, written, printed, electronic), different media arouse patterns in the brain that are distinctive to each and every particular form of communication.\n\nThe first period in history that McLuhan describes is the Tribal Age, a time of community because the ear is the dominant sense organ. This is also known as an acoustic era because the senses of hearing, touch, taste, and smell were far more strongly developed than the ability to visualize. During this time, hearing was more valuable because it allowed people to be more immediately aware of their surroundings, which was extremely important for hunting. Everyone hears at the same time making listening to someone in a group a unifying act, deepening the feeling of community. In this world of surround sound, everything is more immediate, more present, and fosters more passion and spontaneity. During the Tribal Age, hearing was believing.\n\nThe second age is the Literacy Stage, a time of private detachment because the eye is the dominant sense organ; also known as the visual era. Turning sounds into visible objects radically altered the symbolic environment. Words were no longer alive and immediate, they were able to read over and over again. Hearing no longer becomes trustworthy; seeing was believing. Even though people read the same words, the act of reading is an individual act of singular focus. Tribes didn't need to come together to get information anymore. This is when the invention of the alphabet came about. During this time, when people learned to read, they became independent thinkers.\n\nThe third stage is the Print Age, when individual products were mass produced due to the invention of the printing press. It gave the ability to reproduce the same text over and over again. With printing came a new visual stress: the portable book. It allowed people to carry books, so they could read in privacy isolated from others. Libraries were created to hold these books and also gave freedom to be alienated from others and from immediacy of their surroundings.\n\nLastly, the Electronic Age, otherwise included under the information age, is an era of instant communication and a return to an environment with simultaneous sounds and touch. It started with a device created by Samuel Morse's invention of the telegraph and led to the telephone, the cell phone, television, internet, DVD, video games, etc. This ability to communicate instantly returned us to the tradition of sound and touch rather than sight. Being able to be in constant contact with the world becomes a nosy generation where everyone knows everyone's business and everyone's business is everyone else's. This phenomenon is called the global village.\n\nRobert K. Logan is professor emeritus of physics at the University of Toronto and Chief Scientist of the Strategic Innovation Lab at the Ontario College of Art and Design. He worked collaboratively with Marshall McLuhan at the University of Toronto, co-publishing various works and producing his own works, heavily inspired by McLuhan. Logan updates the era of communications, adding two new eras:\nIn addition, through the study of media ecology, it is argued that through technological advancements in media, many societies have become a \"participatory culture.\" Tom Valcanis argues that this very easily witnessed by looking at the rise of Apple's iPhone. \"If the technology is the medium in which a culture grows, the interactive and user oriented nature of these technologies have given rise to a participatory and 'mash-up' culture in which the ways of producing and accessing content are deconstructed, uploaded, mixed, converged, and reconstructed through computers and smartphones mediated by online platforms; it becomes a 'participatory culture'...\"\n\n\"The medium is the message\" is the most famous insight from McLuhan, and is one of the concepts that separates the North American theory from the European theory. Instead of emphasizing the information content, McLuhan highlighted the importance of medium characteristics which can influence and even decide the content. He proposed that it is the media format that affects and changes on people and society.\n\nFor example, traditional media is an extension of the human body, while the new media is the extension of the human nervous system. The emergence of new media will change the equilibrium between human sensual organs and affect human psychology and society. The extension of human senses will change our thoughts and behaviors and the ways we perceive the world. That's why McLuhan believed when a new medium appears, no matter what the concrete content it transmits, the new form of communication brings in itself a force that causes social transformation.\n\nWe are accustomed to thinking the message is separate from a medium. McLuhan saw the message and the medium to mean the same thing. The audience is normally focused on the content and overlook the medium. What we forget is that the content cannot exist outside of the way that it is mediated. McLuhan recognized that the way media work as environments is because we are so immersed in them. \"It is the medium that has the greatest impact in human affairs, not specific messages we send or receive. The media shape us because we partake in them over and over until they become a part of us.\n\nDifferent mediums emphasize different senses and encourage different habits, so engaging in this medium day after day conditions our senses. Different forms of media also affect what their meaning and impact will be. The form of medium and mode of information determines who will have access, how much information will be distributed, how fast it will be transmitted, how far it will go, and, most importantly, what form it will be displayed. With society being formed around the dominant medium of the day, the specific medium of communication makes a remarkable difference.\n\nThe key elements to Media Ecology has been largely attributed to Marshal McLuhan, who coined the statement “the medium is the message.” Levinson furthers McLuhan’s statement by stating that “the way we communicate, often taken for granted, often determines what we communicate, and therein just about everything else in life and society” McLuhan gave a center of gravity, a moral compass to Media Ecology which was later adapted and formally introduced by Neil Postman \n\nThe very foundation for this theory is based on a metaphor that provides a model for understanding the new territory, offers a vocabulary, and indicates in which directions to continue exploring. As Carlos Scolari states, “the configuration of media ecology in the 1960s and 1970s was part of a broader process of the general application of the ecological metaphor to the social sciences and humanities in the postwar period. There is still a scholarly debate over who coined the phrase “the medium is the message”. Author Niall Stephan argues that while most attribute the  metaphor to Marshall McLuhan, it is better directed to Neil Postman, who helped popularize McLuhan under the banner of “media ecology”.\n\nScholar Janet Sternberg has a different take on the metaphor- using her own metaphor to make sense of it all. Sternberg applies the Chinese “yin/ yang” metaphor to media ecology as a means of better understanding the divergence among scholars. She states that there are two basic intellectual traditions can be distinguished in the field: the “yang” tradition of studying media as environments, focusing on mass communication and on intrapersonal communication and the “yin” tradition is studying environments as media, emphasizing interpersonal communication.\n\nWhile general systems theory originated in 1928 in the Ph.D. thesis of Ludwig von Bertalanffy. Robert Logan summarizes a general system as \"one that is composed of interacting and interrelated components such as an understanding of it must entail considering the general system as a whole and not as a collection of individual components\".\n\nLogan argues that general systems theory, as well as cybernetics, complexity theory, and emergent dynamics, and media ecology \"cross pollinate each other\" in that, \"a general system is a medium\" due to the non-linear aspects of messages and that general systems are \"quasi-deterministic\".\n\nThis thinking is in line with McLuhan who once wrote, \"A new medium is never an addition to an old one, nor does it leave the old one in peace. It never ceases to oppress the older media until it finds new shapes and positions for them.\"\n\nMarshall McLuhan used the phrase global village to describe that \"humans can no longer live in isolation, but rather will always be connected by continuous and instantaneous electronic media\". McLuhan addresses the idea of a global village in his book \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\" saying, \"Such is the character of a village or, since electric media, such is also the character of global village. And it is the advertising and PR community that is most aware of this basic new dimension of global interdependence\".\n\nTechnology, especially electronic media in today's age, makes the world increasingly interconnected. Socially, economically, politically, culturally, what happens in one part of the world has a ripple effect into other countries.\n\nThis seems like a common sense idea today, where the internet makes it possible to check news stories around the globe, and social media connects individuals regardless of location. However, in McLuhan's day, the global village was just becoming possible due to technology like television and long distance phone calls. This concept has become one of the most prolific and understandable ideas to come out of media ecology, and has spurred significant research in many areas. It is especially relevant in today's society, where the internet, social media, and other new media have made the world a smaller place, and today many researchers give McLuhan credit for his foresight.\n\nOf note is McLuhan's insistence that the world becoming a global village should lead to more global responsibility. Technology has created an interconnected world, and with that should come concern for global events and occurrences outside one's own community. Postman builds on this concept with the idea of teaching the narrative of 'Spaceship Earth' where students are taught the importance of everyone taking care of planet earth as a fragile system of diversity both biological and cultural; however, the original person to coin the term 'Spaceship Earth' was futurists R. Buckminster Fuller who once said, \"I've often heard people say: 'I wonder what it would feel like to board a spaceship,' and the answer is very simple. What does it feel like? That's all we have experienced. We're all astronauts on a little spaceship called earth.\"\n\nCritics do worry though, that in creating a truly global village, some cultures will become extinct due to larger or more dominant cultures imposing their beliefs and practices.\n\nThe idea of the global village helps to conceptualize globalization within society. Michael Plugh writes, \"[The] village is an environment produced both by technological change and human imagination of this globalized environment.\"\n\nAdditionally, the rise in media communication technology has uniformed the way individuals across the globe process information. Plugh says, \"Where literate societies exchange an 'eye for an ear,' according to McLuhan, emphasizing the linear and sequential order of the world, electronic technology retrievers the total awareness of environment, characteristic of oral cultures, yet to an extended or 'global' level.\"\n\nMcLuhan developed an idea called hot and cold media. Hot media refer to a high-definition communication that demand little involvement from the audience and concentrate on one sensory organ at a time. These types of media require no interpretation because they give all the information necessary to comprehend. Some examples of hot media include radio, books, and lectures. Cool media describe media that demand active involvement from the audience. Cool media require the audience to be active and fill in information by mentally participating. This is multi-sensory participation. Some examples of cool media are TV, seminars, and cartoons.\n\n\"McLuhan frequently referred to a chart that hung in his seminar room at the University of Toronto. This was a type of shorthand for understanding the differences between hot and cool media, characterized by their emphasis on the eye or the ear.\"\n\nAnother aspect of media ecology is the \"laws of media,\" which McLuhan outlined with his son Eric McLuhan to further explain the influence of technology on society. The laws of media theory are depicted by a tetrad, which poses questions about various media, with the goal of developing peoples' critical thinking skills and to prepare people for \"the social and physical chaos\" that accompany every technological advancement or development. There is no specific order to the laws of media, as the effects occur simultaneously and form a feedback loop: technology impacts society, which then impacts the development of technology.\n\nThe four effects, as depicted in the tetrad of media effects are:\n\nA significant criticism of this theory is a result of its deterministic approach. Determinism insists that all of society is a result of or effected by one central condition. In some cases the condition can be language (linguistic determinism), religion (theological determinism), financial (economic determinism). In the case of McLuhan, Postman and Media Ecology, technology is the sole determinant for society and by breaking up time in measures of man's technological achievements they can be classified as technological determinism. According to Postman, \"The printing press, the computer, and television are not therefore simply machines which convey information. They are metaphors through which we conceptualize reality in one way or another. They will classify the world for us, sequence it, frame it, enlarge it, reduce it, argue a case for what it is like. Through these media metaphors, we do not see the world as it is. We see it as our coding systems are. Such is the power of the form of information.\" Postman has also stated that \"a medium is a technology within which a culture grows; that is to say, it gives form to a culture's politics, social organization, and habitual ways of thinking\".\n\nScholars such as Michael Zimmer view McLuhan and his \"Medium is the Message\" theory as a prime example of technological determinism:\n\n...an overarching thread in media ecological scholarship, exemplified by McLuhan's (1964/1994) assertion \nthat \"the medium is the message\", the technological bias of a medium carries greater importance than the particular message it is delivering. McLuhan saw changes in the dominant medium of communication as the main determinant of major changes in society, culture, and the individual. This McLuhanesque logic, which rests at the center of the media ecology tradition, is often criticized for its media determinism. Seeing the biases of media technologies as the primary force for social and cultural change resembles the hard technological determinism of the embodied theory of technological bias. \n\nThe critics of such a deterministic approach could be theorists who practice other forms of determinism, such as economic determinism. Theorists such as John Fekete believes that McLuhan is oversimplifying the world \"by denying that human action is itself responsible for the changes that our socio-cultural world is undergoing and will undergo, McLuhan necessarily denies that a critical attitude is morally significant or practically important.\"\n\nLance Strate, on the other hand, argues that McLuhan's theories are in no way deterministic. \"McLuhan never actually used the term, \"determinism,\" nor did he argue against human agency. In his bestselling book, \"The Medium is the Message\", he wrote, \"there is absolutely no inevitability as long as there is a willingness to contemplate what is happening\" (McLuhan & Fiore, 1967, p. 25). John Culkin (1967) summed up McLuhan's position with the quote, \"we shape our tools and thereafter they shape us\", suggesting a transactional approach to media.\" This statement from Strate would define McLuhan and Media Ecology as \"soft determinism\" opposed to \"hard determinism\" with the difference being that \"hard determinism\" indicates that changes to society happen with no input or control from the members of that society, whereas \"soft determinism\" would argue that the changes are pushed by technology but free will and agency of the members of society ultimately have a chance to influence the outcome.\n\nWhile ideas of technological determinism generally have negative connotations, technology philosopher Paul-Peter Verbeek argued that technologies are \"inherently moral agents\" and their development is a \"moral enterprise\".\n\nWhile advancing technologies allow for the study of media ecology, they also frequently disrupt the existing system of communication as they emerge. In general, four types of disruption can occur within the study of media ecology. \n\nOne example where this can be seen is in do-it-yourself education. Advancing technologies have also expanded access to do-it-yourself (DIY) education. DIY education can be defined to include \"any attempt to decentralize or disrupt traditional place-based educational models through the sometimes collective, other times individual use of digital media\". Through an analysis of media ecology the impact of these new technologies on society can better be understood.\n\nVarious scholars have looked to media ecology theory through different lenses to better understand this theory in the 21 century. While Sternberg applied the yin/yang metaphor to make sense of the theory, Julia Hildebrand and John Dimmick et. al create a new languages of modality. As such, contributing to a new rhetoric to contextualize Media Ecology in the age of the internet, social media, and advances in technologies. Hildebrand uses the conceptualization of ‘mediated mobilities’ to illustrate a connection between media ecology and mobilities research, ultimately making a case for a \"modal medium theory\". She looks into the articles of Emily Keightley and Anna Reading, and Lance Strate as a basis for her case. In 1999, Lance Strate states Media Ecology Theory is “grammar and rhetoric, semiotics and systems theory, the history and the philosophy of technology”. Hildebrand explains that Strate’s concept of media ecology is not limited to the study of information and communication technology but technology, in general. Technology is therefore implying materialities and mobilities that is put into relation with media ecology. As Hildebrand states, “[e]nvironments are created and shaped by different media and modes and the physical, virtual, and mental processes and travels they generate”. Much like Media Ecology, mobilities research talk about a “flow” that shapes the environment, creating a contact zones. Dimmick furthers this statement by creating a term that describes the intersection of communication environments (“contact zones”) and issues of mobility- \"interstices.\" He quotes two scholars, Hemment and Caronia, to contextualize his new word. Hemment argues that mobile technologies create a place out of space and time, a kind of “nonspace” or “nonplace” considering they are independent from the variables of space and time. Caronia notes that such technologies extend media to creating empty space and places.\n\nMcLuhan's critics state the medium is not the message. They believe that we are dealing with a mathematical equation where medium equals x and message equals y. Accordingly, x = y, but really \"the medium is the message\" is a metaphor not an equation. His critics also believe McLuhan is denying the content altogether, when really McLuhan was just trying to show the content in its secondary role in relation to the medium. McLuhan says technology is an \"extension of man\" and when the way we physically sense the world changes, how we perceive it will also collectively change, but the content may or may not affect this change in perception. McLuhan said that the user is the content, and this means that the user must interpret and process what they receive, finding sense in their own environments.\n\nOne of McLuhan's high profile critics was Umberto Eco. Eco comes from background in semiotics, which goes beyond linguistics in that it studies all forms of communication. He reflected that a cartoon of a cannibal wearing an alarm clock as a necklace was counter to McLuhan's assertion that the invention of clocks created a concept of time as consistently separated space. While it could mean this it could also take on different meanings as in the depiction of the cannibal. The medium is not the message. An individual's interpretation can vary. Believing this to be true Eco says, \"It is equally untrue that acting on the form and content of the message can convert the person receiving it.\" In doing this Eco merges form and content, the separation of which is the basis of McLuhan's assertion. McLuhan does not offer a theory of communication. He instead investigates the effects of all media mediums between the human body and its physical environment, including language.\n\nThe North American variant of media ecology is viewed by numerous theorists such as John Fekete and Neil Compton as meaningless or \"McLuhanacy\". According to Compton, it had been next to impossible to escape knowing about McLuhan and his theory as the media embraced them. Compton wrote, \"it would be better for McLuhan if his oversimplifications did not happen to coincide with the pretensions of young status-hungry advertising executives and producers, who eagerly provide him with a ready-made claque, exposure on the media, and a substantial income from addresses and conventions.\" Theorists such as Jonathan Miller claim that McLuhan used a subjective approach to make objective claims, comparing McLuhan's willingness to back away from a \"probe\" if he did not find the desired results to that of an objective scientist who would not abandon it so easily. These theorists against McLuhan's idea, such as Raymond Rosenthal, also believe that he lacked the scientific evidence to support his claims: \"McLuhan's books are not scientific in any respect; they are wrapped however in the dark, mysterious folds of the scientific ideology.\" Additionally, As Lance Strate said: \"Other critics complain that media ecology scholars like McLuhan, Havelock, and Ong put forth a \"Great Divide\" theory, exaggerating, for example, the difference between orality and literacy, or the alphabet and hieroglyphics.\n\nMany ecologists are using media ecology as an analytical framework, to explore whether the current new media has a \"new\" stranglehold on culture or are they simply extensions of what we have already experienced. The new media is characterised by the idea of web 2.0. It was coined in 2003 and popularized by a media consultant, Tim O'Reilly. He argues that a particular assemblage of software, hardware and sociality have brought about 'the widespread sense that there's something qualitatively different about today's Web. This shift is characterised by co-creativity, participation and openness, represented by software that support for example, wiki-based ways of creating and accessing knowledge, social networking sites, blogging, tagging and 'mash ups'. The interactive and user-oriented nature of these technologies have transformed the global culture into a participatory culture which proves Neil Postman's saying \" is not additive; it is ecological\".\n\nAs new media power takes on new dimension in the digital realm, some scholars begin to focus on defending the democratic potentialities of the Internet on the perspective of corporate impermeability. Today, corporate encroachment in cyberspace is changing the balance of power in the new media ecology, which \"portends a new set of social relationships based on commercial exploitation\". Many social network websites inject customized advertisements into the steady stream of personal communication. It is called commercial incursion which converts user-generated content into fodder for marketers and advertisers. So the control rests with the owners rather than the participants. It is necessary for online participants to be prepared to act consciously to resist the enclosure of digital commons.\n\nThere is some recent research that puts the emphasis on the youth, the future of the society who is at the forefront of new media environment. Each generation, with its respective worldview, is equipped with certain media grammar and media literacy in its youth. As each generation inherits an idiosyncratic media structure, those born into the age of radio perceive the world differently from those born into the age of television. The nature of new generation is also influenced by the nature of the new media.\n\nAccording to the media ecology theory, analyzing today's generational identity through the lens of media technologies themselves can be more productive than focusing on media content. Media ecologists employ a media ecology interpretative framework to deconstruct how today's new media environment increasingly mirrors the values and character attributed to young people. Here are some typical characteristics of the new generation: first, it is \"the world's first generation to grow up thinking of itself as global. The internet and satellite television networks are just two of the myriad technologies that have made this possible.\" Second, \"there may actually be no unified ethos\". With \"hundreds of cable channels and thousands of computer conferences, young generation might be able to isolate themselves within their own extremely opinionated forces\".\n\nIn 2009 a study was published by Cleora D'Arcy, Darin Eastburn and Bertram Bruce entitled \"How Media Ecologies Can Address Diverse Student Needs\". The purpose of this study was to use Media Ecology in order to determine which media is perceived as the most useful as an instructional tool in post-secondary education. This study specifically analyzed and tested \"new media\" such as podcasts, blogs, websites, and discussion forums with other media, such as traditional text books, lectures, and handouts. Ultimately comparing \"hot\" and \"cold\" media at today's standard of the terms. The result of the study, which included student surveys, indicated that a mixture of media was the most \"valued\" method of instruction, however more interactive media enhanced student learning.\n\nThere is significant research being done on the rise of social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and their influence on communication in society. Some of that research is being done through a media ecology perspective. Below are some examples: \n\nWhile many people utilize social media platforms to stay in contact with friends and family, socialize, or even shop, these platforms have also been pivotal for social activism. Social media activism and hashtag activism have become popular ways to gain mainstream media and public attention for causes, and to facilitate protests.\n\nThomas Poell researched the influence of social media on the 2010 protests of the Toronto G20 Summit. In the article, he focused on identifying how each social media site was used independently, and then how they were integrated together. The sites analyzed were Twitter, YouTube, Flikr, Facebook, and an open publishing website. What he found is that each site is used differently for social media activism. While this kind of activism was originally looked at as a way to promote causes and encourage long term focus on the issues, Poell found that sites like Twitter and Facebook tend to do the opposite. Posts center around photographs and videos of action during protests and rallies, not on the issues that are being protested. This would be an example of hot media, because the user can scroll through photos or watch videos without being otherwise engaged, instead of cool media where the user has to be more involved. Additionally, because activists are using sites they do not own, the social media platform actually has more control over the information being posted. For example, Twitter no longer allows unrestricted access to all posts made with a certain hashtag after a period of time. This seems to mean that the issue being highlighted fades over time.\n\nAdditionally, Heather Crandall and Carolyn M. Cunningham focus on hashtag activism, where activists use metadata tags to focus on specific issues (ex: #activism). They did not look at one specific protest like the G20 summit, but rather at the benefits and criticisms of hashtag activism as a whole. They discuss that social media is a new media ecology, one where users can connect and share ideas without boundaries. This falls under McLuhan's idea of the world as a global village. By using hashtags, activists are able to bring awareness to social issues. Crandall and Cunningham point out that this is both beautiful and interesting, because it encourages learning, conversations, and community for social justice, and that it is also dark and confusing, because the open environment of the internet also allows hashtags to be used for hate speech and threats of violence. Also, they posit that hashtag activism is pointed and stacked, in that hashtags are often short lived, and the user has to be able to navigate the platform and understand hashtags in order to gain knowledge of the issue. When viewed through media ecology, hashtag activism is changing the way people encounter and engage in social justice.\n\nDoctor Mark Allen Peterson of in the Department of Anthropology at Miami University published an article in the Summer of 2011 comparing the media ecology of 1970's Iran to that in Egypt in 2011. The article, title \"Egypt's Media Ecology in a Time of Revolution\" looks at the difference that social media made in the Egyptian uprising and makes two observations: social media extends the \"grapevine\" network and that social media, despite the result of the uprising, completely changes the \"mediascape\" of Egypt. One dramatic difference between the two uprising noticed by Peterson is the ultimate position of the media of choice during each in the end. On the one hand, Iran's news media, the primary source of information at that time, reverted to its original role, while the Egyptian use of social media changed the media of choice for Egypt.\n\nPeterson's study compared his observations to that of William Beeman, who in 1984 published an essay, \"The cultural role of the media in Iran: The revolution of 1978–1979 and after\" on the media ecology of Iran. Beeman's ultimate conclusion of his review of the Iranian Revolution followed that of what you would expect to find from most media ecologists: \"At times newly introduced mass media have produced revolutionary effects in the societal management of time and energy as they forged new spaces for themselves. Thus media are cultural forces as well as cultural objects. In operation, they produce specific cultural effects that cannot be easily predicted.\"\n\nAlthough there were many similarities between the Iranian and Egyptian revolutions, such as censorship in media, including newspaper and television, the one major difference was the availability of the internet and social media as a tool to spread messages and increase awareness in Egypt. Social media in 2011's uprising was equivalent to the use of cassette tapes in Iran in the 1970s. The tapes provided a way to spread information that could not be as easily censored and was repeatable through the country. The rise of social media helped free Egyptians from censorship of other media. In this case, the medium was the message, a message of freedom and by the Egyptian government's attempt to also censor this medium, they only managed to spread the message further and faster:\n\nAlthough we may never know the true impact, in fact it likely sped up the regime's fall. In the absence of new technologies, people were forced to rely on traditional means of communication, including knocking on doors, going to the mosque, assembling in the street, or other central gathering places. Thomas Schelling won a Nobel prize in part for discovering that in the absence of information, people will coordinate by selecting a focal point that seems natural, special or relevant to them. Given the protests, Tahrir Square was the obvious focal point. By blocking the Internet, the government inadvertently fueled dissent and galvanized international support for the people of Egypt. (Bowman 2011)\n\nSince 2011, leaders of the protest continue to utilize social media as a method to push democratic reform. According to Peterson the role of social media in Egypt is also evolving the political culture as even state figures are beginning to make announcements using social media rather than more traditional forms of media.\n\nMuch like the Arab Spring, the Gezi protests were an environmental sit-in that ultimately turned into a social movement based on the influence of various forms of social media. Rolien Hoyng and Murat Es coin the term “Turkish media ecology” to evoke a sense of particularly on the part of Turkey’s relationship with media outlets and platforms. In Turkey, media censorship and control by state institutions most directly impact broadcast media. Both authors emphasize how “…media-ecological affordances are conditioned and modulated by legal frameworks and institutional-political rationalities”. They also note that such censored media ecology forms a ‘fertile milieu’ for the proliferation of conspiracy theories which both feed on one another. Scholar Gulizar Haciyakupoglu examines how social media influenced the protests, specifically looking at how trust was built and maintained among protestors across multiple platforms. From his interviews, the scholar extrapolates that “closed groups” like Whatsapp and Facebook “…allowed the circulation of confidential and trustworthy information among first- and second-degree friends” whereas Twitter was used for “rapid acquisition of logistic information” that became important during the protest. \n\nEmiliano Treré looks to the Media Ecology metaphor as a way to investigate the relationship between social movements, media ecologies and communication technologies through the lens of Spain’s 15M movement. Treré states how most scholars believe the media ecological framework is particularly suited for the study of the social movements/media nexus “…because of its ability to provide fine-tuned explorations of the multiplicity, the interconnections, the dynamic evolution of old and new media forms for social change”. The author also agrees with Scolari (mentioned above) that the key reflections from the theory is especially beneficial for modern analysis on media and social events. One such application is seen with the analysis of Spain’s anti-austerity movement, also called the “15M movement.” Facing different degrees of mainstream media manipulation and bias “various media activists turned to Web TV services, radical online tools, Twitter and Facebook among others to organize, and contrast the official narratives of the protest.\" Scholar John Postill argues that Twitter, among all the types of technologies used, produced a greater effect for setting and tone and agenda of the movement. Such appropriation of technologies demonstrates the dichotomies between old and new technologies that in term created a kind of “technological sovereignty” among activists. Media Ecology has the innate ability to aggregate different analytical approaches to better understand the technology that is at place during such a protest. Postill and other scholars ultimately look to a new age in social activism, where “viral” posts shared by media professionals and amateurs empower people and become the rising voice for the future of democracy in Spain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33963629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33963629", "title": "Mental lexicon", "text": "Mental lexicon\n\nThe mental lexicon is defined as a mental dictionary that contains information regarding a word's meaning, pronunciation, syntactic characteristics, and so on.\n\nThe mental lexicon is a construct used in linguistics and psycholinguistics to refer to individual speakers' lexical, or word, representations. However, not all scientists agree as to the utility of the mental lexicon as a scientific construct.\n\nThe mental lexicon differs from the lexicon in that it is not just a general collection of words; instead, it deals with how those words are activated, stored, processed, and retrieved by each speaker. An individual's mental lexicon changes and grows as new words are learned and is always developing, but there are several theorists that argue exactly how this occurs. Some theories about the mental lexicon include the spectrum theory, the dual-coding theory, Chomsky's nativist theory, as well as the semantic network theory. Scientists also study the areas of the brain involved in lexical representations. The following addresses some of the physiological, social, and linguistic aspects of the mental lexicon.\n\nRecent studies have also shown the possibility that the mental lexicon can shrink as an individual ages, limiting the number of words they can remember and learn. The development of a second mental lexicon (L2) in bilingual speakers has also emerged as a topic of interest, suggesting that a speaker's multiple languages are not stored together, but as separate entities that are actively chosen from in each linguistic situation.\n\nAlthough the mental lexicon is often called a mental \"dictionary\", in actuality, research suggests that it differs greatly from a dictionary. For example, the mental lexicon is not organized alphabetically like a dictionary; rather, it seems to be organized in a more complex manner, with links between phonologically and semantically related lexical items. This is suggested by evidence of phenomena such as slips of the tongue, which showed that replacing words such as \"anecdote\" for \"antidote\".\n\nAlso, while dictionaries contain a fixed number of words to be counted, and remain outdated as language is continually changing, the mental lexicon consistently updates itself with new words and word meanings, while getting rid of old, unused words. The active nature of the mental lexicon makes any dictionary comparison unhelpful. Research is continuing to identify the exact way that words are linked and accessed. A common method to analyze these connections is through a lexical decision task.\n\nLexical Decision Tasks have been used for many years to access how the mental lexicon is structured. Participants in this task are required to respond as quickly and accurately as possible to a string of letters presented on a screen to say if the string is a non-word or a real word. Reaction times from this task indicate that certain words are more \"active\" in participants' minds after related words have been presented. An example of this would be to present the word \"bread\" to the participant and then see an decreased reaction time later to the word \"butter\". Since the word \"bread\" had activated all related words, including \"butter\", this decreased reaction time demonstrates that related words are stored closely in the mental lexicon. By doing lexical decision tasks, researchers have been able to analyze what words are stored with what related counterparts, and what can activate these words.\n\nNot all linguists and psychologists believe in the mental lexicon's existence and there is much controversy over the concept. One theory about the mental lexicon states that it organizes our knowledge about words \"in some sort of dictionary.\" Another states that the mental lexicon is \"a collection of highly complex neural circuits\". The latter, Semantic Network Theory, proposes the idea of \"spreading activation\", which is a hypothetical mental process that takes place when one of the nodes in the semantic network is activated, and proposes three ways this is done: priming effects, neighborhood effects, and frequency effects, which have all been studied in depth over the years.\n\n\nIn the spectrum theory, at one end \"each phonological form is connected to one complex semantic representation\", at the opposite end, homonyms and polysemes have their \"own semantic representation[s]\". \nThe middle of the spectrum contains the theories that \"suggest that related senses share a general or core semantic representation\". The \"dual coding theory (DCT)\" contrasts multiple and common coding theories. DCT is \"an internalized nonverbal system that directly represents the perceptual properties and affordances of nonverbal objects and events, and an internalized verbal system that deals directly with linguistic stimuli and responses\". Similarly, we do not observe words \"as elements in a data structure\" that are \"retrieved from memory, but rather as stimuli that alter mental states\". Others work around Chomsky's theory that \"all syntactic and semantic features are included directly in the abstract mental representation of a lexical word\".\n\nOne aspect of research on the development of the mental lexicon has focused on vocabulary growth. Converging research suggests that at least English children learn several words a day throughout development. The figure at left illustrates the growth curve of a typical English-speaking child's vocabulary size.\n\nThe words acquired in the early stages of language development tend to be nouns or nounlike, and there are some similarities in first words across children (e.g., \"mama, daddy, dog\"). Fast mapping is the idea that children may be able to gain at least partial information about the meaning of a word from how it is used in a sentence, what words it is contrasted with, as well as other factors. This allows the child to quickly hypothesize about the meaning of a word.\n\nResearch suggests that, despite the fast mapping hypothesis, words are not just learned as soon as we are exposed to them, each word needs some type of activation and/or acknowledgement before it is permanently and effectively stored. For young children, the word may be accurately stored in their mental lexicon, and they can recognize when an adult produces the incorrect version of the word, but they may not be able to produce the word accurately.\n\nAs a child acquires their vocabulary, two separate aspects of the mental lexicon develop named the lexeme and the lemma. The lexeme is defined as the part of the mental lexicon that stores morphological and formal information about a word, such as the different versions of spelling and pronunciation of the word. The lemma is defined as the structure within the mental lexicon that stores semantic and syntactic information about a word, such as part of speech and the meaning of the word. Research has shown that the lemma develops first when a word is acquired into a child's vocabulary, and then with repeated exposure the lexeme develops.\n\nThe development of the mental lexicon in bilingual children has increased in research over recent years, and has shown many complexities including the notion that bilingual speakers contain additional and separate mental lexicons for their other languages. Selecting between two or more different lexicons has shown to have benefits extending past language processes. Bilinguals significantly outperform their monolingual counterparts on executive control tasks. Researchers suggest that this enhanced cognitive ability comes from continually choosing between L1 and L2 mental lexicons. Bilinguals have also shown resilience against the onset of Alzheimer's disease, monolinguals being an average of 71.4 years old and the bilinguals 75.5 years old when symptoms of dementia were detected, a difference of 4.1 years.\n\nStudies have shown that the temporal and parietal lobes in the left hemisphere are particularly relevant for the processing of lexical items.\n\nThe following are some hypotheses pertaining to semantic comprehension in the brain:\n\n\nAnomic aphasia, aphasia (expressive + receptive aphasia) and Alzheimer's disease can all affect recalling or retrieving words. Anomia renders a person completely unable to name familiar objects, places and people, a involves specific naming difficulties; sufferers of anomia have difficulties recalling words. Anomia is a lesser level of dysfunction, a severe form of the \"tip-of-the-tongue\" phenomenon where the brain cannot recall the desired word. Stroke, head trauma and brain tumors can cause anomia.\n\nExpressive and receptive aphasia are neurological language disorders. Expressive aphasia limits the ability to convey thoughts through the use of speech, language or writing. Receptive aphasia affects a person's ability to comprehend spoken words, causing disordered sentences that have little or no meaning and which can include addition of nonce words.\n\nHarry Whitaker states that Alzheimer's disease patients are forgetful of proper names. Patients have difficulty generating names, especially with phonological tasks such as words starting with a certain letter. They also have word-retrieval difficulties in spontaneous speech but still have relatively preserved naming of presented stimuli. Later, loss of naming of low-frequency lexical items occurs. Eventually, the loss of ability to comprehend and name the same lexical item indicates semantic loss of the lexical item.\n\nThe majority of current research focuses on the acquisition and functioning of the mental lexicon, without much focus on what happens to the mental lexicon over time. Current studies suggest that as individuals age, they become less capable of storing and remembering words indicating that their \"mental dictionary\" is, in fact, shrinking. One study showed that the size of a Japanese woman's healthy mental lexicon of kanji shrank at a rate of approximately 1% per year between ages 83 and 93 on average. This was tested through a simple naming task once when the subject was 83, and then again at the age of 93.\n\nAs research on the mental lexicon continues to expand into our modern world of abbreviations, researchers have begun to question whether the mental lexicon has the capacity to store acronyms as well as words. Using a lexical decision task with acronyms as priming words, researchers saw that acronyms could in fact prime other related information. This finding suggests that acronyms are stored alongside their related information in the mental lexicon just as a word would be. Research also demonstrated that these acronyms would still prime related information despite inaccurate capitalization (i.e. bbc had the same priming effects as BBC).\n"}
{"id": "38814555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38814555", "title": "Metaparody", "text": "Metaparody\n\nMetaparody is a form of humor or literary technique consisting \"parodying the parody of the original\", sometimes to the degree that the viewer is unclear as to which subtext is genuine and which subtext parodic. The American literary critic Gary Saul Morson has written extensively on the topic:\n"}
{"id": "16371643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16371643", "title": "Noddy (TV interview technique)", "text": "Noddy (TV interview technique)\n\nNoddy headshots or noddies are a type of camera shot used in recorded news or current affairs interviews. The noddies consist of nods and other similar \"listening gestures\" made by the interviewer. If only one camera is available at the interview site, then these shots are recorded after the actual interview takes place. The shots are spliced into the interview during the editing process to mask any cuts that have been made. This editing technique is universally \"read\" by audiences as expressing realism and therefore creates the illusion of a seamless dialogue in the interview.\n\nThe earliest use of the term recorded by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" dates from 1982. It was explained more fully by John Fiske in 1987: \"the camera is then turned onto the interviewer who asks some of the questions again and gives a series of \"noddies,\" that is, reaction shots, nods, smiles, or expressions of sympathetic listening. These are then used to disguise later edits in the interviewee's speech... Without the \"noddy\", the visuals would show an obvious \"jump\" that would reveal the edit.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term came to public prominence in 2007 when it was revealed that a BBC programme inserted noddies featuring the senior broadcaster Alan Yentob into interviews that he did not conduct, creating the impression that he had been present. This controversy, which was covered in many newspapers as \"Noddygate\", came at a time when the BBC was already under scrutiny for falsifying certain aspects of entertainment shows for editorial reasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18894210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18894210", "title": "Open-ended question", "text": "Open-ended question\n\nAn open-ended question cannot be answered with a \"yes\" or \"no\" response, or with a static response. Open-ended questions are phrased as a statement which requires a response. The response can be compared to information that is already known to the questioner.\n\nExamples of open-ended questions:\n\nThe received wisdom in education is that open questions are broadly speaking ‘good’ questions. They invite students to give longer responses that demonstrate their understanding. They are preferable to closed questions (i.e. one that demands a yes/no answer) because they are better for discussions or enquiries, whereas closed questions are only good for knowledge testing. \n\nPeter Worley argues that this is a false assumption. This is based on Worley’s central arguments that there are two different kinds of open and closed questions: grammatical and conceptual. He argues that educational practitioners should be aiming for questions that are “grammatically closed, but conceptually open”. For example, in standard parlance, ‘is it ever right to lie?’ would be regarded as a closed question: it elicits a yes/no response. Significantly, however, it is conceptually open. Any initial yes/no answer to it can be ‘opened up’ by the questioner (‘why do you think that?,’ ‘Could there be an instance where that’s not the case?), inviting elaboration and enquiry. \n\nThis grammatically closed but cognitively open style of questioning, Worley argues, “gives [educators] the best of both worlds: the focus and specificity of a closed question (this, after all, is why teachers use them) and the inviting, elaborating character of an open question”. Closed questions, simply require ‘opening up’ strategies to ensure that conceptually open questions can fulfil their educational potential. \n\nWorley's structural and semantic distinction between open and closed questions is integral to his pedagogical invention 'Open Questioning Mindset', or OQM. OQM refers to the development, in educators, of an open attitude towards the process of learning and the questioning at the heart of that process. It is a mind-set that is applicable to all subject areas and all pedagogical environments. Teachers who develop an Open Questioning Mindset listen openly for the cognitive content of student’s contributions and looks for ways to use what is given for learning opportunities, whether right, wrong, relevant or apparently irrelevant. OQM encourages a style of pedagogy that values genuine enquiry in the classroom. It provides teachers with the tools to move beyond what Worley calls ‘guess what’s in my head’ teaching, that relies on closed and leading questions..\n\n"}
{"id": "26019393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26019393", "title": "Out from Under: Disability, History and Things to Remember", "text": "Out from Under: Disability, History and Things to Remember\n\nOut from Under: Disability, History and Things to Remember is a traveling exhibition that explores the history of disability within the lives of Canadians.\n\nThe exhibition was produced in collaboration with students, scholars and alumni from the School of Disability Studies at Ryerson University. The exhibition originated from a special topic seminar designed to uncover the hidden history of disability in Canada. Each student identified an artifact to explore that represented a particular moment in Canadian disability history. Thirteen objects were then selected for the exhibition, revealing narratives that pay homage to the resilience, creativity, and the civic and cultural contributions of Canadians with disabilities. Accompanying interpretive texts help confront stereotypical representations of disability such as pity, inspiration or freak, helping to illustrate the complexity of disability struggles for social and political acknowledgement, identity, survival and remembrance.\n\nOut from Under is curated by three faculty members from Ryerson University’s School of Disability Studies.\n\nEach objects’ history is represented by a single word title: Digging, Labouring, Dressing, Fixing, Measuring, Naming, Breathing, Remembering, Packing, Trailblazing, Struggling, Leading and Aspiring.\n\nAmerican Sign Language\nVideo podcast of all exhibit text in American Sign Language.\n\nAudio description and Touch Stations\nAudio podcasts of all exhibit text with detailed audio descriptions and touch stations profiling selected objects.\n\nBraille Booklets\nBraille copies of exhibit text including participant profiles.\n\nA 60-page color catalogue entitled “Out from Under: Disability, History and Things to Remember” (2008) was produced by the School of Disability Studies.\n\nMarch 9 to March 21, 2010, Cultural Olympiad exhibition (UBC Robson Square), Vancouver, Canada\n\nApril 17 to July 13, 2008, Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Canada\n\nOctober 25 to October 31, 2007, Abilities Arts Festival (at the Columbus Centre), Toronto, Canada\n\nAccess Award for Disability Issues, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3563307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3563307", "title": "Paley Center for Media", "text": "Paley Center for Media\n\nThe Paley Center for Media, formerly the Museum of Television & Radio (MT&R) and the Museum of Broadcasting, founded in 1975 by William S. Paley, is an American cultural institution in New York and Los Angeles dedicated to the discussion of the cultural, creative, and social significance of television, radio, and emerging platforms for the professional community and media-interested public.\n\nIt was renamed The Paley Center for Media on June 5, 2007, to encompass emerging broadcasting technologies such as the Internet, mobile video, and podcasting, as well as to expand its role as a neutral setting where media professionals can engage in discussion and debate about the evolving media landscape.\n\nWith an ever-growing collection of content broadcast on radio and television, the Paley Center has two branches; in New York City and Los Angeles. The New York City branch is in the heart of Midtown Manhattan at 25 West 52nd Street between 5th and 6th Avenues. The Los Angeles branch is located at 465 N Beverly Drive in Beverly Hills, near Rodeo Drive.\n\nThe original Museum of Broadcasting, founded in 1975 by William S. Paley, opened in Manhattan on November 9, 1976, occupying two floors in an office building at 1 East 53rd Street, near the corner of 53rd Street and Fifth Avenue. This was adjacent to the Doubleday Book Store on Fifth Avenue.\n\nThe Museum of Broadcasting's name was changed to The Museum of Television & Radio with the September 12, 1991 move into the William S. Paley Building. Designed by Philip Johnson and located at 25 West 52nd Street (adjacent to the famed 21 Club at 21 West 52nd Street), the 16-story building was itself renamed The Paley Center for Media in 2007. It has two front entrances: the one on the left is for office staff, and the main entrance on the right for the general public. The Alexander Mackendrick film \"Sweet Smell of Success\" (1957) has an exterior location scene with different angles revealing how the neighborhood looked in the years before the building was constructed.\n\nThe ground-level floor of the New York museum features the ticket and information area and the Steven Spielberg Gallery, used for exhibitions, receptions and fund-raising events. Reservations to use the Library are made at the front desk. In addition to the elevator, a staircase on the first floor leads down to the large basement-level theater. The fourth floor has numerous computers, used by visitors to locate programming in the collection. When a selection is made, it can be watched on the computer. Computers are available both for individuals and for groups.\n\nThe Museum of Television & Radio in Los Angeles at 465 North Beverly Drive in Beverly Hills, opened March 18, 1996 in a new building designed by Richard Meier and named for Leonard H. Goldenson. When the Los Angeles building opened, it featured a collection duplicated from the tapes in the New York collection. Rooms are named for the celebrity sponsors: the Danny Thomas Lobby, the Aaron Spelling Reception Area and the Garry Marshall Pool. Screenings are held in the 150-seat John H. Mitchell Theatre. The Ahmanson Radio Listening Room has headphones for use with five pre-programmed channels.\n\nThe Paley Center for Media is committed to the idea that many television and radio programs are significant works and should be preserved for posterity's sake. Instead of collecting artifacts and memorabilia, the Paley Center comprises mostly screening rooms, including two full-sized theaters. Nearly 160,000 television shows, commercials, and radio programs are available in the Paley Center's library, and during each visit, viewers can select and watch shows at individual consoles, and radio programs are accessed through these same consoles.\n\nSome television programs are from the 1940s with radio programs dating back to the 1920s. The earliest TV program in the Museum's collection is a silent film of NBC's 1939 production of Dion Boucicault's melodrama \"The Streets of New York\" (1857), with Norman Lloyd, George Coulouris, and Jennifer Jones.\n\nThe museum does not sell the material or permit it to leave the premises. Viewing copies of television programs are Hi-8mm video tape dubs. The originals are kept in a vault outside of New York City, and the collection is being digitized. The Paley Center has acquired many lost episodes of classic television shows and has produced documentary features about the history and impact of television and radio. In recent years, the Center has sponsored advance viewing of the pilot episodes of each network's new programs.\n\nTelevision and radio shows are added to the collection after archival discoveries and through donations from individuals and organizations. In 2002, the Museum held a showing of the previously unseen rehearsal film of Rodgers and Hammerstein's \"Cinderella\" telecast from March 17, 1957. This rehearsal was found in the CBS vault while the Museum was on a quest for other \"lost\" \"Cinderella\" materials. It had been believed that on the night of the live broadcast the show was preserved on both kinescope and videotape and then transmitted to the West Coast. Seeking either of these, Jane Klain, the Director of Research at the New York facility, asked CBS to search their vaults. The CBS database listed three 16mm films featuring five-minute segments of Julie Andrews performing in the show. When the earliest one was brought from the CBS vault, it was discovered to be the full dress rehearsal.\n\nThe Center is also known for its many discoveries involving daytime game shows. Episodes of destroyed shows such as \"High Rollers\", \"Celebrity Sweepstakes\", \"The Money Maze\", the Chuck Woolery version of \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"To Say the Least\", and daytime \"Hollywood Squares\" episodes are all available for viewing in the library. Episodes of other game shows such as \"Tattletales\", \"Let's Make a Deal\", and \"The Gong Show\" are also in the library.\n\nSeminars and interviews with public figures are conducted frequently, all of which are recorded and available for later viewing on individual consoles. Past seminar participants have included Lucille Ball, Carol Burnett, Dick Cavett, Alan Alda, Al Franken, John Frankenheimer, James Garner, Bob Hope, Roy Huggins, Jack Paar, Dennis Potter, Dick Van Dyke, and Gore Vidal. Also available for viewing are seminars featuring creators and cast members from TV shows, including \"The Larry Sanders Show\", \"Seinfeld\", \"King of the Hill\", \"The Simpsons\", \"South Park\", \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\", \"Arrested Development\", \"House\", \"Battlestar Galactica\", and \"The League\". Panel discussions have varied from what it was like to work with Orson Welles to a celebration of Roy Huggins's career.\n\nPaleyFest, also known as the William S. Paley Television Festival, is an annual television festival hosted by the Paley Center in the Los Angeles area. Founded in 1984, the festival, held annually in the spring, features panels composed of the casts and prominent creative talent from popular television shows such as \"Community\", \"Parks and Recreation\", \"Mad Men\", and \"Lost\", among many others. The panels field questions from a moderator and a public audience and often present exclusive content from their respective series. The festival has been in many venues over its history, including the Los Angeles County Museum of Art Bing Theater, the Directors Guild of America theater, the Cinerama Dome, and the Saban Theatre in Beverly Hills. It was relocated to the larger Dolby Theatre in Hollywood in 2014.\n\nIn 2010, The Paley Center for Media announced a partnership with IESE Business School to offer the Advanced Management Program in Media and Entertainment or the \"Media AMP\", a postgraduate level program for media and entertainment executives to preparing them for high level leadership roles in their companies. Launched in January 2011, the program’s goal is to bring executives up to speed on new business models, management techniques, and technologies. A key feature is access to leaders in the industry.\n\nThe Media AMP curriculum covers four modules over a six-month period. Three of the modules are held in New York, and one in Los Angeles. Key discussion topics include: Value Creation; Digital Strategy; Accounting, Finance and Management Control; Content and Customers; Leadership; Production, Technology and Operations Management; Entrepreneurship and Innovation; IT Systems and Strategy; Managerial Economics and Decision Analysis; Marketing Strategy; and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1603228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603228", "title": "Pentimento", "text": "Pentimento\n\nA pentimento (plural pentimenti) is an alteration in a painting, evidenced by traces of previous work, showing that the artist has changed their mind as to the composition during the process of painting. The word is Italian for \"repentance,\" from the verb \"pentirsi\", meaning to repent.\n\nPentimenti may show that a composition originally had an element, for example a head or a hand, in a slightly different place, or that an element no longer in the final painting was originally planned. The changes may have been done in the underdrawing of the painting, or by the visible layers of paint differing from the underdrawing, or by the first painted treatment of the element having been over-painted.\n\nSome pentimenti have always been visible on the final painting with careful inspection; others are revealed by the increasing transparency that some paint acquires after several centuries. Others, especially in the underdrawing, can only be seen with modern methods such as X-rays and infrared reflectography and photographs. These are able to record photographically some pigments, depending on their chemical composition, which remain covered by later paint layers. For example, white lead, a common pigment, will be detected by X-ray, and carbon black underdrawings can often be seen with great clarity in infra-red reflectograms. These methods have greatly expanded the number of pentimenti art historians are aware of, and confirmed that they are very common in the works of many old masters, from Jan van Eyck onwards.\nPentimenti are considered especially important when considering whether a particular painting is the first version by the original artist, or a second version by the artist himself, or his workshop, or a later copyist. Normally secondary versions or copies will have few if any pentimenti, although this will not always be the case, as in \"The Lute Player\" by Caravaggio. Like Rembrandt, Titian and many other masters, Caravaggio seems rarely to have made preliminary drawings, but to have composed straight onto the canvas. The number of pentimenti found in the work of such masters naturally tends to be higher.\n\nMarks revealing a totally different subject, for example in \"The Old Guitarist \"by Picasso, are not usually described as pentimenti - the artist has abandoned his \"earlier composition\" to begin a new one. In cases where a composition has been changed by a later painter or restorer, marks showing the original composition would not be described as pentimenti either—it must be the original painter who has changed his mind.\n\nThe term is usually treated as an Italian word and therefore written in italics, depending on the style used in the individual context. The fully anglicised word \"pentiment\" (plural \"pentiments\") is much rarer, though included in the Grove Dictionary of Art. The distinction between singular and plural is also rather flexible; some writers refer to a change of just one outline as \"pentimenti\", whilst others treat each area that has been changed as a single \"pentimento\". The word \"pentimento\" is occasionally used synonymously with \"palimpsest\", but strictly the latter is used for documents and parchments which, due to fading, have been reused.\n\nA portrait in the National Gallery, London of Jacques de Norvins by Ingres was painted in 1811–12 when the sitter was Napoleon's Chief of Police in Rome. Originally, instead of the curtain at the left, there was a fully painted bust of a boy's head on top of a small column. Probably this was a bust of Napoleon's son, who was known as the King of Rome. The presumption is that this was overpainted with the curtain after the fall of Napoleon, either by Ingres himself, or another artist. The bust can just be made out in the enlarged online photo, with its chin level with the sitter's hair-line; the top of the column was level with the middle of the sitter's ear. These may always have been (just) visible, or have become so by the paint becoming transparent with age. Few viewers of the painting would notice the bust without it being pointed out. Strictly speaking, these alterations might not be described as pentimenti, because of the presumed lapse of time, and because another artist may have made the change.\n\nAn example by Leonardo Da Vinci can be found in his work \"Salvator Mundi\", which was sold to a private collector for more than $450 million after being restored by Christie's auction house.\n\nAnother work by Caravaggio, \"The Cardsharps\" in the Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth, has a number of typical minor pentimenti, altering the position of the figure on the right, which are revealed by infra-red reflectograms. These are used in discussing the painting and comparing it to another version of the subject in Bari.\n\nA Zurbarán in the Cleveland Museum of Art shows that the size of a white cloth was expanded after the dark background under-paint had been applied; the expanded area is a darker white.\n\nIn 2016, as a result of the discovery of pentimenti after conservation and cleaning, the Courtauld Institute changed its opinion on its version of Manet’s \"Le déjeuner sur l'herbe\" from that of it being a copy to it being a preparatory painting that predates the version in the Louvre. Pentimenti were visible once the old varnish was removed, including alterations to the curve of the back of the female nude and one of the male figure's cap, suggesting that the Courtauld picture is a preparatory work.\n\nThe term has sometimes been used in a modern sense to describe the appearance of the sides of buildings with painted advertising. Often old ads are painted over with newer ads and the paint wears away to reveal the older layers. Examples in Amsterdam, New York City and elsewhere have been photographed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33899820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33899820", "title": "Psychological effects of method acting", "text": "Psychological effects of method acting\n\nMethod acting is employed by actors to evoke realistic emotions into their performance by drawing on personal experiences. Raymond Hamden, doctor of Clinical and Forensic Psychology, defines the purpose of method acting as “compartmentalizing their own feelings while playing another character [so] they could bring the emotions of that personal feeling to cry if they needed to with that character.”\n\nHowever, when these emotions are not compartmentalized, they can encroach on other facets of life, often seeming to disrupt the actor’s psyche. This occurs as the actor delves into previous emotional experiences, be they joyful or traumatic. The psychological effects, like emotional fatigue, comes when suppressed or unresolved raw emotions are unburied to add to the character, not just from the employing personal emotions in performance. The question becomes whether the actor calls up resolved or unresolved emotions in their acting.\n\nThe psychological effects of method acting vary in intensity from individual to individual. Some common effects include; \n\nFatigue, or emotional fatigue, comes mainly when actors “create dissonance between their actions and their actual feelings.”. A mode of acting referred to as “surface acting” involves only changing one’s actions without altering the deeper thought processes. Method acting, when employed correctly, is mainly deep acting, or changing thoughts as well as actions, proven to generally avoid excessive fatigue. Surface acting is statistically “positively associated with a negative mood and this explains some of the association of surface acting with increased emotional exhaustion.” This negative mood that is created leads to fear, anxiety, feelings of shame and sleep deprivation.\n\nRaw emotion or unresolved emotions conjured up for acting, may result in a sleep deprivation and the cyclical nature of the ensuing side effects. Sleep deprivation alone can lead to impaired function, causing some individuals to “acute episodes of psychosis.” Sleep deprivation initiates chemical changes in the brain that can lead to behavior similar to psychotic individuals. These episodes can lead to more lasting psychological damage. In cases where raw emotion that has not been resolved, or traumas have been evoked before closure has been reached by the individual, the emotion can result in greater emotional instability and increased sense of anxiety, fear or shame.\n\nThe problem seen in method acting comes from the inability of actors to compartmentalize the emotions of the character from their own in daily life. Generally the actors who suffer personality changes and psychotic disorders already have some psychotic tendencies or are emotionally unstable. Those who have dissociative identity disorder “can’t recognize that the role isn’t theirs” and, even though these individuals appear normal, they have psychotic disorders that sometimes take months to identify. Dissociative identity disorder is a chemically based disorder that results from “high stress and trauma.” What these individuals experience psychologically can further detriment their chemical and physiological makeup.\n\nOne factor that is rarely discussed when observing the emotional effects of method acting is that the individuals that practice method acting may already be emotionally unstable. Dr. Hamden notes that “many actors have had a traumatic life, [and] acting gives [them] the opportunity to be someone else.” These individuals are already emotionally unstable and so the effects of method acting are more severe for them. It is only a minority of people, about 32%, that will have extreme traumatic experiences.\n\nIn the professional acting field, most companies have a psychoanalyst that consults on films to give analysis and characteristics for characters. Their responsibility lies in aiding actors in understanding how the character would act. These professionals help when actors cannot relate. Their responsibility is to draw connections and pull raw emotions from the actor to connect with the character. \n\nUnder professional supervision, method acting proves safe and effective. Many actors find the practice of method acting cathartic, similar to psychiatrist Jacob L. Moreno’s psychodrama. In this technique, a professional aids in keeping the individual in alignment while they achieve closure for traumatic emotional damage. The harmful situations in method acting arise when there is no professional supervising the process, such as in “cult-like” weekend courses provided by unqualified individuals that cannot monitor the individuals and keep them in alignment psychologically. \n\nThis would be evident in weekend courses where the instructor promises to instruct method acting to a large public class, sometimes as many as one hundred people. The instructor would then be incapable of meeting the psychological needs of each individual in the class. Harmful psychological effects arise “when control of necessary skill falls short, [and] the balance [shifts] to the negative.” This occurs “because the [psychological] risks are in fact greater than anticipated, or because unanticipated obstacles or hurdles arise.”. The acting situation then becomes threatening and results in the unpleasant feelings of fear, anxiety or shame.\n\nIt is commonly believed that there is a strong correlation between acting and the physiological reaction to acting. According to the task-emotion theory, “the positive emotions of the actor should be coupled with a specific physiological activation. In particular, excited physical reactions were expected to co-exist with task-emotions such as tension, excitement, and challenge.” . The emotion-task theory proposes that “the ‘action tendencies’ in characters occupy a special place and differ somewhat from [the] impulses in general behavior.” . However, studies have been done that show that the correlation between emotions and physical reactions are moderately weak. .\n\nThe danger comes when control precedence “manifests itself by sudden interruptions of behavior, changes in behavior or by persistence of [character’s] behavior.”. “Control precedence” by emotions is the “feelings, thoughts, impulses, actions or activation going along with aroused emotion that takes precedence over other planned or half executed thoughts, feelings, impulses, etc.” . Control precedence is the main concern for method acting. It proves a challenge for actors to come out of character after employing method acting techniques, sometimes altering their behavior, urging them to follow impulses that would be foreign to their own personal nature. This difficulty of returning to one’s own behavior is the common concern linked with method acting.\n\n"}
{"id": "477912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477912", "title": "Rhema", "text": "Rhema\n\nRhema (ῥῆμα in Greek) literally means an \"utterance\" or \"thing said\" in Greek. It is a word that signifies the action of utterance.\n\nIn philosophy, it was used by both Plato and Aristotle to refer to propositions or sentences.\n\nIn Christianity, it is used in reference to the concept of \"Rhematos Christou\"; Jesus Christ's sayings.\n\nThe Greek noun ῥῆμα \"saying, utterance, word, verb\" is analyzed as consisting of the root ἐρ-/ῥε- (er-/rhe-) \"say\" (cf. εἴρω \"I say\"; ἐρῶ \"I will say\") and the suffix -μα (-ma), a suffix used to form nouns from verbs.\n\nBoth Plato (c. 428–347 BC) and Aristotle (384–322 BC) used the terms \"logos\", \"rhema\" and \"onoma\". In Plato's usage, a logos (often translatable as a \"sentence\") is a sequence in which verbs are mingled with nouns and every logos must have an onoma and rhema. For Plato, every logos was either true or false and in a logos, names included rhema \"which denotes actions\" and onoma a \"mark set on those who do the actions\". Aristotle identified three components as central to the proposition: \"onoma\", \"rhema\" and \"logos\". These terms are translated differently depending on the context of the discussion—grammar or logic, as in the table on the right. But it was only in the 12th century that grammarians began to think in terms of units we understand as \"subject\" and \"predicate\".\n\nThe Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Bible into Greek uses the terms \"rhema\" and \"logos\" as equivalents and uses both for the Hebrew word \"dabar\", as the Word of God.\n\nIn Christianity, \"rhema\" is used in Bible study to signify Jesus Christ's utterances. The Greek word \"rhema\" is useful to distinguish between two meanings of \"word\". While both \"rhema\" and \"logos\" are translated into the English \"word\", in the original Greek there was a substantial distinction.\n\nSome modern usage distinguishes \"rhema\" from \"logos\" in Christian theology, with \"rhema\" at times called \"spoken word\", referring to the revelation received by disciples when the Holy Spirit \"speaks\" to them. In this usage, \"Logos\" refers to Christ.\n"}
{"id": "272955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272955", "title": "Singing telegram", "text": "Singing telegram\n\nA singing telegram is a message that is delivered by an artist in a musical form. Singing telegrams are historically linked to normal telegrams, but tend to be humorous. Sometimes the artist is in costume or formal clothing. Singing telegrams are often given as a gift.\n\nWestern Union, the American telegraph company began offering singing telegram services in 1933. That July 28, a fan sent Hollywood singing star Rudy Vallee a birthday greeting by telegram. George P. Oslin (1899–1996), the Western Union public relations director, decided this would be a good opportunity to make telegrams, which had been associated with deaths and other tragic news, into something more popular. He asked a Western Union operator, Lucille Lipps, to sing the message over the telephone, and this became the first singing telegram. While Oslin created the singing telegram because he thought \"that messages should be fun,\" he recalled that he \"was angrily informed I was making a laughingstock of the company.\"\n\nAs relatively few telegram recipients had telephones, most telegrams, including singing telegrams, were first delivered in person. The popularization of the telephone in the 1960s reduced telegrams in general. By 1972, Western Union was receiving a small number of requests for singing telegrams and was seeking regulatory approval on a state-by-state basis to eliminate the offering. Western Union suspended its singing telegram service in 1974, but independent singing telegram companies, specializing in often costumed personal delivery of gift messages, have kept up the tradition.\n\nA DIY singing telegram is a specially written song all about the person in karaoke DVD form, so that any singer anywhere in the world can deliver the fully personalised singing telegram.\n\nA kissogram, also called kissagram (short for kissing telegram), is a message delivered along with a kiss, usually arranged as a fun surprise for a person for a special occasion. Message deliverers can be hired either by themselves, or as part of an agency. A kissogram is usually presented by a performer dressed in a costume or uniform such as a police officer, nurse, french maid or nun. This term was used in the TV program Doctor Who to describe the profession of Doctor Who's companion Amy Pond. \n\nA stripogram or strippergram is a form of message delivery in which a stripper will perform a striptease while singing or dancing. The word is a combination of telegram and striptease. This type of entertainment became popular in the 1970s in the US and spread to the UK and Europe during the 1980s. Typically a Strip-O-Gram is most often a form of gift given for a birthday, anniversary or bachelor party. A common practice is for the stripper-gram to be dressed in an outfit of one kind or another and to act out some form of charade connected with this, before commencing their act - for example a police officer 'arresting' somebody, a lawyer pretending to serve papers, a jilted bride and so on (sometimes this charade will be relevant to something the intended 'victim' has experienced, such as a divorce, or brush with the law). Usually a Strip-o-gram entertainer is accompanied by a chaperone, who plays her music, holds on to the money, tips and secures her safety. Unlike an escort who comes alone and does more of a one on one with the celebrant and is not chaperoned. Now-a-days, some agencies or performers do both to secure a bigger pay out.\n\nIn the early 1980s, a collaboration of independent singing telegrams companies in the U.S. was formed by Larry Balsamo, Hey!Wires Sing Telegrams in Chicago. Similar to Florists' Transworld Delivery, the Star System was a referral system for people to send a singing telegram to friends and family throughout the United States.\n\nIn the 1976 season 5, episode 1 of The Bob Newhart Show, Bob receives a singing telegram announcing a visit from his college roommate and his new wife. \n\nIn the 1985 movie \"Brazil\", Sam Lowry (Jonathan Pryce) received an invitation to his mother's party via singing telegram. When told the message had been sent Reply Paid, he attempted to sing his reply.\n\nIn \"Clue\", 1985, a singing telegram (Jane Wiedlin) arrives and is shot on the doorstep. She is later revealed to be a secret blackmail informant. \n\nIn a classic episode of Sesame Street, Grover poses as a singing telegram artist. He goes up to Mr. Johnson singing a series of singing telegrams not directed for him until he eventually gives him the right telegram. The telegram is about Mr. Johnson's hat being found by someone in Buffalo, New York, but to Mr. Johnson's dismay, Grover forgets who sent the telegram.\n\nIn the 1987 MacGyver episode \"Soft Touch\", Penny Parker (Teri Hatcher) tries her hand at being a singing telegram deliveryperson. But due to her forgetfully visiting the wrong address, she happens to witness two thugs torturing a man.\n\nIn \"The Fisher King\", 1991, Parry (Robin Williams) sends a singing telegram (Michael Jeter) to Lydia, the love interest in her office.\n\nIn the 2010 \"Doctor Who\" episode \"The Eleventh Hour\", the Doctor's companion Amy Pond worked delivering kissograms, prior to traveling with the Doctor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51460271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51460271", "title": "Speaker types", "text": "Speaker types\n\nWithin the linguistic study of endangered languages, sociolinguists distinguish between different speaker types based on the type of competence they have acquired of the endangered language. Often in situations where a community is gradually shifting away from an endangered language to a majority language, not all speakers acquire full linguistic competence, but have varying degrees and types of competence depending on the kind of exposure to the minority language they experienced in their upbringing. Originally the relevance of speaker types in situations of language shift was noted by Nancy Dorian who coined the term semi-speaker to refer to those speakers of Sutherland Gaelic who were predominantly English-speaking and whose Gaelic competence was limited and showed considerable influence from English. Later studies added additional speaker types such as rememberers (who remember some words and phrases but have little or no grammatical competence and do not actively speak the language), passive speakers (who have nearly full comprehension competence but do not actively speak the language). In the context of language revitalization, new speakers who have learned the endangered language as a second language are sometimes distinguished.\n\nIn contexts of language acquisition and language teaching studies sometimes there is a distinction between native speakers and second language speakers, depending on whether language was learned as a language of primary socialisation or learned after already having fully acquired a first language. In contexts of multilingualism a bilingual speaker may also be described as a heritage speaker (A heritage language actually refers to a language whose speakers have moved from the original area where the language was spoken: e.g. Welsh is a heritage language in Patagonia, but not in Wales) if they have not been as fully exposed to one of their languages, leading to a diminished degree of confidence in themselves as speakers, and sometimes also limited competence in one of their languages.\n\nA rememberer is a person who knows individual words or phrases (sometimes entire texts) but cannot use the target language productively. Such persons are of particular interest when studying any endangered or dying language. Rememberers are contrasted with fluent or full speakers, who have a good command of the language, and semi-speakers, who have a partial command of it. The distinction between fluent speakers and rememberers is important in fieldwork, but accurately determining where a member of a language community falls on the speaker-rememberer continuum can be challenging.\n\nA passive speaker (also referred to as a \"receptive bilingual\" or \"passive bilingual\") is someone who has had enough exposure to a language in childhood to have a native-like comprehension of it, but has little or no active command of it. Such speakers are especially common in language shift communities where speakers of a declining language do not acquire active competence. Around 10% of the Ainu people, for example, who speak the language are considered passive speakers. Passive speakers are often targeted in language revival efforts to increase the number of speakers of a language quickly, as they are likely to gain active and near-native speaking skills more quickly than those with no knowledge of the language. They are also found in areas where people grow up hearing another language outside their family with no formal education.\n\nA semi-speaker is a speaker who has acquired a partial linguistic competence in a given language, but who does not generally use it regularly in conversation. Their speech can contain erroneous forms. Semi-speakers are often among the most motivated and engaged participants in language revitalization projects. As languages become obsolete and speech communities shift to other languages, they are spoken less frequently and in fewer social domains. Many speakers learn the language partially, often in a simplified way, with significant influence from the majority language. They are sometimes referred to as \"semi-speakers\", \"quasi-speakers\" or \"rememberers\". The word semi-speaker was introduced by linguist Nancy Dorian in describing the last speakers of the East Sutherland dialect of Scottish Gaelic. When semi-speakers form a significant part of the speech, community language contraction often ensues, as the linguistic norms are accommodated to the competences of the speakers.\n\nA terminal speaker is the last speaker of a language. A terminal speaker may still be alive, or may have been the last person speaking what is now an extinct language. In the process of language death, the remaining speakers begin to lose some of the vocabulary and grammar of the language, so when there is only a last terminal speaker, the person will not remember a complete form of the language as it had been spoken by a larger community using it in all language domains. Being a terminal speaker means that the person is bilingual, remembering their heritage language but interacting with their community in another language. The importance of this distinction is seen in the story of Dolly Pentreath of Cornwall. She is popularly named as the last fluent, first-language speaker of Cornish, but there were others who still spoke it for many years, though possibly incompletely. Terminal speakers are sometimes found by linguists doing language documentation on a language before it dies. A clear example of a terminal speaker being contacted by a linguist is the case of Abegaz, the last speaker of the Mesmes language in Ethiopia. He lived in an isolated hilly area and was about 80 years old when he was contacted by a team of sociolinguistic language surveyors; he has died since that contact. Ned Maddrell was the last speaker of the Manx language, having died in 1974. In 2008, Doris McLemore was reported to be the last speaker of the Wichita language as she worked with a team of linguists to document the language before it died completely. Many more terminal speakers are listed under the Wikipedia category Last known speakers of a language.\n"}
{"id": "804191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=804191", "title": "Spin room", "text": "Spin room\n\nA spin room, also known as spin row or spin alley, is an area in which reporters can speak with debate participants and/or their representatives after a debate. The name refers to the fact that the participants will attempt to \"spin\" or influence the perception of the debate among the assembled reporters. The benefit for reporters is that they quickly get in-person interviews with debaters or their representatives, complete with audio, video and photos. For a U.S. presidential debate, the number of reporters in the spin room can number into the thousands.\n\nThe earliest known spin room was set up by the campaign of U.S. president Ronald Reagan in 1984. In a hotel banquet room, campaign officials spoke on the record with talking points playing up their own candidate's debate performance and minimizing opponent Walter Mondale's success, despite many observers believing Mondale had just won. This operation was dubbed the \"spin patrol.\"\n\nA spin room may also be active before a debate. A common form of pre-debate spin is for each side to try to raise expectations for the opposing debater and lower expectations for their own team, a pursuit known as playing the expectations game.\n\nSome observers have criticized the overt nature of the media manipulation in spin rooms, and the media's willing participation in it. Defenders have said reporters know it's scripted and aren't persuaded by the spin, but rather, they use the talking points to analyze candidates' strategies. Spin rooms can occasionally include moments of candor, such as when presidential candidate Rick Perry admitted that he had \"stepped in it\" during a debate response that became known as his .\n\nSpin rooms have also been portrayed as outdated in an era of instant online reaction from all quarters before a debate is even over. Focus groups and instant post-debate \"snap polls\" attempt to provide a more scientific method than spin rooms in determining who has won a debate.\n\n"}
{"id": "51579143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51579143", "title": "The Burrard Street Journal", "text": "The Burrard Street Journal\n\nThe Burrard Street Journal (or BSJ) is an online satire news website based in Vancouver, BC.\n\nThe site gained notoriety in August 2016 after a number of websites reported a BSJ article about then President Obama moving to Canada as fact. \n\nMany other Burrard Street Journal articles and videos have been reported as real news. In July 2016, an article titled 'Trump Claims America Should Never Have Given Canada Its Independence' was shared over 9,000 times and in March 2016, an edited BSJ video reporting Donald Trump building a wall with Canada was shared over 50,000 times and has received 4.5 million views as of March 2018.\n\nAs a result of the BSJ's satire being copied and/or shared as real news, the website's founder, John Egan, has sent copyright infringement notices to more than 100 websites.\n"}
{"id": "603325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603325", "title": "Topic and comment", "text": "Topic and comment\n\nIn linguistics, the topic, or theme, of a sentence is what is being talked about, and the comment (rheme or focus) is what is being said about the topic. This opposition of the given/new information is called information structure. That the information structure of a clause is divided in this way is generally agreed on, but the boundary between topic/theme and comment/rheme/focus depends on grammatical theory. \n\nThe difference between \"topic\" and grammatical subject is that topic is used to describe the information structure, or pragmatic structure of a clause and how it coheres with other clauses, whereas the subject is a purely grammatical category. \"Topic\" and \"subject\" must also be distinguished from \"actor\" (or \"agent\"), the \"doer\". In English clauses with a verb in the passive voice, for instance, the topic is typically the subject, while the agent may be omitted or may follow the preposition \"by\". In some languages, word order and other syntactic phenomena are determined largely by the topic–comment (theme–rheme) structure. These languages are sometimes referred to as topic-prominent languages. Korean and Japanese are often given as examples of this.\n\nThe distinction was probably first suggested by Henri Weil in 1844. He established the\nconnection between information structure and word order. Georg von der Gabelentz distinguished psychological subject (roughly topic) and psychological object (roughly focus). In the Prague school, the dichotomy, termed topic–focus articulation, has been studied mainly by Vilém Mathesius, Jan Firbas, František Daneš, Petr Sgall and Eva Hajičová. They have been concerned mainly by its relation to intonation and word-order. Mathesius also pointed that the topic does not provide new information but connects the sentence to the context. The work of Michael Halliday in the 1960s is responsible for developing linguistic science through his systemic functional linguistics model for English.\n\nThe sentence- or clause-level \"topic\", or \"theme\", can be defined in a number of different ways. Among the most common are\n\nIn an ordinary English clause, the subject is normally the same as the topic/theme (example 1), even in the passive voice (where the subject is a patient, not an agent: example 2):\n\nThese clauses have different topics: the first is about \"the dog\", and the second about \"the little girl\".\n\nIn English it is also possible to use other sentence structures to show the topic of the sentence, as in the following:\n\nThe case of expletives is sometimes rather complex. Consider sentences with expletives (meaningless subjects), like:\n\n\nIn these examples the syntactic subject position (to the left of the verb) is manned by the meaningless expletive (\"it\" or \"there\"), whose sole purpose is satisfying the extended projection principle, and is nevertheless necessary. In these sentences the topic is never the subject, but is determined pragmatically. In all these cases, the whole sentence refers to the comment part.\n\nThe relation between topic/theme and comment/rheme/focus should not be confused with the topic-comment relation in Rhetorical structure theory Discourse Treebank (RST-DT corpus) where it is defined as \"a general statement or topic of discussion is introduced, after which a specific remark is made on the statement or topic\" (ex. \"[As far as the pound goes,] [some traders say a slide toward support at 1.5500 may be a favorable development for the dollar this week.]\") \n\nDifferent languages mark topics in different ways. Distinct intonation and word-order are the most common means. The tendency to place topicalized constituents sentence-initially (\"topic fronting\") is widespread. Topic fronting refers to placing the topic at the beginning\nof a clause regardless whether it is marked or not. Again, linguists disagree on many details. \n\nLanguages often show different kinds of grammar for sentences that introduce new topics and those that continue discussing previously established topics. \n\nWhen a sentence continues discussing a previously established topic, it is likely to use pronouns to refer to the topic. Such topics tend to be subjects. In many languages, pronouns referring to previously established topics will show pro-drop.\n\nThe topic/theme comes first in the clause, and is typically marked out by intonation as well.\n\n\nThe main application of the topic-comment structure is in the domain of speech technology, especially the design of embodied conversational agents (intonational focus assignment, relation between information structure and posture and gesture). There were some attempts to apply the theory of topic/comment for the information retrieval and the automatic summarization .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279544", "title": "Women in computing", "text": "Women in computing\n\nWomen in computing have shaped the evolution of information technology. They were among the first programmers in the early-20th century, and contributed substantially to the industry. As technology and practices altered, the role of women as programmers has changed, and the recorded history of the field has downplayed their achievements.\n\nSince the 18th century, women have developed scientific computations, including Nicole-Reine Lepaute's prediction of Halley's Comet, and Maria Mitchell's computation of the motion of Venus. The first algorithm intended to be executed by a computer was designed by Ada Lovelace who was a pioneer in the field. Grace Hopper was the first person to design a compiler for a programming language. Throughout the 19th and early-20th century, and up to World War II, programming was predominantly done by women; significant examples include the Harvard Computers, codebreaking at Bletchley Park and engineering at NASA.\n\nAfter the 1960s, the \"soft work\" that had been dominated by women evolved into modern software, and the importance of women decreased. The gender disparity and the lack of women in computing from the late 20th century onward has been examined, but no firm explanations have been established. Nevertheless, many women continued to make significant and important contributions to the IT industry, and attempts were made to readdress the gender disparity in the industry. In the 21st century, women held leadership roles in multiple tech companies, such as Meg Whitman, president and chief executive officer of Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Marissa Mayer, president and CEO of Yahoo! and key spokesperson at Google.\n\nNicole-Reine Etable de la Brière Lepaute was one of a team of human computers who worked with Alexis-Claude Clairaut and Joseph-Jérôme Le Français de Lalande to predict the date of the return of Halley's Comet. They began work on the calculations in 1757, working throughout the day and sometimes during mealtimes. Their methods were followed by successive human computers. They divided large calculations into \"independent pieces, assembled the results from each piece into a final product\" and then checked for errors. Lepaute continued to work on computing for the rest of her life, working for the \"Connaissance de Temps\" and publishing predictions of solar eclipses.\n\nOne of the first computers for the American \"Nautical Almanac\" was Maria Mitchel. Her work on the assignment was to compute the motion of the planet Venus. The \"Almanac\" never became a reality, but Mitchell became the first astronomy professor at Vassar.\n\nAda Lovelace was the first person to publish an algorithm intended to be executed by the first modern computer, the Analytical Engine created by Charles Babbage. As a result she is often regarded as the first computer programmer. Lovelace was introduced to Babbage's difference engine when she was 17. In 1840, she wrote to Babbage and asked if she could become involved with his first machine. By this time, Babbage had moved on to his idea for the Analytical Engine. A paper describing the Analytical Engine, \"Notions sur la machine analytique\", published by L.F. Menabrea, came to the attention of Lovelace, who not only translated it into English, but corrected mistakes made by Menabrea. Babbage suggested that she expand the translation of the paper with her own ideas, which, signed only with her initials, AAL, \"synthesized the vast scope of Babbage's vision.\" Lovelace imagined the kind of impact of the Analytical Engine might have on society. She drew up explanations of how the engine could handle inputs, outputs, processing and data storage. She also created several proofs to show how the engine would handle calculations of Bernoulli Numbers on its own. The proofs are considered the first examples of a computer program. Lovelace downplayed her role in her work during her life, for example, in signing her contributions with AAL so as not be \"accused of bragging.\"\n\nAfter the Civil War in the United States, more women were hired as human computers. Many were war widows looking for ways to support themselves. Others were hired when the government opened positions to women because of a shortage of men to fill the roles.\nAnna Winlock asked to become a computer for the Harvard Observatory in 1875 and was hired to work for 25 cents an hour. By 1880, Edward Charles Pickering had hired several women to work for him at Harvard because he felt that women could do the job as well as men and he could ask them to volunteer or work for less pay. The women, described as \"Pickering's harem\" and also as the Harvard Computers, performed clerical work that the male employees and scholars considered to be tedious at a fraction of the cost of hiring a man. The women working for Pickering cataloged around ten thousand stars, discovered the Horsehead Nebula and developed the system to describe stars. One of the \"computers,\" Annie Jump Cannon, could classify stars at a rate of three stars per minute. The work for Pickering became so popular that women volunteered to work for free even when the computers were being paid. Even though they performed an important role, the Harvard Computers were paid less than factory workers.\n\nBy the 1890s, women computers were college graduates looking for jobs where they could use their training in a useful way. Florence Tebb Weldon, was part of this group and provided computations relating to biology and evidence for evolution, working with her husband, W.F. Raphael Weldon. Florence Weldon's calculations demonstrated that statistics could be used to support Darwin's theory of evolution. Another human computer involved in biology was Alice Lee, who worked with Karl Pearson. Pearson hired two sisters to work as part-time computers at his Biometrics Lab, Beatrice and Frances Cave-Brown-Cave.\n\nDuring World War I, Karl Pearson and his Biometrics Lab helped produce ballistics calculations for the British Ministry of Munitions. Beatrice Cave-Brown-Cave helped calculate trajectories for bomb shells. In 1916, Cave-Brown-Cave left Pearson's employ and started working full-time for the Ministry. In the United States, women computers were hired to calculate ballistics in 1918, working in a building on the Washington Mall. One of the women, Elizabeth Webb Wilson, worked as the chief computer. After the war, women who worked as ballistics computers for the U.S. government had trouble finding jobs in computing and Wilson eventually taught high school math.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Iowa State College, professor George Snedecor worked to improve the school's science and engineering departments, experimenting with new punch-card machines and calculators. Snedecor also worked with human calculators most of them women, including Mary Clem. Clem coined the term \"zero check\" to help identify errors in calculations. The computing lab, run by Clem, became one of the most powerful computing facilities of the time. \n\nWomen computers also worked at the American Telephone and Telegraph company. These human computers worked with electrical engineers to help figure out how to boost signals with vacuum tube amplifiers. One of the computers, Clara Froelich, was eventually moved along with the other computers to their own division where they worked with a mathematician, Thornton Fry, to create new computational methods. Froelich studied IBM tabulating equipment and desk calculating machines to see if she could adapt the machine method to calculations.\n\nEdith Clarke was the first woman to earn a degree in electrical engineering and who worked as the first professionally employed electrical engineer in the United States. She was hired by General Electric as a full engineer in 1923. Clarke also filed a patent in 1921 for a graphical calculator to be used in solving problems in power lines. It was granted in 1925.\n\nThe National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) which became NASA hired a group of five women in 1935 to work as a computer pool. The women worked on the data coming from wind tunnel and flight tests.\n\n\"Tedious\" computing and calculating was seen as \"women's work\" through the 1940s resulting in the term \"kilogirl\", invented by a member of the Applied Mathematics Panel in the early 1940s. A kilogirl of energy was \"equivalent to roughly a thousand hours of computing labor.\" While women's contributions to the United States war effort during World War II was championed in the media, their roles and the work they did was minimized. This included minimizing the complexity, skill and knowledge needed to work on computers or work as human computers. During WWII, women did most of the ballistics computing, seen by male engineers as being below their level of expertise. Black women computers worked as hard (or more often, twice as hard) as their white counterparts, but in segregated situations. By 1943, almost all people employed as computers were women.\n\nNACA expanded its a pool of women human computers in the 1940s. NACA recognized in 1942 that \"the engineers admit themselves that the girl computers do the work more rapidly and accurately than they could.\" In 1943 two groups, segregated by race, worked on the east and west side of Langley Air Force Base. The black women were the West Area Computers. Unlike their white counterparts, the black women were asked by NACA to re-do college courses they had already passed and many never received promotions.\n\nWomen were also working on ballistic missile calculations. In 1948, women such as Barbara Paulson were working on the WAC Corporal, determining trajectories the missiles would take after launch.\n\nWomen worked with cryptography and, after some initial resistance, many operated and worked on the Bombe machines. Joyce Aylard operated the Bombe machine testing different methods to break the Enigma code. Joan Clarke was a cryptographer who worked with her friend, Alan Turing, on the Enigma machine at Bletchley Park. When she was promoted to a higher salary grade, there were no positions in the civil service for a \"senior female cryptanalyst,\" and she was listed as a linguist instead. While Clarke developed a method of increasing the speed of double-encrypted messages, unlike many of the men, her decryption technique was not named after her. Other cryptographers at Bletchley included Margaret Rock, Mavis Lever (later Batey), Ruth Briggs and Kerry Howard. In 1941, Batey's work enabled the Allies to break the Italian's naval code before the Battle of Cape Matapan. In the United States, several faster Bombe machines were created. Women, like Louise Pearsall, were recruited from the WAVES to work on code breaking and operate the American Bombe machines.\n\nHedy Lamarr and co-inventor, George Antheil, worked on a frequency hopping method to help the Navy control torpedoes remotely. The Navy passed on their idea, but Lamarr and Antheil received a patent for the work on August 11, 1942. This technique would later be used again, first in the 1950s at Sylvania Electronic Systems Division and is used in everyday technology such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.\n\nThe programmers of the ENIAC computer in 1944, were six female mathematicians; Marlyn Meltzer, Betty Holberton, Kathleen Antonelli, Ruth Teitelbaum, Jean Bartik, and Frances Spence who were human computers at the Moore School's computation lab. Adele Goldstine was their teacher and trainer and they were known as the \"ENIAC girls.\" The women who worked on ENIAC were warned that they would not be promoted into professional ratings which were only for men. Designing the hardware was \"men's work\" and programming the software was \"women's work.\" Sometimes women were given blueprints and wiring diagrams to figure out how the machine worked and how to program it. They learned how the ENIAC worked by repairing it, sometimes crawling through the computer, and by fixing \"bugs\" in the machinery. Even though the programmers were supposed to be doing the \"soft\" work of programming, in reality, they did that and fully understood and worked with the hardware of the ENIAC. When the ENIAC was revealed in 1946, Goldstine and the other women prepared the machine and the demonstration programs it ran for the public. None of their work in preparing the demonstrations was mentioned in the official accounts of the public events. After the demonstration, the university hosted an expensive celebratory dinner to which none of the ENIAC six were invited.\n\nIn Canada, Beatrice Worsley started working at the National Research Council of Canada in 1947 where she was an aerodynamics research officer. A year later, she started working in the new Computational Centre at the University of Toronto. She built a differential analyzer in 1948 and also worked with IBM machines in order to do calculations for Atomic Energy of Canada Limited. She went to study the EDSAC at the University of Cambridge in 1949. She wrote the program that was run the first time EDSAC performed its first calculations on May 6, 1949. \n\nGrace Hopper was the first person to create a compiler for a programming language and one of the first programmers of the Harvard Mark I computer, an electro-mechanical computer based on Analytical Engine. Hopper's work with computers started in 1943, when she started working at the Bureau of Ordnance's Computation Project at Harvard where she programmed the Harvard Mark I. Hopper not only programmed the computer, but created a 500 page comprehensive manual for it. Even though Hopper created the manual which was widely cited and published, she was not specifically credited in the manual. Hopper is often credited with the coining of the term \"bug\" and \"debugging\" when a moth caused the Mark II to malfunction. While a moth was found and the process of removing it called \"debugging,\" the terms were already part of the language of programmers.\n\nGrace Hopper continued to contribute to computer science through the 1950s. She brought the idea of using compilers from her time at Harvard to UNIVAC which she joined in 1949. Other women who were hired to program UNIVAC included Adele Mildred Koss, Frances E. Holberton, Jean Bartik, Frances Morello and Lillian Jay. To program the UNIVAC, Hopper and her team used the FLOW-MATIC programming language, which she developed. Holberton wrote a code, C-10, that allowed for keyboard inputs into a general-purpose computer. Holberton also developed the Sort-Merge Generator in 1951 which was used on the UNIVAC I. The Sort-Merge Generator marked the first time a computer \"used a program to write a program.\" Holberton suggested that computer housing should be beige or oatmeal in color which became a long-lasting trend. Koss worked with Hopper on various algorithms and a program that was a precursor to a report generator.\n\nKlara Dan von Neumann was one of the main programmers of the MANIAC, a more advanced version of ENIAC. Her work helped the field of meteorology and weather prediction.\n\nThe NACA, and subsequently NASA, recruited women computers following World War II. By the 1950s, a team was performing mathematical calculations at the Lewis Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio, including Annie Easley, Katherine Johnson and Kathryn Peddrew. At the National Bureau of Standards, Margaret R. Fox was hired to work as part of the technical staff of the Electronic Computer Laboratory in 1951. \n\nAt Convair Aircraft Corporation, Joyce Currie Little was one of the original programmers for analyzing data received from the wind tunnels. She used punch cards on an IBM 650 which was located in a different building from the wind tunnel. To save time in the physical delivery of the punch cards, she and her colleague, Maggie DeCaro, put on roller skates to get to and from the building faster. \n\nIn Israel, Thelma Estrin worked on the design and development of WEIZAC, one of the world's first large-scale programmable electronic computers. In the Soviet Union the IT industry was dominated by women; a team of them designed the first digital computer in 1951. In the UK, Kathleen Booth worked with her husband, Andrew Booth on several computers at Birkbeck College. Kathleen Booth was the programmer and Andrew built the machines. Kathleen developed Assembly Language at this time.\n\nAdele Mildred Koss, who had worked at UNIVAC with Hopper, started work at Control Data Corporation (CDC) in 1965. There she developed algorithms for graphics, including graphic storage and retrieval.\n\nMary K. Hawes of Burroghs Corporation set up a meeting in 1959 to discuss the creation a computer language that would be shared between businesses. Six people, including Hopper, attended to discuss the philosophy of creating a common business language (CBL). Hopper became involved in developing COBOL (Common Business Oriented Language) where she innovated new symbolic ways to write computer code. Hopper developed programming language that was easier to read and \"self-documenting.\" After COBOL was submitted to the CODASYL Executive Committee, Betty Holberton did further editing on the language before it was submitted to the Government Printing Office in 1960. IBM were slow to adopt COBOL, which hindered its progress but it was accepted as a standard in 1962, after Hopper had demonstrated the compiler working both on UNIVAC and RCA computers. The development of COBOL led to the generation of compilers and generators, most of which were created or refined by women such as Koss, Nora Moser, Deborah Davidson, Sue Knapp, Gertrude Tierney and Jean E. Sammet.\n\nSammet, who worked at IBM starting in 1961 was responsible for developing the programming language, FORMAC. She published a book, \"Programming Languages: History and Fundamentals\" (1969), which was considered the \"standard work on programming languages,\" according to Denise Gürer It was \"one of the most used books in the field,\" according to \"The Times\" in 1972. \n\nBetween 1961 and 1963, Margaret Hamilton began to study software reliability while she was working at the US SAGE air defense system. In 1965, she was responsible for programming the software for the onboard flight software on the Apollo mission computers. After Hamilton had completed the program, the code was sent to Raytheon where \"expert seamstresses\" called the \"Little Old Ladies\" actually hardwired the code by threading copper wire through magnetic rings. Each system could store more than 12,000 words that were represented by the copper wires.\nIn 1964, the British Prime Minister Harold Wilson announced a \"White-Hot\" revolution in technology, that would give greater prominence to IT work. As women still held most computing and programming positions at this time, it was hoped that it would give them more positive career prospects. In 1965, Sister Mary Kenneth Keller became the first American woman to earn a doctorate in computer science. Keller helped develop BASIC while working as a graduate student at Dartmouth, where the university \"broke the 'men only' rule\" so she could use its computer science center.\n\nChristine Darden began working for NASA's computing pool in 1967 having graduated from the Hampton Institute. Women were involved in the development of Whirlwind, including Judy Clapp. She created the prototype for an air defense system for Whirlwind which used radar input to track planes in the air and could direct aircraft courses.\n\nIn 1969, Elizabeth \"Jake\" Feinler, who was working for Stanford, made the first Resource Handbook for ARPANET. This led to the creation of the ARPANET directory, which was built by Feinler with a staff of mostly women. Without the directory, \"it was nearly impossible to navigate the ARPANET.\" \n\nBy the end of the decade, the general demographics of programmers had shifted away from being predominantly women, as they had before the 1940s. Though women accounted for around 30 to 50 percent of computer programmers during the 1960s, few were promoted to leadership roles and women were paid significantly less than their male counterparts. \"Cosmopolitan\" ran an article in the April 1967 issue about women in programming called \"The Computer Girls.\" Even while magazines such as \"Cosmopolitan\" saw a bright future for women in computers and computer programming in the 1960s, the reality was that women were still being marginalized.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Pam Hardt-English led a group to create a computer network they named Resource One and which was part of a group called Project One. Her idea to connect Bay Area bookstores, libraries and Project One was an early prototype of the Internet. To work on the project, Hardt-English obtained an expensive SDS-940 computer as a donation from TransAmerica Leasing Corporation in April 1972. They created an electronic library and housed it in a record store called Leopold's in Berkeley. This became the Community Memory database and was maintained by hacker, Jude Milhon. After 1975, the SDS-940 computer was repurposed by Sherry Reson, Mya Shone, Chris Macie and Mary Janowitz to create a social services database and a Social Services Referral Directory. Hard copies of the directory, printed out as a subscription service, were kept at city buildings and libraries. The database was maintained and in use until 2009.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Elizabeth \"Jake\" Feinler, who worked on the Resource Directory for ARPANET, and her team created the first WHOIS directory. Feinler set up a server at the Network Information Center (NIC) at Stanford which would work as a directory that could retrieve relevant information about a person or entity. She and her team worked on the creation of domains, with Feinler suggesting that domains be divided by categories based on where the computers were kept. For example, military computers would have the domain of .mil, computers at educational institutions would have .edu. Feinler worked for NIC until 1989. \n\nJean E. Sammet served as the first woman president of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), holding the position between 1974 and 1976.\n\nAdele Goldberg was one of seven programmers that developed Smalltalk in the 1970s, and wrote the majority of the language's documentation. It was one of the first object-oriented programming languages the base of the current graphic user interface, that has its roots in the 1968 The Mother of All Demos by Douglas Engelbart. Smalltalk was used by Apple to launch Apple Lisa in 1983, the first personal computer with a GUI, and a year later its Macintosh. Windows 1.0, based on the same principles, was launched a few months later in 1985.\n\nIn the late 1970s, women such as Paulson and Sue Finley wrote programs for the Voyager mission. Voyager continues to carry their codes inside its own memory banks as it leaves the solar system. In 1979, Ruzena Bajcsy founded the General Robotics, Automation, Sensing and Perception (GRASP) Lab at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn the mid-70s, Joan Margaret Winters began working at IBM as part of a \"human factors project,\" called SHARE. In 1978, Winters was the deputy manager of the project and went on to lead the project between 1983 and 1987. The SHARE group worked on researching how software should be designed to consider human factors.\n\nErna Schneider Hoover developed a computerized switching system for telephone calls that would replace switchboards. Her software patent for the system, issued in 1971, was one of the first software patents ever issued.\n\nGwen Bell developed the Computer Museum in 1980. The museum, which collected computer artifacts became a non-profit organization in 1982 and in 1984, Bell moved it to downtown Boston. Adele Goldberg served as president of ACM between 1984 and 1986. In 1986, Lixia Zhang was the only woman and graduate student to participate in the early Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) meetings. Zhang was involved in early Internet development. \n\nSometimes known as the \"Betsy Ross of the personal computer,\" according to the \"New York Times\", Susan Kare worked with Steve Jobs to design the original icons for the Macintosh. Kare designed the moving watch, paintbrush and trash can elements that made using a Mac user-friendly. Kare worked for Apple until the mid 1980s, going on to work on icons for Windows 3.0. Other types of computer graphics were being developed by Nadia Magnenat Thalmann in Canada. Thalmann started working on computer animation to develop \"realistic virtual actors\" first at the University of Montréal in 1980 and later in 1988 at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne.\n\nIn the field of human computer interaction (HCI), French computer scientist, Joëlle Coutaz developed the presentation-abstraction-control (PAC) model in 1987. She founded the User Interface group at the Laboratorire de Génie Informatique of IMAG where they worked on different problems relating to user interface and other software tools. \n\nAs Ethernet became the standard for networking computers locally, Radia Perlman, who worked at Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), was asked to \"fix\" limitations that Ethernet imposed on large network traffic. In 1985, Perlman came up with a way to route information packets from one computer to another in an \"infinitely scalable\" way that allowed large networks like the Internet to function. Her solution took less than a few days to design and write up. The name of the algorithm she created is the Spanning Tree Protocol. In 1988, Stacy Horn, who had been introduced to bulletin board systems (BBS) through The WELL, decided to create her own online community in New York, which she called the East Coast Hang Out (ECHO). Horn invested her own money and pitched the idea for ECHO to others after bankers refused to hear her business plan. Horn built her BBS using UNIX, which she and her friends taught to one another. Eventually ECHO moved an office in Tribeca in the early 1990s and started getting press attention. ECHO's users could post about topics that interested them, chat with on another and were provided email accounts. Around half of ECHO's users were women. ECHO is still online as of 2018.\n\nEurope was somewhat behind other countries in developing an Internet infrastructure. A project was developed in the mid-1980s to create an academic network in Europe using the Open System Interconnection (OSI) standards. Borka Jerman Blažič, a Yugoslavian computer scientist was invited to work on the project. She was involved in establishing a Yugoslav Research and Academic Network (YUNAC) in 1989 and registered the domain of .yu for the country.\n\nComputer and video games became popular in the 1980s, but many were primarily action-oriented and not designed from a woman's point of view. Stereotypical characters such as the damsel in distress featured prominently and consequently were not inviting towards women. Dona Bailey designed \"Centipede\", where the player shoots insects, as a reaction to such games, later saying \"It didn't seem bad to shoot a bug\". Carol Shaw, considered to be the first modern female games designer, released a 3D version of Tic-tac-toe for the Atari 2600 in 1980. Roberta Williams and her husband Ken, founded Sierra Online and pioneered the graphic adventure game format in \"Mystery House\" and the \"King's Quest\" series. The games had a friendly graphical user interface and introduced humor and puzzles. Cited as an important game designer, her influenced spread from Sierra to other companies such as LucasArts and beyond. Brenda Laurel worked on porting games from arcade versions to the Atari 400 and Atari 800 computers in the late 1970s and early 1980s. She then went to work for Activision, writing the manual for \"Maniac Mansion\". \n\n1984 was the year of Women Into Science and Engineering (WISE). A 1984 report by Ebury Publishing reported that in a typical family, only 5% of mothers and 19% of daughters were using a computer at home, compared to 25% of fathers and 51% of sons. To counteract this, the company launched a series of software titles designed towards women and publicised in \"Good Housekeeping\". Anita Borg, who had been noticing that women were under-represented in computer science, founded an email support group, Systers, in 1987.\n\nBy the 1990s, computing was dominated by men. The proportion of female computer science graduates peaked in 1984 around 37 per cent, and then steadily declined. Although the end of the 20th century saw an increase in women scientists and engineers, this did not hold true for computing, which stagnated. Despite this, they were very involved in working on hypertext and hypermedia projects in the late 1980s and early 1990s. A team of women at Brown University, including Nicole Yankelovich and Karen Catlin, developed Intermedia and invented the anchor link. Apple partially funded their project and incorporated their concepts into Apple operating systems. Sun Microsystems Sun Link Service was developed by Amy Pearl. Janet Walker developed the first system to use bookmarks when she created the Symbolics Document Examiner. In 1989, Wendy Hall created a hypertext project called Microcosm, which was based on digitized multimedia material found in the Mountbatten archive. Cathy Marshall worked on the NoteCards system at Xerox PARC. NoteCards went on to influence Apple's HyperCard. As the Internet became the World Wide Web, developers like Hall adapted their programs to include Web viewers. Her Microcosm was especially adaptable to new technologies, including animation and 3-D models. In 1994, Hall helped organize the first conference for the Web. \n\nSarah Allen, the co-founder of After Effects, co-founded a commercial software company called CoSA in 1990. In 1995, she started working on the Shockwave team for Macromedia where she was the lead developer of the Shockwave Mulituser Server, the Flash Media Server and Flash video.\n\nFollowing the increased popularity of the Internet in the 1990s, online spaces were set up to cater for women, including the online community Women's WIRE and the technical and support forum LinuxChix. Women's WIRE, launched by Nancy Rhine and Ellen Pack in October 1993, was the first Internet company to specifically target this demographic. A conference for women in computer-related jobs, the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing, was first launched in 1994 by Anita Borg.\n\nGame designer Brenda Laurel started working at Interval Research in 1992, and began to think about the differences in the way girls and boys experienced playing video games. After interviewing around 1,000 children and 500 adults, she determined that games weren't designed with girls' interests in mind. The girls she spoke with wanted more games with open worlds and characters they could interact with. Her research led to Interval Research giving Laurel's research team their own company in 1996, Purple Moon. Also in 1996, Mattel's game, \"Barbie Fashion Designer\", became the first best-selling game for girls. Purple Moon's first two games based on a character called Rockett, made it to the 100 best-selling games in the years they were released. In 1999, Mattel bought out Purple Moon.\n\nJaime Levy created the one of the first e-Zines in the early 1990s, starting with \"CyberRag\", which included articles, games and animations loaded onto diskettes that anyone with a Mac could access. Later, she renamed the zine to \"Electronic Hollywood.\" Billy Idol commissioned Levy to create a disk for his album, \"Cyberpunk\". She was hired to be the creative director of the online magazine, \"Word\", in 1995.\n\nCyberfeminists, VNS Matrix, made up of Josephine Starrs, Juliane Pierce, Francesca da Rimini and Virginia Barratt, created art in the early 1990s linking computer technology and women's bodies. In 1997, there was a gathering of cyberfeminists in Kassel, called the First Cyberfeminist International.\n\nIn China, Hu Qiheng, was the leader of the team who installed the first TCP/IP connection for China, connecting to the Internet on April 20, 1994. In 1995, Rosemary Candlin went to write software for CERN in Geneva. In the early 1990s, Nancy Hafkin was an important figure in working with the Association for Progressive Communications (APC) in enabling email connections in 10 African countries. Starting in 1999, Anne-Marie Eklund Löwinder began to work with Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) in Sweden. She later made sure that the domain, .se, was the world's first top level domain name to be signed with DNSSEC.\n\nIn the 21st century, several attempts have been made to reduce the gender disparity in IT and get more women involved in computing again. A 2001 survey found that while both sexes use computers and the internet in equal measure, women were still five times less likely to choose it as a career or study the subject beyond standard secondary education. Journalist Emily Chang said a key problem has been personality tests in job interviews and the belief that good programmers are introverts, which tends to self-select the stereotype of an antisocial white male nerd.\n\nIn 2004, the National Center for Women & Information Technology was established by Lucy Sanders to address the gender gap. Carnegie Mellon University has made a concerted attempt to increase gender diversity in the computer science field, by selecting students based on a wide criteria including leadership ability, a sense of \"giving back to the community\" and high attainment in maths and science, instead of traditional computer programming expertise. As well as increase the intake of women into CMU, the programme resulted in better quality students overall, as they found the increased diversity made for a stronger team.\n\nDespite the pioneering work of some designers, video games are still considered biased towards men. A 2013 survey by the International Game Developers Association revealed only 22% of game designers are women, although this is substantially higher than figures in previous decades. Working to bring inclusion to the world of open source project development, Coraline Ada Ehmke drafts the Contributor Covenant in 2014. By 2018, over 40,000 software projects have started using the Contributor Covenant, including TensorFlow, Vue and Linux.\n\nIn 2017, Michelle Simmons founded the first quantum computing company in Australia. The team, which has made \"great strides\" in 2018, plans to develop a 10-qubit prototype silicon quantum integrated circuit by 2022. Also in 2017, Doina Precup became the head of DeepMind Montreal, working on artificial intelligence.\n\nOne of the biggest problems facing women in computing in the modern era is that they often find themselves working in an environment that is largely unpleasant, so they don't stay on in the careers in programming and technology. In 2013, a National Public Radio report said 20% of computer programmers in the US are female. There is no general consensus for any key reason there are less women in computing. In 2017, James Damore was fired from Google after claiming there was a biological reason for a lack of female computer scientists. The following year, Wikipedia was criticised for not having an article about scientist Donna Strickland until shortly after she won the Nobel Prize for Physics, which was attributed to a severe gender disparity of the site's editors.\n\nIn 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology undergraduate Ellen Spertus wrote an essay \"Why Are There So Few Women in Computer Science?\", which complained about inherent sexism in IT, which was responsible for a lack of women in computing. She subsequently taught computer science at Mills College, Oakland in order to increase interest in IT for women. A key problem is a lack of female role models in the IT industry, alongside computer programmers in fiction and the media generally being male. The University of Southampton's Wendy Hall has said the attractiveness of computers to women decreased significantly in the 1980s when they \"were sold as toys for boys\", and believes the cultural stigma has remained ever since, and may even be getting worse. Kathleen Lehman, project manager of the BRAID Initiative at UCLA has said a problem is that typically women aim for perfection and feel disillusioned when code does not compile, whereas men may simply treat it as a learning experience. A report in the \"Daily Telegraph\" suggested that women generally prefer people-facing jobs, which many computing and IT positions do not have, while men prefer jobs geared towards objects and tasks.\n\nThe gender disparity in IT is not global. The ratio of female to male computer scientists is significantly higher in India compared to the West. In Europe, Bulgaria and Romania have the highest rates of women going into computer programming. In government universities in Saudi Arabia in 2014, Arab women made up 59% of students enrolled in computer science. However, the ratio of African American female computer scientists in the US is significantly lower than the national average. It has been suggested there is a greater gap in countries where people of both sexes are treated more equally, contradicting any theories that society in general is to blame for any disparity.\n\nThe Association for Computing Machinery Turing Award, sometimes referred to as the \"Nobel Prize\" of computing, was named in honor of Alan Turing. It award has been won by three women between 1966 and 2015.\n\nThe British Computer Society Information Retrieval Specialist Group (BCS IRSG) in conjunction with the British Computer Society created an award in 2008 to commemorate the achievements of Karen Spärck Jones, a Professor Emerita of Computers and Information at the University of Cambridge and one of the most remarkable women in computer science. The KSJ award has been won by four women between 2009 and 2017:\n\n\nSeveral important groups have been established to encourage women in the IT industry. The Association for Women in Computing was one of the first and is dedicated to promoting the advancement of women in computing professions. The established in 1991 focused on increasing the number of women in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) research and education at all levels. AnitaB.org runs the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing yearly conference. The National Center for Women & Information Technology is a nonprofit that aims to increase the number of women in technology and computing. The Women in Technology International (WITI) is a global organization dedicated to the advancement of women in business and technology.\n\nSome major societies and groups have offshoots dedicated to women. The Association for Computing Machinery's Council on Women in Computing (ACM-W) has over 36,000 members. BCSWomen is a women-only specialist group of the British Computer Society, founded in 2001. In Ireland, the charity Teen Turn run after school training and work placements for girls, and Women in Technology and Science (WITS) advocate for the inclusion and promotion of women within STEM industries.\n\nThe Women's Technology Empowerment Centre (W.TEC) is a non-profit organisation focused on providing technology education and mentoring to Nigerian women and girls. Black Girls Code is a non-profit focused on providing technology education to young African-American women.\n\nOther organisations dedicated to women in IT include Girl Develop It, a nonprofit organization that provides affordable programs for adult women interested in learning web and software development in a judgment-free environment, Girl Geek Dinners, an International group for women of all ages, Girls Who Code: a national non-profit organization dedicated to closing the gender gap in technology, LinuxChix, a women-oriented community in the open source movement and Systers, a moderated listserv dedicated to mentoring women in the IT industry.\n\n\nCitations\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12289130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12289130", "title": "Zhuang studies", "text": "Zhuang studies\n\nZhuang studies (or Zhuangology; Standard Zhuang: Cuenghhag; ) is an interdisciplinary intellectual field concerned with the Zhuang people – their history, anthropology, religion, politics, languages, and literature. The majority of such research is being carried out in the People's Republic of China. Huang Xianfan (黄现璠) is considered by many to be the father of Zhuang studies.\n\nAreas commonly included under this rubric include history of Zhuang, literature of Zhuang, art of Zhuang, music of Zhuang, language of Zhuang, sociology of Zhuang, political science of Zhuang, economics of Zhuang, folklore of Zhuang, and ethnomusicology of Zhuang. It may be compared to other ethnic groups studies disciplines, such as Tai studies and Yao studies. Zhuang studies is sometimes included within a broader regional area of focus including: \"Lingnan studies\", \"Yue people studies\",\"South Asia studies\", or \"ASEAN Studies\".\n\nZhuang studies is a relatively new discipline.\n\nHuang Xianfan may be considered as the first Zhuangologist and he did much to make Zhuang known in China. Since 1950, Huang Xianfan led the group making a largest and deepest investigation on ethnic history and traditional culture in Guangxi history. They had collected a lot of valuable materials and laid a foundation for further research on Zhuang ethnic social and historical culture.That was a very important beginning for later development of Zhuang ethnic research and establishment of Guangxi institute of ethnic studies. Therefore, the inception of Zhuang studies as an authentic academic discipline is thus associated with the first ethnologist Huang Xianfan de Zhuang who is considered as its founder to present day, the other early zhuang studies of note being Huang Zengqing (Huang group's member and the first archaeological researcher of the Guangxi) who in 1957 occupied the first chair for Zhuang's archaeology studies in China and Zhou Zuoqiou, who was primarily the pioneering subject of the zhuang literature in Guangxi Normal University.\n\nThe Bagui School (The first ethnic school in China and pioneer is Huang Xianfan) was particularly significant for the development of the discipline since the early 1950s with Huang Xianfan, Huang Zengqing, Ban Xiouwen, Ou Yang Ruoxiou, Qin Cailuan, Qin Naichang, Qin Shengmin, He Longqun, Yu Shijie, Qin Deqing, Pan Qixu, Huang Hanjin and Zeng Chaoxiong.,\n\nIn 1957, the Guangxi government established the Guangxi institute of ethnic studies to promote Zhuang studies around China. In 1991 the Guangxi Zhuang Studies Society was established, and in April 1999 the first international Zhuang studies conference was held in Wuming with scholars from 8 different countries.\n\nOver the last few decades in other countries the studies of the Zhuang have opened towards other disciplines, resulting in works with interdisciplinary approach. As examples of such open-minded Zhuang researcher we might mention the American anthropologist Jeffrey Barlow, among others, who has done noted research and publications on lexical questions, about Zhuang culture and the modern history of Zhuang. Others are Japanese anthropologist Chikada Sigeyuki, Australian anthropologist David Holm, and many more.\n\n\n"}
