{"id": "1242905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242905", "title": "A Mathematician's Apology", "text": "A Mathematician's Apology\n\nA Mathematician's Apology is a 1940 essay by British mathematician G. H. Hardy. It concerns the aesthetics of mathematics with some personal content, and gives the layman an insight into the mind of a working mathematician.\n\nIn the book's title, Hardy uses the word \"apology\" in the sense of a formal justification or defence (as in Plato's \"Apology of Socrates\"), not in the sense of a plea for forgiveness.\n\nHardy felt the need to justify his life's work in mathematics at this time mainly for two reasons. Firstly, at age 62, Hardy felt the approach of old age (he had survived a heart attack in 1939) and the decline of his mathematical creativity and skills.\nBy devoting time to writing the Apology, Hardy was admitting that his own time as a creative mathematician was finished. In his foreword to the 1967 edition of the book, C. P. Snow describes the Apology as\n\"a passionate lament for creative powers that used to be and that will never come again\".\nIn Hardy's words, \"Exposition, criticism, appreciation, is work for second-rate minds. [...] It is a melancholy experience for a professional mathematician to find himself writing about mathematics. The function of a mathematician is to do something, to prove new theorems, to add to mathematics, and not to talk about what he or other mathematicians have done.\"\n\nSecondly, at the start of the World War II, Hardy, a committed pacifist, wanted to justify his belief that mathematics should be pursued for its own sake rather than for the sake of its applications. He wanted to write a book in which he would explain his mathematical philosophy to the next generation of mathematicians; that would defend mathematics by elaborating on the merits of pure mathematics solely, without having to resort to the attainments of applied mathematics in order to justify the overall importance of mathematics; and that would inspire the upcoming generations of pure mathematicians. Hardy was an atheist, and makes his justification not to God but to his fellow man.\n\nOne of the main themes of the book is the beauty that mathematics possesses, which Hardy compares to painting and poetry. For Hardy, the most beautiful mathematics was that which had no practical applications in the outside world (pure mathematics) and, in particular, his own special field of number theory. Hardy contends that if useful knowledge is defined as knowledge which is likely to contribute to the material comfort of mankind in the near future (if not right now), so that mere intellectual satisfaction is irrelevant, then the great bulk of higher mathematics is useless. He justifies the pursuit of pure mathematics with the argument that its very \"uselessness\" on the whole meant that it could not be misused to cause harm. On the other hand, Hardy denigrates much of the applied mathematics as either being \"trivial\", \"ugly\", or \"dull\", and contrasts it with \"real mathematics\", which is how he ranks the higher, pure mathematics.\n\nHardy expounds by commenting about a phrase attributed to Carl Friedrich Gauss that \"Mathematics is the queen of the sciences and number theory is the queen of mathematics.\" Some people believe that it is the extreme non-applicability of number theory that led Gauss to the above statement about number theory; however, Hardy points out that this is certainly not the reason. If an application of number theory were to be found, then certainly no one would try to dethrone the \"queen of mathematics\" because of that. What Gauss meant, according to Hardy, is that the underlying concepts that constitute number theory are deeper and more elegant compared to those of any other branch of mathematics.\n\nAnother theme is that mathematics is a \"young man's game\", so anyone with a talent for mathematics should develop and use that talent while they are young, before their ability to create original mathematics starts to decline in middle age. This view reflects Hardy's increasing depression at the wane of his own mathematical powers. For Hardy, real mathematics was essentially a creative activity, rather than an explanatory or expository one.\n\nHardy's opinions were heavily influenced by the academic culture of the universities of Cambridge and Oxford between World War I and World War II.\n\nSome of Hardy's examples seem unfortunate in retrospect. For example, he writes, \"No one has yet discovered any warlike purpose to be served by the theory of numbers or relativity, and it seems unlikely that anyone will do so for many years.\" Since then number theory was used to crack German enigma codes and much later, figure prominently in public-key cryptography. However, Hardy's more prominent examples of elegant mathematical discoveries with no use (proofs of the infinitude of primes and of the irrationality of the square root of two) still hold up.\n\nThe applicability of a mathematical concept is not the reason that Hardy considered applied mathematics somehow inferior to pure mathematics, though; it is the simplicity and prosiness that belong to applied mathematics that led him to describe them as he did.\n\nHe considers that Rolle's theorem for example, though it is of some importance for calculus, cannot be compared to the elegance and preeminence of the mathematics produced by Évariste Galois and other pure mathematicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178", "title": "Afterlife", "text": "Afterlife\n\nAfterlife (also referred to as life after death) is the concept that an essential part of an individual's identity or the stream of consciousness continues to manifest after the death of the physical body. According to various ideas about the afterlife, the essential aspect of the individual that lives on after death may be some partial element, or the entire soul or spirit, of an individual, which carries with it and may confer personal identity or, on the contrary, may not, as in Indian nirvana. Belief in an afterlife, which may be naturalistic or supernatural, is in contrast to the belief in oblivion after death.\n\nIn some views, this continued existence often takes place in a spiritual realm, and in other popular views, the individual may be reborn into this world and begin the life cycle over again, likely with no memory of what they have done in the past. In this latter view, such rebirths and deaths may take place over and over again continuously until the individual gains entry to a spiritual realm or Otherworld. Major views on the afterlife derive from religion, esotericism and metaphysics.\n\nSome belief systems, such as those in the Abrahamic tradition, hold that the dead go to a specific plane of existence after death, as determined by God, or other divine judgment, based on their actions or beliefs during life. In contrast, in systems of reincarnation, such as those in the Indian religions, the nature of the continued existence is determined directly by the actions of the individual in the ended life, rather than through the decision of a different being.\nTheists generally believe some type of afterlife awaits people when they die. Members of some generally non-theistic religions tend to believe in an afterlife, but without reference to a deity. The Sadducees were an ancient Jewish sect that generally believed that there was a God but no afterlife.\n\nMany religions, whether they believe in the soul's existence in another world like Christianity, Islam and many pagan belief systems, or in reincarnation like many forms of Hinduism and Buddhism, believe that one's status in the afterlife is a reward or punishment for their conduct during life.\n\nReincarnation is the philosophical or religious concept that an aspect of a living being starts a new life in a different physical body or form after each biological death. It is also called rebirth or transmigration, and is a part of the Saṃsāra doctrine of cyclic existence. It is a central tenet of all major Indian religions, namely Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, and Sikhism. The idea of reincarnation is found in many ancient cultures, and a belief in rebirth/metempsychosis was held by Greek historic figures, such as Pythagoras, Socrates, and Plato. It is also a common belief of various ancient and modern religions such as Spiritism, Theosophy, and Eckankar and is found as well in many tribal societies around the world, in places such as Australia, East Asia, Siberia, and South America.\n\nAlthough the majority of denominations within the Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam do not believe that individuals reincarnate, particular groups within these religions do refer to reincarnation; these groups include the mainstream historical and contemporary followers of Kabbalah, the Cathars, Alawites, the Druze, and the Rosicrucians. The historical relations between these sects and the beliefs about reincarnation that were characteristic of Neoplatonism, Orphism, Hermeticism, Manicheanism, and Gnosticism of the Roman era as well as the Indian religions have been the subject of recent scholarly research. Unity Church and its founder Charles Fillmore teach reincarnation.\n\nRosicrucians speak of a life review period occurring immediately after death and before entering the afterlife's planes of existence (before the silver cord is broken), followed by a judgment, more akin to a final review or end report over one's life.\n\nHeaven, the heavens, seven heavens, pure lands, Tian, Jannah, Valhalla, or the Summerland, is a common religious, cosmological, or transcendent place where beings such as gods, angels, jinn, saints, or venerated ancestors are said to originate, be enthroned, or live. According to the beliefs of some religions, heavenly beings can descend to earth or incarnate, and earthly beings can ascend to heaven in the afterlife, or in exceptional cases enter heaven alive.\n\nHeaven is often described as a \"higher place\", the holiest place, a paradise, in contrast to hell or the underworld or the \"low places\", and universally or conditionally accessible by earthly beings according to various standards of divinity, goodness, piety, faith or other virtues or right beliefs or simply the will of God. Some believe in the possibility of a heaven on Earth in a world to come.\n\nIn Indian religions, heaven is considered as \"Svarga loka\". There are seven positive regions the soul can go to after death and seven negative regions. After completing its stay in the respective region, the soul is subjected to rebirth in different living forms according to its \"karma\". This cycle can be broken after a soul achieves \"Moksha\" or \"Nirvana\". Any place of existence, either of humans, souls or deities, outside the tangible world (heaven, hell, or other) is referred to as otherworld.\n\nHell, in many religious and folkloric traditions, is a place of torment and punishment in the afterlife. Religions with a linear divine history often depict hell as an eternal destination, while religions with a cyclic history often depict a hell as an intermediary period between incarnations. Typically, these traditions locate hell in another dimension or under the earth's surface and often include entrances to hell from the land of the living. Other afterlife destinations include purgatory and limbo.\n\nTraditions that do not conceive of the afterlife as a place of punishment or reward merely describe hell as an abode of the dead, the grave, a neutral place (for example, sheol or Hades) located under the surface of earth.\n\nThe afterlife played an important role in Ancient Egyptian religion, and its belief system is one of the earliest known in recorded history. When the body died, parts of its soul known as \"ka\" (body double) and the \"ba\" (personality) would go to the Kingdom of the Dead. While the soul dwelt in the Fields of Aaru, Osiris demanded work as restitution for the protection he provided. Statues were placed in the tombs to serve as substitutes for the deceased.\n\nArriving at one's reward in afterlife was a demanding ordeal, requiring a sin-free heart and the ability to recite the spells, passwords and formulae of the Book of the Dead. In the Hall of Two Truths, the deceased's heart was weighed against the \"Shu\" feather of truth and justice taken from the headdress of the goddess Ma'at. If the heart was lighter than the feather, they could pass on, but if it were heavier they would be devoured by the demon Ammit.\n\nEgyptians also believed that being mummified and put in a sarcophagus (an ancient Egyptian \"coffin\" carved with complex symbols and designs, as well as pictures and hieroglyphs) was the only way to have an afterlife. Only if the corpse had been properly embalmed and entombed in a mastaba, could the dead live again in the Fields of Yalu and accompany the Sun on its daily ride. Due to the dangers the afterlife posed, the Book of the Dead was placed in the tomb with the body as well as food, jewellery, and 'curses'. They also used the \"opening of the mouth\".\n\nAncient Egyptian civilization was based on religion; their belief in the rebirth after death became the driving force behind their funeral practices. Death was simply a temporary interruption, rather than complete cessation, of life, and that eternal life could be ensured by means like piety to the gods, preservation of the physical form through mummification, and the provision of statuary and other funerary equipment. Each human consisted of the physical body, the \"ka\", the \"ba\", and the \"akh\". The Name and Shadow were also living entities. To enjoy the afterlife, all these elements had to be sustained and protected from harm.\n\nOn March 30, 2010, a spokesman for the Egyptian Culture Ministry claimed it had unearthed a large red granite door in Luxor with inscriptions by User, a powerful adviser to the 18th dynasty Queen Hatshepsut who ruled between 1479 BC and 1458 BC, the longest of any woman. It believes the false door is a 'door to the Afterlife'. According to the archaeologists, the door was reused in a structure in Roman Egypt.\n\nThe Greek god Hades is known in Greek mythology as the king of the underworld, a place where souls live after death. The Greek god Hermes, the messenger of the gods, would take the dead soul of a person to the underworld (sometimes called Hades or the House of Hades). Hermes would leave the soul on the banks of the River Styx, the river between life and death.\n\nCharon, also known as the ferry-man, would take the soul across the river to Hades, if the soul had gold: Upon burial, the family of the dead soul would put coins under the deceased's tongue. Once crossed, the soul would be judged by Aeacus, Rhadamanthus and King Minos. The soul would be sent to Elysium, Tartarus, Asphodel Fields, or the Fields of Punishment. The Elysian Fields were for the ones that lived pure lives. It consisted of green fields, valleys and mountains, everyone there was peaceful and contented, and the Sun always shone there. Tartarus was for the people that blasphemed against the gods, or were simply rebellious and consciously evil.\n\nThe Asphodel Fields were for a varied selection of human souls: Those whose sins equalled their goodness, were indecisive in their lives, or were not judged. The Fields of Punishment were for people that had sinned often, but not so much as to be deserving of Tartarus. In Tartarus, the soul would be punished by being burned in lava, or stretched on racks. Some heroes of Greek legend are allowed to visit the underworld. The Romans had a similar belief system about the afterlife, with Hades becoming known as Pluto. In the ancient Greek myth about the Labours of Heracles, the hero Heracles had to travel to the underworld to capture Cerberus, the three-headed guard dog, as one of his tasks.\n\nIn \"Dream of Scipio\", Cicero describes what seems to be an out of body experience, of the soul traveling high above the Earth, looking down at the small planet, from far away.\n\nIn Book VI of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", the hero, Aeneas, travels to the underworld to see his father. By the River Styx, he sees the souls of those not given a proper burial, forced to wait by the river until someone buries them. While down there, along with the dead, he is shown the place where the wrongly convicted reside, the fields of sorrow where those who committed suicide and now regret it reside, including Aeneas' former lover, the warriors and shades, Tartarus (where the titans and powerful non-mortal enemies of the Olympians reside) where he can hear the groans of the imprisoned, the palace of Pluto, and the fields of Elysium where the descendants of the divine and bravest heroes reside. He sees the river of forgetfulness, Lethe, which the dead must drink to forget their life and begin anew. Lastly, his father shows him all of the future heroes of Rome who will live if Aeneas fulfills his destiny in founding the city.\n\nThe Poetic and Prose Eddas, the oldest sources for information on the Norse concept of the afterlife, vary in their description of the several realms that are described as falling under this topic. The most well-known are:\n\nShe'ol, in the Hebrew Bible, is a place of darkness to which all the dead go, both the righteous and the unrighteous, regardless of the moral choices made in life, a place of stillness and darkness cut off from life and from God.\n\nThe inhabitants of Sheol are the \"shades\" (\"rephaim\"), entities without personality or strength. Under some circumstances they are thought to be able to be contacted by the living, as the Witch of Endor contacts the shade of Samuel for Saul, but such practices are forbidden (Deuteronomy 18:10).\n\nWhile the Hebrew Bible appears to describe Sheol as the permanent place of the dead, in the Second Temple period (roughly 500 BC–70 AD) a more diverse set of ideas developed. In some texts, Sheol is considered to be the home of both the righteous and the wicked, separated into respective compartments; in others, it was considered a place of punishment, meant for the wicked dead alone. When the Hebrew scriptures were translated into Greek in ancient Alexandria around 200 BC, the word \"Hades\" (the Greek underworld) was substituted for Sheol. This is reflected in the New Testament where Hades is both the underworld of the dead and the personification of the evil it represents.\n\nThe Talmud offers a number of thoughts relating to the afterlife. After death, the soul is brought for judgment. Those who have led pristine lives enter immediately into the \"Olam Haba\" or world to come. Most do not enter the world to come immediately, but now experience a period of review of their earthly actions and they are made aware of what they have done wrong. Some view this period as being a \"re-schooling\", with the soul gaining wisdom as one's errors are reviewed. Others view this period to include spiritual discomfort for past wrongs. At the end of this period, not longer than one year, the soul then takes its place in the world to come. Although discomforts are made part of certain Jewish conceptions of the afterlife, the concept of \"eternal damnation\", so prevalent in other religions, is not a tenet of the Jewish afterlife. According to the Talmud, extinction of the soul is reserved for a far smaller group of malicious and evil leaders, either whose very evil deeds go way beyond norms, or who lead large groups of people to utmost evil.\n\nMaimonides describes the \"Olam Haba\" in spiritual terms, relegating the prophesied physical resurrection to the status of a future miracle, unrelated to the afterlife or the Messianic era. According to Maimonides, an afterlife continues for the soul of every human being, a soul now separated from the body in which it was \"housed\" during its earthly existence.\n\nThe Zohar describes Gehenna not as a place of punishment for the wicked but as a place of spiritual purification for souls.\n\nAlthough there is no reference to reincarnation in the Talmud or any prior writings, according to rabbis such as Avraham Arieh Trugman, reincarnation is recognized as being part and parcel of Jewish tradition. Trugman explains that it is through oral tradition that the meanings of the Torah, its commandments and stories, are known and understood. The classic work of Jewish mysticism, the Zohar, is quoted liberally in all Jewish learning; in the Zohar the idea of reincarnation is mentioned repeatedly. Trugman states that in the last five centuries the concept of reincarnation, which until then had been a much hidden tradition within Judaism, was given open exposure.\n\nShraga Simmons commented that within the Bible itself, the idea [of reincarnation] is intimated in Deut. 25:5-10, Deut. 33:6 and Isaiah 22:14, 65:6.\n\nYirmiyahu Ullman wrote that reincarnation is an \"ancient, mainstream belief in Judaism\". The Zohar makes frequent and lengthy references to reincarnation. Onkelos, a righteous convert and authoritative commentator of the same period, explained the verse, \"Let Reuben live and not die ...\" (Deuteronomy 33:6) to mean that Reuben should merit the World to Come directly, and not have to die again as a result of being reincarnated. Torah scholar, commentator and kabbalist, Nachmanides (Ramban 1195–1270), attributed Job's suffering to reincarnation, as hinted in Job's saying \"God does all these things twice or three times with a man, to bring back his soul from the pit to ... the light of the living' (Job 33:29,30).\"\n\nReincarnation, called \"gilgul\", became popular in folk belief, and is found in much Yiddish literature among Ashkenazi Jews. Among a few kabbalists, it was posited that some human souls could end up being reincarnated into non-human bodies. These ideas were found in a number of Kabbalistic works from the 13th century, and also among many mystics in the late 16th century. Martin Buber's early collection of stories of the Baal Shem Tov's life includes several that refer to people reincarnating in successive lives.\n\nAmong well known (generally non-kabbalist or anti-kabbalist) rabbis who rejected the idea of reincarnation are Saadia Gaon, David Kimhi, Hasdai Crescas, Yedayah Bedershi (early 14th century), Joseph Albo, Abraham ibn Daud, the Rosh and Leon de Modena. Saadia Gaon, in Emunoth ve-Deoth (Hebrew: \"beliefs and opinions\") concludes Section VI with a refutation of the doctrine of metempsychosis (reincarnation). While rebutting reincarnation, Saadia Gaon further states that Jews who hold to reincarnation have adopted non-Jewish beliefs. By no means do all Jews today believe in reincarnation, but belief in reincarnation is not uncommon among many Jews, including Orthodox.\n\nOther well-known rabbis who are reincarnationists include Yonassan Gershom, Abraham Isaac Kook, Talmud scholar Adin Steinsaltz, DovBer Pinson, David M. Wexelman, Zalman Schachter, and many others. Reincarnation is cited by authoritative biblical commentators, including Ramban (Nachmanides), Menachem Recanti and Rabbenu Bachya.\n\nAmong the many volumes of Yitzchak Luria, most of which come down from the pen of his primary disciple, Chaim Vital, are insights explaining issues related to reincarnation. His \"Shaar HaGilgulim\", \"The Gates of Reincarnation\", is a book devoted exclusively to the subject of reincarnation in Judaism.\n\nRabbi Naftali Silberberg of The Rohr Jewish Learning Institute notes that \"Many ideas that originate in other religions and belief systems have been popularized in the media and are taken for granted by unassuming Jews.\"\n\nMainstream Christianity professes belief in the Nicene Creed, and English versions of the Nicene Creed in current use include the phrase: \"We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come.\" Although punishments are made part of certain Christian conceptions of the afterlife, the prevalent concept of \"eternal damnation\" is a tenet of the Christian afterlife.\n\nWhen questioned by the Sadducees about the resurrection of the dead (in a context relating to who one's spouse would be if one had been married several times in life), Jesus said that marriage will be irrelevant after the resurrection as the resurrected will be like the angels in heaven.\n\nJesus also maintained that the time would come when the dead would hear the voice of the Son of God, and all who were in the tombs would come out, who have done good deeds to the resurrection of life, but those who have done wicked deeds to the resurrection of condemnation.\n\nThe Book of Enoch describes Sheol as divided into four compartments for four types of the dead: the faithful saints who await resurrection in Paradise, the merely virtuous who await their reward, the wicked who await punishment, and the wicked who have already been punished and will not be resurrected on Judgment Day. The Book of Enoch is considered apocryphal by most denominations of Christianity and all denominations of Judaism.\n\nThe book of 2 Maccabees gives a clear account of the dead awaiting a future resurrection and judgment, plus prayers and offerings for the dead to remove the burden of sin.\nThe author of Luke recounts the story of Lazarus and the rich man, which shows people in Hades awaiting the resurrection either in comfort or torment. The author of the Book of Revelation writes about God and the angels versus Satan and demons in an epic battle at the end of times when all souls are judged. There is mention of ghostly bodies of past prophets, and the transfiguration.\n\nThe non-canonical Acts of Paul and Thecla speak of the efficacy of prayer for the dead, so that they might be \"translated to a state of happiness\".\n\nHippolytus of Rome pictures the underworld (Hades) as a place where the righteous dead, awaiting in the bosom of Abraham their resurrection, rejoice at their future prospect, while the unrighteous are tormented at the sight of the \"lake of unquenchable fire\" into which they are destined to be cast.\n\nGregory of Nyssa discusses the long-before believed possibility of purification of souls after death.\n\nPope Gregory I repeats the concept, articulated over a century earlier by Gregory of Nyssa that the saved suffer purification after death, in connection with which he wrote of \"purgatorial flames\".\n\nThe noun \"purgatorium\" (Latin: place of cleansing) is used for the first time to describe a state of painful purification of the saved after life. The same word in adjectival form (\"purgatorius -a -um\", cleansing), which appears also in non-religious writing, was already used by Christians such as Augustine of Hippo and Pope Gregory I to refer to an after-death cleansing.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, theologians and philosophers presented various philosophies and beliefs. A notable example is Emanuel Swedenborg who wrote some 18 theological works which describe in detail the nature of the afterlife according to his claimed spiritual experiences, the most famous of which is \"Heaven and Hell\". His report of life there covers a wide range of topics, such as marriage in heaven (where all angels are married), children in heaven (where they are raised by angel parents), time and space in heaven (there are none), the after-death awakening process in the World of Spirits (a place halfway between Heaven and Hell and where people first wake up after death), the allowance of a free will choice between Heaven or Hell (as opposed to being sent to either one by God), the eternity of Hell (one could leave but would never want to), and that all angels or devils were once people on earth.\n\nThe \"Spiritual Combat\", a written work by Lorenzo Scupoli, states that four assaults are attempted by the “evil one” at the hour of death. The Catholic conception of the afterlife teaches that after the body dies, the soul is judged, the righteous and free of sin enter Heaven. However, those who die in unrepented mortal sin go to hell. In the 1990s, the Catechism of the Catholic Church defined hell not as punishment imposed on the sinner but rather as the sinner's self-exclusion from God. Unlike other Christian groups, the Catholic Church teaches that those who die in a state of grace, but still carry venial sin go to a place called Purgatory where they undergo purification to enter Heaven.\n\nDespite popular opinion, Limbo, which was elaborated upon by theologians beginning in the Middle Ages, was never recognized as a dogma of the Catholic Church, yet, at times, it has been a very popular theological theory within the Church. Limbo is a theory that unbaptized but innocent souls, such as those of infants, virtuous individuals who lived before Jesus Christ was born on earth, or those that die before baptism exist in neither Heaven or Hell proper. Therefore, these souls neither merit the beatific vision, nor are subjected to any punishment, because they are not guilty of any personal sin although they have not received baptism, so still bear original sin. So they are generally seen as existing in a state of natural, but not supernatural, happiness, until the end of time.\n\nIn other Christian denominations it has been described as an intermediate place or state of confinement in oblivion and neglect.\n\nThe notion of purgatory is associated particularly with the Catholic Church. In the Catholic Church, all those who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation; but after death they undergo purification, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven or the final purification of the elect, which is entirely different from the punishment of the damned. The tradition of the church, by reference to certain texts of scripture, speaks of a \"cleansing fire\" although it is not always called purgatory.\n\nAnglicans of the Anglo-Catholic tradition generally also hold to the belief. John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, believed in an intermediate state between death and the resurrection of the dead and in the possibility of \"continuing to grow in holiness there\", but Methodism does not officially affirm this belief and denies the possibility of helping by prayer any who may be in that state.\n\nThe Orthodox Church is intentionally reticent on the afterlife, as it acknowledges the mystery especially of things that have not yet occurred. Beyond the second coming of Jesus, bodily resurrection, and final judgment, all of which is affirmed in the Nicene Creed (325 CE), Orthodoxy does not teach much else in any definitive manner. Unlike Western forms of Christianity, however, Orthodoxy is traditionally non-dualist and does not teach that there are two separate literal locations of heaven and hell, but instead acknowledges that \"the 'location' of one’s final destiny—heaven or hell—as being figurative.\" Instead, Orthodoxy teaches that the final judgment is simply one's uniform encounter with divine love and mercy, but this encounter is experienced multifariously depending on the extent to which one has been transformed, partaken of divinity, and is therefore compatible or incompatible with God. \"The monadic, immutable, and ceaseless object of eschatological encounter is therefore the love and mercy of God, his glory which infuses the heavenly temple, and it is the subjective human reaction which engenders multiplicity or any division of experience.\" For instance, St. Isaac the Syrian observes that \"those who are punished in Gehenna, are scourged by the scourge of love. ... The power of love works in two ways: it torments sinners . . . [as] bitter regret. But love inebriates the souls of the sons of Heaven by its delectability.\" In this sense, the divine action is always, immutably, and uniformly love and if one experiences this love negatively, the experience is then one of self-condemnation because of free will rather than condemnation by God. Orthodoxy therefore uses the description of Jesus' judgment in John 3:19-21 as their model: \"19 And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. 20 For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. 21 But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.\" As a characteristically Orthodox understanding, then, Fr. Thomas Hopko writes, \"[I]t is precisely the presence of God’s mercy and love which cause the torment of the wicked. God does not punish; he forgives. . . . In a word, God has mercy on all, whether all like it or not. If we like it, it is paradise; if we do not, it is hell. Every knee will bend before the Lord. Everything will be subject to Him. God in Christ will indeed be \"all and in all,\" with boundless mercy and unconditional pardon. But not all will rejoice in God's gift of forgiveness, and that choice will be judgment, the self-inflicted source of their sorrow and pain.\"\n\nMoreover, Orthodoxy includes a prevalent tradition of \"apokatastasis\", or the restoration of all things in the end. This has been taught most notably by Origen, but also many other Church fathers and Saints, including Gregory of Nyssa. The Second Council of Constantinople (553 C.E.) affirmed the orthodoxy of Gregory of Nyssa while simultaneously condemning Origen's brand of universalism because it taught the restoration back to our pre-existent state, which Orthodoxy doesn't teach. It is also a teaching of such eminent Orthodox theologians as Olivier Clément, Metropolitan Kallistos Ware, and Bishop Hilarion Alfeyev. Although apokatastasis is not a dogma of the church but instead a theologoumena, it is no less a teaching of the Orthodox Church than its rejection. As Met. Kallistos Ware explains, \"It is heretical to say that all must be saved, for this is to deny free will; but, it is legitimate to hope that all may be saved,\" as insisting on torment without end also denies free will.\n\nJoseph F. Smith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presents an elaborate vision of the afterlife. It is revealed as the scene of an extensive missionary effort by righteous spirits in paradise to redeem those still in darkness—a spirit prison or \"hell\" where the spirits of the dead remain until judgment. It is divided into two parts: Spirit Prison and Paradise. Together these are also known as the Spirit World (also Abraham's Bosom; see Luke 16:19-25). They believe that Christ visited spirit prison (1 Peter 3:18-20) and opened the gate for those who repent to cross over to Paradise. This is similar to the Harrowing of Hell doctrine of some mainstream Christian faiths. Both Spirit Prison and Paradise are temporary according to Latter-day Saint beliefs. After the resurrection, spirits are assigned \"permanently\" to three degrees of heavenly glory, determined by how they lived– Celestial, Terrestrial, and Telestial.(1 Cor 15:44-42; Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76) Sons of Perdition, or those who have known and seen God and deny it, will be sent to the realm of Satan, which is called Outer Darkness, where they shall live in misery and agony forever.\n\nThe Celestial Kingdom is believed to be a place where we can live eternally with our families. Progression does not end once one has entered the Celestial Kingdom, but it extends eternally. According to \"True to the Faith\" (a handbook on doctrines in the LDS faith), \"The celestial kingdom is the place prepared for those who have \"received the testimony of Jesus\" and been \"made perfect through Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood\" (D&C 76:51, 69). To inherit this gift, we must receive the ordinances of salvation, keep the commandments, and repent of our sins.\"\n\nJehovah's Witnesses occasionally use terms such as \"afterlife\" to refer to any hope for the dead, but they understand Ecclesiastes 9:5 to preclude belief in an immortal soul. Individuals judged by God to be wicked, such as in the Great Flood or at Armageddon, are given no hope of an afterlife. However, they believe that after Armageddon there will be a bodily resurrection of \"both righteous and unrighteous\" dead (but not the \"wicked\"). Survivors of Armageddon and those who are resurrected are then to gradually restore earth to a paradise. After Armageddon, unrepentant sinners are punished with eternal death (non-existence).\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church, teaches that the first death, or death brought about by living on a planet with sinful conditions (sickness, old age, accident, etc.) is a sleep of the soul. Adventists believe that the body + the breath of God = a living soul. Like Jehovah's Witnesses, Adventists use key phrases from the Bible, such as \"For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.\" (Eccl. 9:5 KJV). Adventists also point to the fact that the wage of sin is death and God alone is immortal. Adventists believe God will grant eternal life to the redeemed who are resurrected at Jesus' second coming. Until then, all those who have died are \"asleep\". When Jesus the Christ, who is the Word and the Bread of Life, comes a second time, the righteous will be raised incorruptible and will be taken in the clouds to meet their Lord. The righteous will live in heaven for a thousand years (the millennium) where they will sit with God in judgment over the unredeemed and the fallen angels. During the time the redeemed are in heaven, the Earth will be devoid of human and animal inhabitation. Only the fallen angels will be left alive. The second resurrection is of the unrighteous, when Jesus brings the New Jerusalem down from heaven to relocate to Earth. Jesus will call to life all those who are unrighteous. Satan and his angels will convince the unrighteous to surround the city, but hell fire and brimstone will fall from heaven and consume them, thus cleansing Earth of all sin. The universe will be then free from sin forever. This is called the second death. On the new earth God will provide an eternal home for all the redeemed and a perfect environment for everlasting life, where Eden will be restored. The great controversy will be ended and sin will be no more. God will reign in perfect harmony forever. (Rom. 6:23; 1 Tim. 6:15, 16; Eccl. 9:5, 6; Ps. 146:3, 4; John 11:11-14; Col. 3:4; 1 Cor. 15:51-54; 1 Thess. 4:13-17; John 5:28, 29; Rev. 20:1-10; Rev. 20; 1 Cor. 6:2, 3; Jer. 4:23-26; Rev. 21:1-5; Mal. 4:1; Eze. 28:18, 19; 2 Peter 3:13; Isa. 35; 65:17-25; Matt. 5:5; Rev. 21:1-7; 22:1-5; 11:15.)\n\nThe Islamic belief in the afterlife as stated in the Quran is descriptive. The Arabic word for Paradise is \"Jannah\" and Hell is \"Jahannam\". Their level of comfort while in the grave (according to some commentators) depends wholly on their level of \"iman\" or faith in the one almighty creator or supreme being (God or Allah). In order for one to achieve proper, firm and healthy \"iman\" one must practice righteous deeds or else his level of \"iman\" chokes and shrinks and eventually can wither away if one does not practice Islam long enough, hence the depth of practicing Islam is good deeds. One may also acquire \"tasbih\" and recite the names of Allah in such manner as \"Subahann Allah\" or \"Glory be to Allah\" over and over again to acquire good deeds.\n\nIn the Quran, God gives warning about grievous punishment to those who do not believe in the afterlife (\"Akhirah\"), and admonishes mankind that Hell is prepared for those who deny the meeting with him.\n\nIslam teaches that the purpose of Man's entire creation is to worship Allah alone, which includes being kind to other human beings and life including bugs, and to trees, by not oppressing them. Islam teaches that the life we live on Earth is nothing but a test for us and to determine each individual's ultimate abode, be it punishment or \"Jannat\" in the afterlife, which is eternal and everlasting.\n\n\"Jannah\" and \"Jahannam\" both have different levels. \"Jannah\" has eight gates and seven levels. The higher the level the better it is and the happier you are. \"Jahannam\" possess 7 deep terrible layers. The lower the layer the worse it is. Individuals will arrive at both everlasting homes during Judgment Day, which commences after the Angel Israfil blows the trumpet the second time. Islam teaches the continued existence of the soul and a transformed physical existence after death. Muslims believe there will be a day of judgment when all humans will be divided between the eternal destinations of Paradise and Hell.\n\nIn the 20th century, discussions about the afterlife address the interconnection between human action and divine judgment, the need for moral rectitude, and the eternal consequences of human action in this life and world.\n\nA central doctrine of the Quran is the Last Day, on which the world will be destroyed and Allah will raise all people and jinn from the dead to be judged. The Last Day is also called the Day of Standing Up, Day of Separation, Day of Reckoning, Day of Awakening, Day of Judgment, The Encompassing Day or The Hour.\n\nUntil the Day of Judgment, deceased souls remain in their graves awaiting the resurrection. However, they begin to feel immediately a taste of their destiny to come. Those bound for hell will suffer in their graves, while those bound for heaven will be in peace until that time.\n\nThe resurrection that will take place on the Last Day is physical, and is explained by suggesting that God will re-create the decayed body (17:100: \"Could they not see that God who created the heavens and the earth is able to create the like of them?\").\n\nOn the Last Day, resurrected humans and jinn will be judged by Allah according to their deeds. One's eternal destination depends on balance of good to bad deeds in life. They are either granted admission to Paradise, where they will enjoy spiritual and physical pleasures forever, or condemned to Hell to suffer spiritual and physical torment for eternity. The day of judgment is described as passing over Hell on a narrow bridge (as thin as human hair and sharper than a razor) in order to enter Paradise. Those who fall, weighted by their bad deeds, will remain in Hell forever.\n\nAhmadi Muslims believe that the afterlife is not material but of a spiritual nature. According to Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of Ahmadiyya sect in Islam, the soul will give birth to another rarer entity and will resemble the life on this earth in the sense that this entity will bear a similar relationship to the soul as the soul bears relationship with the human existence on earth. On earth, if a person leads a righteous life and submits to the will of God, his or her tastes become attuned to enjoying spiritual pleasures as opposed to carnal desires. With this, an \"embryonic soul\" begins to take shape. Different tastes are said to be born which a person given to carnal passions finds no enjoyment. For example, sacrifice of one's own rights over that of others becomes enjoyable, or that forgiveness becomes second nature. In such a state a person finds contentment and peace at heart and at this stage, according to Ahmadiyya beliefs, it can be said that a soul within the soul has begun to take shape.\n\nThe Sufi scholar Ibn 'Arabi defined Barzakh as the intermediate realm or \"isthmus.\" It is between the world of corporeal bodies and the world of spirits, and is a means of contact between the two worlds. Without it, there would be no contact between the two and both would cease to exist. He described it as simple and luminous, like the world of spirits, but also able to take on many different forms just like the world of corporeal bodies can. In broader terms Barzakh, \"is anything that separates two things\". It has been called the dream world in which the dreamer is in both life and death.\n\nThe teachings of the Bahá'í Faith state that the nature of the afterlife is beyond the understanding of those living, just as an unborn fetus cannot understand the nature of the world outside of the womb. The Bahá'í writings state that the soul is immortal and after death it will continue to progress until it attains God's presence. In Bahá'í belief, souls in the afterlife will continue to retain their individuality and consciousness and will be able to recognize and communicate spiritually with other souls whom they have made deep profound friendships with, such as their spouses.\n\nThe Bahá'í scriptures also state there are distinctions between souls in the afterlife, and that souls will recognize the worth of their own deeds and understand the consequences of their actions. It is explained that those souls that have turned toward God will experience gladness, while those who have lived in error will become aware of the opportunities they have lost. Also, in the Baha'i view, souls will be able to recognize the accomplishments of the souls that have reached the same level as themselves, but not those that have achieved a rank higher than them.\n\nThe Upanishads describe reincarnation (\"punarjanma\") (see also: samsara). The Bhagavad Gita, an important Hindu script, talks extensively about the afterlife. Here, Krishna says that just as a man discards his old clothes and wears new ones; similarly the soul discards the old body and takes on a new one. In Hinduism, the belief is that the body is nothing but a shell, the soul inside is immutable and indestructible and takes on different lives in a cycle of birth and death. The end of this cycle is called \"mukti\" (Sanskrit: मुक्ति) and staying finally with supreme God forever; is \"moksha\" (Sanskrit: मोक्ष) or salvation.\n\nThe Garuda Purana deals solely with what happens to a person after death. The God of Death Yama sends his representatives to collect the soul from a person's body whenever he is due for death and they take the soul to Yama. A record of each person's timings & deeds performed by him is kept in a ledger by Yama's assistant, Chitragupta.\n\nAccording to the Garuda Purana, a soul after leaving the body travels through a very long and dark tunnel towards the South. This is why an oil lamp is lit and kept beside the head of the corpse, to light the dark tunnel and allow the soul to travel comfortably.\n\nThe soul, called \"atman\" leaves the body and reincarnates itself according to the deeds or \"karma\" performed by one in last birth. Rebirth would be in form of animals or other lower creatures if one performed bad karmas and in human form in a good family with joyous lifetime if the person was good in last birth. In between the two births a human is also required to either face punishments for bad karmas in \"naraka\" or hell or enjoy for the good karmas in \"swarga\" or heaven for good deeds. Whenever his or her punishments or rewards are over he or she is sent back to earth, also known as \"Mrutyulok\" or human world. A person stays with the God or ultimate power when he discharges only & only \"yajna karma\" (means work done for satisfaction of supreme lord only) in last birth and the same is called as \"moksha\" or \"nirvana\", which is the ultimate goal of a self realised soul. \"Atma\" moves with \"Parmatma\" or the greatest soul. According to Bhagavad Gita an \"Atma\" or soul never dies, what dies is the body only made of five elements—Earth, Water, Fire, Air, and Sky. Soul is believed to be indestructible. None of the five elements can harm or influence it. Hinduism through Garuda Purana also describes in detail various types of \"narkas\" or Hells where a person after death is punished for his bad \"karmas\" and dealt with accordingly.\n\nHindus also believe in \"karma\". \"Karma\" is the accumulated sums of one's good or bad deeds. \"Satkarma\" means good deeds, \"vikarma\" means bad deeds. According to Hinduism the basic concept of karma is 'As you sow, you shall reap'. So, if a person has lived a good life, they will be rewarded in the afterlife. Similarly their sum of bad deeds will be mirrored in their next life. Good karma brings good rewards and bad karmas lead to bad results. There is no judgment here. People accumulate karma through their actions and even thoughts. In Bhagavad Gita when Arjuna hesitates to kill his kith and kin the lord reprimands him saying thus \"Do you believe that you are the doer of the action. No. You are merely an instrument in MY hands. Do you believe that the people in front of you are living? Dear Arjuna, they are already dead. As a \"kshatriya\" (warrior) it is your duty to protect your people and land. If you fail to do your duty, then you are not adhering to dharmic principles.\"\n\nBuddhists maintain that rebirth takes place without an unchanging self or soul passing from one form to another. The type of rebirth will be conditioned by the moral tone of the person's actions (kamma or karma). For example, if a person has committed harmful actions of body, speech and mind based on greed, hatred and delusion, rebirth in a lower realm, i.e. an animal, a hungry ghost or a hell realm, is to be expected. On the other hand, where a person has performed skillful actions based on generosity, loving-kindness (metta), compassion and wisdom, rebirth in a happy realm, i.e. human or one of the many heavenly realms, can be expected.\n\nYet the mechanism of rebirth with kamma is not deterministic. It depends on various levels of kamma. The most important moment that determines where a person is reborn into is the last thought moment. At that moment, heavy kamma would ripen if there were performed, if not then near death kamma, if not then habitual kamma, finally if none of the above happened, then residual kamma from previous actions can ripen. According to Theravada Buddhism, there are 31 realms of existence that one can be reborn into.\n\nPure Land Buddhism of Mahayana believes in a special place apart from the 31 planes of existence called Pure Land. It is believed that each Buddha has their own pure land, created out of their merits for the sake of sentient beings who recall them mindfully to be able to be reborn in their pure land and train to become a Buddha there. Thus the main practice of pure land Buddhism is to chant a Buddha's name.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism the Tibetan Book of the Dead explains the intermediate state of humans between death and reincarnation. The deceased will find the bright light of wisdom, which shows a straightforward path to move upward and leave the cycle of reincarnation. There are various reasons why the deceased do not follow that light. Some had no briefing about the intermediate state in the former life. Others only used to follow their basic instincts like animals. And some have fear, which results from foul deeds in the former life or from insistent haughtiness. In the intermediate state the awareness is very flexible, so it is important to be virtuous, adopt a positive attitude, and avoid negative ideas. Ideas which are rising from subconsciousness can cause extreme tempers and cowing visions. In this situation they have to understand, that these manifestations are just reflections of the inner thoughts. No one can really hurt them, because they have no more material body. The deceased get help from different Buddhas who show them the path to the bright light. The ones who do not follow the path after all will get hints for a better reincarnation. They have to release the things and beings on which or whom they still hang from the life before. It is recommended to choose a family where the parents trust in the Dharma and to reincarnate with the will to care for the welfare of all beings.\n\n\"Life is cosmic energy of the universe and after death it merges in universe again and as the time comes to find the suitable place for the entity died in the life condition it gets born. There are 10 life states of any life: Hell, hunger, anger, animality, rapture, humanity, learning, realization, bodhisatva and buddhahood. The life dies in which life condition it reborn in the same life condition.\"\n\nSikhism may have a belief in the afterlife. They believe that the soul belongs to the spiritual universe which has its origins in God. However it's been a matter of great debate amongst the Sikhs about Sikhism's belief in afterlife. Many believe that Sikhism endorses the afterlife and the concept of reward and punishment as there are verses given in \"Guru Granth Sahib\", but a large number of Sikhs believe otherwise and treat those verses as metaphorical or poetic.\n\nAlso it has been noted by many scholars that the Guru Granth Sahib includes poetic renditions from multiple saints and religious traditions like that of Kabir, Farid and Ramananda. The essential doctrine is to experience the divine through simple living, meditation and contemplation while being alive. Sikhism also has the belief of being in union with God while living. Accounts of afterlife are considered to be aimed at the popular prevailing views of the time so as to provide a referential framework without necessarily establishing a belief in the afterlife. Thus while it is also acknowledged that living the life of a householder is above the metaphysical truth, Sikhism can be considered agnostic to the question of an afterlife. Some scholars also interpret the mention of reincarnation to be naturalistic akin to the biogeochemical cycles.\n\nBut if one analyses the Sikh Scriptures carefully, one may find that on many occasions the afterlife and the existence of heaven and hell are mentioned in \"Guru Granth Sahib\" and in \"Dasam granth\", so from that it can be concluded that Sikhism does believe in the existence of heaven and hell; however, heaven and hell are created to temporarily reward and punish, and one will then take birth again until one merges in God. According to the Sikh scriptures, the human form is the closet form to God and the best opportunity for a human being to attain salvation and merge back with God. Sikh Gurus said that nothing dies, nothing is born, everything is ever present, and it just changes forms. Like standing in front of a wardrobe, you pick up a dress and wear it and then you discard it. You wear another one. Thus, in the view of Sikhism, your soul is never born and never dies. Your soul is a part of God and hence lives forever.\n\nJainism also believes in the after life. They believe that the soul takes on a body form based on previous karmas or actions performed by that soul through eternity. Jains believe the soul is eternal and that the freedom from the cycle of reincarnation is the means to attain eternal bliss.\n\nTraditional African religions are diverse in their beliefs in an afterlife. Hunter-gatherer societies such as the Hadza have no particular belief in an afterlife, and the death of an individual is a straightforward end to their existence. Ancestor cults are found throughout Sub-Saharan Africa, including cultures like the Yombe, Beng, Yoruba and Ewe, \"[T]he belief that the dead come back into life and are reborn into their families is given concrete expression in the personal names that are given to children...What is reincarnated are some of the dominant characteristics of the ancestor and not his soul. For each soul remains distinct and each birth represents a new soul.\" The Yoruba, Dogon and LoDagoa have eschatological ideas similar to Abrahamic religions, \"but in most African societies, there is a marked absence of such clear-cut notions of heaven and hell, although there are notions of God judging the soul after death.\" In some societies like the Mende, multiple beliefs coexist. The Mende believe that people die twice: once during the process of joining the secret society, and again during biological death after which they become ancestors. However, some Mende also believe that after people are created by God they live ten consecutive lives, each in progressively descending worlds. One cross-cultural theme is that the ancestors are part of the world of the living, interacting with it regularly.\n\nIt is common for families to participate in ceremonies for children at a shrine, yet have a Buddhist funeral at the time of death. In old Japanese legends, it is often claimed that the dead go to a place called \"yomi\" (黄泉), a gloomy underground realm with a river separating the living from the dead mentioned in the legend of Izanami and Izanagi. This \"yomi\" very closely resembles the Greek Hades; however, later myths include notions of resurrection and even Elysium-like descriptions such as in the legend of Okuninushi and Susanoo. Shinto tends to hold negative views on death and corpses as a source of pollution called \"kegare\". However, death is also viewed as a path towards apotheosis in Shintoism as can be evidenced by how legendary individuals become enshrined after death. Perhaps the most famous would be Emperor Ojin who was enshrined as Hachiman the God of War after his death.\n\nSome Unitarian Universalists believe in universalism: that all souls will ultimately be saved and that there are no torments of hell. Unitarian Universalists differ widely in their theology hence there is no exact same stance on the issue. Although Unitarians historically believed in a literal hell, and Universalists historically believed that everyone goes to heaven, modern Unitarian Universalists can be categorized into those believing in a heaven, reincarnation and oblivion. Most Unitarian Universalists believe that heaven and hell are symbolic places of consciousness and the faith is largely focused on the worldly life rather than any possible afterlife.\n\nAccording to Edgar Cayce, the afterlife consisted of nine realms equated with the nine planets of astrology. The first, symbolized by Saturn, was a level for the purification of the souls. The second, Mercury's realm, gives us the ability to consider problems as a whole. The third of the nine soul realms is ruled by Earth and is associated with the Earthly pleasures. The fourth realm is where we find out about love and is ruled by Venus. The fifth realm is where we meet our limitations and is ruled by Mars. The sixth realm is ruled by Neptune, and is where we begin to use our creative powers and free ourselves from the material world. The seventh realm is symbolized by Jupiter, which strengthens the soul's ability to depict situations, to analyze people and places, things, and conditions. The eighth afterlife realm is ruled by Uranus and develops psychic ability. The ninth afterlife realm is symbolized by Pluto, the astrological realm of the unconscious. This afterlife realm is a transient place where souls can choose to travel to other realms or other solar systems, it is the souls liberation into eternity, and is the realm that opens the doorway from our solar system into the cosmos.\n\nMainstream Spiritualists postulate a series of seven realms that are not unlike Edgar Cayce's nine realms ruled by the planets. As it evolves, the soul moves higher and higher until it reaches the ultimate realm of spiritual oneness. The first realm, equated with hell, is the place where troubled souls spend a long time before they are compelled to move up to the next level. The second realm, where most souls move directly, is thought of as an intermediate transition between the lower planes of life and hell and the higher perfect realms of the universe. The third level is for those who have worked with their karmic inheritance. The fourth level is that from which evolved souls teach and direct those on Earth. The fifth level is where the soul leaves human consciousness behind. At the sixth plane, the soul is finally aligned with the cosmic consciousness and has no sense of separateness or individuality. Finally, the seventh level, the goal of each soul, is where the soul transcends its own sense of \"soulfulness\" and reunites with the World Soul and the universe.\n\nThe Wiccan afterlife is most commonly described as The Summerland. Here, souls rest, recuperate from life, and reflect on the experiences they had during their lives. After a period of rest, the souls are reincarnated, and the memory of their previous lives is erased. Many Wiccans see The Summerland as a place to reflect on their life actions. It is not a place of reward, but rather the end of a life journey at an end point of incarnations.\n\nZoroastrianism states that the \"urvan\", the disembodied spirit, lingers on earth for three days before departing downward to the kingdom of the dead that is ruled by Yima. For the three days that it rests on Earth, righteous souls sit at the head of their body, chanting the Ustavaiti Gathas with joy, while a wicked person sits at the feet of the corpse, wails and recites the Yasna. Zoroastrianism states that for the righteous souls, a beautiful maiden, which is the personification of the soul's good thoughts, words and deeds, appears. For a wicked person, a very old, ugly, naked hag appears. After three nights, the soul of the wicked is taken by the demon Vizaresa (Vīzarəša), to Chinvat bridge, and is made to go to darkness (hell).\n\nYima is believed to have been the first king on earth to rule, as well as the first man to die. Inside of Yima's realm, the spirits live a shadowy existence, and are dependent on their own descendants which are still living on Earth. Their descendants are to satisfy their hunger and clothe them, through rituals done on earth.\n\nRituals which are done on the first three days are vital and important, as they protect the soul from evil powers and give it strength to reach the underworld. After three days, the soul crosses Chinvat bridge which is the Final Judgment of the soul. Rashnu and Sraosha are present at the final judgment. The list is expanded sometimes, and include Vahman and Ormazd. Rashnu is the yazata who holds the scales of justice. If the good deeds of the person outweigh the bad, the soul is worthy of paradise. If the bad deeds outweigh the good, the bridge narrows down to the width of a blade-edge, and a horrid hag pulls the soul in her arms, and takes it down to hell with her.\n\nMisvan Gatu is the \"place of the mixed ones\" where the souls lead a gray existence, lacking both joy and sorrow. A soul goes here if his/her good deeds and bad deeds are equal, and Rashnu's scale is equal.\n\nThe Society for Psychical Research was founded in 1882 with the express intention of investigating phenomena relating to Spiritualism and the afterlife. Its members continue to conduct scientific research on the paranormal to this day. Some of the earliest attempts to apply scientific methods to the study of phenomena relating to an afterlife were conducted by this organization. Its earliest members included noted scientists like William Crookes, and philosophers such as Henry Sidgwick and William James.\n\nParapsychological investigation of the afterlife includes the study of haunting, apparitions of the deceased, instrumental trans-communication, electronic voice phenomena, and mediumship. But also the study of the near death experience. Scientists who have worked in this area include Raymond Moody, Susan Blackmore, Charles Tart, William James, Ian Stevenson, Michael Persinger, Pim van Lommel and Penny Sartori among others.\n\nA study conducted in 1901 by physician Duncan MacDougall sought to measure the weight lost by a human when the soul \"departed the body\" upon death. MacDougall weighed dying patients in an attempt to prove that the soul was material, tangible and thus measurable. Although MacDougall's results varied considerably from \"21 grams\", for some people this figure has become synonymous with the measure of a soul's mass. The title of the 2003 movie \"21 Grams\" is a reference to MacDougall's findings. His results have never been reproduced, and are generally regarded either as meaningless or considered to have had little if any scientific merit.\n\nFrank Tipler has argued that physics can explain immortality, though such arguments are not falsifiable and thus do not qualify, in Karl Popper's views, as science.\n\nAfter 25 years of parapsychological research, Susan Blackmore came to the conclusion that there is no empirical evidence for an afterlife.\n\nThere is still the position, based on the philosophical question of personal identity, termed open individualism, and in some ways similar to the old belief of monopsychism, that concludes that individual existence is illusory, and our consciousness continues existing after death in other conscious beings. Positions regarding existence after death were supported by some notable physicists such as Erwin Schrödinger and Freeman Dyson.\n\nCertain problems arise with the idea of a particular person continuing after death. Peter van Inwagen, in his argument regarding resurrection, notes that the materialist must have some sort of physical continuity. John Hick also raises some questions regarding personal identity in his book, \"Death and Eternal Life\" using an example of a person ceasing to exist in one place while an exact replica appears in another. If the replica had all the same experiences, traits, and physical appearances of the first person, we would all attribute the same identity to the second, according to Hick.\n\nIn the panentheistic model of process philosophy and theology the writers Alfred North Whitehead and Charles Hartshorne rejected that the universe was made of substance, instead reality is composed of living experiences (occasions of experience). According to Hartshorne people do not experience subjective (or personal) immortality in the afterlife, but they do have objective immortality because their experiences live on forever in God, who contains all that was. However other process philosophers such as David Ray Griffin have written that people may have subjective experience after death.\n\nRegarding the mind–body problem, most neuroscientists take a physicalist position according to which consciousness derives from and/or is reducible to physical phenomena such as neuronal activity occurring in the brain. The implication of this premise is that once the brain stops functioning at brain death, consciousness fails to survive and ceases to exist.\n\nPsychological proposals for the origin of a belief in an afterlife include cognitive disposition, cultural learning, and as an intuitive religious idea. In one study, children were able to recognize the ending of physical, mental, and perceptual activity in death, but were hesitant to conclude the ending of will, self, or emotion in death.\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "42662868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42662868", "title": "Amrit Velā", "text": "Amrit Velā\n\nAmrit Velā () (Time of Amrit) refers to the early morning period of time sometime between 3:00am and 6:00am or before the dawning of the morning sun which is used for daily meditation and recitation of Gurbani hymns. Guru Nanak in the Japji Sahib (4th Pauri) says, \"In amrit velā meditate on the grandeur of the one true Name.\" The importance of Amrit Vela is found throughout the Guru Granth Sahib. The Guru Granth Sahib states that \"those who consider themselves a Sikh must wake up daily at Amrit vela and be in tune with the \"Naam\" (the Lord's Name)\"\n\nIn the Sikh Rehat Maryada it is written to arise Amrit Velā, bath, and meditate on the divine \"Naam\" (through Simran and Naam Japna). Sikhs recite their morning \"Nitnem\" during Amrit vela. Traditionally after \"Nitnem\" Sikhs meet with the Sangat (congregation) to recite Asa di Var.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856409", "title": "Ancient Semitic religion", "text": "Ancient Semitic religion\n\nAncient Semitic religion encompasses the polytheistic religions of the Semitic peoples from the ancient Near East and Northeast Africa. Since the term \"Semitic\" itself represents a rough category when referring to cultures, as opposed to languages, the definitive bounds of the term \"ancient Semitic religion\" are only approximate.\n\nSemitic traditions and their pantheons fall into regional categories: Canaanite religions of the Levant, the Sumerian tradition–inspired Assyro-Babylonian religion of Mesopotamia, the Ancient Hebrew religion of the \nIsraelites, and Arabian polytheism. Semitic polytheism possibly transitioned into Abrahamic monotheism by way of the god El, whose name \"El\" is a word for \"god\" in Hebrew, cognate to Arabic Allah.\n\nAbbreviations: Ac. Akkadian-Babylonian; Ug. Ugaritic; Pp. Phoenician; Ib. Hebrew; Ar. Arabic; OSA Old South Arabian; Et. Ethiopic\n\n\nWhen the five planets were identified, they were associated with the sun and moon and connected with the chief gods of the Babylonian pantheon. A bilingual list in the British Museum arranges the sevenfold planetary group in the following order:\n\nThe religion of the Assyrian Empire (sometimes called Ashurism) centered on Ashur, patron deity of the city of Assur, and Ishtar, patroness of Nineveh. The last positively recorded worship of Ashur and other Assyrian gods dates back to the 3rd century AD.\n\nAshur, the patron deity of the eponymous capital from the Late Bronze Age, was in constant rivalry with the patron deity of Babylon, Marduk. In Assyria, Ashur eventually superseded Marduk, even becoming the husband of Ishtar.\n\nThe major Assyro-Babylonian and Akkadian gods were:\nMajor Assyro-Babylonian demons and heroes were:\n\nThe Canaanite religion was practiced by people living in the ancient Levant throughout the Bronze Age and Iron Age. Until the excavation (1928 onwards) of the city of Ras Shamra (also known as Ugarit) in Northern Syria and the discovery of its Bronze Age archive of clay tablet alphabetic cuneiform texts, scholars knew little about Canaanite religious practice. Papyrus seems to have been the preferred writing material for scribes at the time. Unlike the papyrus documents found in Egypt, ancient papyri in the Levant have often simply decayed from exposure to the humid Mediterranean climate. As a result, the accounts in the Bible became the primary sources of information on ancient Canaanite religion. Supplementing the Biblical accounts, several secondary and tertiary Greek sources have survived, including Lucian of Samosata's treatise \"De Dea Syria\" (The Syrian Goddess, 2nd century CE), fragments of the \"Phoenician History\" of Sanchuniathon as preserved by Philo of Byblos (c. 64 – 141 CE), and the writings of Damascius ( 458 – after 538). Recent study of the Ugaritic material has uncovered additional information about the religion, supplemented by inscriptions from the Levant and Tel Mardikh archive (excavated in the early 1960s).\n\nThe Canaanite religion shows the clear influence of Mesopotamian and Egyptian religious practices. Like other peoples of the ancient Near East, the Canaanites were polytheistic, with families typically focusing worship on ancestral household gods and goddesses while acknowledging the existence of other deities such as Baal, Anath, and El.\nKings also played an important religious role and in certain ceremonies, such as the sacred marriage of the New Year Festival; Canaanites may have revered their kings as gods.\n\nAccording to the pantheon, known in Ugarit as 'ilhm (Elohim) or the children of El (compare the Biblical \"sons of God\"), called El, fathered the other deities. In the Greek sources he was married to Beruth (Beirut, the city). The pantheon was supposedly obtained by Philo of Byblos from Sanchuniathon of Berythus (Beirut). The marriage of the deity with the city seems to have Biblical parallels with the stories that link Melkart with Tyre, Yahweh with Jerusalem, and Tanit and Baal Hammon with Carthage. El Elyon is mentioned (as \"God Most High\") in Genesis 14.18–19 as the God whose priest was Melchizedek, king of Salem. \n\nPhilo states that the union of El Elyon and his consort resulted in the birth of Uranus and Ge (Greek names for \"Heaven\" and \"Earth\"). This closely parallels the opening verse of the Hebrew Bible, Genesis 1:1—\"In the beginning God (Elohim) created the Heavens (\"Shemayim\") and the Earth\" (\"Eretz\"). It also parallels the story of the Babylonian Anunaki gods.\n\nThe \"Enuma Elish\" has been compared to the Genesis creation narrative. Some writers trace the story of Esther to Babylonian roots.\n\nEl Elyon also appears in Balaam's story in Numbers and in Moses song in Deuteronomy 32.8. The Masoretic Texts suggest:\n\nWhen the Most High ('Elyōn) divided to the nations their inheritance, he separated the sons of man (Ādām); he set the bounds of the people according to the number of the sons of Israel.\n\nRather than \"sons of Israel\", the Septuagint, the Greek Old Testament, or \"angels of God\", and a few versions even have \"huiōn theou\" (sons of God). The Dead Sea Scrolls version of this suggests that there were in fact 70 sons of the Most High God sent to rule over the 70 nations of the Earth. This idea of the 70 nations of Earth, each ruled over by one of the Elohim (sons of God), is also found in Ugaritic texts. The Arslan Tash inscription suggests that each of the 70 sons of El Elyon was bound to their people by a covenant. Thus, Crossan translates:\n\n<poem>The Eternal One ('Olam) has made a covenant oath with us,\nAsherah has made (a pact) with us.\nAnd all the sons of El,\nAnd the great council of all the Holy Ones (Qedesh).\nWith oaths of Heaven and Ancient Earth.</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "17813978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17813978", "title": "Arvind Sharma", "text": "Arvind Sharma\n\nArvind Sharma is the Birks Professor of Comparative Religion at McGill University. Sharma's works focus on comparative religion, Hinduism, philosophy of religion and the role of women in religion. Some of his more widely read works include \"Our Religions\" and \"Women in World Religions\", which were edited by him. \"Feminism in World Religions\" was selected as a Outstanding Academic Book (1999).\n\nArvind Sharma was born on the 13th of January 1940 in Varanasi, India . Raised in a family that traditionally worked in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), he followed suit and joined the IAS in 1962 after a distinguished academic career. \n\nHe served in the State of Gujarat until 1968, when he moved to the United States to pursue higher studies in economics at the University of Syracuse, obtaining a Masters in economics in 1970. While pursuing the role of non-economic factors in economic development he became interested in religion and joined Harvard Divinity School in 1972. After obtaining a Masters in Theological Studies, concentrating on comparative religion, he earned his PhD from the Department of Sanskrit and Indian Studies in 1978. His doctorate work involved the first ever translation in English of Abhinavagupta's commentary on the Bhagavad Gita.\n\nWhile at Harvard he was recruited in 1976 by the newly founded Department of Studies in Religion at the University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia. In 1980 he moved to the University of Sydney, from where he was hired by McGill University in Canada in 1987. In 1994 he was appointed the Birks Professor of Comparative Religion at McGill University, where he continues to teach as of 2018. \n\nThe archives fonds of Arvind Sharma is held at McGill University Archives (MUA)\n\nArvind Sharma , Faculty of Religious Studies, McGill University, retrieved 2015-04-10.</ref>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25011238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25011238", "title": "Astrolatry", "text": "Astrolatry\n\nAstrolatry is the worship of stars and other heavenly bodies as deities, or the association of deities with heavenly bodies.\nThe most common instances of this are sun gods and moon gods in polytheistic systems worldwide. Also notable is the association of the planets with deities in Babylonian, and hence in Greco-Roman religion, viz. Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.\n\nThe term astro-theology is used in the context of 18th- to 19th-century scholarship aiming at the discovery of the original religion, particularly primitive monotheism. Unlike \"astrolatry\", which usually implies polytheism, frowned upon as idolatrous by Christian authors since Eusebius, astrotheology is any \"religious system founded upon the observation of the heavens\", and in particular, may be monotheistic. Gods, goddesses, and demons may also be considered personifications of astronomical phenomena such as lunar eclipses, planetary alignments, and apparent interactions of planetary bodies with stars. Astro-theology is used by Jan Irvin, Jordan Maxwell and Andrew Rutajit (2006) in reference to \"the earliest known forms of religion and nature worship\", advocating the entheogen theory of the origin of religion.\n\n\"Astrolatry\" comes from Greek ἄστρον \"astron\", \"star\" and the suffix -λάτρης, itself related to λάτρις \"latris\", \"worshipper\" or λατρεύειν \"latreuein\", \"to worship\" from λάτρον \"latron\", \"payment\".\n\nBabylonian astronomy from early times associates stars with deities, but the heavens as the residence of an anthropomorphic pantheon, and later of monotheistic God and his retinue of angels, is a later development, gradually replacing the notion of the pantheon residing or convening on the summit of high mountains. Sayce (1913) argues a parallelism of the \"stellar theology\" of Babylon and Egypt, both countries absorbing popular star-worship into the official pantheon of their respective state religions by identification of gods with stars or planets.\n\nAstrolatry does not appear to have been common in the Levant prior to the Iron Age, and becomes popular under Assyrian influence.\nThe Sabaeans were notorious for their astrolatry, for which reason the practice is also known as \"Sabaism\" or \"Sabaeanism\".\nSimilarly, the Chaldeans came to be seen as the prototypical astrologers and star-worshippers by the Greeks.\n\nThe term \"astro-theology\" appears in the title of a 1714 work by William Derham, \"Astro-theology: or, A demonstration of the being and attributes of God, from a survey of the heavens\" based on the author's observations by means of \"Mr. Huygens' Glass\". Derham thought that the stars were openings in the firmament through which he thought he saw the Empyrean beyond. The 1783 issue of \"The New Christian's magazine\" had an essay entitled \"Astro-theology\" which argued the \"demonstration of sacred truths\" from \"a survey of heavenly bodies\" in the sense of the watchmaker analogy. Edward Higginson (1855) argues a compatibility of \"Jewish Astro-theology\" of the Hebrew Bible, which places God and his angelic hosts in the heavens, with a \"Scientific Astro-theology\" based on observation of the cosmos.\n\nManly P Hall (1901–1990), mystic and a 33rd degree mason, taught that each of the three Abrahamic faiths has a planet that governs that religion. Judaism is Saturn: the symbol of Judaism is a hexagram symbol of Saturn, and the day of worship is on Saturday, day of Saturn. Christianity is the Sun: the symbol of Christianity is the cross symbol of the Sun, and the day of worship is Sunday, day of the Sun. Islam is Venus: the symbol of Islam is the star and crescent (the star commonly thought to represent Venus), and the day of worship is on Friday.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains repeated reference to astrolatry. Thus, Deuteronomy 4:19, 17:3 contains a stern warning against worshipping the sun, moon, stars or any of the heavenly host. Relapse into worshipping the host of heaven, i.e. the stars, is said to have been the cause of the fall of the kingdom of Judah in II Kings 17:16. King Josiah in 621 BC is recorded as having abolished all kinds of idolatry in Judah, but astrolatry was continued in private (Zeph. 1:5; Jer. 8:2, 19:13). Ezekiel (8:16) describes sun-worship practiced in the court of the temple of Jerusalem, and Jeremiah (44:17) claims that even after the destruction of the temple, women in particular insisted on continuing their worship of the \"queen of heaven\".\n\nAugustine of Hippo criticized sun- and star-worship in \"De Vera Religione\" (37.68) and \"De civitate Dei\" (5.1–8). Pope Leo the Great also denounced astrolatry, and the cult of \"Sol Invictus\", which he contrasted with the Christian nativity.\n\nDespite such prohibitions, Dorothy M. Murdock, a proponent of the study, has released books on the subject and teaches the connections between the solar allegory and the life of Christ. She also goes beyond the astronomical comparisons and postulates ties between the origins of many of the early Abrahamic religions to ancient mythologies of that in Egypt, Rome, and Greece.\n\nThe Qur'an contains strong prohibitions against astrolatry.\n\nStrong prohibition of Astrolatry is mentioned in the Quran through Prophet Abrahim observation of celestial bodies whose worship was common in Babylonian religion of that time.\n\nBelow is the reference from Al-Quran, Surah Anaam, chapter 6, verses 75–80\n75. Thus did we show Ibrahim (Abraham) the kingdom of the heavens and the earth that he be one of those who have Faith with certainty.\n\n76. When the night covered him over with darkness he saw a star. He said: \"This is my lord.\" But when it set, he said: \"I like not those that set.\"\n\n77. When he saw the moon rising up, he said: \"This is my lord.\" But when it set, he said: \"Unless my Lord guides me, I shall surely be among the erring people.\"\n\n78. When he saw the sun rising up, he said: \"This is my lord. This is greater.\" But when it set, he said: \"O my people! I am indeed free from all that you join as partners in worship with Allah.\n\n79. Verily, I have turned my face towards Him Who has created the heavens and the earth Hanifa (Islamic Monotheism, i.e. worshipping none but Allah Alone) and I am not of Al-Mushrikun (see V.2:105)\".\n\n80. His people disputed with him. He said: \"Do you dispute with me concerning Allah while He has guided me, and I fear not those whom you associate with Allah in worship. (Nothing can happen to me) except when my Lord (Allah) wills something. My Lord comprehends in His Knowledge all things. Will you not then remember?\n\nAl-Quran, Surah Anaam (chapter 6, verse 75–80)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3062356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3062356", "title": "Calaca", "text": "Calaca\n\nA calaca (, a colloquial Mexican Spanish name for skeleton) is a figure of a skull or skeleton (usually human) commonly used for decoration during the Mexican Day of the Dead festival, although they are made all year round.\n\nTracing their origins from Mayan imagery, calacas are frequently shown with marigold flowers and foliage. As with other aspects of the Day of the Dead festival, calacas are generally depicted as joyous rather than mournful figures. They are often shown wearing festive clothing, dancing, and playing musical instruments to indicate a happy afterlife. This draws on the Mexican belief that no dead soul likes to be thought of sadly, and that death should be a joyous occasion. This goes back to Aztec beliefs, one of the few traditions to remain after the Spanish conquest.\n\nCalacas used in the festival include carved skull masks worn by revelers, small figures made out of carved wood or fired clay, and sweet treats in the form of skulls or skeletons. Calacas are sometimes made of wood, stone, or even candy.\n\nA popular phrase among Mexicans and those Latinos that personally know someone is \"se lo (la) llevó la calaca\" after someone has died, literally meaning \"the calaca took him (her)\" or \"death took him (her)\".\n\nIn Guatemala, \"calaca\" is understood as \"death\". The figure of a bare skeleton represents death and implies fear of death. Thus, it is not normally utilized as a joyful image.\n\nCalaca-like figures can be seen in the Tim Burton films \"The Nightmare Before Christmas\" and \"Corpse Bride\", Neil Gaiman's movie \"Coraline\", the PlayStation 3 games \"LittleBigPlanet\" (2008) and \"Guacamelee!\" (2013), and the 1998 Tim Schafer computer game \"Grim Fandango.\"\n\nCalacas are prominently featured as representations of the deceased in \"The Book of Life\".\n\nIn \"Monster High\", Skelita Calaveras is a calaca and is the daughter of Los Esklitos (The Skeletons).\n\nIn \"\", the villain Sartana of the Dead is a calaca and commands various calacas that are in her service.\n\nThe Calacas are featured in \"Coco\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37596728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37596728", "title": "Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities", "text": "Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities\n\nThe Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission) is an independent chapter nine institution in South Africa. It draws its mandate from the South African Constitution by way of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities Act of 2002.\n\nThe CRL Rights Commission is mandated \"to promote respect for and further the protection of the rights of cultural, religious and linguistic communities; promote and develop peace, friendship, humanity, tolerance, national unity among and within cultural, religious and linguistic communities on the basis of equality, non-discrimination and free association; to promote the right of communities to develop their historically diminished heritage and to recognise community councils\".\n\nThe vision of the CRL Rights Commission is \"a united South African nation that protects and promotes the cultural, religious and linguistic rights of all its diverse communities\". Its mission is to \"promote and protect the rights of cultural, religious and linguistic communities\".\n\nOn 2 April 2014, 12 new commissioners of the CRL Commission were inaugurated at the Constitutional Court. This was subsequent to their appointment by President Jacob Zuma in terms of section 11(4) read with 13(1) of the CRL Rights Commission Act 19 of 2002 with effect from 1 March 2014, for a period of five years. The inauguration ceremony was presided over by Justice Edwin Cameron.The 12 new members of the CRL Rights Commission are:\n\nMs Thoko Nonhle Mkhwanazi-Xaluva (Chairperson)\n\nProf Luka David Mosoma (Deputy Chairperson)\n\nDr Anton Wynard Knoetze\n\nMr Renier Stephanus Schoeman\n\nMr Sicelo Emmanuel Dlamini\n\nMr Raymond Trollip\n\nMr Richard Daryll Botha\n\nMs Violet Nomalanga Tyamzashe\n\nMs Bernedette Muthien\n\nMs Pumla Primrose Madiba\n\nMs Helen Julia Mabale\n\nMs Sheila Fihliwe Khama.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5530157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530157", "title": "Deconsecration", "text": "Deconsecration\n\nDeconsecration is the act of removing a religious blessing from something that had been previously consecrated by a minister or priest of that religion. The practice is usually performed on churches to be rendered to non-religious (secular) use or demolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2882259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2882259", "title": "Dialogue Between a Priest and a Dying Man", "text": "Dialogue Between a Priest and a Dying Man\n\nDialogue Between a Priest and a Dying Man (original French: \"Dialogue entre un prêtre et un moribond\") is a dialogue written by the Marquis de Sade while incarcerated at the Château de Vincennes in 1782. It is one of the earliest known written works from de Sade to be dated with certainty, and was first published in 1926 together with an edition of \"Historiettes, Contes et Fabliaux\" (written originally in 1788). It was subsequently published in English in 1927 by Pascal Covici in a limited, hand-numbered edition of 650 copies.\n\nThe work expresses the author's atheism by having a dying man (a libertine) tell a priest about what he views as the mistakes of a pious life.\n\nAccording to John Phillips, Emeritus Professor of French Literature and Culture at London Metropolitan University:\nOf all the direct expressions of atheism in Sade's work, the \"Dialogue\"... is probably the most incisive and, at the same time, the most artistically satisfying... The influence of Sade's Jesuit training in rhetorical debate is the mainspring of this brilliant dramatic essay, which, as the title suggests, is not so much theatre as philosophical dialogue. But what makes the work charming as well as persuasive is the impish humour that lies behind its characters and situation.\nHowever, Steven Barbone, of San Diego State University notes that:\nWe can postulate one of two things: Sade was entirely pleased with this manuscript and saw no reason to make any changes to it or Sade completely gave up on the dialogue and had decided to abandon it. The reason for either of these hypotheses is that the manuscript itself contains almost no trace of Sade’s editing. It is up to the reader to divine whether the “Dialogue between the Priest and a Dying Man” is Sade’s position or not. Either way, it is worth reading even in the very unlikely event that it presents a position Sade would have repudiated. (This may be the case: near the beginning of October 1788, Sade himself made a catalogue of his works, and the “Dialogue” is omitted.) \n\nSade completed the notebook which contains the Dialogue on 12 July 1782, while imprisoned at Château de Vincennes. He took the manuscript with him when he was transferred to the Bastille in 1784.\n\nFollowing the Storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789, Sade's prison writings disappeared (Sade had been moved to Charenton on 4 July), the manuscript of the Dialogue among them. However, it survived in private collections and was sold on at auction a number of times during the nineteenth century. On 6 November 1920 it was bought by Maurice Heine at an auction at the Hôtel Drouot, Paris, and he oversaw its publication in France for the first time in 1926 in a limited edition of 500 copies for which he wrote an introduction.\n\nThe Dialogue has been republished in French several times since the 1950s, including in scholarly editions of the works of Sade edited by Gilbert Lely, Le Brun and Pauvert, and Michel Delon.\n\nThe first English translation was published in the United States by Pascal Covici in 1927, again in a limited edition of 650 numbered copies. The translator was Samuel Putnam. This edition was based on the first French edition and included a translation of Heine's introduction.\n\nIn 1929, Haldeman-Julius published the Putnam translation as Little Blue Book #1405, under the title \"Dialogue between a priest and a dying atheist\". A version of this edition (with a short extract from Heine's introduction) was republished in 1997 by Chaz Bufe's See Sharp Press.\n\nFurther original English translations have been produced by Leonard de Saint-Yves (1953 ), Paul Dinnage (1953, incomplete), Richard Seaver and Austryn Wainhouse (1965. For more on the Seaver/Wainhouse translations of de Sade, see Wyngaard (2013) ), Paul J. Gillett (1966 ), Nicolas Walter (1982, reprinted 2001), Margaret Crosland (1991 ), David Coward (1992 ) and Steven Barbone (2000 ).\n\nThe dialogue inspired a similar scene in Luis Buñuel's film \"Nazarín\" (1959), wherein a dying woman wards off a priest while on her deathbed. Buñuel had previously adapted \"The 120 Days of Sodom\" into a scene in his earlier \"L'Age d'Or\" (1930) and would go on to feature the Marquis himself as a character in \"La Voie Lactée\" (1969).\n\n"}
{"id": "52577251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52577251", "title": "Disability and religion", "text": "Disability and religion\n\nTopics on disability and religion may concentrate on the manner in which disabled people are treated within religious communities, the religious texts of those religions, or the general input from religious discourse on matters relating to the disabled. Studies on the relationship between religion and the disabled vary widely, with some postulating the existence of ableism and others viewing religion as a primary medium through which to assist the disabled. Religious exhortation often prompts adherents to treat the disabled with deference, however when the disability constitutes a mental illness such an approach may be slanted with an acknowledgement of the latter's naivete. In religions with an eschatological belief in divine judgment, there are often traditions promulgating an exemption from judgement in the afterlife for the mentally disabled, as well as for children who die before reaching maturity due to both lacking an understanding of their actions in a manner analogous to the mental disorder defense. Regarding the rationale behind God's creation of disabled people, some religions maintain that their contrast with the able-bodied permits the able-bodied to reflect and God to subsequently assess the level of gratitude shown by each individual for their health.\n\n"}
{"id": "13568947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13568947", "title": "Dualistic cosmology", "text": "Dualistic cosmology\n\nDualism in cosmology is the moral or spiritual belief that two fundamental concepts exist, which often oppose each other. It is an umbrella term that covers a diversity of views from various religions, including both traditional religions and scriptural religions.\n\nMoral dualism is the belief of the great complement of, or conflict between, the benevolent and the malevolent. It simply implies that there are two moral opposites at work, independent of any interpretation of what might be \"moral\" and independent of how these may be represented. Moral opposites might, for example, exist in a worldview which has one god, more than one god, or none. By contrast, duotheism, bitheism or ditheism implies (at least) two gods. While bitheism implies harmony, ditheism implies rivalry and opposition, such as between good and evil, or light and dark, or summer and winter. For example, a ditheistic system could be one in which one god is a creator, and the other a destroyer. In theology, dualism can also refer to the relationship between God and creation or God and the universe (see theistic dualism). This form of dualism is a belief shared in certain traditions of Christianity and Hinduism. Alternatively, in ontological dualism, the world is divided into two overarching categories. The opposition and combination of the universe's two basic principles of yin and yang is a large part of Chinese philosophy, and is an important feature of Taoism. It is also discussed in Confucianism.\n\nMany myths and creation motifs with dualistic cosmologies have been described in ethnographic and anthropological literature. These motifs conceive the world as being created, organized, or influenced by two demiurges, culture heroes, or other mythological beings, who either compete with each other or have a complementary function in creating, arranging or influencing the world. There is a huge diversity of such cosmologies. In some cases, such as among the Chukchi, the beings collaborate rather than competing, and contribute to the creation in a coequal way. In many other instances the two beings are not of the same importance or power (sometimes, one of them is even characterized as gullible). Sometimes they can be contrasted as good versus evil. They may be often believed to be twins or at least brothers. Dualistic motifs in mythologies can be observed in all inhabited continents. Zolotaryov concludes that they cannot be explained by diffusion or borrowing, but are rather of convergent origin: they are related to a dualistic organization of society (moieties); in some cultures, this social organization may have ceased to exist, but mythology preserves the memory in more and more disguised ways.\n\nMoral dualism is the belief of the great complement or conflict between the benevolent and the malevolent. Like ditheism/bitheism (see below), moral dualism does not imply the absence of monist or monotheistic principles. Moral dualism simply implies that there are two moral opposites at work, independent of any interpretation of what might be \"moral\" and—unlike ditheism/bitheism—independent of how these may be represented.\n\nFor example, Mazdaism (Mazdean Zoroastrianism) is both dualistic and monotheistic (but not monist by definition) since in that philosophy God—the Creator—is purely good, and the antithesis—which is also uncreated–is an absolute one. Zurvanism (Zurvanite Zoroastrianism), Manichaeism, and Mandaeism are representative of dualistic \"and\" monist philosophies since each has a supreme and transcendental First Principle from which the two equal-but-opposite entities then emanate. This is also true for the lesser-known Christian gnostic religions, such as Bogomils, Catharism, and so on. More complex forms of monist dualism also exist, for instance in Hermeticism, where \"Nous\" \"thought\"—that is described to have created man—brings forth both good and evil, dependent on interpretation, whether it receives prompting from the God or from the Demon. Duality with pluralism is considered a logical fallacy.\n\nMoral dualism began as a theological belief. Dualism was first seen implicitly in Egyptian religious beliefs by the contrast of the gods Set (disorder, death) and Osiris (order, life). The first explicit conception of dualism came from the Ancient Persian religion of Zoroastrianism around the mid-fifth century BC. Zoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion that believes that Ahura Mazda is the eternal creator of all good things. Any violations of Ahura Mazda's order arise from \"druj\", which is everything uncreated. From this comes a significant choice for humans to make. Either they fully participate in human life for Ahura Mazda or they do not and give \"druj\" power. Personal dualism is even more distinct in the beliefs of later religions.\n\nThe religious dualism of Christianity between good and evil is not a perfect dualism as God (good) will inevitably destroy Satan (evil). Early Christian dualism is largely based on Platonic Dualism (See: Neoplatonism and Christianity). There is also a personal dualism in Christianity with a soul-body distinction based on the idea of an immaterial Christian soul.\n\nWhen used with regards to multiple gods, \"dualism\" may refer to duotheism, bitheism, or ditheism. Although ditheism/bitheism imply moral dualism, they are not equivalent: ditheism/bitheism implies (at least) two gods, while moral dualism does not necessarily imply \"theism\" (theos = god) at all.\n\nBoth bitheism and ditheism imply a belief in two equally powerful gods with complementary or antonymous properties; however, while bitheism implies harmony, ditheism implies rivalry and opposition, such as between good and evil, bright and dark, or summer and winter. For example, a ditheistic system would be one in which one god is creative, the other is destructive (cf. theodicy). In the original conception of Zoroastrianism, for example, Ahura Mazda was the spirit of ultimate good, while Ahriman (Angra Mainyu) was the spirit of ultimate evil.\n\nIn a bitheistic system, by contrast, where the two deities are not in conflict or opposition, one could be male and the other female (cf. duotheism). One well-known example of a bitheistic or duotheistic theology based on gender polarity is found in the neopagan religion of Wicca. In Wicca, dualism is represented in the belief of a god and a goddess as a dual partnership in ruling the universe. This is centered on the worship of a divine couple, the Moon Goddess and the Horned God, who are regarded as lovers. However, there is also a ditheistic theme within traditional Wicca, as the Horned God has dual aspects of bright and dark - relating to day/night, summer/winter - expressed as the Oak King and the Holly King, who in Wiccan myth and ritual are said to engage in battle twice a year for the hand of the Goddess, resulting in the changing seasons. (Within Wicca, bright and dark do not correspond to notions of \"good\" and \"evil\" but are aspects of the natural world, much like yin and yang in Taoism.)\n\n\nHowever, bitheistic and ditheistic principles are not always so easily contrastable, for instance in a system where one god is the representative of summer and drought and the other of winter and rain/fertility (cf. the mythology of Persephone). Marcionism, an early Christian sect, held that the Old and New Testaments were the work of two opposing gods: both were First Principles, but of different religions.\n\nIn theology, dualism can refer to the relationship between God and creation or God and the universe. This form of dualism is a belief shared in certain traditions of Christianity and Hinduism.\n\nThe dualism between God and Creation has existed as a central belief in multiple historical sects and traditions of Christianity, including Marcionism, Catharism, Paulicianism, and Gnostic Christianity. Christian dualism refers to the belief that God and creation are distinct, but interrelated through an indivisible bond. In sects like the Cathars and the Paulicians, this is a dualism between the material world, created by an evil god, and a moral god. Historians divide Christian dualism into absolute dualism, which held that the good and evil gods were equally powerful, and mitigated dualism, which held that material evil was subordinate to the spiritual good. The belief, by Christian theologians who adhere to a libertarian or compatibilist view of free will, that free will separates humankind from God has also been characterized as a form of dualism. The theologian Leroy Stephens Rouner compares the dualism of Christianity with the dualism that exists in Zoroastrianism and the Samkhya tradition of Hinduism. The theological use of the word dualism dates back to 1700, in a book that describes the dualism between good and evil.\n\nThe tolerance of dualism ranges widely among the different Christian traditions. As a monotheistic religion, the conflict between dualism and monism has existed in Christianity since its inception. The 1912 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" describes that, in the Catholic Church, \"the dualistic hypothesis of an eternal world existing side by side with God was of course rejected\" by the thirteenth century, but mind–body dualism was not. The problem of evil is difficult to reconcile with absolute monism, and has prompted some Christian sects to veer towards dualism. Gnostic forms of Christianity were more dualistic, and some Gnostic traditions posited that the Devil was separate from God as an independent deity. The Christian dualists of the Byzantine Empire, the Paulicians, were seen as Manichean heretics by Byzantine theologians. This tradition of Christian dualism, founded by Constantine-Silvanus, argued that the universe was created through evil and separate from a moral God.\n\nThe Cathars, a Christian sect in southern France, believed that there was a dualism between two gods, one representing good and the other representing evil. The Roman Catholic Church denounced the Cathars as heretics, and sought to crush the movement in the 13th century. The Albigensian Crusade was initiated by Pope Innocent III in 1208 to remove the Cathars from Languedoc in France, where they were known as Albigesians. The Inquisition, which began in 1233 under Pope Gregory IX, also targeted the Cathars.\n\nGnosticism is a diverse, syncretistic religious movement consisting of various belief systems generally united in the teaching that humans are divine souls trapped in a material world created by an imperfect god, the demiurge, who is frequently identified with the Abrahamic God. The demiurge may be depicted as an embodiment of evil, or in other instances as merely imperfect and as benevolent as its inadequacy permits. This demiurge exists alongside another remote and unknowable supreme being that embodies good.\n\nBogomils, Paulicans and Cathars are typically seen as being imitative of Gnosticism. Whether or not the Cathari possessed direct historical influence from ancient Gnosticism is a matter of dispute. The basic conceptions of Gnostic cosmology are, however, to be found in Cathar beliefs (most distinctly in their notion of a lesser creator god). Unlike the second century Gnostics, they did not apparently place any special relevance upon knowledge (\"gnosis\") as an effective salvific force.\n\nThe Dvaita Vedanta school of Indian philosophy espouses a dualism between God and the universe by theorizing the existence of two separate realities. The first and the more important reality is that of Shiva or Shakti or Vishnu or Brahman. Shiva or Shakti or Vishnu is the supreme Self, God, the absolute truth of the universe, the independent reality. The second reality is that of dependent but equally real universe that exists with its own separate essence. Everything that is composed of the second reality, such as individual soul (Jiva), matter, etc. exist with their own separate reality. The distinguishing factor of this philosophy as opposed to Advaita Vedanta (monistic conclusion of Vedas) is that God takes on a personal role and is seen as a real eternal entity that governs and controls the universe. Because the existence of individuals is grounded in the divine, they are depicted as reflections, images or even shadows of the divine, but never in any way identical with the divine. Salvation therefore is described as the realization that all finite reality is essentially dependent on the Supreme.\n\nAlternatively, \"dualism\" can mean the tendency of humans to perceive and understand the world as being divided into two overarching categories. In this sense, it is dualistic when one perceives a tree as a thing separate from everything surrounding it. This form of ontological dualism exists in Taoism and Confucianism, beliefs that divide the universe into the complementary oppositions of yin and yang. In traditions such as classical Hinduism, Zen Buddhism or Islamic Sufism, a key to enlightenment is \"transcending\" this sort of dualistic thinking, without merely substituting dualism with monism or pluralism.\n\nThe opposition and combination of the universe's two basic principles of yin and yang is a large part of Chinese philosophy, and is an important feature of Taoism, both as a philosophy and as a religion, although the concept developed much earlier. Some argue that yin and yang were originally an earth and sky god, respectively. As one of the oldest principles in Chinese philosophy, yin and yang are also discussed in Confucianism, but to a lesser extent.\n\nSome of the common associations with yang and yin, respectively, are: male and female, light and dark, active and passive, motion and stillness. Some scholars believe that the two ideas may have originally referred to two opposite sides of a mountain, facing towards and away from the sun. The yin and yang symbol in actuality has very little to do with Western dualism; instead it represents the philosophy of balance, where two opposites co-exist in harmony and are able to transmute into each other. In the yin-yang symbol there is a dot of yin in yang and a dot of yang in yin. In Taoism, this symbolizes the inter-connectedness of the opposite forces as different aspects of Tao, the First Principle. Contrast is needed to create a distinguishable reality, without which we would experience nothingness. Therefore, the independent principles of yin and yang are actually dependent on one another for each other's distinguishable existence.\n\nThe complementary dualistic concept seen in yin and yang represent the reciprocal interaction throughout nature, related to a feedback loop, where opposing forces do not exchange in opposition but instead exchange reciprocally to promote stabilization similar to homeostasis. An underlying principle in Taoism states that within every independent entity lies a part of its opposite. Within sickness lies health and vice versa. This is because all opposites are manifestations of the single Tao, and are therefore not independent from one another, but rather a variation of the same unifying force throughout all of nature.\n\nIn a Nenets myth, Num and Nga collaborate and compete with each other, creating land, there are also other myths about competing-collaborating demiurges.\n\nAmong others, also dualistic myths were investigated in researches which tried to compare the mythologies of Siberian peoples and settle the problem of their origins. Vyacheslav Ivanov and Vladimir Toporov compared the mythology of Ket people with those of Uralic peoples, assuming in the studies, that there are modelling semiotic systems in the compared mythologies; and they have also made typological comparisons. Among others, from possibly Uralic mythological analogies, those of Ob-Ugric peoples and Samoyedic peoples are mentioned. Some other discussed analogies (similar folklore motifs, and purely typological considerations, certain binary pairs in symbolics) may be related to dualistic organization of society—some of such dualistic features can be found at these compared peoples. It must be admitted that, for Kets, neither dualistic organization of society nor cosmological dualism has been researched thoroughly: if such features existed at all, they have either weakened or remained largely undiscovered; although there are some reports on division into two exogamous patrilinear moieties, folklore on conflicts of mythological figures, and also on cooperation of two beings in creating the land: the diving of the water fowl. If we include dualistic cosmologies meant in broad sense, not restricted to certain concrete motifs, then we find that they are much more widespread, they exist not only among some Uralic peoples, but there are examples in each inhabited continent.\n\nA Chukchi myth and its variations report the creation of the world; in some variations, it is achieved by the collaboration of several beings (birds, collaborating in a coequal way; or the creator and the raven, collaborating in a coequal way; or the creator alone, using the birds only as assistants).\n\nAll three Fuegian tribes had dualistic myths about culture heros. The Yámana have dualistic myths about the two brothers. They act as culture heroes, and sometimes stand in an antagonistic relation with each other, introducing opposite laws. Their figures can be compared to the Kwanyip-brothers of the Selk'nam. In general, the presence of dualistic myths in two compared cultures does not imply relatedness or diffusion necessarily.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42106922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42106922", "title": "Elite religion", "text": "Elite religion\n\nIn sociology, elite religion is defined as the symbols, rituals and beliefs which are recognized as legitimate by the leadership of that religion.\n\nElite religion is often contrasted with folk religion, or the religious symbols and beliefs of the masses. Elite religion is then the \"official religion\" as championed by the leaders of a religion.\n\nSociologist Charles Liebman theorized that the strengthening of elite religion over members of a particular group led to the growth of denominationalism.\n"}
{"id": "1870071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870071", "title": "Epoché", "text": "Epoché\n\nEpoché (ἐποχή \"epokhē\", \"suspension\") is an ancient Greek term typically translated as \"suspension of judgment\" but also as \"withholding of assent\". In its philosophical usage \"epoché\" describes the state where all judgments about non-evident matters are suspended in order to induce a state of ataraxia (freedom from worry and anxiety). This concept was developed by the Pyrrhonist school of philosophy and was also employed in Academic Skepticism.\n\nEpoché plays an implicit role in subsequent skeptical thought, as in René Descartes' epistemic principle of methodic doubt. The term was popularized in modern philosophy by Edmund Husserl. Husserl elaborates the notion of 'phenomenological epoché' or 'bracketing' in \"Ideas I\". Through the systematic procedure of 'phenomenological reduction', one is thought to be able to suspend judgment regarding the general or naive philosophical belief in the existence of the external world, and thus examine phenomena as they are originally given to consciousness.\n\nEpoché plays an important role in Pyrrhonism, the skeptical philosophy named after Pyrrho. Pyrrhonism provides practitioners with techniques for achieving epoché through use of the Ten Modes of Aenesidemus, the Five Modes of Agrippa, and the Pyrrhonist maxims. Pyrrhonism is mostly known today through the writings of the Pyrrhonist philosopher Sextus Empiricus whose surviving works appear to be an encyclopedia of Pyrrhonist arguments for inducing epoché across a breadth of philosophical and other intellectual issues of antiquity.\n\nIn phenomenological research epoché is described as a process involved in blocking biases and assumptions in order to explain a phenomenon in terms of its own inherent system of meaning. This is a general predisposition one must assume before commencing phenomenological study. It is different from bracketing, which is to acknowledge any personal bias or contextual assumptions of the researcher. This involves systematic steps to \"set aside\" various assumptions and beliefs about a phenomenon in order to examine how the phenomenon presents itself in the world of the participant.\n\n"}
{"id": "19011806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19011806", "title": "Evolutionary origin of religions", "text": "Evolutionary origin of religions\n\nThe emergence of religious behavior by the Neolithic period has been discussed in terms of evolutionary psychology, the origin of language and mythology, cross-cultural comparison of the anthropology of religion, as well as evidence for spirituality or cultic behavior in the Upper Paleolithic, and similarities in great ape behavior.\n\nHumanity's closest living relatives are common chimpanzees and bonobos. These primates share a common ancestor with humans who lived between six and eight million years ago. It is for this reason that chimpanzees and bonobos are viewed as the best available surrogate for this common ancestor. Barbara King argues that while non-human primates are not religious, they do exhibit some traits that would have been necessary for the evolution of religion. These traits include high intelligence, a capacity for symbolic communication, a sense of social norms, realization of \"self\" and a concept of continuity. There is inconclusive evidence that \"Homo neanderthalensis\" may have buried their dead which is evidence of the use of ritual. The use of burial rituals is thought to be evidence of religious activity, and there is no other evidence that religion existed in human culture before humans reached behavioral modernity. Other evidences have revealed that \"Homo neanderthalensis\" have made cave art, which would be a way of symbolic thinking close to the religious one .\n\nElephants demonstrate rituals around their deceased, which includes long periods of silence and mourning at the point of death and a process of returning to grave sites and caressing the remains. Some evidence suggests that many species grieve death and loss.\n\nIn this set of theories, the religious mind is one consequence of a brain that is large enough to formulate religious and philosophical ideas. During human evolution, the hominid brain tripled in size, peaking 500,000 years ago. Much of the brain's expansion took place in the neocortex. The cerebral neocortex is presumed to be responsible for the neuronal computations underlying complex phenomena such as perception, thought, language, attention, episodic memory and voluntary movement. According to Dunbar's theory, the relative neocortex size of any species correlates with the level of social complexity of the particular species. The neocortex size correlates with a number of social variables that include social group size and complexity of mating behaviors. In chimpanzees the neocortex occupies 50% of the brain, whereas in modern humans it occupies 80% of the brain.\n\nRobin Dunbar argues that the critical event in the evolution of the neocortex took place at the speciation of archaic homo sapiens about 500,000 years ago. His study indicates that only after the speciation event is the neocortex large enough to process complex social phenomena such as language and religion. The study is based on a regression analysis of neocortex size plotted against a number of social behaviors of living and extinct hominids.\n\nStephen Jay Gould suggests that religion may have grown out of evolutionary changes which favored larger brains as a means of cementing group coherence among savannah hunters, after that larger brain enabled reflection on the inevitability of personal mortality.\n\nLewis Wolpert argues that causal beliefs that emerged from tool use played a major role in the evolution of belief. The manufacture of complex tools requires creating a mental image of an object which does not exist naturally before actually making the artifact. Furthermore, one must understand how the tool would be used, that requires an understanding of causality. Accordingly, the level of sophistication of stone tools is a useful indicator of causal beliefs. Wolpert contends use of tools composed of more than one component, such as hand axes, represents an ability to understand cause and effect. However, recent studies of other primates indicate that causality may not be a uniquely human trait. For example, chimpanzees have been known to escape from pens closed with multiple latches, which was previously thought could only have been figured out by humans who understood causality. Chimpanzees are also known to mourn the dead, and notice things that have only aesthetic value, like sunsets, both of which may be considered to be components of religion or spirituality.\nThe difference between the comprehension of causality by humans and chimpanzees is one of degree. The degree of comprehension in an animal depends upon the size of the prefrontal cortex: the greater the size of the prefrontal cortex the deeper the comprehension.\n\nReligion requires a system of symbolic communication, such as language, to be transmitted from one individual to another. Philip Lieberman states \"human religious thought and moral sense clearly rest on a cognitive-linguistic base\". From this premise science writer Nicholas Wade states: \nAnother view distinguishes individual religious belief from collective religious belief. While the former does not require prior development of language, the latter does. The individual human brain has to explain a phenomenon in order to comprehend and relate to it. This activity predates by far the emergence of language and may have caused it. The theory is, belief in the supernatural emerges from hypotheses arbitrarily assumed by individuals to explain natural phenomena that cannot be explained otherwise. The resulting need to share individual hypotheses with others leads eventually to collective religious belief. A socially accepted hypothesis becomes dogmatic backed by social sanction.\n\nFrans de Waal and Barbara King both view human morality as having grown out of primate sociality. Although morality awareness may be a unique human trait, many social animals, such as primates, dolphins and whales, have been known to exhibit pre-moral sentiments. According to Michael Shermer, the following characteristics are shared by humans and other social animals, particularly the great apes:\nDe Waal contends that all social animals have had to restrain or alter their behavior for group living to be worthwhile. Pre-moral sentiments evolved in primate societies as a method of restraining individual selfishness and building more cooperative groups. For any social species, the benefits of being part of an altruistic group should outweigh the benefits of individualism. For example, a lack of group cohesion could make individuals more vulnerable to attack from outsiders. Being part of a group may also improve the chances of finding food. This is evident among animals that hunt in packs to take down large or dangerous prey.\n\nAll social animals have hierarchical societies in which each member knows its own place. Social order is maintained by certain rules of expected behavior and dominant group members enforce order through punishment. However, higher order primates also have a sense of fairness. In a 2008 study, de Waal and colleagues put two capuchin monkeys side by side and gave them a simple task to complete: Giving a rock to the experimenter. They were given cucumbers as a reward for executing the task, and the monkeys obliged. But if one of the monkeys was given grapes, something interesting happened:\nAfter receiving the first piece of cucumber, the capuchin monkey gave the experimenter a rock as expected. But upon seeing that the other monkey got grapes, the capuchin monkey threw away the next piece of cucumber that was given to him.\nChimpanzees live in fission-fusion groups that average 50 individuals. It is likely that early ancestors of humans lived in groups of similar size. Based on the size of extant hunter-gatherer societies, recent Paleolithic hominids lived in bands of a few hundred individuals. As community size increased over the course of human evolution, greater enforcement to achieve group cohesion would have been required. Morality may have evolved in these bands of 100 to 200 people as a means of social control, conflict resolution and group solidarity. According to Dr. de Waal, human morality has two extra levels of sophistication that are not found in primate societies. Humans enforce their society's moral codes much more rigorously with rewards, punishments and reputation building. Humans also apply a degree of judgment and reason not otherwise seen in the animal kingdom.\n\nPsychologist Matt J. Rossano argues that religion emerged after morality and built upon morality by expanding the social scrutiny of individual behavior to include supernatural agents. By including ever-watchful ancestors, spirits and gods in the social realm, humans discovered an effective strategy for restraining selfishness and building more cooperative groups. The adaptive value of religion would have enhanced group survival.\nRossano is referring here to collective religious belief and the social sanction that institutionalized morality. According to Rossano's teaching, individual religious belief is thus initially epistemological, not ethical, in nature.\n\nCognitive scientists underlined that religions may be explained as a result of the brain architecture that expressed in early \"Homo\" genus, through the history of life. However, there is disagreement on the exact mechanisms that drove the evolution of the religious mind. The two main schools of thought hold that either religion evolved due to natural selection and has selective advantage, or that religion is an evolutionary byproduct of other mental adaptations. Stephen Jay Gould, for example, believed that religion was an exaptation or a spandrel, in other words that religion evolved as byproduct of psychological mechanisms that evolved for other reasons.\n\nSuch mechanisms may include the ability to infer the presence of organisms that might do harm (agent detection), the ability to come up with causal narratives for natural events (etiology), and the ability to recognize that other people have minds of their own with their own beliefs, desires and intentions (theory of mind). These three adaptations (among others) allow human beings to imagine purposeful agents behind many observations that could not readily be explained otherwise, e.g. thunder, lightning, movement of planets, complexity of life. The emergence of collective religious belief identified the agents as deities that standardized the explanation.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that religion is genetically \"hardwired\" into the human condition. One controversial proposal, the God gene hypothesis, states that some variants of a specific gene, the VMAT2 gene, predispose to spirituality.\n\nAnother view is based on the concept of the triune brain: the reptilian brain, the limbic system, and the neocortex, proposed by Paul D. MacLean. Collective religious belief draws upon the emotions of love, fear, and gregariousness and is deeply embedded in the limbic system through socio-biological conditioning and social sanction. Individual religious belief utilizes reason based in the neocortex and often varies from collective religion. The limbic system is much older in evolutionary terms than the neocortex and is, therefore, stronger than it much in the same way as the reptilian is stronger than both the limbic system and the neocortex.\n\nYet another view is that the behavior of people who participate in a religion makes them feel better and this improves their fitness, so that there is a genetic selection in favor of people who are willing to believe in religion. Specifically, rituals, beliefs, and the social contact typical of religious groups may serve to calm the mind (for example by reducing ambiguity and the uncertainty due to complexity) and allow it to function better when under stress. This would allow religion to be used as a powerful survival mechanism, particularly in facilitating the evolution of hierarchies of warriors, which if true, may be why many modern religions tend to promote fertility and kinship.\n\nStill another view, proposed by F.H. Previc, is that human religion was a product of an increase in dopaminergic functions in the human brain and a general intellectual expansion beginning around 80 kya. Dopamine promotes an emphasis on distant space and time, which is critical for the establishment of religious experience. While the earliest shamanic cave paintings date back around 40 kya, the use of ochre for rock art predates this and there is clear evidence for abstract thinking along the coast of South Africa 80 kya.\n\nThe exact time when humans first became religious remains unknown, however research in evolutionary archaeology shows credible evidence of religious-cum-ritualistic behaviour from around the Middle Paleolithic era (45-200 thousand years ago).\n\nThe earliest evidence of religious thought is based on the ritual treatment of the dead. Most animals display only a casual interest in the dead of their own species. Ritual burial thus represents a significant change in human behavior. Ritual burials represent an awareness of life and death and a possible belief in the afterlife. Philip Lieberman states \"burials with grave goods clearly signify religious practices and concern for the dead that transcends daily life.\"\n\nThe earliest evidence for treatment of the dead comes from Atapuerca in Spain. At this location the bones of 30 individuals believed to be \"Homo heidelbergensis\" have been found in a pit.\nNeanderthals are also contenders for the first hominids to intentionally bury the dead. They may have placed corpses into shallow graves along with stone tools and animal bones. The presence of these grave goods may indicate an emotional connection with the deceased and possibly a belief in the afterlife. Neanderthal burial sites include Shanidar in Iraq and Krapina in Croatia and Kebara Cave in Israel.\n\nThe earliest known burial of modern humans is from a cave in Israel located at Qafzeh. Human remains have been dated to 100,000 years ago. Human skeletons were found stained with red ochre. A variety of grave goods were found at the burial site. The mandible of a wild boar was found placed in the arms of one of the skeletons. Philip Lieberman states:\n\nMatt Rossano suggests that the period between 80,000–60,000 years before present, following the retreat of humans from the Levant to Africa, was a crucial period in the evolution of religion.\n\nThe use of symbolism in religion is a universal established phenomenon. Archeologist Steven Mithen contends that it is common for religious practices to involve the creation of images and symbols to represent supernatural beings and ideas. Because supernatural beings violate the principles of the natural world, there will always be difficulty in communicating and sharing supernatural concepts with others. This problem can be overcome by anchoring these supernatural beings in material form through representational art. When translated into material form, supernatural concepts become easier to communicate and understand. Due to the association of art and religion, evidence of symbolism in the fossil record is indicative of a mind capable of religious thoughts. Art and symbolism demonstrates a capacity for abstract thought and imagination necessary to construct religious ideas. Wentzel van Huyssteen states that the translation of the non-visible through symbolism enabled early human ancestors to hold beliefs in abstract terms.\n\nSome of the earliest evidence of symbolic behavior is associated with Middle Stone Age sites in Africa. From at least 100,000 years ago, there is evidence of the use of pigments such as red ochre. Pigments are of little practical use to hunter gatherers, thus evidence of their use is interpreted as symbolic or for ritual purposes. Among extant hunter gatherer populations around the world, red ochre is still used extensively for ritual purposes. It has been argued that it is universal among human cultures for the color red to represent blood, sex, life and death.\n\nThe use of red ochre as a proxy for symbolism is often criticized as being too indirect. Some scientists, such as Richard Klein and Steven Mithen, only recognize unambiguous forms of art as representative of abstract ideas. Upper paleolithic cave art provides some of the most unambiguous evidence of religious thought from the paleolithic. Cave paintings at Chauvet depict creatures that are half human and half animal.\n\nOrganised religion traces its roots to the neolithic revolution that began 11,000 years ago in the Near East but may have occurred independently in several other locations around the world. The invention of agriculture transformed many human societies from a hunter-gatherer lifestyle to a sedentary lifestyle. The consequences of the neolithic revolution included a population explosion and an acceleration in the pace of technological development. The transition from foraging bands to states and empires precipitated more specialized and developed forms of religion that reflected the new social and political environment. While bands and small tribes possess supernatural beliefs, these beliefs do not serve to justify a central authority, justify transfer of wealth or maintain peace between unrelated individuals.\nOrganized religion emerged as a means of providing social and economic stability through the following ways:\nThe states born out of the Neolithic revolution, such as those of Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, were theocracies with chiefs, kings and emperors playing dual roles of political and spiritual leaders. Anthropologists have found that virtually all state societies and chiefdoms from around the world have been found to justify political power through divine authority. This suggests that political authority co-opts collective religious belief to bolster itself.\n\nFollowing the neolithic revolution, the pace of technological development (cultural evolution) intensified due to the invention of writing 5000 years ago. Symbols that became words later on made effective communication of ideas possible. Printing invented only over a thousand years ago increased the speed of communication exponentially and became the main spring of cultural evolution.\nWriting is thought to have been first invented in either Sumeria or Ancient Egypt and was initially used for accounting. Soon after, writing was used to record myth. The first religious texts mark the beginning of religious history. The Pyramid Texts from ancient Egypt are one of the oldest known religious texts in the world, dating to between 2400–2300 BCE. Writing played a major role in sustaining and spreading organized religion. In pre-literate societies, religious ideas were based on an oral tradition, the contents of which were articulated by shamans and remained limited to the collective memories of the society's inhabitants. With the advent of writing, information that was not easy to remember could easily be stored in sacred texts that were maintained by a select group (clergy). Humans could store and process large amounts of information with writing that otherwise would have been forgotten. Writing therefore enabled religions to develop coherent and comprehensive doctrinal systems that remained independent of time and place.\nWriting also brought a measure of objectivity to human knowledge. Formulation of thoughts in words and the requirement for validation made mutual exchange of ideas and the sifting of generally acceptable from not acceptable ideas possible. The generally acceptable ideas became objective knowledge reflecting the continuously evolving framework of human awareness of reality that Karl Popper calls 'verisimilitude' – a stage on the human journey to truth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33521798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33521798", "title": "Foundation for Interreligious and Intercultural Research and Dialogue", "text": "Foundation for Interreligious and Intercultural Research and Dialogue\n\nThe Foundation for Interreligious and Intercultural Research and Dialogue (FIIRD) was founded in 1999, sponsored by the Levant Foundation with the University of Geneva in Switzerland \"to pursue its scholarly and humanistic goals with the main objective of fostering understanding of the three monotheistic religions: Christianity, Islam and Judaism.\" The main program of the FIIRD is to enhance knowledge and the critical examination of the wellsprings of each religious tradition and then to acquire the linguistic and strategic tools needed to study the normative scriptures of these religions without syncretism or proselytism.\n\nThe Board of Trustees currently includes \n\nIn 2006 the FIIRD published a boxed set of the three Holy Books, the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament and the Holy Qur'an.\n\nAnother goal of the FIIRD, strongly supported by the Levant Foundation, was to create a post-doctoral program at the University of Geneva in the field of interreligious and intercultural dialogue whereby several Fellows, each possessing a PhD in theology, philosophy, history or other humanities and dedicated to further their knowledge and understanding of the monotheistic religions, participate in approved research and publish their results all done with the goal of searching for peace between the Abrahamistic religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31635345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31635345", "title": "God Makes the Rivers to Flow", "text": "God Makes the Rivers to Flow\n\nGod Makes the Rivers to Flow is an anthology of spiritual texts for use in meditation, assembled by Eknath Easwaran. Condensed versions have been published under the titles Timeless Wisdom (book) and Sacred Literature of the World (audio recording). First published as a book in the US in 1982, progressively enlarged or revised versions of \"God Makes the Rivers to Flow\" were also issued in the US in 1991, 2003, and 2009. English editions have been published in India, and a French edition has been published. The book has been reviewed in newspapers, magazines, professional journals, and websites,\nand utilized in research studies and education.\n\nFor nearly four decades, Easwaran taught a method of meditation, known as passage meditation, which involves focusing the mind on inspiring sacred texts, such as the \"23rd Psalm\" or the Buddha's \"Discourse on Good Will\". Throughout this time, he received inquiries about whether various texts were suitable passages for meditation. He taught that passages should meet the criteria he had learned to trust in his own practice: a passage should be \"positive, practical, universal, and inspiring\". and drawn from a scripture or a person whose words and life attest to spiritual realization. \"God Makes the Rivers to Flow\" grew as a collection of such passages.\n\nAll US editions of \"God Makes the Rivers to Flow\" and its derivatives contain an introduction, plus numerous 1- to 3- or more page selections of spiritual texts from many traditions. Examples of spiritual texts are shown in the table at right.\n\n“for a long time, I do nothing but observe... and study it from every angle. I focus all my concentration on this task... At first, I see nothing but a huge and shapeless rock... Then slowly, very slowly, I... feel a presentiment... an outline, scarcely discernible, shows itself to me... An elephant is stirring in there!... I now know the one thing I must do:... I must chip away every last bit of stone that is \"not\" elephant. What then remains will be, must be, elephant.”\nSimilarly, Easwaran says, meditation helps us to reveal \"our higher self... [a] spark of divinity [that] is to be found in the heart of each human being... [by] resolutely chip[ping] away whatever is not divine in ourselves.\" This process is neither easy or quick, and \"can't be done in a week or by the weak.\" But \"whatever our tradition, we are inheritors of straightforward spiritual practices [that] vary a bit from culture to culture... but essentially... are the same.\" Meditation is the most potent practice, enabling us to \"see the lineaments of our true self\":\n\nIn meditation, the inspirational passage is the chisel, our concentration is the hammer... When we use our will to drive the thin edge of the passage deep into consciousness, we get the purchase to pry loose tenacious habits and negative attitudes. The passage, whether it is from the Bhagavad Gita or \"The Imitation of Christ\" or the Dhammapada of the Buddha, has been tempered in the flames of mystical experience...\nAccording to Easwaran, \"the great principle upon which meditation rests is that we become what we meditate on.\" This, he says, is consistent with our experience that even in everyday life, we are shaped by what occupies our thoughts – for example, if we spend most of our time \"studying the market, checking the money rates, evaluating our portfolios, we are going to become money-people.\" Thus, in selecting meditation passages, Easwaran has \"aimed for the highest the human being is capable of, the most noble and elevating truths that have ever been expressed on this planet.\" Indeed,\n\nThe test of suitable meditation passages is simply this: Does the passage bear the imprint of deep, personal spiritual experience? Is it the statement of one who went beyond the narrow confines of past conditioning into the unfathomable recesses of the mind, there to begin the great work of transformation?... whatever lacks this validation by personal experience, however poetic or imaginative... is not suited for use in meditation.\n\nHe also states that passages should be \"life affirming,\" and encourages building a varied repertoire of passages that can \"guard against overfamiliarity... [and] match a passage to your particular need at the time.\"\n\nThe 2nd and 3rd editions contain several supplementary sections:\n\nThe 3rd edition – published originally in 2003, and revised in 2009 – also contains:\n\nThe condensed edition (\"Timeless Wisdom\", 2008) contains about half of the 3rd edition's passages, plus its Introduction, and a new 6-page preface, \"In the Company of Saints & Sages,\" offering examples of how passages can function as a \"mirror for helping us translate the lofty vision of the world's great spiritual traditions\" into our daily lives.\n\nReviews have appeared in the \"International Journal of Humanities & Peace\", \"Resurgence\", \n\"New Age Journal\",\n\"Prairie Messenger\",\n\"BC Catholic\",\n\"Fellowship in Prayer\",\n\"The Times of India\", \"India-West\",\nand elsewhere.\n\nIn \"The International Journal of Humanities & Peace\", Carol Burke wrote that \"God Makes the Rivers to Flow\" (2003) contains \"rich resources\" that offer \"much to satisfy even the most restless mind.\" In addition to the \"vast assortment of inspiring passages,\" the section on using passages for specific purposes is \"practical,\" the biographical notes are \"interesting,\" and the introduction \"entertainingly encourages\" readers to begin personal transformation. Burke states that many passage sources will be familiar, but \"many other passages perhaps less familiar, from Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, and the Sufi and Native American traditions... are equally inspiring.\" She adds that \"in this reviewer's opinion, it is regrettable that nothing appears from the eloquent Nez Perce leader Chief Joseph.\"\n\nIn \"Resurgence\", Marian van Eyk McCain wrote that \"it feels refreshingly ecumenical to see sacred texts from many different wisdom traditions gathering peaceably between two covers.\" \"God Makes the Rivers to Flow\" \"contains old favorites like the Prayer of St Francis,\" verses from well-known scriptures, psalms, prayers, poems, two Native American pieces, and selections from \"many... individual sages like Gandhi, Shankara, Hildegard, Thomas à Kempis and Hazrat Inayat Khan.\" McCain also warned those \"like me\" with an aversion to a \"preponderance of male pronouns\" that \"The divine feminine is seriously under-represented here (less than five percent) and only one fifth of the pieces are gender-neutral.\" In response, a letter from a reader, Margaret Purrett, also published by \"Resurgence\", argued that \"meditators need to be tolerant of metaphors for divinity and gender usage from the past. I would not like to be prevented from enjoying and using the \"Bhagavad Gita\", the \"Vedas\", \"Dhammapada\", or the \"Psalms\" merely because of references to male pronouns. Would anyone?\" Purrett stated that \"In fact, Eknath Easwaran made new translations of many passages to make them more neutral for this last edition, and he changed many of the masculine singulars to neutral plurals.\"\n\n\"The Times of India\" described the passages in \"God Makes the Rivers to Flow\" as \"positive and practical, inspiring and life-affirming,\" \"alive with the charge of mystical awareness,\" and having \"the power to change your life.\"\n\n\"Prairie Messenger\", a Roman Catholic publication, stated that \"these texts should have wide-ranging appeal since they are devoted to catching a glimpse of our inner being. Having taught meditation for over 30 years, Easwaran knows the importance of texts, the discipline of mental training, the use of a mantram, a holy formula, and daily meditation periods... Easwaran is a faithful guide.\"\n\nReviewing the audio edition (1995), \"Fellowship in Prayer\" stated that \"There is no end to the beauty that pours forth from the Blue Mountain Meditation Center in California, where Sri Eknath Easwaran continues to weave the golden threads of his ministry.\" The reviewer described the audio as \"magnificent,\" stating that \"the depths of Easwaran's great soul brings each text to its most full expression of beauty and holiness... one has a sense of huge ocean waves rolling slowly, quietly, softly, timelessly, onto a distant shore... My heart overflows with gratitude.\"\n\nIn \"B.C. Catholic's\" review of the audio edition (1995), Paul Matthew St. Pierre stated that \"All of them [the passages] are spiritually thrilling both in their content and as read aloud by Easwaran.\" St. Pierre stated that \"My own position... is that works of literature are to be read aloud, to be assigned a voice,\" and that\n\nHaving now listened (twice!) to all 170 minutes of readings, I feel confident in stating that this tape will stand up to repeated \"hearings\" from audiences interested in ecumenical Scriptures and holy books by saints and mystics, and in particular audiences looking for inspiration and dedicated to meditation.\n\"New Age Journal\" stated that \"as an attractive sampler of sacred literature [the book] would be impressive enough. But these passages were chosen... for their transformative power... The meanings and rhythms of the selections are calming. Their beauty inevitably emanates from their simplicity.\"\n\n\"India-West\" stated that the book \"fills an important void in our lives... The passages chosen are practical, positive and universal in appeal and of great literary beauty.\"\n\n\"BC Catholic's\" review of the 3rd edition (2003) stated that \"This would be a wonderful book to help with one's Advent preparation and discipline... the book is designed for lectio divina and meditation... the book... will fill readers with a sense of wonder, mostly obviously because it collects profoundly inspirational passages... but also because it demands that readers study the passages deferentially, with reverence.\" It mentioned many passages as comprising \"Catholic content,\" and stated that\n\nAll the content, from all the faith traditions, in the spirit of ecumenism, is deeply inspirational. For example, the 'Invocations' of Ansari of Herat... \"O Lord, give me that right discrimination / That the lure of the world may cheat me no more. Give me strength / That my faith suffer no eclipse.\" This prayer evokes not only the penitence of Ramadan (Islam's month of fasting...) but also the preparation and discipline of Advent.\nExcerpts from the book have been quoted or reproduced in journals, magazines, and numerous books.\nLarge portions of the introduction were reproduced in 2008 in \"Yoga Journal\".\n\n\"God Makes the Rivers to Flow\" has been used as instructional materials in scientific studies of Easwaran's Passage Meditation among health professionals and college undergraduates.\nEducational psychologists have used the book in college courses to foster learning from \"spiritual models\" – people, such as the authors of the passages, who exemplify spiritual qualities. The passages were viewed as providing spiritual \"modeling information.\"\n\nThe original edition was published as a printed book in 1982 by Nilgiri Press. Additional English-language versions, sometimes condensed, or in electronic or audio recording form, have been published in the US and India. A translation has also been published in French.\n\nThe English-language editions are:\n\nCondensed:\n\nAudio:\n\nIndian editions (condensed and full):\n\nFrench edition:\n\nAudio versions: Examples from \"Sacred Literature of the World\" (audio book)\n"}
{"id": "38468625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38468625", "title": "Good News Awards", "text": "Good News Awards\n\nGood News Awards are awarded annually to news media organizations with offices in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, for specific examples of published media that \"affirm the dignity of people, recognize and uphold universally-recognized human values, and uplift and nourish the human spirit.\" The Good News Awards, and related Certificates of Merit, have been given annually since 1998 and are given for works in broadcasting, print or the web.\n\nThe divisions and categories of Good News Awards have changed over time; for the 2012 and 2013 award years there were four divisions for entry:\nThe six categories in each division were:\n\nSubmissions are for works from the previous calendar year, with at most one submission per category per media organization. Submissions are made in February by an editor of the media organization, and Awards are formally to the media organization with credit given to the individual author(s) of the work. Representatives and authors from the winning organizations have been invited to a luncheon and receive a plaque or certificate. The media organization itself receives the award, which is an Upper Peninsula photograph or painting that combines light with evidence of peaceful human works. In 2012, forty-six media professionals were recognized from among twenty Upper Peninsula media organizations that submitted entries.\n\nMaterial receiving awards is expected to uphold values such as community, creativity, tolerance, justice, respect, compassion, perseverance, truth, faith, care for the environment or the dedication to excellence. The awards have been sponsored annually by the religious leaders of the Evangelical Lutheran, Presbyterian, United Methodist, Catholic and Episcopal Churches in the Upper Peninsula region. Although the sponsors have been religious organizations, the award criteria do not involve religious content and topics of award-winning material are generally secular.\n"}
{"id": "52936760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52936760", "title": "Hyperreligiosity", "text": "Hyperreligiosity\n\nHyperreligiosity is a psychiatric disturbance in which a person experiences intense religious beliefs or experiences that interfere with normal functioning. Hyperreligiosity generally includes abnormal beliefs and a focus on religious content, which interferes with work and social functioning. Hyperreligiosity may occur in a variety of disorders including epilepsy, psychotic disorders and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Hyperreligiosity is a symptom of Geschwind syndrome, which is associated with temporal lobe epilepsy.\n\nHyperreligiosity is characterized by an increased tendency to report spiritual, religious or mystical experiences, religious delusions, rigid legalistic thoughts, and extravagant expression of religiosity. Hyperreligiosity may also include religious hallucinations.\n\nHyperreligiosity may be associated with epilepsy — in particular temporal lobe epilepsy involving complex partial seizures — mania, frontotemporal lobar degeneration, Anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis, hallucinogen related psychosis and psychotic disorder. In persons with epilepsy episodic hyperreligosity may occur ictally or postictally, but is usually a chronic personality feature that occurs interictally. Hyperrelgiosity was associated in one small study with decreased right hippocampal volume. The medial prefrontal cortex may play a role in controlling religiousness, and dysfunction may lead to hyperreligiosity. Increased activity in the left temporal regions has been associated with hyperreligiosity in psychotic disorders. Pharmacological evidence points towards dysfunction in the ventral dopaminergic pathway.\n\nEpilepsy related cases may respond to antiepileptics.\n"}
{"id": "53677324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53677324", "title": "I Married a Jew", "text": "I Married a Jew\n\n\"I Married a Jew\" is an essay by Gretchen Lewis published in \"The Atlantic\" in the January 1939 issue. It discusses her marriage to a Jewish man, referred to as Ben in the article. Herself being a Christian White American of German descent, she describes her marriage as an interracial marriage. The article also discusses the assimilation of Jews and other minorities into a white American mainstream culture. She writes that she frequently tries \"to see things from the Nazis' point of view,\" to \"the hurt confusion\" of her Jewish husband.\n\nThe essay became the subject of extensive commentary after \"The Atlantic\" published its archive on the Internet in 2008, leading to the article's rediscovery and going viral. The commentary focused on the topics of white privilege and the prejudices in America at the time, and pointed out her naïveté and the fact that \"the author, a liberal-minded young woman, manages nonetheless to be spectacularly wrong about just about everything.\" Jonathan Chait wrote that \"she tries to take a balanced, blame-both-sides-equally approach to the anti-Semitism issue\" and called her \"the world’s first recorded Shiksplainer,\" a portmanteau of the disparaging Yiddish term shiksa, meaning a non-Jewish woman or girl, and mansplainer. Olga Khazan wrote that the \"tone-deaf\" article serves as a cautionary tale against Islamophobia today, and noted that it \"echoes current conversations about European Muslim identity.\"\n\nThe article was published anonymously, but her name was published in the \"Catalog of Copyright Entries\". According to the article, Lewis was around 29 years old when it was published in 1939.\n\n"}
{"id": "78215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78215", "title": "Incarnation", "text": "Incarnation\n\nIncarnation literally means \"embodied in flesh\" or \"taking on flesh\". It refers to the conception and birth of a sentient being who is the material manifestation of an entity, god or force whose original nature is immaterial. In its religious context the word is used to mean the descent from Heaven of a god, deity, or divine being in human/animal form on Earth.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, God is not seen to be incarnated into this world and is not seen to be part of creation as he cannot be divided and does not descend to the condition of his creatures. The Manifestations of God are also not seen as an incarnation of God, but are instead understood to be like a perfect mirror reflecting the attributes of God onto this material world.\n\nBuddhism is a non-theistic religion, it denies the concept of a creator god or any incarnation of a creator god. Buddhism, however, does teach the rebirth doctrine and asserts that living beings are reborn, endlessly, reincarnating as Devas (gods), demi-gods, human beings, animals, hungry ghosts or hellish beings, in a cycle of \"samsara\" that stops only for those who reach nirvana (nibbana).\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, an enlightened spiritual teacher (lama) is believed to reincarnate, and is called a \"tulku\". According to Tulku Thondup, there are three main types of tulkus. They are the emanations of buddhas, the manifestations of highly accomplished adepts, and rebirths of highly virtuous teachers or spiritual friends. There are also authentic secondary types as well which include unrecognized tulkus, blessed tulkus, and tulkus fallen from the path.\n\nLogos-Sarx-Schema uses to explain incarnation of the Son of God. The incarnation of Christ is a central Christian doctrine that God became flesh, assumed a human nature, and became a man in the form of Jesus, the Son of God and the second person of the Trinity. This foundational Christian position holds that the divine nature of the Son of God was perfectly united with human nature in one divine Person, Jesus, making him both truly God and truly man. The theological term for this is hypostatic union: the Second Person of the Trinity, God the Son, became flesh when he was miraculously conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary. Biblical passages traditionally referenced in connection with the doctrine of the Incarnation include , , and .\nIn Hinduism, incarnation refers to its rebirth doctrine, and in its theistic traditions to \"avatar\". Avatar literally means \"descent, alight, to make one's appearance\", and refers to the embodiment of the essence of a superhuman being or a deity in another form. The word also implies \"to overcome, to remove, to bring down, to cross something\". In Hindu traditions, the \"crossing or coming down\" is symbolism, states Daniel Bassuk, of the divine descent from \"eternity into the temporal realm, from unconditioned to the conditioned, from infinitude to finitude\". An avatar, states Justin Edwards Abbott, is a \"saguna\" (with form, attributes) embodiment of the \"nirguna\" Brahman or Atman (soul).\n\nNeither the Vedas nor the Principal Upanishads ever mentions the word \"avatar\" as a noun. The verb roots and form, such as \"avatarana\", do appear in ancient post-Vedic Hindu texts, but as \"action of descending\", but not as an incarnated person (avatara). The related verb \"avatarana\" is, states Paul Hacker, used with double meaning, one as action of the divine descending, another as \"laying down the burden of man\" suffering from the forces of evil.\n\nThe term is most commonly found in the context of the Hindu god Vishnu. The earliest mention of Vishnu manifested in a human form to empower the good and fight against evil, uses other terms such as the word \"sambhavāmi\" in verse 4.6 and the word \"tanu\" in verse 9.11 of the Bhagavad Gita, as well as other words such as \"akriti\" and \"rupa\" elsewhere. It is in medieval era texts, those composed after the sixth century CE, that the noun version of avatar appears, where it means embodiment of a deity. The incarnation idea proliferates thereafter, in the Puranic stories for many deities, and with ideas such as \"ansha-avatar\" or partial embodiments.\n\nWhile Avatars of other deities such as Ganesha and Shiva are also mentioned in medieval Hindu texts, this is minor and occasional. The incarnation doctrine is one of the important differences between Vaishnavism and Shaivism traditions of Hinduism.\n\nThe translation of avatar as \"incarnation\" has been questioned by Christian theologists, who state that an incarnation is in flesh and imperfect, while avatar is mythical and perfect. The theological concept of Christ as an incarnation, as found in Christology, presents the Christian concept of incarnation. This, state Oduyoye and Vroom, is different from the Hindu concept of avatar because avatars in Hinduism are unreal and is similar to Docetism. Sheth disagrees and states that this claim is an incorrect understanding of the Hindu concept of avatar. Avatars are true embodiments of spiritual perfection, one driven by noble goals, in Hindu traditions such as Vaishnavism.\n\nMainstream Islam completely rejects the doctrine of the incarnation of God in any form, as the concept is defined as \"shirk\". In mainstream Islam God is one and \"neither begets nor is begotten\".\n\nMainstream Judaism totally rejects any doctrine of an incarnation of God and absolutely rejects any concept of an incarnation of God in any form. However, some Hasidim believe in a somewhat similar concept. Menachem Mendel Schneerson, a prominent Hasidic leader, said that the \"Rebbe\" is God's essence itself put into a body of a \"tzadik\".\n\nSerer religion rejects any notion of an incarnation or manifestation of \"Roog\" (the supreme deity in Serer religion), called Koox among the Cangin. However, the reincarnation (\"ciiɗ\") of the ancient Serer saints and ancestral spirits, called \"Pangool\", is a well held principle in Serer religion. These Pangool (singular : \"Fangool\") act as intermediaries between the living world and the Devine. When the Serers speak of incarnation, it is these Pangool they refer to, who are themselves holy by virtue of their intercession with the Divine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2571823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2571823", "title": "Indigenous religious beliefs of the Philippines", "text": "Indigenous religious beliefs of the Philippines\n\nVarious terms have been used to refer to the religious beliefs of the 175 ethnolinguistic groups of the Philippines, where each had their own form of indigenous government prior to colonization from Islam and Spain. They are characterized as being animistic, and have been collectively referred to as Anitism or Bathalism or the more modern and less Tagalog-centric Dayawism.\n\nThe profusion of different terms arises from the fact that these indigenous religions mostly flourished in the pre-colonial period before the Philippines had become a single nation. The various peoples of the Philippines spoke different languages and thus used different terms to describe their religious beliefs. While these beliefs can be treated as separate religions, scholars have noted that they follow a \"common structural framework of ideas\" which can be studied together.\n\nSome writers have noted that these beliefs have similarities with the Shinto religion of Japan, although they do not draw a historical linkage between the two belief systems. More historically linked are the various indigenous religious beliefs the various religions of Oceania and the maritime Southeast Asia, which draw their roots from Austronesian beliefs as those in the Philippines.\n\nAs of 2010, an estimated 2% of the Philippine population identified as practicing indigenous beliefs - the majority of whom live in isolated areas where Islam, Catholicism, or Protestantism have not become dominant. Since the entrance of the 21st century, streams of Christian and Muslim Filipinos are steadily reverting to their indigenous ethnic religions that were once branded as lowly by Spanish, American, and Arabians colonizers, but have been affirmed by the social sciences as comprehensive and highly in nature.\n\nOn the other hand, many aspects of these traditions have been integrated into the local practice of Catholicism and Islam, resulting in syncretistic practices called \"Folk Catholicism\" and \"Folk Islam\".\n\nThe folklore narratives associated with these religious beliefs constitute what is now called Philippine mythology, and is an important aspect of the study of Philippine culture and Filipino psychology.\n\nHistorian T. Valentino Sitoy, in his review of documents concerning pre-Spanish religious beliefs, notes that three core characteristics which shaped the religious worldview of Filipinos throughout the archipelago before the arrival of Spanish colonizers. First, Filipinos believed in the existence of parallel spirit world, which was invisible but had an influence on the visible world. Second, Filipinos believed that there were spirits (\"anito\") everywhere - ranging from the high creator gods to minor spirits that lived in the environment such as trees or rocks or creeks. Third, Filipinos believed that events in the human world were influenced by the actions and interventions of these spirit beings.\n\n\"Anito\" were the ancestor spirits (\"umalagad\"), or nature spirits and deities (\"diwata\") in the indigenous animistic religions of precolonial Philippines. \"Paganito\" (also \"maganito\" or \"anitohan\") refers to a séance, often accompanied by other rituals or celebrations, in which a shaman (Visayan: \"babaylan\", Tagalog: \"katalonan\") acts as a medium to communicate directly with the spirits. When a nature spirit or deity is specifically involved, the ritual is called \"pagdiwata\" (also \"magdiwata\" or \"diwatahan\"). \"Anito\" can also refer to the act of worship or a religious sacrifice to a spirit.\n\nWhen Spanish missionaries arrived in the Philippines, the word \"anito\" came to be associated with the physical representations of spirits that featured prominently in \"paganito\" rituals. During the American rule of the Philippines (1898–1946), the meaning of the Spanish word \"idolo\" (\"a thing worshiped\") has been further conflated with the English word \"idol\", and thus \"anito\" has come to refer almost exclusively to the carved figures or statues (\"taotao\") of ancestral and nature spirits.\n\nThe belief in \"anito\" is sometimes referred to as anitism in scholarly literature (Spanish: \"anitismo\" or \"anitería\").\n\nMany indigenous Filipino cultures assert the existence of a high god, creator god, or sky god. Among the Tagalogs, the supreme god was known as Bathala, who was additionally described as Maykapal (the all-powerful) or Lumikha (the creator). Among the Visayan peoples the creator God is referred to as Laon, meaning \"the ancient one.\" Among the Manuvu, the highest god was called Manama. Among most of the Cordilleran peoples (with the Apayao region as an exception), the creator and supreme teacher is known as Kabuniyan.\n\nIn most cases, however, these gods were considered such great beings that they were too distant for ordinary people to approach. People thus tended to pay more attention to \"lesser gods\" or \"assistant deities\" who could more easily approached, and whose wills could more easily be influenced.\n\nLesser deities in Filipino religions generally fit into three broad categories: nature spirits residing in the environment, such as a mountain or a tree; guardian spirits in charge of specific aspects of daily life such as hunting or fishing; and deified ancestors or tribal heroes. These categories frequently overlap, with individual deities falling into two or more categories, and in some instances, deities evolve from one role to another, as when a tribal hero known for fishing becomes a guardian spirit associated with hunting.\n\nDuring the pre-Hispanic period, \"babaylan\", functioned as shamans and spiritual leaders and \"mananambal\" were for folk healers. At the onset of the Colonial era, the suppression of the \"babaylans\" and the native Filipino religion gave rise to the \"albularyo\". By exchanging the native prayers and spells with Catholic \"oraciones\" and Christian prayers, the albularyo was able to synchronize the ancient mode of healing with the new religion.\n\n\"Albularyos\" employ herbs, alum, coconut oil, etc., in their healing practices as well as various prayers, chants and \"supernatural\" cures—especially for cases involving supernatural causes. As time progressed, the \"albularyo\" became more prominent in rural areas in the Philippines. Lacking access to scientific medical practices, rural Filipinos trusted the \"albularyos\" to rid them of common (and sometimes believed to be supernatural) sicknesses and diseases.\n\nHowever, the role of the \"albularyo\" was slowly overshadowed by the rise of modern medical facilities. Urbanization gave the masses access to more scientific treatments, exchanging the chants and herbs of the \"albularyos\" with the newer technologies offered by the medical field. Still, \"albularyos\" flourish in many rural areas in the Philippines where medical facilities are still expensive and sometimes inaccessible.\n\nSome of the rituals observed by Filipino Folk Healers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11412059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11412059", "title": "Lawh-i-Tibb", "text": "Lawh-i-Tibb\n\nLawh-i-Tibb, Tablet to a Physician or Tablet of Medicine is a tablet of Bahá'u'lláh to Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-Ridáy-i-Tabib-i-Yazdí, a doctor of the old school of medicine. It was written in Akká between 1870 and 1875.\n\nIn this tablet, Bahá'u'lláh gives advice on eating habits and emotions, and the need for medical treatment. It includes a well-known healing prayer by Bahá'u'lláh:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40008104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40008104", "title": "Liberal naturalism", "text": "Liberal naturalism\n\nLiberal naturalism is a heterodox form of metaphysical naturalism that lies in the conceptual space between scientific (or reductive) naturalism and supernaturalism. It allows that one can respect the explanations and results of the successful sciences without supposing that the sciences are our only resource for understanding humanity and our dealings with the world and each other.\n\nThe term was introduced in 2004 by Mario De Caro & David Macarthur and, independently, by Gregg Rosenberg. This form of naturalism has been ascribed to Immanuel Kant.\n\nFor a liberal naturalist many things in our everyday world that are not explicable (or not fully explicable) by science are, nonetheless, presupposed by science—e.g. tables, persons, artworks, institutions, rational norms and values. Explaining such things might require non-scientific non-supernatural resources according to this form of naturalism. So, rather than tailoring their ontology to the posits of the successful sciences, as scientific naturalists do, liberal naturalists recognise the prima facie irreducible reality of everyday objects that are part of what Wilfrid Sellars called \"the manifest image\".\n\nLiberal naturalism is a \"liberal\" or \"catholic\" naturalism for several reasons each of which contrasts with scientific naturalist orthodoxy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8224087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8224087", "title": "List of angels in theology", "text": "List of angels in theology\n\nThis is a list of angels in theology, including both specific angels (e.g. Gabriel) and types of angels (e.g. Seraphim).\n\nNote that some overlap is to be expected with the list of theological demons entry, since various traditions have different classifications for the spirits they mention. \n\n"}
{"id": "33795885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33795885", "title": "List of eschatological topics", "text": "List of eschatological topics\n\nThe following topics pertain to eschatology, a part of theology, physics, philosophy and futurology concerned with what are believed to be the final events of history, the ultimate destiny of humanity — commonly referred to as the \"end of the world\" or \"end time\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40305296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40305296", "title": "Living Interfaith Church", "text": "Living Interfaith Church\n\nLiving Interfaith Church is a religious unity founded by Steven Greenebaum and based in Lynnwood, Washington, United States, which embraces the teachings of all spiritual paths that lead people to seek a life of compassionate action.\n\nInterfaith, as a faith, does not seek to discover which religion or spiritual path is \"right\". Rather, it recognizes that everyone is brother and sister, and that at different times and different places we have encountered the sacred differently.\n\nLiving Interfaith Church celebrates differing spiritual paths. They claim that what is the same in every religion is the call to compassion, the call to think beyond ourselves, and to recognize that we are all connected. Interfaith \"calls upon us not to ignore our differences, but to rather to respect them, and to realize that each of our paths, in their own special and different way, call us to love and to be loving\".\n\nThe church views Interfaith as a faith that celebrates humanity's differing spiritual paths. It believes that a person's actions in this world are what count and that humanity is called to engage the world, both with compassion and with love. A stated tenet of the church is to respect all faith traditions and not to ignore their importance or their differences. Christianity is acknowledged as different from Buddhism. Islam is acknowledged as different from Humanism, and so forth. According to the movement, the claim of Interfaith as a faith is that what is the same within all of humanity’s spiritual paths is the call to compassion, to thinking beyond ourselves, and to recognizing that we are all connected.\n\nGreenebaum stated that \"interfaith, as a spiritual practice, can serve as a new model for how we deal with each other and a new vision for how we act on our religious beliefs to live compassionate lives and share the world in harmony.\" \n\nReverend Steven Greenebaum, the founder of the Living Interfaith Church, grew up as a Reform Jew in suburban Los Angeles.\n\nHe has a Master's degree in Mythology, Music, and Pastoral Studies. His experiences directing Jewish, Methodist, Presbyterian, and Interfaith choirs have helped him to understand the profound wisdom of many spiritual traditions. He has dedicated his life to working for social and environmental justice through a multitude of forums. When asked about his entity, he explained: “My faith is Interfaith. My spiritual path is Judaism. My tribe is Humanity. I’m also a minister, choir director, and vegetarian.”\n\nIn 2012 he published his first book \"The Interfaith Alternative: Embracing Spiritual Diversity\" through New Society Publishers.\nHis second book, \"Practical Interfaith\", was published by \"Skylight Paths\" in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "3332274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3332274", "title": "Millenarianism in colonial societies", "text": "Millenarianism in colonial societies\n\nMillenarianism has been found through history among people who rally around often-apocalyptic religious prophecies that predict a return to power, the defeat of enemies, and/or the accumulation of wealth. These movements have been especially common among people living under colonialism or other forces that disrupt previous social arrangements.\n\nThe phrase \"millennialist movement\" has been used by scholars in anthropology and history to describe the common features of these religious phenomena when viewed as social movements, and has most often been used to describe the social movements that have taken place in colonized societies.\n\nChristianity itself can be seen as originating in a millenarian movement among Jewish people living under Roman rule, although its characteristics as a social movement quickly changed as it spread through the Roman Empire. The Book of Revelation also predicts a thousand-year reign of Jesus prior to the defeat of Satan. \n\nSome millenarian movements include:\n\n"}
{"id": "30712470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30712470", "title": "Open Episcopal Church", "text": "Open Episcopal Church\n\nThe Open Episcopal Church (OEC) is a liberal Christian denomination. It has bishops in England and Wales and clergy throughout the United Kingdom and internationally. It has over 29,000 members.\n\nThe church was the first in Britain to ordain a woman as bishop and to perform religious wedding ceremonies for gay couples.\n\nThe OEC is a member of the International Council of Community Churches, which in turn is a member of The World Council of Churches and Churches Uniting in Christ.\n\nIn 1994 Jonathan Blake, who had been a priest in the Church of England for over 12 years, effected a Deed of Relinquishment, severing his denominational ties. \n\nAs an independent priest he offered sacramental ministry to all. In 1997 he wrote about these experiences in his book, \"For God's Sake Don't Go To Church\". The same year he nailed 95 theses to the door of Canterbury Cathedral, for which he was arrested but not charged.\n\nA lesbian from the north of England arranged to meet Blake after reading his book. She felt a call to the ministry but had been rebuffed by the church over her sexuality and was interested in independent ministry. Following the meeting Blake placed an advert in the \"Church Times\" inviting all those interested in such a ministry to a conference the following March. Over 100 people contacted him, among them Richard Palmer, who had been consecrated as a bishop of the Liberal Catholic Church in 1997, but had resigned in April 1999. \n\nBlake wrote the Founding Principles of the Society for Independent Christian Ministry (SICM), which was inaugurated by a group of Christians reciting the Lord’s Prayer in the Sanctum of the Holy Circle Trust near Ryarsh in Kent at sunrise on 1 January 2000.\n\nIn February 2001, Blake conducted the first gay wedding blessing on Richard and Judy's prime time TV programme \"This Morning\".\n\nBy the time SICM met for the third time in Bournemouth, Palmer required those who had been ordained simply in Dartford to be ordained \"sub conditione\" at this gathering in a full rite of ordination. Blake realized that a new denomination had to be founded and set about writing the necessary canons.\n\nAt Hazlewood Castle, Michael Wilson was consecrated a bishop by Palmer and Blake. The three bishops issued the \"Hazlewood Declaration\" on 10 November 2001, which facilitated the creation of the Open Episcopal Church. The church viewed itself as being in succession from the Old Catholic Church, which had been established in England in 1908 by Arnold Mathew from See of Utrecht and continued through the Liberal Catholic Church.\n\nFor the next year, the Society of Independent Christian Ministry and the Open Episcopal Church coexisted, but the differences between them made this untenable, and at Liverpool in October 2002 it was decided finally that thereafter they should separate, following similar paths, and containing many of the same people, but with two distinct approaches.\n\nThe first significant meeting of the College of Bishops of the Open Episcopal Church took place in London in July 2002, prior to the separation of the Open Episcopal Church and the Society for Independent Christian Ministry at Liverpool in October of that year.\n\nElizabeth Stuart was consecrated as a bishop at the Royal Holloway Chapel, the college chapel of the Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, the University of London, Egham in Surrey, in April 2003. This was the first consecration of a woman as an independent Catholic bishop in the UK. \n\nThe first congress of the church was held at the All Saints Pastoral Centre in June 2004. The church's college of bishops met at Weston Manor in Oxfordshire in January 2005 and Wilson, an evangelical, resigned from the Church. The second congress was held at Whaley Hall at Whaley Bridge in mid 2005. In October, Roger Whatley was consecrated a bishop in the Chapel of the Ammerdown Conference Centre.\n\nThe church has had three archbishops: Richard Palmer, who left the church along with Roger Whatley after the allotted five-years of Palmer's tenure as archbishop ended; Elizabeth Stuart, who left the church in 2006 and was appointed the Archbishop of the Province of Great Britain and Ireland of the more traditionalist Liberal Catholic Church International; and Jonathan Blake, OEC's founder, who was the church's sole remaining bishop after Stuart left.\n\nIn 2008 the Open Episcopal Church became a member of the International Council of Community Churches and through them, a member of the World Council of Churches and Churches Uniting in Christ.\n\nThe church received national and international attention due to the wedding blessing Blake conducted for reality television figures Jade Goody and Jack Tweed, through interviews broadcast after Jade Goody's death, through the prayer released before Jade Goody's funeral, through Blake's response to Michael Parkinson's criticism of Goody, through the launch of Post the Host (an outreach provision to distribute the consecrated Hosts by post), and through David Gillham leading the prayers in the Scottish Parliament.\n\nFollowing Jade Goody's wedding, Christopher Woods, Chaplain and Director of Studies in Theology at Christ's College, Cambridge, called upon the Church of England to speak out against Blake and the OEC. The Church of England declined to comment.\n\nThe church consecrated the first woman as a bishop for Wales in 2007. The bishop of Scotland, David Gillham, ordained Helen Hamilton at St Magnus Cathedral, Kirkwall, Orkney in 2010; Gillham later fell into dispute with the church and left. Hamilton was subsequently consecrated as the first woman bishop for Scotland in June 2012. She made an episcopal visit to Londonderry. In 2013 the church consecrated a female bishop for Northumberland.\n\nBlake contributed to the book \"A Strange Vocation: Independent Bishops Tell Their Stories\" in 2009, and contributed liturgical material to Geoffrey Duncan's anthology \"Courage to Love\" and Leanne Tigert and Maren Tirabassi's compilation \"All Whom God Has Joined\". In 2014 Blake's book \"That Old Devil Called God Again: The Scourge of Religion\" was published.\n\nThe church has clerics from Anglican, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal, Lutheran and Franciscan backgrounds and has grown internationally into America, Egypt, Brazil and Thailand. The church promotes its KITE Awards for young people making a positive difference in the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "42753007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42753007", "title": "Pemena", "text": "Pemena\n\nPemena is a tribal religion of Karo people of Indonesia. Pemena means the first or the beginning. Pemena is regarded as the first religion of Karo people. One of the doctrines of Pemena is the concept of \"Dibata\".\n"}
{"id": "3593985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593985", "title": "Pralaya", "text": "Pralaya\n\nPralaya (Sanskrit), in Hindu cosmology, is an aeonic term for \"dissolution\", which specifies different periods of time during which a non-activity situation persists, as per different formats or contexts. The word Mahapralaya stands for \"Great Dissolution\". During each pralaya, the lower ten realms (loka) are destroyed, while the higher four realms, including Satya-loka, Tapa-loka, Jana-loka, and Mahar-loka are preserved. During each Mahapralaya, all 14 realms are destroyed.\n\nIn the Samkhya philosophy, one of the six schools of classical Indian philosophy, Pralaya means \"non-existence\", a state of matter achieved when the three gunas (principles of matter) are in perfect balance. The word pra-laya comes from Sanskrit meaning 'dissolution' or by extension 'reabsorption, destruction, annihilation or death'.\n\nThe word pralaya appears in the Cyclops chapter of James Joyce's epic novel \"Ulysses\".\n\n\"Pralaya\" appears in the series of games (specifically \"Persona 3\" and \"Persona 4\") as an attack. While it can be inherited to other Personae, its original user is \"Shiva\", a Persona based on the Hindu deity of the same name.\n\nPralaya is also the name of an antagonist in the DC Comics series \"Justice League Dark\" who appears in the series' final arc, threatening to destroy the fictional multiverse.\n\nPralaya is an otter-like alien wizard who is sometimes overshadowed by the Lone Power in Diane Duane's Young Wizards novel, \"The Wizard's Dilemma\".\n\nThe Swedish metal band, Dissection, references \"Mahapralaya\" in their song, \"Maha Kali\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3862966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3862966", "title": "Religion and agriculture", "text": "Religion and agriculture\n\nReligion and agriculture have been closely associated since neolithic times and the development of early Orphic religions based upon fertility and the seasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1890013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1890013", "title": "Religious Experience Research Centre", "text": "Religious Experience Research Centre\n\nThe Religious Experience Research Centre was founded by the distinguished marine biologist Professor Alister Hardy FRS in 1969 as The Religious Experience Research Unit. He and his co-researchers began to gather a unique archive of accounts of religious experience and to publish research into the area. The maintenance of both the archives and the research and publications have continued. The Centre organises conferences and produces both books and a series of Occasional Papers on religious experience and spirituality.\n\nSir Alister was awarded the \"Templeton Prize for Progress In Religion\" in 1985 and the Centre has since received a grant from the Templeton Foundation for the computerisation of the archives. The Centre was located at Manchester College, Oxford from 1969-1989 and from 1989–1999 at Westminster College, Oxford. In 2000 the Centre moved to the University of Wales, Lampeter\n(presently University of Wales, Trinity Saint David). \n\nThe directors of the Centre are currently Greg Barker, Bettina Schmidt and Sally Wilkinson.\n\n"}
{"id": "10482222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10482222", "title": "Religious fraud", "text": "Religious fraud\n\nReligious fraud is a term used for civil or criminal fraud carried out in the name of a religion or within a religion, e.g. false claims to being kosher or tax fraud.\n\nA specific form of religious fraud is pious fraud (Latin: \"pia fraus\"), whereby one employs lies and/or deception in order to convince others of the truth of one's own religion or specific religious claims. Sometimes these involve 'white lies': the perpetrator may think it more important to make others accept a certain belief than that the method is truthful; this end justifies the means of a lie. A well-known example is the Shroud of Turin, a late Medieval fabrication that supposedly was the clothing in which Jesus would have been buried in the 1st century.\n"}
{"id": "23410414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23410414", "title": "Religious text", "text": "Religious text\n\nReligious texts (also known as scripture, or scriptures, from the Latin \"scriptura\", meaning \"writing\") are texts which religious traditions consider to be central to their practice or beliefs. Religious texts may be used to provide meaning and purpose, evoke a deeper connection with the divine, convey religious truths, promote religious experience, foster communal identity, and guide individual and communal religious practice. Religious texts often communicate the practices or values of a religious traditions and can be looked to as a set of guiding principles which dictate physical, mental, spiritual, or historical elements considered important to a specific religion. The terms 'sacred' text and 'religious' text are not necessarily interchangeable in that some religious texts are believed to be sacred because of their nature as divinely or supernaturally revealed or inspired, whereas some religious texts are simply narratives pertaining to the general themes, practices, or important figures of the specific religion, and not necessarily considered sacred by itself. A core function of a religious text making it sacred is its ceremonial and liturgical role, particularly in relation to sacred time, the liturgical year, the divine efficacy and subsequent holy service; in a more general sense, its performance.\n\nIt is not possible to create an exhaustive list of religious texts, because there is no single definition of which texts are recognized as religious.\n\nOne of the oldest known religious texts is the Kesh Temple Hymn of Ancient Sumer, a set of inscribed clay tablets which scholars typically date around 2600 BCE. The Epic of Gilgamesh from Sumer, although only considered by some scholars as a religious text, has origins as early as 2150-2000 BCE, and stands as one of the earliest literary works that includes various mythological figures and themes of interaction with the divine. The Rig Veda of ancient Hinduism is estimated to have been composed between 1700–1100 BCE, which not only denotes it as one of the oldest known religious texts, but also one of the oldest written religious text which is still actively used in religious practice to this day, though no actual evidence of this text exists prior to the 13th century AD.\n\nThere are many possible dates given to the first writings which can be connected to Talmudic and Biblical traditions, the earliest of which is found in scribal documentation of the 8th century BCE, followed by administrative documentation from temples of the 5th and 6th centuries BCE, with another common date being the 2nd century BCE. Although a significant text in the history of religious text because of its widespread use among religious denominations and its continued use throughout history, the texts of the Abrahamic traditions are a good example of the lack of certainty surrounding dates and definitions of religious texts.\n\nHigh rates of mass production and distribution of religious texts did not begin until the invention of the printing press in 1440, before which all religious texts were hand written copies, of which there were relatively limited quantities in circulation.\n\nA religious canon refers to the generally accepted, uniform, and often unchanging collection of texts which a religious denomination considers comprehensive in terms of their specific application of texts. For example, the content of a Protestant Bible may differ from the content of a Catholic Bible - insofar as the Protestant Old Testament does not include the Deuterocanonical books while the Roman Catholic canon does. Protestants and Catholics use the same 27 book NT canon, as well as the same 39 book OT protocanon, also shared by Jews.\n\nThe word \"canon\" comes from the Sumerian word meaning \"standard\".\n\nThe terms \"scripture\" and variations such as \"Holy Writ\", \"Holy Scripture\" or \"Sacred Scripture\" are defined by the Oxford English Dictionary as terms which specifically apply to Biblical text and the Christian tradition.\n\nHierographology (Ancient Greek: ἱερός, \"hieros\", \"sacred\" or \"holy\"; γραφή, \"graphe\", \"writing\"; λόγος, \"logos\", \"word\" or \"reason\") (archaically also 'hierology') is the study of sacred texts.\n\nThe following is an in-exhaustive list of links to specific religious texts which may be used for further, more in-depth study.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBooks by Bahá'u'lláh\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEach four Kirati people have their own Scripture.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVarious New Age religions may regard any of the following texts as inspired:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNon-LaVeyan Satanists don't use any specific holy book.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49423318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49423318", "title": "Religious tourism in India", "text": "Religious tourism in India\n\nReligious tourism in India is focus of Narendra Modi's national tourism policy. Uttarakhand has been popular as a religious and adventure tourism hub.\n\nMahesh Sharma said, \"In view of religious tourism, Ramdevera and Tanot would also be linked to a tourism circuit in western Rajasthan.\"\n\nReligious tourism has been one of the reason of developing India. India is widely known for its wonderful religious places which are nowhere seen in world. Many places like Kashi Vishwanath, Omkareshwar, Mahakaleshwar, Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath, Kedarnath of lord Shiva are most visited places in India. Even people from USA and UK come to India to visit these places.\n\n"}
{"id": "157909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157909", "title": "Repentance", "text": "Repentance\n\nRepentance is the activity of reviewing one's actions and feeling contrition or regret for past wrongs, which is accompanied by commitment to change for the better. Today, it is generally seen as involving a commitment to personal change and the resolve to live a more responsible and humane life. In other words, being sorry for one's misdeeds. But it can also involve sorrow over a specific sin or series of sins that an individual feels he or she has committed. The practice of repentance plays an important role in the soteriological doctrines of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, in which it is often considered necessary for the attainment of salvation. Analogous practices have been found in other world religions as well. In religious contexts, it often involves an act of confession to God or to a spiritual elder (such as a monk or priest). This typically includes an admission of guilt, a promise or resolve not to repeat the offense; an attempt to make restitution for the wrong, or in some way to reverse the harmful effects of the wrong where possible. As such, it can be seen as having a certain relationship to modern day therapeutic practices though it clearly differs in its particulars.\n\nIn Biblical Hebrew, the idea of repentance is represented by two verbs: שוב \"shuv\" (to return) and נחם \"nacham\" (to feel sorrow). In the New Testament, the word translated as 'repentance' is the Greek word μετάνοια (\"metanoia\"), \"after/behind one's mind\", which is a compound word of the preposition 'meta' (after, with), and the verb 'noeo' (to perceive, to think, the result of perceiving or observing). In this compound word, the preposition combines the two meanings of time and change, which may be denoted by 'after' and 'different'; so that the whole compound means: 'to think differently after'. \"Metanoia\" is therefore primarily an after-thought, different from the former thought; a change of mind and change of conduct, \"change of mind and heart\", or, \"change of consciousness\". metanoia: change of mind, repentance\nOriginal Word: μετάνοια, ας, ἡ\nPart of Speech: Noun, Feminine\nTransliteration: metanoia\nPhonetic Spelling: (met-an'-oy-ah)\nShort Definition: repentance, a change of mind\nDefinition: repentance, a change of mind, change in the inner man.\n\nThe doctrine of repentance as taught in the Bible is a call to persons to make a radical turn from one way of life to another. The repentance (\"metanoia\") called for throughout the Bible is a summons to a personal, absolute and ultimate unconditional surrender to God as Sovereign. Though it includes sorrow and regret, it is more than that. It is a call to \"conversion\" from self-love, self-trust, and self-assertion to obedient trust and self-commitment to God. It is a change of mind that involves a conscious turning away from wrong actions, attitudes and thoughts that conflict with a Godly lifestyle and biblical commands, and an intentional turning toward doing that which the Bible says pleases God. In repenting, one makes a complete change of direction (180° turn) toward God. The words \"repent,\" \"repentance,\" and \"repented\" are mentioned over 100 times in the Bible.\n\nRepentance typically requires an admission of guilt for committing a wrong or for omitting to do the right thing; a promise or resolve not to repeat the offense; an attempt to make restitution for the wrong, or in some way to reverse the harmful effects of the wrong or the omission where possible.\n\n says, \"Thus saith the Lord GOD; Repent, and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces from all your abominations.\"\n\nRabbinic Jewish literature contains extensive discussions on the subject of repentance. Many rabbinic sources state that repentance is of paramount importance to the existence of this world, so that it was one of the seven provisions which God made before the Creation. \"The Holy One, blessed be His name, said to Elijah, 'Behold, the precious gift which I have bestowed on my world: though a man sins again and again, but returns in penitence, I will receive him.' \" \"Great is repentance: it brings healing into the world\"; \"it reaches to the throne of the Lord\"; \"it brings redemption\"; \"it prolongs man's life\"; Talmud Yoma 86a).\n\"Repentance and works of charity are man's intercessors before God's throne\". Sincere repentance is equivalent to the rebuilding of the Temple, the restoration of the altar, and the offering of all the sacrifices.\n\nSincere repentance is manifested when the same temptation to sin, under the same conditions, is ever after resolutely resisted. \"He that confesses his sin and still clings to it is likened to a man that holds in his hand a defiling object; though he batheth in all the waters of the world he is not cleansed; but the moment he casteth the defiling object from him a single bath will cleanse him, as it is said: 'Whosoever confesses and forsakes them [his sins] shall have mercy' \".\n\nAccording to Jewish doctrine, repentance is the prerequisite of atonement. Yom Kippur, the day of atonement, derives its significance only from the fact that it is the culmination of the ten penitential days with which the Jewish religious year begins; and therefore it is of no avail without repentance Though man ought to be penitent every day, the first ten days of every year are the acceptable time announced by the prophet Isaiah: \"Seek the Lord while he may be found, call upon him while he is near\".\n\nRepentance and the Day of Atonement only absolve one from sins committed against God; from sins against another person they absolve only when restitution has been made and the pardon of the offended party has been obtained.\n\nNo one need despair on account of his or her sins, for every penitent sinner is graciously received by God. Jewish doctrine holds that it is never too late, even on the day of death, to return to God with sincere repentance for \"as the sea is always open for every one who wishes to cleanse himself, so are the gates of repentance always open to the sinner\". Jewish doctrine states that the hand of God is continually stretched out to receive a sinner. One view in the Talmud holds that a repentant sinner attains a more exalted spiritual eminence than one who has never sinned. It is a sin to taunt a repentant sinner by recalling their former sinful ways.\n\nRepentance occupies a prominent position in all the ethical writings of the Middle Ages. Bahya ibn Paquda devotes a special section to it in his 'Hovot ha-Levavot\", \"Gate of Repentance.\" Maimonides devotes the last section of \"Sefer ha-Madda'\" in his Mishneh Torah to the subject. One of the most significant medieval works on Repentance is \"Shaarei Teshuva,\" the \"Gates of Repentance\" by Rabbeinu Yona of Gerona.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, repentance generally leads to salvation. In some cases, individuals or nations repent of their sins and are spared God's judgment. Sometimes the punishment avoided is destruction in this life, and sometimes it is damnation. In the Book of Jonah, the prophet initially chose to disobey God's command, and then he repented and became obedient. However, Jonah returned to disobedience when he hoped for the destruction of the city of Nineveh. The Hebrew term \"teshuvah\" (lit. \"return\") is used to refer to \"repentance\". This implies that transgression and sin are the natural and inevitable consequence of man's straying from God and His laws, and that it is man's destiny and duty to be with God. The Bible states that God's loving-kindness is extended to the returning sinner.\n\nThe Torah (five books of Moses) distinguishes between offenses against God and offenses against man. In the first case, the manifestation of repentance consists in: (1) Confession of one's sin before God, the essential part being a solemn promise and firm resolve not to commit the same sin again. (2) Making certain prescribed offerings. Offenses against man require, in addition to confession and sacrifice, restitution in full of whatever has been wrongfully obtained or withheld from one's fellow man, with one-fifth of its value added thereto. If the wronged man has died, restitution must be made to his heir; if he has no heir, it must be given to the priest who officiates at the sacrifice made for the remission of the sin.\n\nThere are other manifestations of repentance mentioned in the Bible. These include pouring out water, which symbolizes the pouring out of one's heart before God; prayer self-affliction, as fasting; wearing sackcloth; sitting and sleeping on the ground. However, the Prophets disparaged all such outer manifestations of repentance, insisting rather on a complete change of the sinner's mental and spiritual attitude. \"Rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord your God: for he is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy, and repenteth him of the evil\". In , the Bible states that repentance brings pardon and forgiveness of sin. Apart from repentance, no other activities, such as sacrifices or religious ceremonies can secure pardon and forgiveness of sin.\n\nIn the New Testament, one of many examples of repentance in the New Testament can be found in the parable of the prodigal son found in . Other instances of repentance included water baptism, restitution, and the burning of occultic possessions.\n\nRepentance appears prominently in the Scriptures. See the description of repentance in the Hebrew Bible above for repentance in the Old Testament. In the New Testament, the first command that Jesus gave was to repent. He thus repeated the message of John the Baptist. Jesus sent out disciples who \"proclaimed that people should repent\". In his Pentecost sermon, Peter the Apostle called on people to repent, an appeal he repeated in his sermon at the Beautiful Gate of the Temple: \"Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out\". Paul the Apostle likewise testified \"both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance toward God\" and said that \"The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent\".\n\nThe Greek word used for repentance in the New Testament is μετάνοια (\"metanoia\"), and the Greek verb for \"to repent\" is μετανοῶ, contracted from μετανο-έω (\"metano-eo\"), as in Mark's account of the initial preaching of Jesus: \"The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God has come near; \"repent\", and believe in the good news.\"\n\nIn English, the prefix \"meta\" can indicate \"beyond, about\", as \"meta-economics\" or \"meta-philosophy\" (see meta), inspired by the non-Greek use of the word \"metaphysics\", which in Greek was just the title of a work of Aristotle, the \"Metaphysics\", so named simply because in the customary ordering of the works of Aristotle it was the book following the \"Physics\"; the Greek word thus meant nothing more than \"[the book that comes] after [the book entitled] \"Physics\"\". In Greek, composite words that have μετα- (\"meta-\") as the initial element are most frequently used \"of \"change\" of place, condition, plan, etc.\", as in the English word \"metamorphosis\". Even in a non-religious context, the Greek word μετάνοια (\"metanoia\"), in particular, meant \"change of mind or heart, repentance\" or, in rhetoric, \"afterthought, correction\".\n\nThe Augsburg Confession, (known in Latin as Confessio Augustana), is the primary confession of faith used in the Lutheran Church. It is one of the most important documents of the Protestant Reformation. It divides repentance into two parts:\n\n\nIn the Calvinist tradition within Protestantism, there is a threefold idea involved in true repentance. The Protestant reformer John Calvin wrote that repentance \"may be justly defined to be a true conversion of our life to God, proceeding from a serious fear of God, and consisting in the mortification of the flesh and of the old man, and in the vivification of the Spirit.” He further said that \"it will be useful to amplify and explain the definition we have given; in which there are three points to be particularly considered\".\n\nIn the first place, when we call repentance 'a conversion of the life to God', we require a transformation, not only in the external actions, but in the soul itself; which, after having put off the old nature, should produce the fruits of actions corresponding to its renovation... \nIn the second place, we represented repentance as proceeding from a serious fear of God. For before the mind of a sinner can be inclined to repentance, it must be excited by the knowledge of the Divine judgment.\nIt remains for us, in the third place, to explain our position, that repentance consists of two parts—the mortification of the flesh and the vivification of the spirit... Both these branches of repentance effects our participation of Christ. For if we truly partake of his death, our old man is crucified by its power, and the body of sin expires, so that the corruption of our former nature loses all its vigor... If we are partakers of his resurrection, we are raised by it to a newness of life, which corresponds with the righteousness of God.\" [Quotes from \"A Compend of the Institutes of the Christian Religion\" by John Calvin edited by Hugh T. Kerr, The Westminster Press-Philadelphia 1939.]\n\nThe word \"tawbah\" (repentance) in Arabic literally means 'to return', and is mentioned in the Quran. In an Islamic context, it refers to the act of leaving what Allah has prohibited and returning to what he has commanded. The act of repentance can redeem the sins and give the opportunity to go to heaven:\n\nAlthough repentance is considered as one act that can be used for cleansing the sins, the Quran notes that all of the sins are forgiven with or without repentance except the state of Shirk, i.e. the act of worshiping another deity besides Allah. The believing person must repent for shirk sin and seek the forgiveness of Allah. Two verses are giving comments regarding Shirk, \"An-Nisaa\" 4:48 and 4:116.\n\nIslam does not accept the concept of original sin; instead, it teaches that a person is born in a state of innocence and pure belief. The person remains in that state of sinlessness until reaching the age of puberty, after which he is accountable for his sins.\n\nThe Buddha considered shame over doing wrong (Pali: \"hiri\") and fear of the consequences of wrongdoing (Pali:\"otappa\") as essential safeguards against falling into evil ways and further as extremely useful in the path of purification. Also recommended was the regular practice of self-assessment or wise reflection (Pali: \"yoniso manasikara\") on one's own actions in relation to others and the bigger picture.\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, one of the most common repentance verses used for reflection is Samantabhadra's Repentance Verse taken from Chapter 40 of the Flower Adornment Sutra:\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\n\"Hooponopono\" (ho-o-pono-pono) is an ancient Hawaiian practice of reconciliation and forgiveness, combined with (repentance) prayers. Similar forgiveness practices were performed on islands throughout the South Pacific, including Samoa, Tahiti and New Zealand. Traditionally \"hooponopono\" is practiced by healing priests or \"kahuna lapaau\" among family members of a person who is physically ill. Modern versions are performed within the family by a family elder, or by the individual alone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62062", "title": "Sacred prostitution", "text": "Sacred prostitution\n\nSacred prostitution, temple prostitution, cult prostitution, and religious prostitution are general terms for a sexual rite consisting of sexual intercourse or other sexual activity performed in the context of religious worship, perhaps as a form of fertility rite or divine marriage (\"hieros gamos\"). Some scholars prefer the terms \"sacred sex\" or \"sacred sexual rites\" to \"sacred prostitution\" in cases where payment for services was not involved. \n\nAncient Near Eastern societies along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers featured many shrines and temples or \"houses of heaven\" dedicated to various deities. The 5th-century BC historian Herodotus's account and some other testimony from the Hellenistic Period and Late Antiquity suggest that ancient societies encouraged the practice of sacred sexual rites not only in Babylonia and Cyprus, but throughout the Near East.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, the rites performed at these temples included sexual intercourse, or what scholars later called sacred sexual rites:\n\nThe foulest Babylonian custom is that which compels every woman of the land to sit in the temple of Aphrodite and have intercourse with some stranger at least once in her life. Many women who are rich and proud and disdain to mingle with the rest, drive to the temple in covered carriages drawn by teams, and stand there with a great retinue of attendants. But most sit down in the sacred plot of Aphrodite, with crowns of cord on their heads; there is a great multitude of women coming and going; passages marked by line run every way through the crowd, by which the men pass and make their choice. Once a woman has taken her place there, she does not go away to her home before some stranger has cast money into her lap, and had intercourse with her outside the temple; but while he casts the money, he must say, \"I invite you in the name of Mylitta\". It does not matter what sum the money is; the woman will never refuse, for that would be a sin, the money being by this act made sacred. So she follows the first man who casts it and rejects no one. After their intercourse, having discharged her sacred duty to the goddess, she goes away to her home; and thereafter there is no bribe however great that will get her. So then the women that are fair and tall are soon free to depart, but the uncomely have long to wait because they cannot fulfil the law; for some of them remain for three years, or four. There is a custom like this in some parts of Cyprus.\n\nThe British anthropologist James Frazer accumulated citations to prove this in a chapter of his magnum opus \"The Golden Bough\" (1890–1915), and this has served as a starting point for several generations of scholars. Frazer and Henriques distinguished two major forms of sacred sexual rites: temporary rite of unwed girls (with variants such as dowry-sexual rite, or as public defloration of a bride), and lifelong sexual rite. However, Frazer took his sources mostly from authors of Late Antiquity (i.e. 150–500 AD), not from the Classical or Hellenistic periods. This raises questions as to whether the phenomenon of temple sexual rites can be generalized to the whole of the ancient world, as earlier scholars typically did. \n\nThe research of Daniel Arnaud, Vinciane Pirenne-Delforge, Julia Assante, Stephanie Budin and others has cast the whole tradition of scholarship that defined the concept of sacred prostitution into doubt. Budin regards the concept of sacred prostitution as a myth—arguing that the practices described in the sources simply never existed. A more nuanced view, espoused by Pirenne-Delforge, suggests that ritual sex did exist in the Near East, but not in the Greek or Roman worlds in classical or Hellenistic times.\n\nThe practice of sacred prostitution has not been substantiated in any Ancient Near Eastern cultures, despite many popular descriptions of the habit. Through the twentieth century, scholars generally believed that a form of \"sacred marriage\" rite or \"hieros gamos\" was staged between the king of a Sumerian city-state and the High Priestess of Inanna, the Sumerian goddess of sexual love, fertility, and warfare, but no certain evidence has survived to prove that sexual intercourse was included. Along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers there was a temple of Eanna, meaning \"house of heaven\" dedicated to Inanna in the Eanna District of Uruk.\n\nWhile there may well have been some religious prostitution in the temples of Inanna/Ishtar, Assante suggests the concept of the 'sacred marriage' (\"hieros gamos\") has been misunderstood. It was previously believed to have been a custom whereby the king coupled with the high priestess to represent the union of Dumuzid with Inanna (later called Ishtar). It is much more likely that these unions never occurred but were embellishments to the image of the king; hymns which praise Middle Eastern kings for coupling with the goddess Ishtar often speak of him as running 320 kilometres, offering sacrifices, feasting with the sun-god Utu, and receiving a royal crown from An, all in a single day. One scholar comments: \"No one, to the best of my knowledge, has been so wooden-minded to propose that human actors played the role of Utu and An at the banquet.\" Not all authors are convinced, however.\n\nOther modern historians argue that the temple did house priestesses of the goddess, but there is no evidence that they performed any kind of sexual services in any cult.\n\nIn Hammurabi's code of laws, the rights and good name of female sacred sexual priestesses were protected. The same legislation that protected married women from slander applied to them and their children. They could inherit property from their fathers, collect income from land worked by their brothers, and dispose of property. These rights have been described as extraordinary, taking into account the role of women at the time.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible uses two different words for prostitute, \"zonah\" (זונה)‎ and \"kedeshah\" (or \"qedesha\") (קדשה)‎. The word \"zonah\" simply meant an ordinary prostitute or \"loose woman\". But the word \"kedeshah\" literally means \"consecrated\" (feminine form), from the Semitic root \"q-d-sh\" (קדש)‎ meaning \"holy\" or \"set apart\". In spite of the cultic significance of a \"kedeshah\" to a follower of the Canaanite religion, two verses makes it clear that cultic prostitution had no place within Yahweh's worship. :\n\nStephen O. Murray writes that biblical passages ban \"qdeshim\" and link them with gods and \"forms of worship detested by orthodox followers of Yahweh\". Celia Brewer Sinclair has written that \"the ethical demands of the covenant preclude worshiping Yahweh in licentious sexual rites (sacred sexual rites )\". Male priests who engaged in same-sex sacred prostitution were called \"kadesh\" or \"qadesh\" (literally: male \"holy one\"); the word evolved semantically in ancient Hebrew to take on a similar meaning to \"sodomite\". The Hebrew word \"kelev\" (dog) in the next line may also signify a male dancer or prostitute. \n\nSome scholars see the injunctions against foreign worship, including male sacred prostitution, as possibly the original cause of what would later become Judaism's condemnation of sexual contact between men.\n\nThe Law of Moses (Deuteronomy) was not universally observed in Hebrew culture under the rule of King David's dynasty, as recorded in Kings. In fact Judah had lost \"the Book of the Law\". During the reign of King Josiah, The high priest Hilkiah discovers it in \"the House of the Lord\" and realizes that the people have disobeyed, particularly regarding Sacred Prostitution. Examples of male temple prostitution (\"sodomites\" [KJV, GNV]) being banned under King Josiah are recorded to have been commonplace since the reign of King Rehoboam of Judah (King Solomon's son). . Modern bible translations refer to King Josiah's bans on \"male temple prostitutes\" [NRSV] or similarly \"male shrine prostitutes\" [NIV], where as older translations refer to the ban of \"Sodomites\" and \"the Houses of the Sodomites\" [KJV, GNV]. Under the polytheistic religious practices that were commonplace, homosexuality experienced a degree of cultural acceptance along with heterosexuality among the Hebrew tribes, but sacred prostitution was not allowed in conjunction with the worship of Yahweh, where these had been expressly forbidden in Deuteronomy, their sacred Book of Law under King Josiah.\n\nIn the Book of Ezekiel, Oholah and Oholibah appear as the allegorical brides of God who represent Samaria and Jerusalem. They became prostitutes in Egypt, engaging in prostitution from their youth. The prophet Ezekiel condemns both as guilty of religious and political alliance with heathen nations. \n\nSo within Hebrew cultures involving pagan religions, both homosexual and heterosexual pagan temple prostitution experienced periods of acceptance, and periods of banishment, as under King Josiah.\n\nAccording to the noted Assyriologist Samuel Noah Kramer, kings in the ancient Near Eastern region of Sumer established their legitimacy by taking part in a ritual sexual act in the temple of the fertility goddess Ishtar every year on the tenth day of the New Year festival Akitu.\n\nThe Hittites practiced sacred prostitution as part of a cult of deities, including the worship of a mated pair of deities, a bull god and a lion goddess, while in later days it was the mother-goddess who became prominent, representing fertility, and (in Phoenicia) the goddess who presided over human birth.\n\nIn ancient Greece, sacred prostitution was known in the city of Corinth where the Temple of Aphrodite employed a significant number of female servants, \"hetairai\", during classical antiquity.\n\nThe Greek term \"hierodoulos\" or \"hierodule\" has sometimes been taken to mean \"sacred holy woman\", but it is more likely to refer to a former slave freed from slavery in order to be \"dedicated\" to a god.\n\nIn the Greek-influenced and colonized world, \"sacred prostitution\" was known in Cyprus (Greek-settled since 1100 BC), Sicily (Hellenized since 750 BC), in the Kingdom of Pontus (8th century BC) and in Cappadocia (c. 330 BC hellenized).\n\nThe Roman emperor Constantine closed down a number of temples to Venus or similar deities in the 4th century AD, as the Christian church historian Eusebius proudly noted. Eusebius also claimed that the Phoenician cities of Aphaca and Heliopolis (Baalbek) continued to practise temple prostitution until the emperor Constantine put an end to the rite in the 4th century AD.\n\nIn Southern India and the eastern Indian state of Odisha, devadasi is the practice of hierodulic prostitution, with similar customary forms such as basavi, and involves dedicating pre-pubescent and young adolescent girls from villages in a ritual marriage to a deity or a temple, who then work in the temple and function as spiritual guides, dancers, and prostitutes servicing male devotees in the temple. Human Rights Watch reports claim that devadasis are forced into this service and, at least in some cases, to practice prostitution for upper-caste members. The devadasis were originally seen as interluders who allowed upper-caste men to have contact with the gods. Though they did develop sexual relations with other men, they were not looked upon with lust. The system was criticised by British rulers, leading to decline in support for the system and the devadasis were forced into entering prostitution for survival. Many scholars have stated that the Hindu scriptures do not permit or mention the system.\n\nVarious state governments in India enacted laws to ban this practice both prior to India's independence and more recently. They include Bombay Devdasi Act, 1934, Devdasi (Prevention of dedication) Madras Act, 1947, Karnataka Devdasi (Prohibition of dedication) Act, 1982, and Andhra Pradesh Devdasi (Prohibition of dedication) Act, 1988. However, the tradition continues in certain regions of India, particularly the states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.\n\nSacred prostitution was once practised by the Miko within traditional Shinto in Japan. There were once Shinto beliefs that prostitution was sacred, and there used to be lodgings for the temple prostitutes on the shrine grounds. This traditional practise came to an end during the beginning of the Meiji era, due to the encroachment of Western Christian morality, and the government implementing the \"Shinbutsu bunri\"; which, among other things, drastically decreased the roles of the Miko, and modified Shinto beliefs until it became what is now colloquially referred to as State Shinto.\n\nThe Maya maintained several phallic religious cults, possibly involving homosexual temple prostitution. The Aztec god Xochipili (taken from both Toltec and Maya cultures) was both the patron of homosexuals and homosexual prostitutes. The Inca sometimes dedicated young boys as temple prostitutes. The boys were dressed in girl's clothing, and chiefs and head men would have ritual sexual intercourse with them during religious ceremonies and on holy days.\n\nXochiquetzal was worshiped as goddess of sexual power, patroness of prostitutes and artisans involved in the manufacture of luxury items.\n\nThe conquistadores were horrified by the wide-spread acceptance of homosexuality, ephebophilia, pederasty, and pederosis among Mesoamerican and South American peoples, and used torture, burning at the stake, mass beheadings, and other means to stamp it out both as a religious practice and social custom.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s, some religious cults practiced sacred prostitution as an instrument to recruit new converts. Among them was the alleged cult Children of God, also known as The Family, who called this practice \"Flirty Fishing\". They later abolished the practice due to the growing AIDS epidemic.\n\nIn Ventura County, California, Wilbur and Mary Ellen Tracy established their own temple, the \"Church Of The Most High Goddess\", in the wake of what they described as a divine revelation. Sexual acts played a fundamental role in the church's sacred rites, which were performed by Mary Ellen Tracy herself in her assumed role of High Priestess. Local newspaper articles about the Neopagan church quickly got the attention of local law enforcement officials, and in April 1989, the Tracys' house was searched and the couple arrested on charges of pimping, pandering and prostitution. They were subsequently convicted in a trial in state court and sentenced to jail terms: Wilbur Tracy for 180 days plus a $1,000.00 fine; Mary Ellen Tracy for 90 days plus mandatory screening for STDs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32058165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32058165", "title": "Saltigue", "text": "Saltigue\n\nSaltigue, sometimes spelt \"Saltigué\" or wrongly \"Saltigui\", are Serer high priests and priestesses who preside over the religious ceremonies and affairs of the Serer people, such as the \"Xoy\" ceremony, the biggest event in the Serer religious calendar. They usually come from ancient Serer paternal families. Such a title is usually inherited by birthright. The term \"Saltigi\" is also adopted by the Fula people. They were the leaders of the Fulas in some Fula areas, belonging to the Denianke Dynasty of the Empire of Great Fulo founded by Koli Tengella Bâ in the 16th century. It is proposed that the word \"Saltigi\", used in reference to the Fulas, comes from the Mandinka language, in which it means \"master of the road\", used in reference to their neighbors who are Fulani herders and tenders of the flock, the traditional activity of Fulani leaders. In Serer country, \"Saltigue\", not to be confused with \"Saltigi\", are always diviners. In Wolof areas, they were the assistant chiefs. The scope of this article deals only with \"Saltigue\" or \"Saltigué\" – \"diviners\" (the high priests and priestesses) and termed by some scholars as \"the ministers of the religious cult\"; \"pastors of the people\" or within the remits of these definitions.\n\nThe Saltigues were advisers to Serer governments, for example in the old Serer Kingdoms of Sine, Saloum and Baol. Their principal role was and still is for the prosperity of the country. In this role, they were responsible for predicting the future of kings; the weather to come (for the purposes of agriculture); any natural disaster or political catastrophe that could befall the country; etc. As such, they were frequently consulted by the Serer kings (Maad a Sinig and Maad Saloum) preferably at the beginning of the rainy season.\n\nBefore a king launches a war against another kingdom, or to repel an attack from another kingdom, the king consults the great assembly of Saltigues to predict the outcome of the battle, as was the case of Saltigué and \"Diaraf\" Wassaly Sene and Saltigué Laba Diene Ngom at the Battle of Fandane-Thiouthioune (18 July 1867), commonly known as the Battle of Somb, during the reign of Maad a Sinig Kumba Ndoffene Famak Joof. The assembly of Saltigues will predict the outcome, offer precautionary advice on when to launch the attack, the route to take to the battlefield and the animals to be sacrificed, etc. The role of Saltigue was not political. They are not government ministers or politicians, but spiritual advisors and elders. They are the Serer hereditary \"Rain priests\" – guardians of the Serer religion and customs, a birthright they inherited from their ancient Lamanic ancestors.\n\nIn the precolonial period, during the \"Raan Festival\" which takes place in Tukar annually on the second Thursday after the onset of the new moon in April, the kings (during the Guelowar period) will attend the Raan Festival of Tukar, making their way from the capital (Diakhao). However, the king was extremely careful never to arrive before the Lamane and always avoid direct encounters with the Lamane of Tukar. Whilst the Lamane was busy self-meditating, touring Tukar and making offerings to the pangool Jegan Joof, the Chief Saltigue and his associates drink \"sum-sum\" alcohol all morning before the Festival. It is reported that drinking \"sum-sum\" improves the Saltigue's vision of the future and the supernatural world.\n\nHaving prepared himself sufficiently, the Saltigue and his close associates leave the house and mount their horses, then start their own tour of some of the sacred places of the country. The Saltigué's tour is programmed to follow the king, but ultimately to cross his path at a location known as 'Nenem\". In this location, the king, aware that the Saltigue is coming, stops the royal entourage. The king and the royal entourage must wait for the Saltigue and his companions to pass. After these high priests and priestesses have passed, the king then gives the signal to the royal entourage to pass as they proceed to their next destination. This is the kind of respect that is afforded to the Saltigue. Scholars like Alioune Sarr note that Saltigues are famously celebrated and respected in Serer Kingdoms because of their knowledge.\n\nThe Lebu people share many cosmo-spiritual beliefs with the Serers. Many Lebu \"rab\" (jinn) are actually Serer \"pangool\" (ancestral spirits or saints). The sacred dwelling place of the Lebu \"rab\" is the same as the Serer \"pangool\" called \"Sangomar\", based on the ancient Serer and Diola legend of \"Jambooñ and Agaire\". – two young sisters whose boat split into half around the Point of Sangomar. One sails to the north, the other sails south. Those traveling south became the ancestors of the Diolas and the other became the ancestor of the Serers. The healing method of the Lebu is called \"ndepp\" while the Serer healing method is called \"Loup\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5695920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5695920", "title": "Sekta Niebo", "text": "Sekta Niebo\n\nThe Sekta Niebo (Heaven Sect) (Polish \"Zbór Chrześcijański Leczenia Duchem Bożym\"; \"Christian Church of Healing by Spirit of God\") was a small religious movement founded in 1990 by faith healer Bogdan Kacmajor, who believed he was a prophet chosen by God and a reincarnation of the prophet Elijah.\n\nMembers of the sect believed that by the year 2000 the world would come to an end. Their goal was to establish a commune of chosen people. As a symbol of their new life they took new names and destroyed their identity documents. Total submission to Kacmajor was required. Members married each other, refused to send children to public school (as Kacmajor stated, \"in chemistry class they teach that you can't turn water into wine, in physics class they teach that you can't walk on water\") and refused to take any medical treatment (Kacmajor was convinced that he can heal even AIDS). Niebo gathered approximately 50 members.\n\nBecause of their total social alienation the group soon started to have troubles with the law. Reports of kidnapping and children being kept prisoner started circulating. The Catholic Church and several church-related movements started a campaign against the community which resulted in bad fame and financial problems. As of 2008 the community does not exist and there are several court cases against Kacmajor.\n\n"}
{"id": "23924111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23924111", "title": "Shi (personator)", "text": "Shi (personator)\n\nThe shi () was a ceremonial \"personator\" who represented a dead relative during ancient Chinese ancestral sacrifices. In a \"shi\" ceremony, the ancestral spirit supposedly would enter the descendant \"corpse\" personator, who would eat and drink sacrificial offerings and convey messages from the spirit. James Legge (1895 IV:135), an early translator of the Chinese classics, described \"shi\" personation ceremonies as \"grand family reunions where the dead and the living met, eating and drinking together, where the living worshipped the dead, and the dead blessed the living.\" In modern terms, this ancient Chinese \"shi\" practice would be described as necromancy, mediumship, or spirit possession.\n\nThe word \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse; personator; inactive; lay out; manage; spirit tablet\" can be discussed in terms of Chinese character evolution, historical phonology, semantics, and English translations.\n\nThe modern character for \"shi\" \"corpse; personator\" is a graphic simplification of ancient pictographs showing a person with a bent back and dangling legs. The first records of \"shi\" are on oracle bones dating from the late Shang Dynasty (ca. 1600–ca. 1046 BCE). The oracle bone script for \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse\" was used interchangeably for \"yi\" \"barbarian; non-Chinese people (esp. eastern, see \"Dongyi\"); at ease; level\". The bronze script for \"shi\" 尸, found in Chinese bronze inscriptions dating from the Shang and Zhou Dynasty (ca. 1045 BCE-ca. 256 BCE), had a more curved back and legs. The graphically reduced seal script for \"shi\", standardized during the Qin Dynasty (221-207 BCE), resembles the regular script 尸.\n\nToday, \"shi\" 尸 is more commonly used as the \"corpse/body radical\" in Chinese characters (number 44 in the List of Kangxi radicals) than to write the original word \"corpse\". Many characters written with this radical involve the body (e.g., \"niao\" \"urine\" with 水 \"water\"), but not all (e.g., \"wu\" \"house; room\" with 至 \"go to\"). \n\n\"Shi\" 尸 \"corpse; cadaver\" has a variant Chinese character that combines the \"corpse radical\" 尸 with \"si\" \"dead\" (e.g., \"jiang shi\" 僵屍 \"stiff corpse\") Michael Carr (2007:358) explains, \"This semantically redundant \"shi\" 屍 'dead-corpse' graphically distinguishes the original 'corpse' meaning of \"shi\" 尸from its various other meanings such as 'personator'.\"\n\nChinese classics used the word \"shi\" 尸 in six meanings: \nCarr (2007:362) outlines the semantic connections among these \"shi\" meanings. The basic meaning (1) \"corpse\" was semantically extended into both (2) \"act on behalf of a corpse\" or \"personator of a dead ancestor\" and (3) \"act like a corpse\" or \"motionless; inactive; doing nothing\". Meaning (4) \"lay out, arrange; display\" generalizes \"lay out a corpse.\" Meaning (5) \"manage; direct; ancestral tablet\" links the representative \"shi\" (2) \"personator\" with the metaphorical replacement \"ancestral tablet\". Meaning (6) uses \"shi\" to transcribe proper names.\n\nMeaning (1) is the core sense of \"corpse; dead body; cadaver; carcass\". Early ritual texts, notably the \"Liji\" \"Classic of Rites\", \"Zhouli\" \"Rites of Zhou\", and \"Yili\" \"Etiquette and Rites\", frequently use \"shi\" \"corpse\" in mortuary and funeral contexts. Here is an example \"Liji\" passage:\nAs soon as death took place, the corpse was transferred to the couch, and covered with a large sheet. The clothes in which the deceased had died were removed. A servant plugged the mouth open with the spoon of horn; and to keep the feet from contracting, an easy stool was employed. These observances were the same for a ruler, a great officer, and an ordinary officer. (22, tr. Legge 1885 28:181)\n\n\"Shi\" meaning (2) \"personator; sacrificial representative of a dead person's spirit\" is discussed below.\n\nMeaning (3) figuratively expands \"shi\" to \"corpse-like\", which can contextually mean either \"motionless; calm; quiescent\" or \"inactive; negligent; remiss\". A \"Shijing\" ode (245, tr. Karlgren 1950:214) laments that, \"the good men sit motionless and silent\". Karlgren explains, \"'The good men act the corpse,' play the part of a representative of the dead at a sacrifice, who sits still and silent during the whole ceremony; here then, remain inactive, do nothing to help.\" The \"Lunyu\" (\"Confucian Analects\") uses \"shi\" to praise Confucius (tr. Legge 1895 I:235), \"In bed, he did not lie like a corpse.\" Commentators disagree whether this means \"sleep with the arms and legs sprawled out\" or \"sleep facing the north (the land of the dead)\".\n\nMeaning (4) is defined as Chinese \"chen\" \"lay out; set forth, array; arrange; display\". Examples in classic texts range from specifically \"lay out (a corpse)\" to generally \"lay out; set out; arrange\". The \"Liji\" distinguishes between \"shi\" 尸 \"uncoffined corpse\" and \"jiu\" (with the \"wood radical\" and a \"jiu\" 匛 \"long; enduring\" phonetic) \"coffined corpse\" (tr. Legge 1885 27:117): \"(The corpse) on the couch is called [\"shi\"] (the laid out); when it is put into the coffin, that is called [\"jiu\"] (being in the long home).\" A \"Shijing\" poem (185, tr. Karlgren 1950) refers to men called off to war, \"There are mothers who set forth the (sacrificial) dishes.\"\n\nMeaning (5) of \"shi\" is defined as \"zhu\" \"master; manage, preside; spirit tablet, ancestral tablet\". The \"Chuci\" (tr. Hawkes 1959:55) uses \"shi\" asking about King Wu of Zhou, whose father King Wen of Zhou did not live to see the conquering of the previous dynasty, Shang-Yin: \"When Wu set out to kill Yin, why was he so grieved? He went into the battle carrying the 'corpse.' Why was he in such haste?\" Commentators disagree whether this \"shi\" means \"zhu\", specifically \"muzhu\" 木主 \"wooden spirit/ancestral tablet\" or \"jiu\" \"corpse in a coffin\". Hawkes justifies translating \"corpse\": \"According to some accounts it was the 'spirit tablet' of his dead father [King Wen] which King Wu carried in his chariot to battle. But I think the poet understood him to have taken the actual corpse, and was surprised that he had not waited to bury it.\"\n\nThe sinologists Eduard Erkes and Bernhard Karlgren debated this \"Chuci\" usage of \"shi\" \"corpse; spirit tablet\". Erkes (1928) proposed that the \"zhu\" was a wooden ancestral tablet shaped in the image of the deceased. Karlgren (1930) disagreed and argued that the \"zhu\" was phallic shaped:\nHe seems to think that the substitution of [muzhu] 'wooden tablet' for the corpse (if really a corpse is intended; the word shi is ambiguous) proves the [muzhu] to have been an image of the corpse, and therefore he translates [muzhu] by 'wooden statue.' Nothing could be more arbitrary. The [muzhu], wooden ancestral tablet, was the resting place of the ancestor's spirit, once his body was dead and decomposed. In this sense it was a substitute for his body, his spiritual force had entered it, and therefore it was carried into battle, bringing this mental force of his into play on the side of his descendant. \nErkes (1931) countered Karlgren by citing other texts describing a human-shaped \"muzhu\" \"wooden lord\". For instance, the \"Shiji\" (\"Record of History\", tr. Erkes) records this King Wu story with \"muzhu\" instead of \"shi\": \"He (viz. Wu-Wang) made a wooden image of Wen-Wang and took it with [him] on his carriage into the battle.\" Erkes further suggested, \"very probably the custom of carrying a [muzhu] into battle had developed from an earlier one of taking the body itself, and that therefore the [muzhu] was something representing the corpse, i.e., an image of the deceased.\"\n\nMeaning (6) includes some semantically unrelated usages of \"shi\". \"Shi\" 尸 is an ancient place name (in Henan); a surname (e.g., the Syncretist philosopher Shizi 尸子, ca. 390–330 BCE); and a variant of \"shi\" (which is used in bird names like \"shijiu\" 鳲鳩 \"cuckoo; turtledove\").\n\nThe Standard Chinese \"shī\" pronunciation of 尸 phonologically descends from (ca. 6th century CE) Middle Chinese and (ca. 6th century BCE) Old Chinese. Compare these Middle and Old Chinese reconstructions of \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse\" and \"yi\" 夷 \"barbarian\" (which anciently had interchangeable characters): \"śi\" < *\"śjər\" 尸and \"i\" < *\"djər\" 夷 (Bernhard Karlgren 1957), \"syij\" < *\"hljij\" 尸and \"yij\" < *\"ljɨj\" 夷 (William Baxter 1992), and \"śi\" < *\"lhi\" 尸 and \"ji\" < *\"ləi\" 夷 (Axel Schuessler 2009).\n\nThere are several hypothetical etymologies for \"shi\" \"corpse\". Karlgren proposed that \"si\" < *\"sjər\" 死 \"die, dead\" and \"shi\" < *\"śjər\" 尸 \"the dead, corpse\" were etymologically cognate. Paul K. Benedict (1972) suggested possible Proto-Sino-Tibetan roots for \"shi\": either *\"(s-)raw\" \"corpse; carcass\" or *\"siy\" \"die\". Schuessler (2007) hypothesizes a semantic development from *\"li\" 夷 \"extend; expose; display; set out; spread out\" to *\"lhi\" 尸 \"to spread out; lie down flat (in order to sleep); motionless; to set forth (sacrificial dishes)\", to \"personator of a dead ancestor\", to \"corpse\". He rejects Karlgren's assumption that \"shi\" \"corpse\" is cognate to \"si\" \"to die\", \"because the MC [Middle Chinese] initial \"ś-\" (< *\"lh-\", *\"nh-\", *\"hj-\") never derives from an *\"s-\", except when they share an initial *\"l\" or *\"n\".\"\n\nEnglish translations of the ceremonial \"shi\" 尸 include \"personator\", \"impersonator\", \"representative\", \"medium\", and \"shaman\". Carr reviews the choices.\nObviously, rendering this into English is problematic because there is no Western analogy for the ceremonial \"shi\" 'corpse.' \"Personator\" is chosen as the nearest English translation. \"Impersonator\" would be possible, but this word implies falsehood, which was not originally associated with the \"shi\". \"Representative\" is too general in meaning, and does not usually have a sense of spirituality, unless modified by \"of the dead/ancestor\". Paper [1995] suggests \"Incorporator of the Dead\", which has a parallel 'one who embodies' etymology, but the derivate words \"incorporate\" and \"incorporation\" commonly have other meanings. \"Medium\" and \"shaman\" are similar with \"shi\" in meaning and are part of Chinese traditions; however, the descriptions of a dignified personator are unlike the spirit-possession of either. Another translational tactic would be to coin a nonce word, such as Waley's [1937] \"the Dead One,\" Eberhard's [1968] \"death boy,\" or Wilhelm's [1967] \"corpse boy,\" but the sense of such a coinage is not always clear. Therefore, in the absence of a better English word, \"personator\" will translate this meaning of \"shi\". (2007:364-365) \n\nZhou Dynasty classic texts (c. 11th-3rd centuries BCE) use the word \"shi\" 尸 hundreds of times. Lothar von Falkenhausen contrasts the frequently recorded \"shi\" \"personator\" with the rarely noted \"wu\" \"shaman; spirit medium\". \nAt ancestral sacrifices, the ancestral spirits descend into individuals designated from among their descendants, the \"Impersonators\" (\"shi\" 尸). Occupying their ritual rôle by virtue of their kinship position vis-à-vis the ancestor that is sacrificed to, the Impersonators are not trained religious specialists like the Spirit Mediums. Although it has been speculated that the actions of the \"shi\" may have originally involved trance and possession, the surviving source materials — none earlier than the Western Zhou period — show them as staid and passive, acting with the utmost demeanor and dignity. (1995) \n\nSome early \"shi\" meanings are contextually ambiguous. For instance, the \"Yijing\" (\"Book of Changes\") uses \"yu shi\" 尸 \"carry corpses; corpse carrier\" twice for Hexagram 7 (tr. Wilhelm 1967:34-35): \"Perchance the army carries corpses in the wagon. Misfortune … Let the eldest lead the army. The younger transports corpses. Then perseverance brings misfortune.\" Richard Wilhelm summarizes the \"Yijing\" commentaries.\nMarshall (2002:77) concludes this hexagram refers to carrying a corpse, and compares the \"Israelites carrying the Ark of the Covenant into battle against the Philistines\".\n\nThe \"Shijing\" (\"Classic of Poetry\", ca. 11th-6th centuries BCE) contains early and detailed descriptions of personation ceremonies, in the following themes.\nThere is an abundance of sacrificial wine and food (odes 166, 209, 210, and 248) shared by both the ancestral spirits (through the personator) and their descendants. Drunkenness is frequently mentioned: 209/5 \"The spirits [note: 'souls' not 'liquor'] are all drunk,\" 209/6 \"all are happy; they are drunk,\" 247/1, 2 \"We are drunk with wine,\" and 248/5 \"the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is befumed (by the spirits); the good wine makes you merry.\" Most significantly, the ancestral spirits speak directly through the intoxicated personators (166, 210, and 247), approve of the sacrificial offerings, and bless their descendants (166, 209, 210, 247, and 248). (Carr 2007:369) \n\n\"Shi\" \"personator\" occurs fourteen times in two pairs of consecutive \"Shijing\" odes (209–210 and 247–248, tr. Karlgren 1950:203-204). Ode 209 says \"we make (the representative of the dead) sit at ease, we (assist him =) encourage him to eat\" and \"The august representative of the dead then rises, the drums and bells (by their sound) escort away the representative.\" The following ode 210 describes sacrificial wine and food, \"he presents them to our representative of the dead and to our guests.\"\n\n\"Shijing\" odes 247 and 248, which portray ancestral feasts to the Zhou royal house, exclusively use the term \"gongshi\" 公尸 with the modifier \"gong\" \"prince; duke; public; palace; effort\". Compare these \"gongshi\" translations: \"representative of the (dead) princes\" (Karlgren), \"personators of your ancestors\" (Legge, admitting 1895 IV:447, \"The expression 公尸, 'ducal personators,' is somewhat difficult to account for\"), \"impersonator of the Ancient\", \"ducal Dead\", or \"Dead One\" (Waley, noting 1937:215, \"Impersonator of a former Duke or ruler\"). Ode 247 (\"Jizui\" 既醉 \"Already Drunk\") describes a sacrificial feast for ancestral spirits, and says \"the representative of the (dead) princes makes a happy announcement\".\n\nOde 248 (\"Fuyi\" 鳧鷖 \"Wild Ducks\") describes another feast, which commentators say was held on the following day to reward the personator, and details sacrificial offerings and ancestral blessings.\nThe wild ducks are on the [Jing] (river); the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is at peace; your wine is clear, your viands are fragrant; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and (achieve, complete you =) make you perfect. <br>\nThe wild ducks are on the sands; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and (approves =) finds it good; your wine is plentiful, your viands are fine; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and (act for =) favor you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are on the island; the representative of the (dead) prices comes and feasts and reposes; your wine is strained, your viands are sliced; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and descend on you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are at the junction of the river; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is (treated in temple-fashion =) revered; the feast is in the temple, that is where felicity and blessings descend; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and are piled up (heavily =) amply on you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are in the gorge; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is befumed (by the spirits); the good wine makes you merry; the roast and broiled things are fragrant; the representative feasts and drinks; there will be no after trouble. \nBesides the \"Shijing\", other texts refer to \"shi\" frequently drinking sacrificial \"jiu\" 酒 \"alcoholic beverage; liquor\", which Paper (1995:113) interprets as a ritual means to induce hallucinations of ancestral spirits. Based upon a \"Liji\" ceremony (tr. Legge 1885 28:246) describing a \"shi\" personator drinking nine cups of \"jiu\", with an estimated alcohol content from 5% to 8%, and volume measurements of Zhou bronze sacrificial cups, Paper (1995:114) calculates a \"conservative estimate is that the \"shi\" consumed between 2.4 and 3.9 ounces of pure alcohol (equivalent to between 5 and 8 bar shots of eighty-proof liquor).\"\n\nSeveral texts refer to a Chinese custom that a personator should be a child of the same sex as the dead ancestor, preferably either a legitimate grandson or his wife. However, personation by younger relatives, who were of lower social status than their elders, created an exception to traditional Chinese culture. The earliest textual reference comes from the \"Mengzi\" (\"Book of Mencius\") questioning the status shown to a younger brother during the personation ceremony.\nYou should ask him, \"Which do you respect most, — your uncle, or your younger brother?\" He will answer, \"My uncle.\" Ask him again, \"If your younger brother be personating a dead ancestor, to which do you show the greater respect, — to him or to your uncle?\" He will say, \"To my younger brother.\" You can go on, \"But where is the respect due, as you said, to your uncle?\" He will reply to this, \"I show the respect to my younger brother because of the position which he occupies.\" (6, tr. Legge 1895 IV:400). \nThe \"Liji\" reiterates that personation contradicted the established social hierarchy (18, tr. Legge 1895 28:88): \"Thus it is that there are two among his subjects whom the ruler does not treat as subjects. When one is personating (his ancestor) he does not treat him as such, nor does he treat his master as such.\" Another \"Liji\" passage (7, tr. Legge 1895 27:337-338) explains: \"A rule of propriety says, 'A superior man may carry his grandson in his arms, but not his son.' This tells us that a grandson may be the personator of his deceased grandfather (at sacrifices), but a son cannot be so of his father.\" When a grandson personated his grandfather's spirit, it reversed the normal family hierarchy and a father would have to worship his own son. \n\nScholars have differing hypotheses explaining why a grandchild would make the most suitable personator. Marcel Granet (1930:337–338) said the basic reason was a predominance of uterine over agnatic primogeniture; the grandfather is the closest of the uterine relatives, and thus closer to his grandson than the father is. Wolfram Eberhard (1968:338) explained that a child makes the best personator owing to the ancient Chinese believed that a soul is small. Julian Jaynes (1976:344–345) mentions a Greek parallel; the philosopher Iamblichus wrote that \"young and simple persons\" make the most suitable mediums. Stephen Bokenkamp mentions examples besides \"shi\" rituals.\nIn China, possessions by spirits that occurred outside of this ritual scenario often involved younger members of the family as well. As in instances of mediumism around the world, the youthful and illiterate were regarded as more reliable conduits to the dead, since they could hardly be suspected of having fabricated their utterances and writings themselves. This fact brings to the fore questions of power. Women and junior male members of a family frequently found that mediumism was a way to bring attention to their own, otherwise easily ignored, concerns. (2007:40) \n\nTwo ritual texts mention female personators. The \"Liji\" (15, tr. Legge 1885 28:75) describes a wife personating her husband's dead grandmother: \"A wife, on festive occasions, even though it were on receiving a gift from the ruler, (only) made a curtsy. When seated as a personatrix (of the deceased grandmother of her husband), she did not bow with her head to her hands, but made the curtsy.\" The \"Yili\" (14, tr. Steele 1917:119.) euphemistically says a female personator should preferably not be the wife of a concubine's grandson; \"A man personates a dead man, and a woman a woman. In the latter case a woman of a different surname is chosen, and as such not one of inferior standing.\"\n\nSeveral early texts and commentaries reiterate a traditional history of personation beginning in the second millennium BCE as a sacred communion with ancestral spirits, but ending as a drinking party in the late 1st millennium BCE. When the personation ceremony supposedly originated during the Xia Dynasty (ca. 2100-ca. 1600 BCE), a personator would make contact with the dead ancestral spirit before sitting down to eat and drink. During the Yin or Shang Dynasty (ca. 1600-1046 BCE), a personator would sometimes sit down without having contacted the spirit, and by the late Zhou Dynasty (1045-256 BCE), a personation ceremony became a revelry with several personators repeatedly making toasts and drinking sacrificial wines.\n\nTwo \"Liji\" chapters describe how personation rituals changed during the Zhou period.\nUnder the [Zhou] dynasty the representatives of the dead sat. Their monitors and cup-suppliers observed no regular rules. The usages were the same (as those of Yin [Shang]), and the underlying principle was one. Under the [Xia] dynasty, the personators had stood till the sacrifice was ended (whereas) under the Yin [Shang] they sat. Under [Zhou], when the cup went round among all, there were six personators. [Zengzi] said, \"The usages of [Zhou] might be compared to a subscription club.\" (10, tr. Legge 1885 27:405-406) \n(When the representative of the departed) had made the libation with the [jia] cup, or the horn, (the sacrificer) was told (to bow to him) to put him at ease. Anciently, the representative stood when nothing was being done; when anything was being done, he sat. He personated the spirit. The officer of prayer was the medium of communication between him and the sacrificer. (11, tr. Legge 1885 27:446) \nLater sources repeat this legendary history of personation. For example, He Xiu 何休's 2nd-century commentary to the \"Chunqiu\" (\"Spring and Autumn Annals\") \"Gongyang Zhuan\" says (tr. Carr 2007:371), \"The Xia had standing personators, the Shang [Yin] had sitting personators, and the Zhou had six personators who would make serial toasts.\" Granet (1930:337) mentions the Zhou personation parties: \"It was not long before this archaic custom was criticized by the ritualists. When the sacrifices were offered simultaneously to several ancestors each of whom was represented, the ceremony was found indeed to assume a displeasing likeness to a picnic.\"\n\nThe above \"Liji\" description of Zhou \"subscription club\" personation ceremonies quotes Confucius's student and compiler Zengzi (505-436 BCE). The \"Liji\" contains three passages where Zengzi questions his teacher about whether personators were needed for ancestral rituals. For instance:\n[Zengzi] asked, \"Is it necessary that there should be a representative of the dead in sacrifices? Or may he be dispensed with as when the satisfying offerings are made to the dead?\" Confucius said, \"In sacrificing to a full-grown man for whom there have been the funeral rites, there must be such a representative, who should be a grandson; and if the grandson is too young, someone must be employed to carry him in his arms. If there be no grandson, some one of the same surname should be selected for the occasion. In sacrificing to the one who had died prematurely, there are (only) the satisfying offerings, for he was not full-grown. To sacrifice to a full-grown man, for whom there have been the funeral rites without a representative, would be to treat him as if he had died prematurely.\" (7, tr. Legge 1885 27:337-338) \n\nChinese scholars have long disagreed about when and how \"shi\" personation originated. Henri Doré (1914 1:99-102) summarizes the four principal opinions, which are worth quoting in full.\n\nThe first opinion is that personation was a bygone superstition. The Tang Dynasty historian Du You criticizes the \"shi\":\nThe ancients employed a personator. This rite deserves censure, and has been abolished by our great Worthies. One vied with the other in practicing it. Now that an era of progress has set in, and these silly customs have disappeared, it is important not to revive them; common sense bids to refrain from them. Some half-baked literati of our days would fain re-establish this ceremony of the personator. This is quite absurd. \n\nThe second opinion is that the personator was not the agent of the departed, but merely its metaphorical representative or \"shenxiang\" 神象 \"image of the spirit\". The Han Dynasty historian Ban Gu explains:\nThe personator is found in the ceremony wherein sacrifice is offered to ancestors, because the soul emitting no perceptible sounds and having no visible form, the loving sentiment of filial piety finds no means of displaying itself, hence a personator has been chosen to whom meats are offered, after which he breaks the bowls, quite rejoiced, as if his own father had eaten plenty. The personator, drinking abundantly, imparts the illusion that it is the soul which is satiated. \nCarr (2007:386) notes, \"This passage sounds as though Ban had personally observed a personation ceremony.\" \nSome Qing Dynasty scholars held a third opinion, namely, that the personator was bearer of the ancestral tablet. The \"Jishuo quanzhen\" 集說詮真 \"Collected Sayings Explaining Truth\" says, \"The filial son chooses a personator to carry the tablet, but not to be the resting place of the soul of the dead person. His intention is therefore manifest.\" The \"Yuzhou dayiyi\" 宇宙大疑議 \"Discussion of Universal Great Doubts\" says: \"The personator is employed during sacrifices to the dead, in order to carry the ancestral tablet … hence there is no need of having such a one immediately after death, as the tablet is not yet erected.\"\n\nThe fourth opinion refutes the first three condemnations of personators as mere representatives or tablet-holders for the dead, and contends that a personator was temporarily the seat of a dead ancestor's soul. Two leading Neo-Confucianist philosophers held this judgment.\nCheng Yi writes: \nThe ancients, when sacrificing to the dead, employed the personator, because the soul and the vital force of the dead person after being separated from the body, seek an agent of the same nature. Now, men being all of the same kind, the father and the children being all of one family and of the same stock, the soul of the departed person is requested to come and establish its seat in one of them as in an agent. \nHis follower Zhu Xi concurs:\nIn ancient times all employed a personator when sacrificing to the dead. Since the descendants continue the life of their ancestors, the personator shares, therefore, in the life of the departed person, and the ancestor's soul descends undoubtedly upon his descendants, and reposes therein to enjoy the sacrifice offered. \n\nCarr (2007:387-388) offers a contemporary explanation for \"shi\" \"corpse\" personation: Julian Jaynes's psychological bicameralism hypothesis. Jaynes proposed that human \"consciousness\", meaning self-awareness and cognition, began evolving around 1000 BCE. Prior to that, ancient people had \"bicameral mentality\" in which one part of the brain \"spoke\" (often in an authority figure's voice) while another part listened and obeyed. \nAccording to the theory of the bicameral mind, hallucinations of a person in some authority could continue after death as an everyday matter. And hence the almost universal custom of feeding the corpses after death, and burying them with the appurtenances of life. (Jaynes 1976:290) \nIf the original personators were bicameral, they could have directly hallucinated voices from a \"shi\" \"corpse\". Carr notes the historical correspondence between Jaynes's first millennium BCE timeline for the breakdown of the bicameral mind in other parts of the world and the 11th-3rd centuries BCE personation practices in China.\nSeveral early sources give variations of the same chronicle about the personation ceremony. It began during the Xia Dynasty, when personators would communicate on behalf of the dead; continued during the Shang and Western Zhou Dynasties; but was criticized and discontinued after the Eastern Zhou Dynasty when personators were no longer able to speak for the dead. (2007:387) \nWearing ritual masks is a recent hypothesis about \"shi\". Paper (1995:82) suggested the possibility that Shang and Zhou \"shi\" wore bronze masks \"symbolizing the spirit of the dead to whom the sacrifices were offered\". Liu believes the phantasmagoric bronze masks discovered at Sanxingdui, dating from c. 12th-11th centuries BCE, might have been ritually worn by \"shi\" 尸.\nThe \"shi\" was generally a close, young relative who wore a costume (possibly including a mask) reproducing the features of the dead person. The \"shi\" was an impersonator, that is, a person serving as a reminder of the ancestor to whom sacrifice was being offered. During such a ceremony, the impersonator was much more than an actor in a drama. Although the exact meaning may have been different, the group of Sanxingdui masked figures in bronze all have the character of an impersonator. It is likely the masks were used to impersonate and identify with certain supernatural beings in order to effect some communal good. (2000:37) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "513815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513815", "title": "Shroud", "text": "Shroud\n\nShroud usually refers to an item, such as a cloth, that covers or protects some other object. The term is most often used in reference to \"burial sheets\", mound shroud, grave clothes, winding-cloths or winding-sheets, such as the famous Shroud of Turin or \"Tachrichim\" (burial shrouds) that Jews are dressed in for burial. Traditionally, mound shrouds are made of white cotton, wool or linen, though any material can be used so long as it is made of natural fibre. Intermixture of two or more such fibres is forbidden, a proscription that ultimately derives from the Torah, \"viz.\", Deut. 22:11.\n\nA traditional Orthodox Jewish shroud consists of a tunic; a hood; pants that are extra-long and sewn shut at the bottom, so that separate foot coverings are not required; and a belt, which is tied in a knot shaped like the Hebrew letter \"shin\", mnemonic of one of God's names, Shaddai. Early shrouds incorporated a cloth, the \"sudarium\", that covered the face, as depicted in traditional artistic representations of the entombed Jesus or His friend, Lazarus (John 11, \"q.v.\"). An especially pious man may next be enwrapped in either his kittel or his tallit, one tassel of which is defaced to render the garment ritually unfit, symbolizing the fact that the decedent is free from the stringent requirements of the 613 \"mitzvot\" (commandments). The shrouded body is wrapped in a winding sheet, termed a \"sovev\" in Hebrew (a cognate of \"svivon\", the spinning Hanukkah toy that is familiar under its Yiddish name, \"dreidel\"), before being placed either in a plain coffin of soft wood (where required by governing health codes) or directly in the earth. Croesus-rich or dirt-poor, every Orthodox Jew is dressed to face the Almighty on the same terms.\n\nThe Early Christian Church also strongly encouraged the use of winding-sheets, except for monarchs and bishops. The rich were wrapped in cerecloths, which are fine fabrics soaked or painted in wax to hold the fabric close to the flesh. An account of the opening of the coffin of Edward I says that the \"innermost covering seems to have been a very fine linen cerecloth, dressed close to every part of the body\". Their use was general until at least the Renaissance – clothes were very expensive, and they had the advantage that a good set of clothes was not lost to the family.\nIn Europe in the Middle Ages, coarse linen shrouds were used to bury most poor without a coffin. In poetry shrouds have been described as of sable, and they were later embroidered in black, becoming more elaborate and cut like shirts or shifts.\n\nMuslims as well use burial shrouds that are made of white cotton or linen. The Burying in Woollen Acts 1666-80 in England were meant to support the production of woollen cloth.\n\n"}
{"id": "28307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28307", "title": "Sin", "text": "Sin\n\nIn a religious context, sin is an act of transgression against divine or natural law. Sin can also be viewed as any thought or action that endangers the ideal relationship between an individual and God; or as any diversion from the perceived ideal order for human living. In Jainism, sin refers to anything that harms the possibility of the \"jiva\" (being) to attain \"moksha\" (supreme emancipation). In Islamic ethics, Muslims see sin as anything that goes against the commands of Allah (God). Judaism regards the violation of any of the 613 commandments as a sin.\n\nThe word derives from \"Old English \"syn(n)\", for original *\"sunjō\". The stem may be related to that of Latin '\"sons\", \"sont-is\"' guilty. In Old English there are examples of the original general sense, ‘offence, wrong-doing, misdeed'\". The English Biblical terms translated as \"sin\" or \"syn\" from the Biblical Greek and Jewish terms sometimes originate from words in the latter languages denoting the act or state of missing the mark; the original sense of New Testament Greek \"hamartia\" \"sin\", is failure, being in error, missing the mark, especially in spear throwing; Hebrew \"hata\" \"sin\" originates in archery and literally refers to missing the \"gold\" at the centre of a target, but hitting the target, i.e. error. \"To sin\" has been defined from a Greek concordance as \"to miss the mark\".\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, humans are considered naturally good (perfect), fundamentally spiritual beings. Human beings were created because of God's immeasurable love. However, the Bahá'í teachings compare the human heart to a mirror, which, if turned away from the light of the sun (i.e. God), is incapable of receiving God's love.\n\nBuddhism believes in the principle of \"karma\", whereby suffering is the inevitable consequence of greed, anger, and delusion (known as the Three poisons). While there is no direct Buddhist equivalent of the Abrahamic concept of sin, wrongdoing is recognized in Buddhism. The concept of Buddhist ethics is consequentialist in nature and is not based upon duty towards any deity.\nKarma means action, and in Buddhist context, motivation is the most important aspect of an action. Whether karma done with mind, body and/or speech is called 'good' or 'bad', depends on whether it would bring pleasant or unpleasant results to the person who does the action. \nOne needs to purify negative karma Four Satipatthanas to free oneself from obstacles to liberation from the vicious circle of rebirth. The purification reduces suffering and in the end one reaches Nirvana, the ultimate purification by realizing selflessness or emptiness. An enlightened being is free of all the suffering and karmas, and will not be automatically born again.\n\nIn the Old Testament, some sins were punishable by death in different forms, while most sins are forgiven by burnt offerings. Christians consider the Old Covenant to be fulfilled by the Gospel.\n\nIn the New Testament the forgiveness of sin is effected through faith and repentance (Mark 1:15). Sin is forgiven when the sinner acknowledges, confesses, and repents for their sin as a part of believing in Jesus Christ. The sinner is expected to confess his sins to God as a part of an ongoing relationship, which also includes giving thanks to God. The sinful person has never before been in a favorable relationship with God. When, as a part of the process of salvation, a person is forgiven, they enter into a union with God which abides forever. In the Epistle to the Romans , it is mentioned that \"the wages of sin is death\", which is commonly interpreted as, if one repents for his sins, such person will inherit salvation.\n\nIn Jewish Christianity, sin is believed to alienate the sinner from God even though He has extreme love for mankind. It has damaged and completely severed the relationship of humanity to God. That relationship can only be restored through acceptance of Jesus Christ and his death on the cross as a satisfactory sacrifice for the sins of humanity. Humanity was destined for life with God when Adam disobeyed God. The Bible in says \"For God so loved the world, as to give his only begotten Son; that whosoever believeth in him, may not perish, but may have life everlasting.\"\n\nIn Eastern Christianity, sin is viewed in terms of its effects on relationships, both among people and likewise between people and God. Also as in Jewish Christianity, Sin is likewise seen as the refusal to follow God's plan and the desire to be \"like God\" (as stated in Genesis 3:5) and thus in direct opposition to God's will (see the account of Adam and Eve in Genesis).\nOriginal sin is a Western concept that states that sin entered the human world through Adam and Eve's sin in the Garden of Eden and that human beings have since lived with the consequences of this first sin.\n\nThe serpent who beguiled Eve to eat of the fruit was punished by having it and its kind being made to crawl on the ground and God set an enmity between them and Eve's descendants (Genesis 3:14-15). Eve was punished by the pains of childbirth and the sorrow of bringing about life that would eventually age, sicken and die (Genesis 3:16). The second part of the curse about being subordinate to Adam originates from her creation from one of Adam's ribs to be his helper (Genesis 2:18-25); the curse now clarifies that she must now obey her husband and desire only him. Adam was punished by having to work endlessly to feed himself and his family. The land would bring forth both thistles and thorns to be cleared and herbs and grain to be planted, nurtured, and harvested. The second part of the curse about his mortality is from his origin as red clay - he is from the land and he and his descendants would return to it when buried after death. When Adam's son Cain slew his brother Abel, he introduced murder into the world (Genesis 4:8-10). For his punishment, God banished him as a fugitive, but first marked him with a sign that would protect him and his descendants from harm (Genesis 4:11-16).\n\nOne concept of sin deals with things that exist on Earth, but not in Heaven. Food, for example, while a necessary good for the (health of the temporal) body, is not of (eternal) transcendental living and therefore its \"excessive\" savoring is considered a sin. The unforgivable sin (or eternal sin) is a sin that can never be forgiven;\nMatthew 12:30-32 :\n\" He that is not with me, is against me: and he that gathereth not with me, scattereth. And Therefore I say to you: Every sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven men, but the blasphemy of the Spirit shall not be forgiven. And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but he that shall speak against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, nor in the world to come.\"\n\nIn Catholic Christianity sins are classified into grave sins called mortal sins and less serious sins called venial sin. Mortal sins cause one to lose salvation unless the sinner repents and venial sins require some sort of penance either on Earth or in Purgatory.\n\nJesus was said to have paid for the complete mass of sins past, present, and to come in future. Even inevitable sin is said to have already been cleansed.\n\nThe Lamb of God was and is God himself and is therefore sinless. In the Old Testament, Leviticus 16:21 states that ‘the laying on of hands’ was the action that the High Priest Aaron was ordered to do yearly by God to take sins of Israel's nation onto a spotless young lamb.\n\nIn Hinduism, the term \"sin\" (\"\" in Sanskrit) is often used to describe actions that create negative Karma by violating moral and ethical codes, which automatically brings negative consequences. This is somewhat similar to Abrahamic sin in the sense that pāpa is considered a crime against the laws of God, which is known as (1) Dharma, or moral order, and (2) one's own self, but another term \"aparadha\" is used for grave offences. The term papa cannot be taken however, in literal sense as that of a sin. This is because there is no consensus regarding the nature of ultimate reality or God in Hinduism. Only, the vedanta school being unambiguously theistic, whereas no anthropomorphic God exists in the rest five schools namely Samkhya, Nyaya Yoga, Vaishashikha, and Purva-Mimansa . The term \"papa\" however in the strictest sense refers to actions which bring about wrong/unfavourable consequences, not relating to a specific divine will in the absolute sense. To conclude, considering a lack of consensus regarding the nature of ultimate reality in Hinduism, it can be considered that \"papa\" has lesser insistence on God for it be translated as Sin, and that there is no exact equivalent to Sin in Hinduism.\n\nIn Islamic ethics, Muslims see sin as anything that goes against the commands of Allah (God), a breach of the laws and norms laid down by religion. Islamic terms for sin include \"dhanb\" and \"khaṭīʾa\", which are synonymous and refer to intentional sins; \"khiṭʾ\", which means simply a sin; and \"ithm\", which is used for grave sins.\n\nIn Jainism, the word for sin is the Sanskrit word पाप (\"paap\"), which is the antithesis of पुण्य (\"punya\") meaning merit. A \"jiva\" (a being) acquires sin based on its karma, if it hurts anyone, causes someone to hurt anyone, or commends hurting anyone by thought, speech or action. Anyone, here, refers to literally any living organism, but not limited to human beings.\n\nNo \"jiva\" can achieve \"moksha\" (ultimate emancipation) without ceasing to accumulate karma and shedding off the already accumulated karma entirely. A \"jiva\" accumulates karma if it resorts to violence, non-chastity, falsehood, stealing, and possessiveness. A \"jiva\" ceases to accumulate karma if he resorts to the golden trio of \"samyak gyan\" (right knowledge), \"samyak darshan\" (right sight) and \"samyak charitra\" (right character). A \"jiva\" begins to shed off the accumulated karma by resorting to penance, repentance, vows and by exterminating foes of lust, anger, attachment, aversion, ignorance and fallacy.\n\nIf a \"jiva\" does not give up sin, his karma will keep accumulating and no sin can be absolved without getting its fruit or repenting for it. Thus such a \"jiva\" is bound to remain in the worldly cycle of constant reincarnation, wherein it will keep taking rebirths, into any of the four broad types of living organisms, depending on the magnitude and nature of karma accumulated in previous birth(s). The four types are \"dev\" (beings of heaven, including deities), \"manushya\" (human), \"tiryanch\" (plants, animals, insects, etc.) and \"naarki\" (beings of hell). \n\nDuring this cycle of getting born and dying for infinity, the \"jiva\" will have to then live the life of the organism he is and while living it, the \"jiva\" will again perform more karma. This will again lead to rebirth and again performing more karma. Thus, the cycle continues.\n\nIt is important to note that Jains believe that for complete liberation, not only the \"sinful karma\" but even the \"meritorious karma\" needs to be shed off. This means that a jiva can truly attain moksha, only if the soul is completely and absolutely pure and devoid of any accumulation. For instance, sins may cause the \"jiva\" to be reborn, inter alia, in hell and merits may cause it to be reborn in heaven. But heaven, like hell is a part of worldly cycle of reincarnation and not supreme moksha of the soul. Thus, if a person hypothetically keeps performing only and exclusively good deeds in his life, he may still not attain \"moksha\", because he has not yet shed off previously accumulated sins through repentance and knowledge.\n\nJains believe that only a human \"jiva\" has the capacity and the will to attain \"moksha\". Hence the \"jiva\" should use this extremely rare opportunity of being born as a human to walk on the path that brings him closer to \"moksha\". In fact, Jains take the concept of avoiding sin so seriously that not only are they completely vegetarian but some devout Jains also abstain from eating underground grown food like potatoes, onions, etc. to avoid killing small organisms. Most of the Jains are also nonalcoholics and eat before sunset each day.\n\nMainstream Judaism regards the violation of any of the 613 commandments of the Mosaic law for Jews, or the seven Noahide laws for Gentiles as a sin. Judaism teaches that all humans are inclined to sin from birth. Sin has many classifications and degrees. Some sins are punishable with death by the court, others with death by heaven, others with lashes, and others without such punishment, but no sins with willful intent go without consequence. Unwillful violations of the mitzvot (without negligence) do not count as sins. \"Sins by error\" are considered as less severe sins. When the Temple yet stood in Jerusalem, people would offer sacrifices for their misdeeds. The atoning aspect of \"korbanot\" is carefully circumscribed. For the most part, \"korbanot\" only expiate such \"sins by error\", that is, sins committed because a person forgot or did not know that this thing was a sin. In some circumstances, lack of knowledge is considered close to deliberate intent. No atonement is needed for violations committed under duress, and for the most part, \"korbanot\" cannot atone for a deliberate sin. In addition, \"korbanot\" have no expiating effect unless the person making the offering sincerely repents his or her actions before making the offering, and makes restitution to any person who suffered harm through the violation.\n\nJudaism teaches that all willful sin has consequences. The completely righteous suffer for their sins (by humiliation, poverty, and suffering that God sends them) in this world and receive their reward in the world to come. The in-between (not completely righteous or completely wicked), suffer for and repent their sins after death and thereafter join the righteous. The very evil do not repent even at the gates of hell. Such people prosper in this world to receive their reward for any good deed, but cannot be cleansed by and hence cannot leave \"gehinnom\", because they do not or cannot repent. This world can therefore seem unjust where the righteous suffer, while the wicked prosper. Many great thinkers have contemplated this.\n\nIn Mesopotamian mythology, Adamu (or Addamu/Admu, or Adapa) goes on trial for the \"sin of casting down a divinity\".\nHis crime is breaking the wings of the south wind.\n\nEvil deeds fall into two categories in Shinto: \"amatsu tsumi\", \"the most pernicious crimes of all\", and \"kunitsu tsumi\", \"more commonly called misdemeanors\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7558207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7558207", "title": "Sparagmos", "text": "Sparagmos\n\nSparagmos (, from σπαράσσω \"sparasso\", \"tear, rend, pull to pieces\") is an act of rending, tearing apart, or mangling, usually in a Dionysian context.\n\nIn Dionysian rite as represented in myth and literature, a living animal, or sometimes even a human being, is sacrificed by being dismembered. \"Sparagmos\" was frequently followed by omophagia (the eating of the raw flesh of the one dismembered). It is associated with the Maenads or Bacchantes, followers of Dionysus, and the Dionysian Mysteries. Historically, however, there is little indication that women celebrating the rites of Dionysus dismembered animals or ate raw flesh.\n\nExamples of \"sparagmos\" appear in Euripides's play \"The Bacchae\". In one scene guards sent to control the Maenads witness them pulling a live bull to pieces with their hands. Later, after King Pentheus has banned the worship of Dionysus, the god lures him into a forest, to be torn limb from limb by Maenads, including his own mother Agave. According to some myths, Orpheus, regarded as a prophet of Orphic or Bacchic religion, died when he was dismembered by raging Thracian women. \n\nMedea is said to have killed and dismembered her brother whilst fleeing with Jason and the stolen fleece in order to delay their pursuers, who would be compelled to collect the remains of the prince for burial. The Italian film director Pier Paolo Pasolini staged a sparagmos ritual as part of a long sequence near the beginning of his film \"Medea\" (1969), before dramatising the episode in which Medea kills her brother in a similar way.\n\nInterpreting the ritual through the lens of the Freudian Oedipus complex, Catherine Maxwell identifies \"sparagmos\" as a form of castration, particularly in the case of Orpheus.\n\nIn contemporary literature, this is used in Tennessee Williams's play \"Suddenly, Last Summer\". \n\nSparagmos is also briefly mentioned in Donna Tartt's \"The Secret History\".\n\nSparagmos is a central theme in Dimitris Lyacos's The First Death recounting the torments of a mutilated protagonist stranded on an island. The book draws upon the dismemberment of Dionysus as well as ancient Greek rituals and practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "1126849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126849", "title": "Summum bonum", "text": "Summum bonum\n\nSummum bonum is a Latin expression meaning \"the highest good\", which was introduced by the Roman philosopher Cicero, to correspond to the Idea of the Good in ancient Greek philosophy. The \"summum bonum\" is generally thought of as being an end in itself, and at the same time containing all other goods.\n\nThe term was used in medieval philosophy. In the Thomist synthesis of Aristotelianism and Christianity, the highest good is usually defined as the life of the righteous and/or the life led in communion with God and according to God's precepts. In Kantianism, it was used to describe the ultimate importance, the singular and overriding end which human beings ought to pursue.\n\nPlato's \"The Republic\" argued that, \"In the world of knowledge the idea of good appears last of all, and is seen...to be the universal author of all things beautiful and right\". Silent contemplation was the route to appreciation of the Idea of the Good.\n\nAristotle in his \"Nicomachean Ethics\" accepted that the target of human activity, \"Must be the 'Good', that is, the supreme good.\", but challenged Plato's Idea of the Good with the pragmatic question: \"Will one who has had a vision of the Idea itself become thereby a better doctor or general?\". However, arguably at least, Aristotle's concept of the unmoved mover owed much to Plato's Idea of the Good.\n\nPhilo of Alexandria conflated the Old Testament God with the unmoved mover and the Idea of the Good. Plotinus, the neoplatonic philosopher, built on Plato's Good for his concept of the supreme One, while Plutarch drew on Zoroastrianism to develop his eternal principle of good.\n\nAugustine of Hippo in his early writings offered the summum bonum as the highest human goal, but was later to identify it as a feature of the Christian God in \"De natura boni\" (\"On the Nature of Good\", c. 399). Augustine denies the positive existence of absolute evil, describing a world with God as the supreme good at the center, and defining different grades of evil as different stages of remoteness from that center.\n\nThe summum bonum has continued to be a focus of attention in Western philosophy, secular and religious. Hegel replaced Plato's dialectical ascent to the Good by his own dialectical ascent to the Real.\n\nG. E. Moore placed the highest good in personal relations and the contemplation of beauty – even if not all his followers in the Bloomsbury Group may have appreciated what Clive Bell called his \"all-important distinction between 'Good on the whole' and 'Good as a whole'\".\n\nLacan considered that \"the sovereign good, if this confusing term must be retained, can be found again only at the level of the law\", i.e. the symbolic order, offsetting Kant with De Sade to undercut nobler but one-dimensional notions of the Good. Earlier he had regretted the way the psychoanalyst must know, \"Not only doesn't he have that Sovereign Good that is asked of him, but he also knows there isn't any\".\n\nJudgments on the highest good have generally fallen into four categories:\n\n"}
{"id": "5438682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5438682", "title": "Tobacco fatwa", "text": "Tobacco fatwa\n\nA tobacco fatwa is a fatwa (Islamic legal pronouncement) that prohibits the usage of tobacco by Muslims. All contemporary rulings condemn smoking as potentially harmful or prohibit (haram) smoking outright as a result of the severe health damage that it causes. Arab Muslims tend to prohibit smoking (despite Saudi Arabia ranking 23rd in the world for the percentage of its population that smokes) and, in South Asia, smoking tends to be considered lawful but discouraged:\n\nFor many Muslims, the legal status of smoking has changed during recent years, and numerous fatawas, including from notable authorities such as Al-Azhar University in Cairo, now consider smoking \"haram\" (prohibited). The reasons cited in support of the reclassification of smoking as prohibited include Islamic law's general prohibition of all actions that result in harm. For example, the Quran says, \"And spend of your substance in the cause of God, and make not your own hands contribute to your own destruction.\" Additionally, jurists rely on the exhortations in the Quran not to waste money. Greater appreciation of the risks associated with secondhand smoke has also led recent jurists to cite the obligation to avoid causing willful annoyance, distress, or harm to other people.\n\nFatwas condemning smoking have been issued in Egypt, Indonesia, Kuwait, Malaysia, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE, among others. \n\nThe earliest fatwa regarding smoking was issued in Morocco in 1602. Following the introduction of tobacco to the kingdom in 1598, King Ahmad al-Mansur sought guidance from religious scholars in Fez. The kingdom's Grand Mufti and the Wali of Sila both ruled that smoking was forbidden in Islam. This ruling failed to have much effect on tobacco use in the kingdom, leading the Mufti to issue a second ruling forbidding its use, as the use of all \"intoxicants and harmful substances\" is forbidden in Islam. This categorical prohibition was unsuccessful, and the Mufti and the other scholars who joined him in his ruling were either killed by a mob angry at this ruling or fled the country.\n\nIn recent years, tobacco fatwas (Islamic legal pronouncements) have been issued due to health concerns.\n\nThe holy book of Islam, the Qur'ān, does not specifically prohibit or denounce smoking, but gives behavioral guidance:\n\n\nIn practice, at least one recent survey (Abbottabad, Pakistan) found that observant Muslims tend to avoid smoking. A study of young Muslim Arab-Americans found that Islamic influences were correlated with some diminished smoking. Conversely, an Egyptian study found that knowledge of an anti-smoking fatwa did not reduce smoking. Overall, the prevalence of smoking is increasing in Islamic countries.\n\nThe prominent scholar Yusuf al Qaradawi argues that smoking is no longer an issue of dispute among Islamic scholars due to the knowledge of health risks.\n\nThe reported juristic disagreement among Muslim scholars on the ruling concerning smoking, since its appearance and spread, is not usually based on differences between legal proofs, but on the difference in the verification of the cause on which the ruling is based. They all agree that whatever is proved to be harmful to the body and mind is prohibited, yet they differ whether this ruling applies to smoking. Some of them claimed that smoking has some benefits, others assured that it had few disadvantages compared to its benefits, whereas a third group maintained that it had neither benefits nor bad effects. This means that if scholars had been certain about the harmfulness of smoking, then they would undoubtedly have considered it prohibited.[…]\n\nSecond: Our inclination to consider smoking prohibited does not mean that it is as grave as major sins like adultery, drinking alcohol or theft. In fact, prohibited matters in Islam are relative; some of them are minor prohibitions whereas others are major, and each has its own ruling. The major sins, for example, have no expiation other than sincere repentance. However, the minor sins can be expiated by the Five Prayers, the Friday Prayer, the Fasting of Ramadan, the Night Vigil Prayer in Ramadan, and other acts of worship. They can also be expiated by avoiding the major sins.\n\nFatwas ruling that smoking is impermissible have been issued by sheikhs of all four Sunni schools of fiqh—Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, and Hanbali—as well as by those of the Ibadi sect.\n\nIn 2000, the Grand Mufti of Egypt, Dr. Nasr Farid Wasil, ruled that smoking was \"haram\" (forbidden) in Islam because of its detrimental health effects. The fatwa, which ruled that smoking is a major sin on par with alcohol use and acceptable grounds for divorce, triggered substantial controversy in Egypt. Grand Imam Gadul Haq Ali Gadul Haq, the Sheikh of al-Azhar mosque, the center of Islamic learning in the Sunni world, issued a similar ruling in 2000, citing the following verse from the Quran as justification: \"and cast not yourselves to ruin with your own hands\". \n\nIn 2009, Majelis Ulama Indonesia, the organization of Indonesian religious scholars, declared smoking in public or near pregnant women \"haram\" (forbidden), while declaring smoking in general to be \"makruh\" (discouraged or reprehensible). Indonesian Muslim organization Muhammadiyah declared smoking \"haram\" in 2010; the organization had previously listed smoking as merely \"Makruh\" (to be avoided). Tobacco companies sponsored 1,350 youth-oriented events from January to October in 2007, and often gave free cigarettes to youths. A 2015 study found that the fatwa had had a small effect on smoking and was primarily effective at keeping non-smokers from smoking.\n\nIran’s Grand Ayatollah Mirza Shirazi in 1891 issued a fatwa against tobacco.\n\nMalaysia's National Fatwa Council first issued a fatwa against smoking in 1996, when it declared smoking haram because of its detrimental health effects. In 2013, a study of Muslims and Buddhists in Malaysia found that this fatwa and other religious norms against smoking have had an independent and significant increase in quit attempts. Among Muslims, religious pressure against smoking was more effective at inspiring people to quit than social pressure. In 2015, the National Fatwa Council followed-up by issuing a fatwa declaring electronic cigarettes haram because of their harmful health effects and bad smell. \n\nIn 1996, Sheikh Ahmed Bin Hamad Al Khalili, the Grand Mufti of Oman, issued a fatwa prohibiting smoking and the sale of tobacco, comparing smoking to \"sipping poison\" Sheikh Al Khalili cited a verse from the Quran, \"do not kill yourselves for God Almighty is most merciful to you,\" to justify his ruling.\n\nThe Supreme Council of Darul Ifta of the Philippines, headed by Grand Mufti Sheikh Omar Pasigan, stated in June 2010 that smoking cigarettes is \"haram\".\n\nThe Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia, Sheikh Muhammad ibn Ibrahim Aal Al-Sheikh, has ruled that \"smoking is impermissible on the basis of authentic quotations, sound judgments, and the opinions of reputable physicians.\" The Mufti cites a sahih hadith (verifiable saying of the Prophet) saying \"do not harm yourself or others.\" He further referenced a Quranic verse saying that the Prophet \"forbids that which is unwholesome.\" \n\nIn addition to issuing a fatwa against smoking, the United Arab Emirates instructed imams in all mosques to read a sermon against smoking on June 11, 1999 following Friday prayers.\n\nFrom the 1970s to the late 1990s, tobacco companies including British American Tobacco and Phillip Morris were involved in campaigns to undermine fatwas against smoking in Muslim majority countries by branding Muslims who opposed smoking as a fundamentalist'? who wishes to return to sharia law\", and be \"a threat to existing government\". The tobacco industry was also concerned that the World Health Organization's encouraging of anti-smoking stance of Muslim scholars. A 1985 report from tobacco firm Philip Morris squarely blamed the WHO: \"This ideological development has become a threat to our business because of the interference of the WHO ... The WHO has not only joined forces with Muslim fundamentalists who view smoking as evil, but has gone yet further by encouraging religious leaders previously not active anti-smokers to take up the cause.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1342185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342185", "title": "Towards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration", "text": "Towards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration\n\nTowards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration expresses the ethical commitments held in common by the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions.\n\nAt the request of the Council for a Parliament of the World's Religions, Hans Küng, President of the Foundation for a Global Ethic (\"Stiftung Weltethos\"), wrote an initial draft in consultation with fellow scholars and religious leaders. The Council's leaders and Trustees then worked on the final draft in consultation with Küng and their own, extensive network of leaders and scholars from various religions and regions. Most notable in leading this effort were Daniel Gómez-Ibáñez, the Executive Director of the Council, and Thomas A. Baima, a member of the Board of Trustees.\n\nThe declaration identifies two fundamental ethical demands as its foundation. First: the Golden Rule: \"What you wish done to yourself, do to others,\" \"a principle which is found and has persisted in many religious and ethical traditions of humankind of thousands of years.\" Second: every human being must be treated humanely—an insight the beginnings of which exists in every great religious or ethical traditions.\n\nThe two fundamental ethical demands are made concrete in four directives, which are \"convincing and practical for all women and men of good will, religious and non-religious\". These directives are elaborated in the \"Global Ethic\". They are:\n\nThe \"Global Ethic\" acknowledges that some significant differences exist between, and among, the religions. Still, these differences need not, it insists, stop them \"from proclaiming publicly those things\" that they already hold in common and that they jointly affirm. Each tradition holds those things to be true on the basis of their own religious or ethical grounds.\n\nBecause its goal was to express those things about which the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions agree, no religious or theological terms appear in \"the Global Ethic\". Some religions such as Buddhism do not have a god while other religions such as Hinduism have many.\n\nIn his account of the writing of the \"Global Ethic\", Küng describes several working parameters: It should 1) make a clear distinction between the ethical level and the purely legal or political level, 2) not duplicate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights because an ethic is more than rights, 3) avoid political declarations, 4) not devolve into casuistry, 5) forego any attempt to become a philosophical treatise, and, 6) set aside enthusiastic religious proclamations. On a positive programmatic level, the declaration must: 1) penetrate to the deep ethical level of binding values, irrevocable criteria, and basic inner attitudes, 2) be capable of securing moral unanimity and steer clear of statements rejected by the religions, 3) offer constructive criticism, 4) relate to the world as it really is, 5) use language familiar to newspaper readers (no technical jargon!), 6) have a religious foundation since, for the religions, an ethic must have a religious foundation.\n\nIn the summer of 1993, \"The \"Global Ethic\"\" was ratified as an official document of the Parliament of the World's Religions by a vote of its Trustees. It was then signed by more than 200 leaders from 40+ different faith traditions and spiritual communities during the international gathering organized by the Parliament in 1993 in Chicago, Illinois · USA. The majority of participants attending the gathering also endorsed \"the \"Global Ethic\"\" by acclamation. Since 1993 leaders and individuals around the world continue to endorse the \"Global Ethic\" with their signatures. It has served as a common ground for people to discuss, to agree, and to cooperate for the good of all.\n\nSince 1993, agreement has emerged among the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions on issues tied to the environment. Aware of this shift, and because the \"Global Ethic\" was intended from the start to be a living document, the Parliament of the World's Religions decided to expand the \"Global Ethic\" with a fifth directive. Led by Myriam Renaud, the Parliament's Global Ethic Project Director, a task force wrote an initial draft. After soliciting and reflecting on 100+ pages of comments offered by scholars and religious leaders from many of the world's faith traditions and regions, the task force prepared and then submitted a final draft to the Trustees for their vote. The \"Global Ethic\", expanded with a fifth directive, became official in July 2018:\n\nHumanity's shared home was mentioned in the 1993 draft of the \"Global Ethic\". Its first directive states that the lives of animals and plants deserve protection and care and that people, especially with a view to future generations, have a special responsibility for the Earth's air, water and soil. The fifth directive sets out in greater detail what this responsibility entails—for example: \"Caring and prudent use of resources is based on fairness in consumption and takes into account limits on what ecosystems can bear.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54301172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54301172", "title": "Well-being contributing factors", "text": "Well-being contributing factors\n\nWell-being is a much-studied topic in psychology, especially positive psychology. Related concepts are eudaimonia, happiness, flourishing, quality of life, contentment, and meaningful life.\nCentral theories are Diener's tripartite model of subjective well-being, Ryff's Six-factor Model of Psychological Well-being, Corey Keyes' work on flourishing, and Seligman's contributions to positive psychology and his theories on \"authentic happiness\" and P.E.R.M.A.\n\nPositive psychology is concerned with eudaimonia, \"the good life\" or flourishing, living according to what holds the greatest value in life – the factors that contribute the most to a well-lived and fulfilling life. While not attempting a strict definition of the good life, positive psychologists agree that one must live a happy, engaged, and meaningful life in order to experience \"the good life\". Martin Seligman referred to \"the good life\" as \"using your signature strengths every day to produce authentic happiness and abundant gratification\". According to Christopher Peterson, \"eudaimonia trumps hedonism\".\n\nResearch on positive psychology, well-being, eudaimonia and happiness, and the theories of Diener, Ryff, Keyes and Seligmann cover a broad range of levels and topics, including \"the biological, personal, relational, institutional, cultural, and global dimensions of life.\"\n\nThe pursuit of happiness predicts both positive emotions and less depressive symptoms. People who prioritize happiness are more psychologically able, all else held equal.\n\nDifferent ways of measuring well-being reveal different contributing factors. The correlation between two of these, life satisfaction and happiness, in the World Values Survey (1981–2005) is only 0.47. These are different, but related concepts which are used interchangeably outside of academia. Typically, life satisfaction, or evaluative wellbeing is measured with Cantril’s self-anchoring ladder, a questionnaire where wellbeing is rated on a scale from 1–10. Happiness or hedonic/Affective well-being measurement is measured with the positive and negative affect schedule (PANAS), a more complex scale.\n\nThe UK Government's Department of Health compiled a factsheet in 2014, in which it is stated that the key limitations to well-being, quality of life and life satisfaction research are that:\n\nMental health is the strongest individual predictor of life satisfaction. Mental illness is associated with poorer well-being. In fact, mental health is the strongest determinant of quality of life at a later age.\n\nStudies have documented the relationship between anxiety and quality of life.\n\nThe VOXEU analysis of happiness showed the principal determinants of an adult’s life satisfaction to be income, parenting, family break up, mother's mental health and schooling.\nThe factors that explain life satisfaction roughly map (negatively) to those factors that explain misery. They are first and foremost diagnosed depression/anxiety, which explains twice as much as the next factor, physical health (number of medical conditions), that explains just as much variance in subjective well-being between people, as income and whether someone is partnered.\nThese factors count twice as much as each of whether someone is employed and whether they are a non-criminal, which in turn are 3 times as important as years of education.\n\nOverall, the best predictor of an adult's life satisfaction is their emotional health as a child as reported by the mother and child. It trumps factors like the qualifications that someone gets and their behaviour at 16 as reported by the mother. A child and therefore an adult's emotional health is most affected itself by a mother's mental health, which is just over twice as important as family income.\n2/3 as important as family income is parent's involvement, which is 0.1 partial correlation coefficients more important than aggressive parenting (negative), father's unemployment (negative), family conflict (negative) and whether the mother worked in the subject's 1st year of life.\n\nWhether the mother worked thereafter has 0 correlation with well-being, however. In terms of non-family factors, the place where someone goes to secondary school matters a fair bit more than observed family background altogether, which in turn is slightly more important than the place where someone went to primary school.\n\nThe main determinants of affective well-being, by correlation and effect size are:\n\n\nDeterminants that correlate highly with one another, for instance, alternative ways of measuring corruption, are excluded from this list.\n\nOver the last 33 years, a significant decrease in women's happiness leads researchers to believe that men are happier than women. In contrast, a Pew Research Centre survey found that more women are satisfied with their lives than men, overall. Other research has found no gender gap in happiness.\n\nPart of these findings could be due to the way men and women differ in calculating their happiness. Women calculate the positive self-esteem, closeness in their relationships and religion. Men calculate positive self-esteem, active leisure and mental control. Therefore, neither men nor women are at greater risk for being less happy than the other. Earlier in life, women are more likely than men to fulfill their goals (material goals and family life aspirations), thereby increasing their life satisfaction and overall happiness. However, it is later in life that men fulfill their goals, are more satisfied with their family life and financial situation and, as a result, their overall happiness surpasses that of women. Possible explanations include the unequal division of labor within the household, or that women experience more variance (more extremes) in emotion but are \"generally\" happier. Effects of gender on well-being are paradoxical: men report feeling less happy than women, however, women are more susceptible to depression.\n\nA study was conducted by Siamak Khodarahimi to determine the roles of gender and age on positive psychology constructs – psychological hardiness, emotional intelligence, self-efficacy and happiness – among 200 Iranian adolescents and 200 young adults who were questioned through various tests. The study found that the males of the sample showed significantly higher rates in psychological hardiness, emotional intelligence, self-efficacy and happiness than females, regardless of age.\n\nHappiness is partly genetically based. Based on twin studies, 50 percent of a given human's happiness level is genetically determined, 10 percent is affected by life circumstances and situation, and a remaining 40 percent of happiness is subject to self-control.\n\nDetermining whether emotions have a genetic trait or not were studied by David Lykken and Auke Tellegen. They found that up to 80% of a long-term sense of well-being is due to heredity. Basically, our families are important to our eventual emotional lives as adults because they provide us with genetic material that largely determines our base emotional responsiveness to the world. Therefore, genetic makeup is far more important to the long-term quality of our emotional lives than is learned behavior or the quality of our early childhood environment, at least as found in our current socio-economic paradigm. The remaining theoretical 20%, however, still leaves room for significant change in thoughts and behavior from environmental/learned sources that should not be understated, and the interpretation of variance in twin studies is controversial, even among clinical psychologists.\n\nIndividual differences in both overall Eudaimonia, identified loosely with self-control, and in the facets of eudaimonia are inheritable. Evidence from one study supports 5 independent genetic mechanisms underlying the Ryff facets of this trait, leading to a genetic construct of eudaimonia in terms of general self-control, and four subsidiary biological mechanisms enabling the psychological capabilities of purpose, agency, growth, and positive social relations.\n\nIt is generally accepted that happiness is at least in part mediated through dopaminergic, adrenergic and serotonergic metabolism. A correlation has been found between hormone levels and happiness. SSRIs, such as Prozac, are used to adjust the levels of serotonin in the clinically unhappy. Researchers, such as Alexander, have indicated that many peoples usage of narcotics may be the unwitting result of attempts to readjust hormone levels to cope with situations that make them unhappy.\n\nA positive relationship has been found between the volume of gray matter in the right precuneus area of the brain and the subject's subjective happiness score. Meditation based interventions, including mindfulness, have been found to correlate with a significant gray matter increase within the precuneus.\n\nNeuroscience and brain imaging have shown increasing potential for helping science understand happiness and sadness. Though it may be impossible to achieve any comprehensive objective measure of happiness, some physiological correlates to happiness can be measured. Stefan Klein, in his book \"The Science of Happiness\", links the dynamics of neurobiological systems (i.e., dopaminergic, opiate) to the concepts and findings of positive psychology and social psychology.\n\nNobel prize winner Eric Kandel and researcher Cynthia Fu described very accurate diagnoses of depression just by looking at fMRI brain scans.\nBy identifying neural correlates for emotions, scientists may be able to use methods like brain scans to tell us more about the different ways of being \"happy\". Richard Davidson has conducted research to determine which parts of the brain are involved in positive emotions. He found that the left prefrontal cortex is more activated when we are happy and is also associated with greater ability to recover from negative emotions as well as enhanced ability to suppress negative emotions. Davidson found that people can train themselves to increase activation in this area of their brains. It is thought that our brain can change throughout our lives as a result of our experiences; this is known as neuroplasticity.\n\nThe evolutionary perspective offers an alternative approach to understanding happiness and quality of life. Key guiding questions are: What features are included in the brain that allow humans to distinguish between positive and negative states of mind? How do these features improve humans' ability to survive and reproduce? The evolutionary perspective claims that the answers to these questions point towards an understanding of what happiness is about and how to best exploit the capacities of the brain with which humans are endowed. This perspective is presented formally and in detail by the evolutionary biologist Bjørn Grinde in his book \"Darwinian Happiness\".\n\nThere has been a significant focus in past research on adulthood, in regards to well-being and development and although eudaimonia is not a new field of study, there has been little research done in the areas of adolescence and youth. Research that has been done on this age group had previously explored more negative aspects than well-being, such as problem and risk behaviours (i.e. drug and alcohol use).\n\nResearchers who conducted a study in 2013 recognized the absence of adolescents in eudaimonic research and the importance of this developmental stage. Adolescents rapidly face cognitive, social and physical changes, making them prime subjects to study for development and well-being. The \"eudaimonic identity theory\" was used in their research to examine the development of identity through self-discovery and self-realization. They emphasize the personal value found in discovering and appeasing one's “\"daimon\"” (daemon) through subjective experiences that develop eudaimonic happiness from aligning with one's true self.\n\nResearchers focused their studies on PYD (positive youth development) and the \"eudaimonic identity theory\" in the context of three developmental elements: \"self-defining activities\", \"personal expressiveness\" and \"goal-directed behaviours\".\n\nThey determined that adolescents sample multiple \"self-defining activities\"; these activities aid in identity formation, as individuals choose activities that they believe represents who they are. These \"self-defining activities\" also help determine the adolescent's social environments. For example, an adolescent involved in sports, would likely surround themselves with like-minded active and competitive people.\n\n\"Personal expressiveness\", as coined by psychologist A. S. Waterman, are the activities that we choose to express and connect with our “\"daimon\"” through subjective experiences.\n\nFinally, \"goal-directed behaviours\", are developed through goal setting, where individuals work towards identity establishment. Adolescents recognize their passions, abilities and talents and aim to fulfill their goals and behave in a way that appeases their true self.\n\nThe study on adolescents was conducted in Italy, Chile and the United States, which produced slightly varied outcomes. Outcomes were contingent on availability, access and choice of opportunities (activities). Socioeconomic context also affected the results, as not all individuals could access the activities that may be more in-line with their true selves.\n\nThe Personally Expressive Activities Questionnaire (PEAQ) was used to conduct the study. Adolescence was the youngest age group that the PEAQ was used on. The PEAQ asked adolescents to self-report on activities they participate in and describe themselves with \"self-defining activities\". It was reported that 80% of adolescents defined themselves with two to four \"self-defining activities\" signifying an understanding in adolescence of self-concept through the domains of leisure, work and academia.\n\nLeisure activities were found to have the largest impact on individuals because these activities were the most self-directed of the three domains, as adolescents had the choice of activity, and were more likely to be able to align it with their true selves. The study found that subjective experiences were more important than the activities themselves and that adolescents reported higher levels of well-being. They reported that when adolescents express themselves through \"self-defining activities\" across multiple domains, they have a clearer image of themselves, of what they want to achieve and higher wellness. \"Goal-setting\" was found to be a unique predictor; when adolescents work towards goals set by themselves and accomplish them, they are likely to have a clearer emerging identity and higher well-being. Researchers found that more adolescents were happy when they were involved in self-chosen activities because the activities were chosen in line with their true self.\n\nThe midlife crisis may mark the first reliable drop in happiness during an average human's life. Evidence suggests most people generally become happier with age, with the exception of the years 40 – 50, which is the typical age at which a \"crisis\" might occur. Researchers specify that people in both their 20s and 70s are happier than during midlife, although the extent of happiness changes at different rates. For example, feelings of stress and anger tend to decline after age 20, worrying drops after age 50, and enjoyment very slowly declines in adulthood but finally starts to rise after age 50.\nWell-being in late life is more likely to be related to other contextual factors including proximity to death. However most of this terminal decline in well-being could be attributed to other changes in age-normative functional declines including physical health and function. Also, there is growing debate that assumptions that a single population estimate of age-related changes in well-being truly reflects the lived experiences of older adults has been questioned. The use of growth mixture modelling frameworks has allowed researchers to identify homogenous groups of individuals who are more similar to each other than the population based on their level and change in well-being and has shown that most report stable well-being in their late life and in the decade prior to death. These findings are based on decades of data, and control for cohort groups; the data avoids the risk that the drops in happiness during midlife are due to populations' unique midlife experiences, like a war. The studies have also controlled for income, job status and parenting (as opposed to childlessness) to try to isolate the effects of age.\n\nResearchers found support for the notion of age changes inside the individual that affect happiness.\nThis could be for any number of reasons. Psychological factors could include greater awareness of one's self and preferences; an ability to control desires and have more realistic expectations – unrealistic expectations tend to foster unhappiness; moving closer to death may motivate people to pursue personal goals; improved social skills, like forgiveness, may take years to develop – the practice of forgiveness seems linked to higher levels of happiness; or happier people may live longer and are slightly overrepresented in the elderly population. Age-related chemical changes might also play a role.\n\nOther studies have found older individuals reported more health problems, but fewer problems overall. Young adults reported more anger, anxiety, depression, financial problems, troubled relationships and career stress. Researchers also suggest depression in the elderly is often due largely to passivity and inaction – they recommend people continue to undertake activities that bring happiness, even in old age.\n\nThe activity restriction model of depressed affect suggests that stressors that disrupt traditional activities of daily life can lead to a decrease in mental health. The elderly population is vulnerable to activity restriction because of the disabling factors related to age. Increases in scheduled activity as well as social support can decrease the chances of activity restriction.\n\nA study by Keyes found that there are major costs of depression, which 14% of adults experience annually: it impairs social roles; it costs billions each year due to work absenteeism, diminished productivity, and healthcare costs; finally, depression accounts for at least one-third of suicides. Therefore, it is important to study flourishing to learn about what is possible if issues such as depression are tackled and how the ramifications of focusing on the positive make life better not just for one person, but also for others around them.\n\nFlourishing has significant positive aspects magnified when compared to languishing adults and when languishing adults are compared to depressed adults, as explained by Keyes. For example, languishing adults have the same amount of chronic disease as those that are depressed whereas flourishing adults are in exceptionally better physical health. Languishing adults miss as many days at work as depressed adults and, in fact, visit doctors and therapists more than depressed adults.\n\nA strengths-based approach to personal positive change aims to have clinical psychology place an equal weight on both positive and negative functioning when attempting to understand and treat distress. This rationale is based on empirical findings. Because positive characteristics interact with negative life events to predict disorder the exclusive study of negative life events could produce misleading results.\n\nThus, psychologists are looking to use positive psychology to treat patients. Amy Krentzman, among the others, discussed positive intervention as a way to treat patients. She defined positive intervention as a therapy or activity primarily aimed at increasing positive feelings, positive behaviors, or positive cognitions, as opposed to focusing on negative thoughts or dysfunctional behaviors. A way of using positive intervention as a clinical treatment is to use positive activity interventions. Positive activity interventions, or PAIs, are brief self-administered exercises that promote positive feelings, thoughts, and behaviors. Two widely used PAIs are “Three Good Things” and “Best Future Self.” “Three Good Things” requires a patient to daily document, for a week, three events that went well during the day, and the respective cause, or causes (this exercise can be modified with counterfactual thinking, that is, adding the imagination of things had them been worse). “Best Future Self” has a patient “think about their life in the future, and imagine that everything has gone as well as it possibly could. They have worked hard and succeeded at accomplishing all of their life goals. Think of this as the realization of all of their life dreams.” The patient is then asked to write down what they imagined. These positive interventions have been shown to decrease depression, and interventions focusing on strengths and positive emotions can, in fact, be as effective in treating disorder as other more commonly used approaches such as cognitive behavioral therapy. Moreover, the apparent effect of PPIs cannot be caused by publication bias, according to a meta-analysis on 49 studies (2009). PPIs studied included producing gratitude letters, performing optimistic thinking, replaying positive life experiences, and socializing with people.\n\nAlso, in a newer meta-analysis (39 studies, 6,139 participants, 2012), the standardized mean difference was 0.34 higher for subjective well-being, 0.20 for psychological well-being and 0.23 for depression. Three to six months after the intervention, the effects for subjective well-being and psychological well-being were still significant, so effects seem fairly sustainable. However, in high-quality studies the positive effect was weaker, though positive, so authors considered further high-quality studies necessary to strengthen the evidence. They claimed that the above-mentioned meta-analysis (2009) did not put enough weight on the quality of studies.\nPPIs found positive included blessings, kindness practices, taking personal goals, and showing gratitude.\n\nThe interventions called \"Gratitude Journaling\" and \"Three Good Things\" seem to operate via gratitude. There is evidence that, when gratitude journaling, focussing on quality over quantity as well as people more than possessions, yields greater benefits. There is also evidence of a diminished effect from gratitude journaling if it is done more than once or twice a week. Journaling sans gratitude is effective in decreasing negative emotions in general, which suggests that the act of journaling, rather than gratitude alone, is involved in the treatment effect.\n\nPositive psychology seeks to inform clinical psychology of the potential to expand its approach, and of the merit of the possibilities. Given a fair opportunity, positive psychology might well change priorities to better address the breadth and depth of the human experience in clinical settings.\n\nPosttraumatic growth (PTG) is a possible outcome after a traumatic event, besides posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Following a traumatic event, for instance rape, incest, cancer, attack, or combat, \"it is normal to experience debilitating symptoms of depression and anxiety.\" A person who shows PTG however, will experience these negative outcomes for a time and then show an increase in well-being, higher than it was before the trauma occurred. Martin Seligman, a founder of positive psychology, emphasizes that \"arriving at a higher level of psychological functioning than before\" is a key point in PTG. If instead an individual experiences a depressive period but recovers from an incident and returns to their normal level of psychological functioning, they are demonstrating resilience. This suggests that in PTG, the trauma acts as a turning point for the person to achieve greater well-being. Seligman recognizes \"the fact that trauma often sets the stage for growth\" and given the right tools, individuals can make the most of that opportunity.\"\n\nWhen reflecting on a traumatic growth, Seligman suggests using the following five elements to facilitate PTG: understand the response to trauma, reduce anxiety, utilize constructive disclosure, create a trauma narrative, and articulate life principles and stances that are more robust to challenge. Someone experiencing PTG will achieve elements of Seligman’s \"good life\" theory, including a more meaningful and purposeful valuing of life, improved positive relationships, accomplishment, and a more optimistic and open mindset according to the broaden-and-build theory.\n\nThe phenomenon of PTG is applicable to many disciplines. The construct is important not only for just soldiers, emergency responders, and survivors of traumatic events, but on average, for everyday citizens facing typical adversity. One way to expose citizens to stories of PTG is through constructive journalism. Constructive journalism, as defined by PhD student Karen McIntyre at University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, is \"an emerging style of journalism in which positive psychology techniques are applied to news work with the aim of engaging readers by creating more productive news stories, all while maintaining core journalistic functions\". Cathrine Gyldensted, an experienced reporter with a Masters in applied positive psychology and coauthor of two books, demonstrated that typical news reporting, which is associated with negative valence, harms mood. Using PTG to focus on victims' strengths and instances of overcoming adversity encourages readers to implement similar ideals in their own lives. \"So the goal of positive psychology in well-being theory is to measure and to build human flourishing.\" Combining positive psychology constructs like PTG, PERMA, and \"broaden and build\" with journalism could potentially improve affect and inspire individuals about the benefits of positive psychology.\n\nPERMA not only plays a role in our own personal lives but also can be used for public major news stories. With this model, journalists can instead focus on the positives of a story and ask questions about how conflicts or even tragedies have brought people together, how someone has experienced post-traumatic growth, and more. News stories then shift the perspective from a victimizing one to an uplifting one. Positive psychology is slowly but steadily making its way through news reporting via constructive journalism. PERMA helps journalists ask the right questions to continue that progress by bringing the focus of a potentially negative story to the positives and solutions.\n\nFredrickson and Losada postulated in 2005 that the ratio of positive to negative affect, known as the critical positivity ratio, can distinguish individuals that flourish from those that do not. Languishing was characterized by a ratio of positive to negative affect of 2.5. Optimal functioning or flourishing was argued to occur at a ratio of 4.3. The point at which flourishing changes to languishing is called the Losada line and is placed at the positivity ratio of 2.9. Those with higher ratios were claimed to have broader behavioral repertoires, greater flexibility and resilience to adversity, more social resources, and more optimal functioning in many areas of their life. The model also predicted the existence of an upper limit to happiness, reached at a positivity ratio of 11.5. Fredrickson and Losada claimed that at this limit, flourishing begins to disintegrate and productivity and creativity decrease. They suggested as positivity increased, so to \"appropriate negativity\" needs to increase. This was described as time-limited, practicable feedback connected to specific circumstances, i.e. constructive criticism.\n\nThis positivity ratio theory was widely accepted until 2013, when Nick Brown, a graduate student in applied positive psychology, co-authored a paper with Alan Sokal and Harris Friedman, showing that the mathematical basis of the paper was invalid. Fredrickson partially retracted the paper, agreeing that the math may be flawed, but maintaining that the empirical evidence is still valid. Brown and colleagues insist there is no evidence for the critical positivity ratio whatsoever.\n\nMost psychologists focus on a person's most basic emotions. There are thought to be between seven and fifteen basic emotions. The emotions can be combined in many ways to create more subtle variations of emotional experience. This suggests that any attempt to wholly eliminate negative emotions from our life would have the unintended consequence of losing the variety and subtlety of our most profound emotional experiences. Efforts to increase positive emotions will not automatically result in decreased negative emotions, nor will decreased negative emotions necessarily result in increased positive emotions. Russell and Feldman Barrett (1992) described emotional reactions as core affects, which are primitive emotional reactions that are consistently experienced but often not acknowledged; they blend pleasant and unpleasant as well as activated and deactivated dimensions that we carry with us at an almost unconscious level.\n\nEvidence suggests negative emotions can be damaging. In an article titled \"The undoing effect of positive emotions\", Barbara Fredrickson et al. hypothesized positive emotions undo the cardiovascular effects of negative emotions. When people experience stress, they show increased heart rate, higher blood sugar, immune suppression, and other adaptations optimized for immediate action. If unregulated, the prolonged physiological activation can lead to illness, coronary heart disease, and heightened mortality. Both lab and survey research substantiate that positive emotions help people under stress to return to a preferable, healthier physiological baseline. Other research shows that improved mood is one of the various benefits of physical exercise.\n\nThe broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions suggests positive emotions (e.g. happiness, interest, anticipation) broaden one's awareness and encourage novel, varied, and exploratory thoughts and actions. Over time, this broadened behavioral repertoire builds skills and resources. For example, curiosity about a landscape becomes valuable navigational knowledge; pleasant interactions with a stranger become a supportive friendship; aimless physical play becomes exercise and physical excellence. Positive emotions are contrasted with negative emotions, which prompt narrow survival-oriented behaviors. For example, the negative emotion of anxiety leads to the specific fight-or-flight response for immediate survival.\n\nAfter several years of researching disgust, Jonathan Haidt, and others, studied its opposite; the term \"elevation\" was coined. Elevation is a pleasant moral emotion, involving a desire to act morally and do \"good\". As an emotion it has a biological basis, and is sometimes characterized by a feeling of expansion in the chest or a tingling feeling on the skin.\n\nThe term flourishing, in positive psychology, refers to optimal human functioning. It comprises four parts: goodness, generativity, growth, and resilience (Fredrickson, 2005). According to Fredrickson (2005), goodness is made up of: happiness, contentment, and effective performance; generativity is about making life better for future generations, and is defined by “broadened thought-action repertoires and behavioral flexibility”; growth involves the use of personal and social assets; and resilience reflects survival and growth after enduring a hardship. A flourishing life stems from mastering all four of these parts. Two contrasting ideologies are languishing and psychopathology. On the mental health continuum, these are considered intermediate mental health disorders, reflecting someone living an unfulfilled and perhaps meaningless life. Those who languish experience more emotional pain, psychosocial deficiency, restrictions in regular activities, and missed workdays. \nFredrickson & Losada (2005) conducted a study on university students, operationalizing positive and negative affect. Based on a mathematical model which has been strongly criticized, and now been formally withdrawn by Fredrickson as invalid, Fredrickson & Losada claimed to have discovered a critical positivity ratio, above which people would flourish and below which they would not. Although Fredrickson claims that her experimental results are still valid, these experimental results have also been questioned due to poor statistical methodology, and Alan Sokal has pointed out that \"given [Fredrickson and Losada's] experimental design and method of data analysis, no data whatsoever could possibly give any evidence of any nonlinearity in the relationship between \"flourishing\" and the positivity ratio — much less evidence for a sharp discontinuity.\"\n\nAnother study surveyed a U.S. sample of 3,032 adults, aged 25–74. Results showed 17.2 percent of adults were flourishing, while 56.6 percent were moderately mentally healthy. Some common characteristics of a flourishing adult included: educated, older, married and wealthy. The study findings suggest there is room for adults to improve as less than 20 percent of Americans are living a flourishing life. (Keyes, 2002).\n\nBenefits from living a flourishing life emerge from research on the effects of experiencing a high ratio of positive to negative affect. The studied benefits of positive affect are increased responsiveness, \"broadened behavioral repertoires\", increased instinct, and increased perception and imagination. In addition, the good feelings associated with flourishing result in improvements to immune system functioning, cardiovascular recovery, lessened effects of negative affect, and frontal brain asymmetry. Other benefits to those of moderate mental health or moderate levels of flourishing were: stronger psychological and social performance, high resiliency, greater cardiovascular health, and an overall healthier lifestyle (Keyes, 2007). The encountered benefits of flourishing suggest a definition: \"[flourishing] people experience high levels of emotional, psychological and social well being due to vigor and vitality, self-determination, continuous self- growth, close relationships and a meaningful and purposeful life\" (Siang-Yang, 2006, p. 70).\n\nPsychologists Peter Hills and Michael Argyle developed the Oxford Happiness Questionnaire as a broad measure of psychological well-being. The approach was criticized for lacking a theoretical model of happiness and for overlapping too much with related concepts such as self-esteem, sense of purpose, social interest, kindness, sense of humor and aesthetic appreciation.\n\n\"Happiness\" encompasses different emotional and mental phenomena. One method of assessment is Ed Diener's Satisfaction with Life Scale. According to Diener, this five-question survey corresponds well with impressions from friends and family, and low incidence of depression.\n\nRather than long-term, big picture appraisals, some methods attempt to identify the amount of positive affect from one activity to the next. Scientists use beepers to remind volunteers to write down the details of their current situation. Alternatively, volunteers complete detailed diary entries each morning about the day before. A discrepancy arises when researchers compare the results of these short-term \"experience sampling\" methods, with long-term appraisals. Namely, the latter may not be very accurate; people may not know what makes their life pleasant from one moment to the next. For instance, parents' appraisals mention their children as sources of pleasure, while \"experience sampling\" indicates parents were not enjoying caring for their children, compared to other activities.\n\nPsychologist Daniel Kahneman explains this discrepancy by differentiating between happiness according to the \"experiencing self\" compared to the \"remembering self\": when asked to reflect on experiences, memory biases like the Peak-End effect (e.g. we mostly remember the dramatic parts of a vacation, and how it was at the end) play a large role. A striking finding was in a study of colonoscopy patients. Adding 60 seconds to this invasive procedure, Kahneman found participants reported the colonoscopy as \"more\" pleasant. This was attributed to making sure the colonoscopy instrument was not moved during the extra 60 seconds – movement is the source of the most discomfort. Thus, Kahneman was appealing to the remembering self's tendency to focus on the end of the experience. Such findings help explain human error in affective forecasting – people's ability to predict their future emotional states.\n\nHumans exhibit a variety of abilities. This includes an ability of emotional \"Hedonic Adaptation\", an idea suggesting that beauty, fame and money do not generally have lasting effects on happiness (this effect has also been called the Hedonic treadmill). In this vein, some research has suggested that only recent events, meaning those that occurred within the last 3 months, affect happiness levels.\n\nThe tendency to adapt, and therefore return to an earlier level of happiness, is illustrated by studies showing lottery winners are no happier in the years after they've won. Other studies have shown paraplegics are nearly as happy as control groups that are not paralyzed, after equally few years. Daniel Kahneman explains: \"they are not paraplegic full time... It has to do with allocation of attention\". Thus, contrary to our impact biases, lotteries and paraplegia do not change experiences to as great a degree as we would believe.\n\nHowever, in a newer study (2007), winning a medium-sized lottery prize had a lasting mental wellbeing effect of 1.4 GHQ points on Britons even two years after the event. Moreover, adaptation can be a very slow and incomplete process. Distracting life changes such as the death of a spouse or losing one's job can show measurable changes in happiness levels for several years. Even the \"adapted\" paraplegics mentioned above did ultimately report lower levels of pleasure (again, they were happier than one would expect, but not fully adapted). Thus, adaptation is a complex process, and while it \"does\" mitigate the emotional effects of many life events it cannot mitigate them entirely.\n\nThe happiness set point idea is that most people return to an average level of happiness – or a set point – after temporary highs and lows in emotionality. People whose set points lean toward positive emotionality tend to be cheerful most of the time and those whose set points tend to be more negative emotionality tend to gravitate toward pessimism and anxiety. Lykken found that we can influence our level of well-being by creating environments more conductive to feelings of happiness and by working with our genetic makeup. One reason that subjective well-being is for the most part stable is because of the great influence genetics have. Although the events of life have some effect on subjective well-being, the general population returns to their set point.\nIn her book \"The How of Happiness\", Sonja Lyubomirsky similarly argued people's happiness varies around a genetic set point. Diener warns, however, that it is nonsensical to claim that \"happiness is influenced 30–50% by genetics\". Diener explains that the recipe for happiness for an individual always requires genetics, environment, and behaviour too, so it is nonsensical to claim that an individual's happiness is due to only one ingredient.\n\nOnly differences in happiness can be attributed to differences in factors. In other words, Lyubomirsky's research does not discuss happiness in one individual; it discusses differences in happiness between two or more people. Specifically, Lyubomirsky suggests that 30–40% of the difference in happiness levels is due to genetics (i.e. heritable). In other words, still, Diener says it makes no sense to say one person's happiness is \"due 50% to genetics\", but it does make sense to say one person's difference in happiness is 50% due to differences in their genetics (and the rest is due to behaviour and environment).\n\nFindings from twin studies support the findings just mentioned. Twins reared apart had nearly the same levels of happiness thereby suggesting the environment is not entirely responsible for differences in people's happiness. Importantly, an individual's baseline happiness is not \"entirely\" determined by genetics, and not even by early life influences on one's genetics. Whether or not a person manages to elevate their baseline to the heights of their genetic possibilities depends partly on several factors, including actions and habits. Some happiness-boosting habits seem to include gratitude, appreciation, and even altruistic behavior. Other research-based habits and techniques for increasing happiness are discussed on this page.\n\nBesides the development of new habits, the use of antidepressants, effective exercise, and a healthier diet have proven to affect mood significantly. There is evidence that a vegan diet reduces stress and anxiety. Exercise is sometimes called the \"miracle\" or \"wonder\" drug – alluding to the wide variety of proven benefits it provides.\nIt is worth mentioning that a recent book, \"Anatomy of an Epidemic\", challenges the use of non-conservative usage of medications for mental patients, specially with respect to their long-term positive feedback effects.\n\nYongey Mingyur Rinpoche has said that neuro scientists have found that with meditation, an individual's happiness baseline can change. and meditation has been found to increase happiness in several studies.A study on Brahma Kumaris Raja yoga meditators showed them having higher happiness (Oxford happiness questionnaire) than the control group.\n\nIn recent large panel studies divorce, death of a spouse, unemployment, disability and similar events have been shown to change the long-term subjective well-being, even though some adaptation does occur and inborn factors affect this.\n\nFujita and Diener found that 24% of people changed significantly between the first five years of the study and the last five years. Almost one in four people showed changes in their well-being over the years; indeed sometimes those changes were quite dramatic. Bruce Headey found that 5–6% of people dramatically increased their life satisfaction over a 15- to 20-year period and that the goals people pursued significantly affected their life satisfaction.\n\nThe easiest and best possible way to increase one's happiness is by doing something that increases the ratio of positive to negative emotions. Contrary to some beliefs, in many scenarios, people are actually very good at determining what will increase their positive emotions. There have been many techniques developed to help increase one's happiness.\n\nA first technique is known as the \"Sustainable Happiness Model (SHM).\" This model proposes that long-term happiness is determined upon: (1) one's genetically determined set-point, (2) circumstantial factors, and (3) intentional activities. Lyubomirsky, Sheldon and Schkade suggest to make these changes in the correct way in order to have long-term happiness. Another suggestion of how to increase one's happiness is through a procedure called \"Hope Training.\" Hope Training is primarily focused on hope due to the belief that hope drives the positive emotions of well-being. This training is based on the hope theory, which states that well-being can increase once people have developed goals and believe themselves to achieve those goals. One of the main purposes of hope training is to eliminate individuals from false hope syndrome. False hope syndrome particularly occurs when one believes that changing their behavior is easy and the outcomes of the change will be evidenced in a short period of time.\n\nThere are coaching procedures based on positive psychology, which are backed by scientific research, with availability of intervention tools and assessments that positive psychology trained coaches can utilize to support the coaching process. Positive psychology coaching uses scientific evidence and insights gained in these areas to work with clients in their goals.\n\nPhilip Zimbardo suggests we might also analyze happiness from a \"time perspective\". He suggested the sorting of people's focus in life by valence (positive or negative) and also by their time perspective (past, present, or future orientation). Doing so may reveal some individual conflicts, not over whether an activity is enjoyed, but whether one prefers to risk delaying gratification further. Zimbardo also believes research reveals an optimal balance of perspectives for a happy life; commenting, our focus on reliving positive aspects of our past should be high, followed by time spent believing in a positive future, and finally spending a moderate (but not excessive) amount of time in enjoyment of the present.\n\nIn the 1970s Csikszentmihalyi's started to study \"flow\", a state of absorption where one's abilities are well-matched to the demands at-hand. Flow is characterized by intense concentration, loss of self-awareness, a feeling of being perfectly challenged (neither bored nor overwhelmed), and a sense \"time is flying\". Flow is intrinsically rewarding; it can also assist in the achievement of goals (e.g., winning a game) or improving skills (e.g., becoming a better chess player). Anyone can experience flow, in different domains, such as play, creativity, and work.\n\nFlow is achieved when the challenge of the situation meets one's personal abilities. A mismatch of challenge for someone of low skills results in a state of anxiety; insufficient challenge for someone highly skilled results in boredom. The effect of challenging situations means that flow is often temporarily exciting and variously stressful, but this is considered Eustress, which is also known as \"good\" stress. Eustress is arguably less harmful than chronic stress, although the pathways of stress-related systems are similar. Both can create a \"wear and tear\" effect; however, the differing physiological elements and added psychological benefits of eustress might well balance any wear and tear experienced.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi identified nine indicator elements of flow:\n1. Clear goals exist every step of the way, 2. Immediate feedback guides one's action, 3. There is a balance between challenges and abilities, 4. Action and awareness are merged, 5. Distractions are excluded from consciousness, 6. Failure is not worrisome, 7. Self-consciousness disappears, 8. Sense of time is distorted, and 9. The activity becomes \"autotelic\" (an end in itself, done for its own sake) His studies also show that flow is greater during work while happiness is greater during leisure activities.\n\nArguably, some people pursue ineffective shortcuts to feeling good. These shortcuts create positive feelings, but are problematic, in part because of the lack of effort involved. Some examples of these shortcuts include shopping, drugs, chocolate, loveless sex, and TV. These are problematic pursuits because all of these examples have the ability to become addictive. When happiness comes to us so easily, it comes with a price we may not realize. This price comes when taking these shortcuts is the only way to become happy, otherwise viewed as an addiction. A review by Amy Krentzman on the Application of Positive Psychology to Substance Use, Addiction, and Recovery Research, identified, in the field of positive psychology, three domains that allow an individual to thrive and contribute to society.\n\nOne of these, A Pleasant Life, involves good feelings about the past, present, and future. To tie this with addiction, they chose an example of alcoholism. Research on positive affect and alcohol showed a majority of the population associates drinking with pleasure. The pleasure one feels from alcohol is known as somatic pleasure, which is immediate but a short lived sensory delight. The researchers wanted to make clear pleasure alone does not amount to a life well lived; there is more to life than pleasure. Secondly, the Engaged Life is associated with positive traits such as strength of character. A few examples of character strength according to \"Character Strength and Virtues: A Handbook and Classification\" by Seligman and Peterson (2004) are bravery, integrity, citizenship, humility, prudence, gratitude, and hope, all of which are shown in the rise to recovery. To descend into an addiction shows a lack of character strength; however, rising to recovery shows the reinstatement of character strengths, including the examples mentioned above. Thirdly, the Meaningful Life is service and membership to positive organizations. Examples of positive organizations include family, workplace, social groups, and society in general. Organizations, like Alcoholics Anonymous, can be viewed as a positive organization. Membership fosters positive affect, while also promoting character strengths, which as seen in the Engaged Life, can aid in beating addiction.\n\nResearcher Dianne Hales described an \"emotionally healthy\" person as someone who exhibits flexibility and adaptability to different circumstances, a sense of meaning and affirmation in life, an \"understanding that the self is not the center of the universe\", compassion and the ability to be unselfish, an increased depth and satisfaction in intimate relationships, and a sense of control over the mind and body.\n\nLayard and others show that the most important influence on happiness is mental health.\n\nL.M. Keyes and Shane Lopez illustrate the four typologies of mental health functioning: flourishing, struggling, floundering and languishing. However, complete mental health is a combination of high emotional well-being, high psychological well-being, and high social well-being, along with low mental illness.\n\nAlthough health is part of well-being, some people are able to maintain satisfactory wellbeing despite the presence of psychological symptoms.\n\nMeta-analyses published between 2013 and 2017 show that exercise is associated with reductions in depressive symptoms, fatigue and QoL plus improvements in attention, hyperactivity, impulsivity, social functioning, schizophrenic symptoms, and verbal fluency in various special populations. However, aerobic exercise has no significant effect on anxiety disorders.\n\nIn 2005 a study conducted by Andrew Steptow and Michael Marmot at University College London, found that happiness is related to biological markers that play an important role in health. The researchers aimed to analyze whether there was any association between well-being and three biological markers: heart rate, cortisol levels, and plasma fibrinogen levels. The participants who rated themselves the least happy had cortisol levels that were 48% higher than those who rated themselves as the most happy. The least happy subjects also had a large plasma fibrinogen response to two stress-inducing tasks: the Stroop test, and tracing a star seen in a mirror image. Repeating their studies three years later Steptow and Marmot found that participants who scored high in positive emotion continued to have lower levels of cortisol and fibrinogen, as well as a lower heart rate.\n\nIn Happy People Live Longer (2011), Bruno Frey reported that happy people live 14% longer, increasing longevity 7.5 to 10 years and Richard Davidson's bestseller (2012) \"The Emotional Life of Your Brain\" argues that positive emotion and happiness benefit long-term health.\n\nHowever, in 2015 a study building on earlier research found that happiness has no effect on mortality. \"This \"basic belief that if you're happier you're going to live longer. That's just not true.\" Consistent results are that \"apart from good health, happy people were more likely to be older, not smoke, have fewer educational qualifications, do strenuous exercise, live with a partner, do religious or group activities and sleep for eight hours a night.\"\n\nHappiness does however seem to have a protective impact on immunity. The tendency to experience positive emotions was associated with greater resistance to colds and flu in interventional studies irrespective of other factors such as smoking, drinking, exercise, and sleep.\n\nPositive emotional states have a favorable effect on mortality and survival in both healthy and diseased populations. Even at the same level of smoking, drinking, exercise, and sleep, happier people seem to live longer. Interventional trials conducted to establish a cause-effect relationship indicate positive emotions to be associated with greater resistance to objectively verifiable colds and flu.\n\nHealth consumers sometimes confuse the terms \"wellness\" and \"well-being\". Wellness is a term more commonly associated with alternative medicine which may or may not coincide with gains in subjective well-being. In 2014, the Australian Government reviewed the effectiveness of numerous complementary therapies: they found low-moderate quality evidence that the Alexander technique, Buteyko, massage therapy (remedial massage), tai chi and yoga are helpful for certain health conditions. On the other hand, the balance of evidence indicates that homeopathy, aromatherapy, bowen therapy, Feldenkrais, herbalism, homeopathy, iridology, kinesiology, pilates, reflexology and rolfing shiatsu were classed as ineffective.\n\nThere is growing evidence that a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is related to greater happiness, life satisfaction, and positive mood as well. This evidence cannot be entirely explained by demographic or health variables including socio-economic status, exercise, smoking, and body mass index, suggesting a causal link. Further studies have found that fruit and vegetable consumption predicted improvements in positive mood the next day, not vice versa. On days when people ate more fruits and vegetables, they reported feeling calmer, happier, and more energetic than normal, and they also felt more positive the next day.\n\nCross-sectional studies worldwide support a relationship between happiness and fruit and vegetable intake. Those eating fruits and vegetables each day have a higher likelihood of being classified as “very happy,” suggesting a strong and positive correlation between fruit and vegetable consumption and happiness. Whether it be in South Korea, Iran, Chile, USA, or UK, greater fruit and vegetable consumption had a positive association with greater happiness, independent of factors such as smoking, exercise, body mass index, and socio-economic factors. This could be due to the protective benefits from chronic diseases and a greater intake of nutrients important for psychological health.\n\nOther food and drink practices associated with well-being are probiotics, alcohol, and binge drinking. Gluten and FODMAPs can negatively impact mood in some people. Bupa recommends oily fish, food with tryptophan such as milk, nuts, lentils, whole grain breads, cereals, pasta, soy and chocolate, dark chocolate, the Mediterranean diet overall including vegetables, fruits, whole grains, nuts and olive oil for wellbeing.\n\nThe documentary ‘food matters’ includes claims of well-being benefits of raw foods, which has been disputed as pseudoscience.\n\nEudaimonic well-being has been found to be empirically distinguishable from hedonic well-being.\n\nIndividual roles play a part in cognitive well-being. Not only does having social ties improve cognitive well-being, it also improves psychological health.\n\nHaving multiple identities and roles helps individuals to relate to their society and provide the opportunity for each to contribute more as they increase their roles, therefore creating enhanced levels of cognitive well-being. Each individual role is ranked internally within a hierarchy of salience. Salience is “...the subjective importance that a person attaches to each identity”.\n\nDifferent roles an individual has have a different impact on their well-being. Within this hierarchy, higher roles offer more of a source to their well-being and define more meaningfulness to their overall role as a human being.\n\nEthnic identity may play a role in an individual's cognitive well-being. Studies have shown that “...both social psychological and developmental perspectives suggest that a strong, secure ethnic identity makes a positive contribution to cognitive well-being”. Those in an acculturated society may feel more equal as a human being within their culture, therefore experiencing increased well-being.\n\nLearned optimism refers to development of one's potential for a sanguine outlook. Optimism is learned as personal efforts and abilities are linked to personally desired outcomes. In short, it is the belief one can influence the future in tangible and meaningful ways. Learned optimism contrasts with learned helplessness, which consists of a belief, or beliefs, one has no control over what occurs, and that something external dictates outcomes, e.g., success. Optimism is learned by consciously challenging negative self talk. This includes self talk on any event viewed as a personal failure that permanently affects all areas of the person's life.\n\nIntrapersonal, or internal, dialogues influence one's feelings. In fact, reports of happiness are correlated with the general ability to \"rationalize or explain\" social and economic inequalities. Hope is a powerful positive feeling, linked to a learned style of goal-directed thinking. Hope is fostered when a person utilizes both \"pathways thinking\" (the perceived capacity to find routes to desired goals) and \"agency thinking\" (the requisite motivations to use those routes).\n\nAuthor and journalist J.B. MacKinnon suggested the cognitive tool of \"Vertical Agitation\" can assist in avoiding helplessness (e.g., paralysis in the face of Earth's many problems). The concept stemmed from research on denial by sociologist Stanley Cohen. Cohen explained: in the face of massive problems people tend towards learned helplessness rather than confronting the dissonant facts of the matter. Vertical Agitation involves focusing on one part of a problem at a time, while holding oneself accountable for solving the problem – all the way to the highest level of government, business and society (such as advocating strongly for something: eco-friendly lightbulbs). This allows each individual in society to make vital \"trivial\" (read: small) changes, without being intimidated by the work needed to be done as a whole. Mackinnon added: a piecemeal approach also keeps individuals from becoming too 'holier than thou' (harassing friends and family about \"every\" possible improvement), where widespread practice of Vertical Agitation would lead to much improvement.\n\nWell-being has traditionally focused on improving physical, emotional and mental quality of life with little understanding of how dependent they all are on financial health. However, financial stress often manifests itself in physical and emotional difficulties that lead to increased healthcare costs and reduced productivity. A more inclusive paradigm for well-being would acknowledge money as a source of empowerment that maximizes physical and emotional health by reducing financial stress. Such a model would provide individuals with the financial knowledge they need, as well as enable them to gain valuable insight and understanding regarding their financial habits, as well as their thoughts, feelings, fears and attitudes about money. Through this work, individuals would be better equipped to manage their money and achieve the financial wellness that is essential for their overall well-being.\n\nIt has been argued that money cannot effectively \"buy\" much happiness unless it is used in certain ways, and that \"Beyond the point at which people have enough to comfortably feed, clothe, and house themselves, having more money – even a lot more money – makes them only a little bit happier.\" In his book \"Stumbling on Happiness\", psychologist Daniel Gilbert described research suggesting money makes a significant difference to the poor (where basic needs are not yet met), but has a greatly diminished effect once one reaches middle class (i.e. the Easterlin paradox). Every dollar earned is just as valuable to happiness up to a $75,000 annual income, thereafter, the value of each additional dollar earns a diminishing amount of happiness. According to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, one's perception of their financial circumstances fully mediates the effects of objective circumstances on one’s well-being. People overestimate the influence of wealth by 100%.\n\nProfessor of Economics Richard Easterlin noted that job satisfaction does not depend on salary. In other words, having extra money for luxuries does not increase happiness as much as enjoying one's job or social network. Gilbert is thus adamant, people should go to great lengths to figure out which jobs they would enjoy, and to find a way to do one of those jobs for a living (that is, provided one is also attentive to social ties).\n\nUnemployment is detrimental to individual well-being. However, that does not hold true in countries where unemployment is widespread. Psychology Today reports that the impact of unemployment is dampened in those for whom work is less central to their identity, those who receive less criticism and less negative judgments from others, those who can meet their immediate financial obligations and those who do not see their unemployment as high stress and negative. Other protective factors include the expectation of reemployment, routines that structure one's time and evaluating oneself as worthy, competent and successful. According to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, unemployment is worse for wellbeing for those that are right wing or live in high income countries. Not all unemployment is bad, however: international data from sixteen Western countries indicates that retirement at any age yields large increases in subjective well-being that returns to trend by age 70.\n\nExecutive coaching, a workplace intervention for well-being and performance, is proven to work in certain contexts, according to a 2013 independent quantitative scientific summary synthesising high quality scientific research on coaching. It tells us that standard effect sizes for the outcomes of performance/skills, well-being, coping, goal-attainment and work/career attitudes range from 0.43 to 0.74.\n\nA more recent study has challenged the Easterlin paradox. Using recent data from a broader collection of countries, a positive link was found between GDP and well-being; and there was no point at which wealthier countries' subjective well-being ceased to increase. It was concluded economic growth does indeed increase happiness.\n\nWealth is strongly correlated with life satisfaction but the correlation between money and emotional well-being is weak. The pursuit of money may lead people to ignore leisure time and relationships, both of which may cause and contribute to happiness. The pursuit of money at the risk of jeopardizing one's personal relationships and sacrificing enjoyment from one's leisure activities seems an unwise approach to finding happiness.\n\nMoney, or its hectic pursuit, has been shown to hinder people's savoring ability, or the act of enjoying everyday positive experiences and emotions. In a study looking at working adults, wealthy individuals reported lower levels of savoring ability (the ability to prolong positive emotion) relative to their poorer peers.\n\nStudies have routinely shown that nations are happier when people's needs are met.\nSome studies suggest, however, that people are happier after spending money on experiences, rather than physical things, and after spending money on others, rather than themselves. However, purchases that buy ‘time’, for instance, cleaners or cooks typically increase individual well-being.\n\nLottery winners report higher levels of happiness immediately following the event. But research shows winner's happiness levels drop and return to normal baseline rates within months to years. This finding suggests money does not cause long-term happiness (1978). However, in a more recent British study on lottery prizes between £1,000 and £120,000, a positive effect even two years after the event was found, the return to normal being only partial and varying.\n\nOne 600 women strong 2011 study shows that house owners are no happier than renters. Degree of ownership also matter:\n“...housing property rights matter for subjective well-being. Specifically, using subjective well-being data from China, the authors find that homeownership is associated with higher levels of life satisfaction, although this happiness premium is larger for people who have full ownership compared to those who have only a minor ownership stake in their home.”\nAccording to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, living in rural areas seems to have some association with well-being, because the included studies tend to control for income and rural areas tend to be poor. Income has a high effect on happiness and incomes are higher in urban areas, so chasing a rural lifestyle at the expense of income may be a ‘grass is always greener’ move.\n\nAdults who live with parents also tend to have poorer levels of well-being.\n\nMindfulness is an intentionally focused awareness of one's immediate experience. \"Focused awareness\" is a conscious moment-by-moment attention to situational elements of an experience: i.e., thoughts, emotions, physical sensations, and surroundings. An aim of mindfulness is to become grounded in the present moment; one learns to observe the arising and passing of experience. One does not judge the experiences and thoughts, nor do they try to \"figure things out\" and draw conclusions, or change anything – the challenge during mindfulness is to simply observe. Benefits of mindfulness practice include reduction of stress, anxiety, depression, and chronic pain. See also Reverence (emotion).\n\nEllen J. Langer argued people slip into a state of \"mindlessness\" by engaging in rote behavior, performing familiar, scripted actions without much cognition, as if on autopilot.\n\nAdvocates of focusing on present experiences also mention research by Psychologist Daniel Gilbert, who suggested daydreaming, instead of a focus on the present, may impede happiness. Fellow researcher, Matt Killingsworth, found evidence to support the harm of daydreaming. Fifteen thousand participants from around the world provided over 650 000 reports (using an online application on their phones that requested data at random times). Killingsworth found people who reported daydreaming soon reported less happiness; daydreaming is extremely common. Zimbardo (see \"Time Perspectives\" above) bestowed the merits of a present-focus, and recommended occasional recall of past positive experiences. Reflecting on past positive experiences can influence current mood, and assist in building positive expectations for the future.\n\nThere is research that suggests a person's focus influences level of happiness, where thinking too much about happiness can be counter-productive. Rather than asking: \"Am I happy?\" – which when posed just 4 times a day, starts to decrease happiness, it might well be better to reflect on one's values (e.g., \"Can I muster any hope?\"). Asking different questions can assist in redirecting personal thoughts, and perhaps, lead to taking steps to better apply one's energies. The personal answer to any particular question can lead to positive actions, and hopefulness, which is a very powerful, and positive feeling. Hopefulness is more likely to foster happiness, while feelings of hopelessness tend to undermine happiness.\n\nTodd Kashdan, researcher and author of \"Designing Positive Psychology\", explained early science's findings should not be overgeneralized or adopted too uncritically. Mindfulness to Kashdan is very resource-intensive processing; he warned it is not simply better at all times. To illustrate, when a task is best performed with very little conscious thought (e.g., a paramedic performing practiced, emergency maneuvers). Nevertheless, development of the skill lends to its application at certain times, which can be useful for the reasons just described; Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry Richard J. Davidson highly recommends \"mindfulness meditation\" for use in the accurate identification and management of emotions.\n\nThe modifiable personality traits which might cause greater well-being have yet to be critically synthesised. However, there is evidence that certain traits are beneficial for individual happiness or performance: locus of control, curiosity, religiousness, spirituality, spiritual striving, sense of urgency, self-compassion, authenticity, growth mindset, positive mental attitudes, grit, goal orientation with a meta-analysis concluding that approach rather than avoidance goals are superior for performance; as well as prosocial rather than zero-sum goals.\n\nResearchers who have reported on the character traits of people with high and low life satisfaction found that character strengths which predict life satisfaction are zest, curiosity, hope, and humour. Character strengths that do not predict life satisfaction include appreciation of beauty and excellence, creativity, kindness, love of learning, and perspective. Meanwhile, research on character strengths that is separated by gender indicates the character strengths that predict life satisfaction in men are humour, fairness, perspective, and creativity, while the character strengths that predict life satisfaction in women are zest, gratitude, hope, appreciation of beauty, and love.\n\nCertain traits are specifically beneficial to those with certain health issues. Believing in yourself (high self efficacy) matters for eating disorders, immune response, stress management, pain management and healthy living.\n\nIn literature the positive psychological approach to personality is correlated often with the concepts of personal/psychosocial development and human development, balanced, strong, mature and proactive personality, character strengths and virtues, evidenced by traits like optimism and energy, pragmatism, active consciousness, assertiveness, free and powerful will, self-determination and self-realization, personal and social autonomy, social adaptability, personal and social efficiency, interpersonal development and professional development, proactive and positive thinking, humanity, empathy and love, emotional intelligence, subjective/psychological well-being, extraversion, happiness, positive emotions.\n\nMany tools for psychological wellness have entered popular culture via the personal development and self help industry. Positive music, will lower distress and pain, but news media consumption is detrimental for happiness. One exception is motivational media, for it has been found that inspiration helps with creativity, productivity and happiness. Reading self help books is associated with higher well-being, however, there is poor evidence on life coaching. Some schools of thought, such as Neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), have been criticised as pseudoscience. Other ideas, like affirmations and cold showers andhydrotherapy more broadly have limited evidence of effect. Proactive laughter as in laughter yoga increases mood and improves pain tolerance. Smiling ummarised increases attractiveness, calm in stressful situations, retrieval of happy memories, likeability, happiness, perceived happiness (by others), perceived politeness/relaxedness/carefree, perceived honesty but also perceived stupidity. However, proactively smiling only increases happiness among those who believe smiling is a reaction to feeling happy, rather than a positive intervention.\n\nEd Diener et al. (1999) suggested this equation: positive emotion – negative emotion = subjective well-being. Since tendency to positive emotion has a correlation of 0.8 with extroversion and tendency towards negative emotion is indistinguishable from neuroticism, the above equation could also be written as extroversion – neuroticism = happiness. These two traits could account for between 50% to 75% of happiness. These are all referring to the Big Five personality traits model of personality.\n\nAn emotionally stable (the opposite of Neurotic) personality correlates well with happiness. Not only does emotional stability make one less prone to negative emotions, it also predicts higher social intelligence – which helps to manage relationships with others (an important part of being happy, discussed below).\n\nCultivating an extroverted temperament may correlate with happiness for the same reason: it builds relationships and support groups. Some people may be fortunate, from the standpoint of personality theories that suggest individuals have control over their long-term behaviors and cognitions. Genetic studies indicate genes for personality (specifically extroversion, neuroticism and conscientiousness), and a general factor linking all 5 traits, account for the heritability of subjective well-being. Recent research suggests there is a happiness gene, the 5-HTT gene.\n\nPurpose in life refers broadly to the pursuit of life satisfaction. It has also been found that those with high purpose in life scores have strong goals and sense of direction. They feel there is meaning to their past and present life, and hold beliefs that continue to give their life purpose. Research in the past has focused on purpose in the face of adversity (what is awful, difficult, or absurd in life). Recently, research has shifted to include a focus on the role of purpose in personal fulfillment and self-actualization.\n\nThe self-control approach, as expounded by C. R. Snyder, focusses on exercising self-control to achieve self-esteem by fulfilling goals and feeling in control of our own success. This is further reinforced by a sense of intentionality in both efforts and outcomes.\n\nThe intrinsic motivation approach of Viktor Frankl emphasized finding value in three main areas: creative, experiential, and attitudinal. Creative values are expressed in acts of creating or producing something. Experiential values are actualized through the senses, and may overlap the hedonistic view of happiness. Attitudinal values are prominent for individuals who are unable to pursue the preceding two classes of values. Attitudinal values are believed to be primarily responsible for allowing individuals to endure suffering with dignity.\n\nA personal sense of responsibility is required for the pursuit of the values that give life meaning, but it is the realization that one holds sole responsibility for rendering life meaningful that allows the values to be actualized and life to be given true purpose. Determining what is meaningful for one's self provides a sense of autonomy and control which promotes self-esteem.\n\nPurpose in life is positively correlated with education level and volunteerism. However, it has also been found to decrease with age.\nPurpose in life is both highly individual, and what specifically provides purpose will change over the course of one's lifetime.\n\nAll three of the above theories have self-esteem at their core. Self-esteem is often viewed as the most significant measure of psychological well-being, and highly correlated with many life-regulating skills. Purpose in life promotes and is a source of self-esteem; it is not a by-product of self-esteem.\n\nSelf-efficacy refers to a belief that one's ability to accomplish a task is a function of personal effort. Low self-efficacy, or a disconnect between ability and personal effort, is associated with depression; by comparison, high self-efficacy is associated with positive change, including overcoming abuse, overcoming eating disorders, and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. High self-efficacy also has positive benefits for one's immune system, aids in stress management, and decreases pain. A related concept, Personal effectiveness, is primarily concerned with planning and the implementation of methods of accomplishment.\n\nAccording to Bloodworth and McNamee sports and physical activities are a key contributor to the development of people's well-being. The influence of sports on well-being is conceptualized within a framework which includes impermanence, its hedonistic shallowness and its epistemological inadequacy. Researching the effect of sport on well-being is difficult as some societies are unable to access sports, a deficiency in studying this phenomenon.\n\nSuffering can indicate behavior worthy of change, as well as ideas that require a person's careful attention and consideration. Generally, psychology acknowledges suffering can not be completely eliminated, but it is possible to successfully manage and reduce suffering. The University of Pennsylvania's Positive Psychology Center explains: \"Psychology’s concern with remedying human problems is understandable and should certainly not be abandoned. Human suffering demands scientifically informed solutions. Suffering and well being, however, are both part of the human condition, and psychologists should be concerned with both.\" Positive psychology, inspired by empirical evidence, focuses on productive approaches to pain and suffering, as well the importance of cultivating strengths and virtues to keep suffering to a minimum (see also Character strengths and virtues (book)).\nIn reference to the Buddhist saying \"Life is suffering\", researcher and clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson suggested this view as realistic, not pessimistic, where acceptance of the reality life is harsh, provides a freedom from the expectation one should always be happy. This realization can assist in the management of inevitable suffering. To Peterson, virtues are important because they provide people with essential tools to escape suffering (e.g., the strength to admit dissonant truths to themselves). Peterson maintained suffering is made worse by false philosophy (i.e., denial that natural suffering is inevitable).\n\nSimilarly, Seligman believes positive psychology is \"not a luxury\", saying \"most of Positive Psychology is for all of us, troubled or untroubled, privileged or in privation, suffering or carefree. The pleasures of a good conversation, the strength of gratitude, the benefits of kindness or wisdom or spirituality or humility, the search for meaning and the antidote to \"fidgeting until we die\" are the birthrights of us all.\"\n\nPositive coping is defined as \"a response aimed at diminishing the physical, emotional, and psychological burden that is linked to stressful life events and daily hassles\" It is found that proper coping strategies will reduce the burden of short-term stress and will help relieve long-term stress. Stress can be reduced by building resources that inhibit or buffer future challenges. For some people, these effective resources could be physiological, psychological or social.\n\nTerror management theory maintains that people suffer cognitive dissonance (anxiety) when they are reminded of their inevitable death. Through terror management, individuals are motivated to seek consonant elements – symbols which make sense of mortality and death in satisfactory ways (i.e. boosting self-esteem).\n\nResearch has found that strong belief in religious \"or\" secular meaning systems affords psychological security and hope. It is moderates (e.g. agnostics, slightly religious individuals) who likely suffer the most anxiety from their meaning systems. Religious meaning systems are especially adapted to manage anxiety about death or dying because they are unlikely to be disconfirmed (for various reasons), they are all encompassing, and they promise literal immortality.\n\nWhether emotional effects are beneficial or adverse seems to vary with the nature of the belief. Belief in a benevolent God is associated with lower incidence of general anxiety, social anxiety, paranoia, obsession, and compulsion whereas belief in a punitive God is associated with greater symptoms. (An alternative explanation is that people seek out beliefs that fit their psychological and emotional states.)\n\nCitizens of the world's poorest countries are the most likely to be religious, and researchers suggest this is because of religion's powerful coping abilities. Luke Galen also supports terror management theory as a partial explanation of the above findings. Galen describes evidence (including his own research) that the benefits of religion are due to strong convictions and membership in a social group.\n\nThe capacity for loving attachments and relationships, especially with parents, is the strongest predictor of well-being later in life.\n\nSeligman writes: \"Unlike money, which has at most a small effect, marriage is robustly related to happiness... In my opinion, the jury is still out on what causes the proven fact married people are happier than unmarried people.\" (pp. 55–56). Married persons report higher levels of happiness and well-being than single people. Other data has shown a spouse's happiness depends on the happiness of their partner. When asked, spouses reported similar happiness levels to each other. The data also shows the spouses' happiness level fluctuates similarly to one another. If the husband is having a bad week, the wife will similarly report she had a bad week.\n\nThere is little data on alternatives like polyamory, although one study stated wife order in polygyny did not have a substantial effect on life or marital satisfaction over all. This study also found younger wives were happier than older wives.\n\nOn the other hand, at least one large study in Germany found no difference in happiness between married and unmarried people.\n\nStudies have shown that married couples are consistently happier and more satisfied with their life than those who are single. Some research findings have indicated that marriage is the only real significant bottom-up predictor of life satisfaction for men and women, and that those people who have a higher life satisfaction prior to marriage, tend to have a happier marriage.\n\nSelf-reported satisfaction typically drops as the years of marriage roll on, particularly for couples who have children compared to those who do not. The reasons for this decline include a drop in affectionate behaviour. One team of researcher from Northwestern University who summarised the literature in 2013, identifies that this trend does not reverse throughout the marital period.\n\nSurprisingly, there has been a steady decline in the positive relationship between marriage and well-being in the United States since the 1970s. This decline is due to women reporting being less happy than previously and single men reporting being happier than previously. Research does exist, however, suggesting that compared to single people, married people have better physical and psychological health and tend to live longer.\n\nWith this, a two-factor theory of love was developed by Barnes and Sternberg. This theory is composed of two components: passionate love and companionate love. Passionate love is considered to be an intense longing for a loved one. This love is often experienced through joy and sexual fulfillment, or even through rejection. On the other hand, companionate love is associated with affection, friendship and commitment. Stutzer and Frey (2006) found that the absence of loneliness and the emotional support that promotes self-esteem are both important aspects that contribute to individual well-being within marriage. Both passionate and companionate love are the foundations for every variety of love that one may experience. When passionate and companionate love are compromised in a marital relationship, satisfaction is decreased and the likelihood of divorce increases. In other words, the lack of positive support and validation increases the risk for divorce.\n\nBecause of the expansive research done on the significance of social support within a marriage, it is important to understand that this research was inspired by a theory called the attachment theory perspective. Attachment theory stresses the importance of support and care giving in a relationship for the development of trust and security. Attachment theory, as conceptualized by Collins and Feeney (2000) is an interpersonal, transactional process that involves one partners caregiving responses.\n\nWhile the mantle of parenting is sometimes held as the necessary path of adulthood, study findings are actually mixed as to whether parents report higher levels of happiness relative to non-parents. Folk wisdom suggests a child brings partners closer; research has found couples actually become less satisfied after the birth of the first child. The joys of having a child are overshadowed by the responsibilities of parenthood. Based on quantitative self-reports, researchers found parents prefer doing almost anything else to looking after their children. By contrast, parents' self-report levels of happiness are higher than those of non-parents. This may be due to already happy people having more children than unhappy people. In addition, it might also be that, in the long-term, having children gives more meaning to life. One study found having up to three children increased happiness among married couples, but not among other groups with children. Proponents of Childfreedom maintain this is because one can enjoy a happy, productive life without the trouble of ever being a parent.\n\nBy contrast, many studies found having children makes parents less happy. Compared with non-parents, parents with children have lower levels of well-being and life satisfaction. In addition, parents report more feelings of depression and anxiety than non-parents. However, when adults without children are compared to empty nest parents, parenthood is positively associated with emotional well-being. People found parenthood to be more stressful in the 1970s than they did in the 1950s. This is thought to be because of social changes in regards to employment and marital status.\n\nMales apparently become less happy after the birth of a child due to added economic pressure and taking on the role of being a parent. A conflict between partners can arise when the couple does not desire traditional roles, or has an increasing number of roles. Unequal responsibilities of child-rearing between men and women account for this difference in satisfaction. Fathers who worked and shared an equal part in child-raising responsibilities were found to be the least satisfied. Research shows that single parents have higher levels of distress and report more mental health problems than married persons.\n\nResearchers implemented the Huta & Ryan Scale: Four Eudaimonic Measurement Questionnaire to analyze the participants eudaimonic motives, through motivation towards activities. The investigation was conducted on Canadian university undergraduates. The four eudaimonic pursuits as described by Huta & Ryan are: \n\nThe study determined that participants derived well-being from eudaimonic pursuits only if their parents had role modeled eudaimonia, but not if their parents had merely verbally endorsed eudaimonia.\n\nStudies were also conducted on responsiveness and demandingness. The studies participants were American university undergraduates. The terms are described as follows; responsiveness satisfies the basic psychological need for autonomy. This is relevant to eudaimonia because it supports and implements the values of initiative, effort, and persistence, and integration of one's behaviour's values, and true-self. Autonomy is an important psychological factor because it provides the individual with independence. Demandingness cultivates many of the qualities needed for eudaimonia, including structure, self-discipline, responsibility, and vision. Responsiveness and demandingness are reported to be good aspects of parenting. The studies report both of these qualities as important factors to well-being.\n\nThe study addressed parenting style by assessing and using adaptions of Baumrind's Parent Behaviour Rating Interview. Adaptions of this interview were made into a seventy-five question based survey; participants answered questions organized into fifteen subscales. The study determined that eudaimonically oriented participants reported their parents had been both demanding and responsive towards them. A multiple regression showed that demandingness and responsiveness together explained as much as twenty-eight percent of the variance in eudaimonia, this suggests parenting played a major role in the development of this pursuit. This supported the expectation that eudaimonia is cultivated when parents encourage internal structure, self-discipline, responsibility, and vision, and simultaneously fulfill a child's needs for autonomy. The research concludes that parents who want their children to experience eudaimonia must firstly themselves \"mentor\" their children in the approaches to attain eudaimonia. To encourage eudaimonia verbally is not sufficient enough to suffice eudaimonia into adulthood. Parents must clearly role model eudaimonia for it to truly be present in the child's life.\n\nIn the article \"Finding Happiness after Harvard\", George Vaillant concluded a study on what aspects of life are important for \"successful living\". In the 1940s, Arlie Bock, while in charge of the Harvard Health Services, started a study, selecting 268 Harvard students from graduating classes of 1942, '43, and '44. He sought to identify the aspects of life contributing to \"successful living\". In 1967, the psychiatrist George Vaillant continued the study, undertaking follow-up interviews to gauge the lives of many of the students. In 2000, Vaillant again interviewed these students as to their progress in life. Vaillant observed: health, close relationships, and how participants dealt with their troubles. Vaillant found a key aspect to successful living is healthy and strong relationships.\n\nA widely publicized study from 2008 in the \"British Medical Journal\" reported happiness in social networks may spread from person to person. Researchers followed nearly 5000 individuals for 20 years in the long-standing Framingham Heart Study and found clusters of happiness and unhappiness that spread up to 3 degrees of separation on average. Happiness tended to spread through close relationships like friends, siblings, spouses, and next-door neighbors; researchers reported happiness spread more consistently than unhappiness through the network. Moreover, the structure of the social network appeared to affect happiness, as people who were very central (with many friends, and friends of friends) were significantly happier than those on the network periphery. People closer with others are more likely to be happy themselves. Overall, the results suggest happiness can spread through a population like a virus. Having a best friend buffers one's negative life experiences. When one's best friend is present Cortisol levels are decreased and feelings of self-worth increase.\n\nNeuroeconomist Paul Zak studies morality, oxytocin, and trust, among other variables. Based on research findings, Zak recommends: people hug others more often to get into the habit of feeling trust. He explains \"eight hugs a day, you'll be happier, and the world will be a better place\".\n\nRecently, Anderson et al. found that sociometric status (the amount of respect one has from face-to-face peer group) is significantly and causally related to happiness as measured by subjective well-being.\n\nResearch suggests neither a good education nor a high IQ reliably increases happiness.\nAnders Ericsson argued an IQ above 120 has a decreasing influence on success. Presumably, IQs above 120 do not additionally cause other happiness indicators like success (with the exception of careers like Theoretical physics, where high IQs are more predictive of success). Above that IQ level, other factors, like social skills and a good mentor, matter more. As these relate to happiness, intelligence and education may simply allow one to reach a middle-class level of need satisfaction (as mentioned above, being richer than this seems to hardly affect happiness). According to the findings of the study, Using Theatrical Concepts for Role-plays with Educational Agents by Klesen, she expresses how role- playing embeds information and educational goals and causes people to learn unintentionally. Studies has shown that enjoyment in things as simple as role playing increases a person's IQ and their happiness.\n\nMartin Seligman has said: \"As a professor, I don't like this, but the cerebral virtues—curiosity, love of learning—are less strongly tied to happiness than interpersonal virtues like kindness, gratitude and capacity for love.\"\n\nJohn White (2013) investigated the educational goals at public schools in Britain. School-education involves both cognitive and conceptual learning, but also the development social skills and personal development. Ideally, children develop self-confidence, and create purpose for themselves. According to White, in the past schools only focused on knowledge and education but now Britain has moved to a broader direction. White's Every Child Matters initiative seeks to enhance children's well-being across the range of children's services.\n\nAs a basic building block to a better existence, positive psychology aims to improve the quality of experiences. Within its framework, students could learn to become excited about physical activity. Playing comes natural to children; positive psychology seeks to preserve this zest (a sense of excitement and motivation for life) for movement in growing and developing children. If offered in an interesting, challenging and pleasurable way physical activity would thus internalize an authentic feeling of happiness in students. Positive psychology's approach to physical activity could give students the means of acquiring an engaged, pleasant and meaningful life.\n\nPositive psychology is beneficial to schools and students because it encourages individuals to strive to do their best, whereas scolding has the opposite effect. Clifton and Rath discussed research conducted by Dr. Elizabeth Hurlock in 1925, where fourth, fifth and sixth graders were either praised, criticized or ignored, based on their work on math problems. Praised students improved by 71%, those criticized improved by 19%, and students provided with no feedback improved a mere 5%. Praise seems an effective method of fostering improvement.\n\nAccording to Clifton and Rath ninety nine out of one hundred people prefer the influence of positive people. The benefits include: increased productivity, and contagious positive emotions, which assists one in working to the best of her, or his, abilities. Even a single negative person can ruin the entire positive vibe in an environment. Clifton and Rath cited ‘positive emotions as an essential daily requirement for survival’.\n\nIn 2008, in conjunction with the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, a whole-of-school implementation of Positive Psychology was undertaken by Geelong Grammar School (Victoria, Australia). This involved training of teaching staff in the principles and skills of positive psychology. Ongoing support was provided by The Positive Psychology Center staff, who remained in-residence for the entire year.\n\nStaats, Hupp and Hagley (2008) used positive psychology to explore academic honesty. They identified positive traits displayed by heroes, then determined if the presence of these traits in students predicted future intent to cheat. The results of their research: ‘an effective working model of heroism in the context of the academic environment’ (Staats, Hupp & Hagley, 2008).\n\nAccording to a study reported in the \"NY Post\" newspaper, 48% of parents reward their children's good grades with cash or something else of meaning. Among many families in the United States, this is controversial. Although psychology experts support the offer of reward for good behavior as a better alternative than the use of punishment for bad behavior, in some circumstances, families cannot afford to give their children an average of 16 dollars for every good grade earned. Alternatives for money include allowing a child extra time on a computer or staying up later than usual. Some psychology experts believe the best reward is praise and encouragement because material rewards can cause long-term negative effects for children.\nA study, regarding rewards for children, conducted in 1971 by psychologist, Edward L. Deci, at the University of Rochester, is still referenced today. Featured in the \"New York Times\", it focused on the short- and long-term effects of rewards for positive behavior. Deci suggested rewards for positive behavior is an effective incentive for only a short period. At the outset, rewards can support motivation to work hard and strive towards personal goals. However, once rewards cease, children showed less interest in the task relative to participants who never received rewards. Deci pointed out, at a young age, children's natural instinct is to resist people who try to control their behavior, which he cited as support for his conclusion rewards for good behavior have limited effectiveness.\n\nIn contrast, the \"New York Times\" featured research findings that supported the merits of offering rewards to children for good behavior. Expert economists argued children experiencing trouble with their behavior or schoolwork should have numerous helpful options, including rewards. Although children might well experience an initial attraction to financial or material, a love for learning could develop subsequently. Despite the controversy regarding the use of rewards, some experts believe the best way to motivate a child is to offer rewards at the beginning of the school year, but if unsuccessful they recommend teachers and parents stop using the reward system. Because of individual differences among children, no one method will work for everyone. Some children respond well to the use of rewards for positive behavior, while others evidence negative effects. The results seem to depend on the person.\n\nPositive Youth Development focuses on the promotion of healthy development rather than viewing youth as prone to problems needing to be addressed. This is accomplished through programs and efforts by communities, schools, and government agencies.\n\nIt has been argued that happiness at work is one of the driving forces behind positive outcomes at work, rather than just being a resultant product.\n\nDespite a large body of positive psychological research into the relationship between happiness and productivity, happiness at work has traditionally been seen as a potential by-product of positive outcomes at work, rather than a pathway to success in business. However a growing number of scholars, including Boehm and Lyubomirsky, argue that it should be viewed as one of the major sources of positive outcomes in the workplace.\n\nA practical application of positive psychology is to assist individuals and organizations in identifying strengths so as to increase and sustain well-being. Therapists, counselors, coaches, various psychological professionals, HR departments, business strategists, and others, are using new methods and techniques to broaden and build upon the strengths of a wide population of individuals. This includes those not suffering from mental illness or disorder. \n\nPositive psychology has been implemented in business management practice, but has faced challenges. Wong & Davey (2007) noted managers can introduce positive psychology to a workplace, but they might struggle with positive ways to apply it to employees. Furthermore, for employees to welcome and commit to positive psychology, its application within an organization must be transparent. Managers must also understand the implementation of positive psychology will not necessarily combat any commitment challenges that exist. However, with its implementation employees might become more optimistic and open to new concepts or management practices.\n\nIn their article \"The Benefits of Frequent Positive Affect: Does Happiness Lead to Success?\", S. Lyubomirsky et al. report: \"Study after study shows that happiness precedes important outcomes and indicators of thriving, including fulfilling and productive work\".\n\nPositive psychology, when applied correctly, can provide employees with a greater opportunity to use skills and vary work duties. However, changing work conditions and roles can lead to stress among employees if they are improperly supported by management. This is particularly true for employees who must meet the expectations of organizations with unrealistic goals and targets. Thomas and Tasker (2010) showed less worker autonomy, fewer opportunities for development, less-enriched work roles, and lower levels of supervisor support reflected the effect of industry growth on job satisfaction.\n\nCan an organization implement positive change? Lewis et al. (2007) developed appreciative inquiry (AI), which is an integrated, organizational-level methodology for approaching organizational development. Appreciative inquiry is based on the generation of organizational resourcefulness, which is accomplished by accessing a variety of human psychological processes, such as: positive emotional states, imagination, social cohesion, and the social construction of reality.\n\nA relatively new practice in the workplace is recruiting and developing people based on their strengths (what they love to do, are naturally good at and energises them). Standard Chartered Bank pioneered this approach in the early 2000s. More and more organisations are realising the benefit of recruiting people who are in their element in the job as opposed to simply having the right competencies for the job. Aviva, Morrisons (a large UK supermarket) and Starbucks have all adopted this approach.\n\nPsychologist Howard Gardner has extensively researched the merit of undertaking good work at one's job. He suggested young generations (particularly in the United States) are taught to focus on the selfish pursuit of money for its own sake, although having money does not engender happiness, and psychological studies show that there is a strong correlation between the wealthy and experience of intensively negative emotions. Gardner's proposed alternatives loosely follow the pleasant/good/meaningful life classifications outlined above; he believes young people should be trained to pursue excellence in their field, as well as engagement (see flow, above) in accordance with their moral belief systems.\n\nTraditional work with offenders has focused on their deficits (e.g., with respect to socialization, and schooling) and other \"criminogenic\" risk-factors. Rehabilitation more often than not has taken the form of forced treatment or training, ostensibly for the good of the offender, and the community. Arguably, this approach has shortcomings, suggesting a need to make available additional positive options to treatment staff so they can best assist offenders, and so that offenders can better find their way forward. Positive psychology has made recent inroads with the advent of the \"Good Lives Model\", developed by Tony Ward, Shadd Maruna, and others. With respect to rehabilitation: \"Individuals take part ... because they think that such activities might either improve the quality of their life (an intrinsic goal) or at least look good to judges, parole boards and family members (an extrinsic goal).\"\n\nPositive criminology and positive victimology are conceptual approaches, developed by the Israeli criminologist Natti Ronel and his research team, that follow principles of positive psychology and apply them into the fields of criminology and victimology, respectively. Positive criminology and victimology both place an emphasis on social inclusion and on unifying and integrating forces at individual, group, social and spiritual levels that are associated with the limiting of crime and recovery from victimization. In traditional approaches the study of crime, violence and related behaviors emphasizes the negative aspects in people's lives that are associated with deviance, criminality and victimization. A common understanding is that human relationships are affected more by destructive encounters than by constructive or positive ones. Positive criminology and victimology argue that a different approach is viable, based on three dimensions – social integration, emotional healing and spirituality – that constitute positive direction indicators.\n\nIn economics, the term well-being is used for one or more quantitative measures intended to assess the quality of life of a group, for example, in the capabilities approach and the economics of happiness. As with the related cognate terms 'wealth' and 'welfare', economics sources often contrast the state with its opposite. The study of well-being is divided into subjective well-being and objective well-being.\n\nPsychologists in the happiness community feel politics should promote population happiness. Politics should also consider level of human happiness among future generations, concern itself with life expectancy, and focus on the reduction of suffering. Based on political affiliation, some studies argue conservatives, on average, are happier than liberals. A potential explanation is greater acceptance of income inequalities in society leads to a less worried nature. Luke Galen, Associate Professor of Psychology at Grand Valley State University, mentioned political commitments as important because they are a sort of secular world view that, like religion, can be generally beneficial to coping with death anxiety (see also Terror management theory and religion and happiness).\n\nLiving in an environment with more green spaces is associated with higher well-being, partly due to the beneficial effects on psychological relaxation, stress alleviation, increased physical activity, and reduced exposure to air pollutants and noise, among others. According to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, pollution is bad for one's well-being. Exposure to outdoor air pollution and chimney smoke fireplaces causes dementia and other-health risks.\n\nPeople base their own well-being in relation to their environment and the lives of others around them. Well-being is also subject to how one feels other people in their environment perceive them, whether that positively or negatively. Whether or not other cultures are subject to internal culture appraisal is based on that culture's type. According to Diener and Suh,\nVarious cultures have various perspectives on the nature of positive human functioning. For example, studies on aversion to happiness, or fear of happiness, indicates that some individuals and cultures are averse to the experience of happiness, because they believe happiness may cause bad things to happen. Empirical evidence indicates that there are fundamental differences in the ways well-being is construed in Western and non-Western cultures, including the Islamic and East Asian cultures. Exploring various cultural perspectives on well-being, Joshanloo (2014) identifies and discusses six broad differences between Western and non-Western conceptions of well-being. For example, whereas Western cultures tend to emphasize the absence of negative emotions and autonomy in defining well-being, Eastern cultures tend to emphasize virtuous or religious activity, self-transcendence, and harmony.\n\nEunkook M. Suh (University of California) and Shigehiro Oishi (University of Minnesota; now at University of Virginia) examined the differences of happiness on an international level and different cultures' views on what creates well-being and happiness. In a study, of over 6,000 students from 43 nations, to identify mean life satisfaction, on a scale of 1–7, the Chinese ranked lowest at 3.3; and Dutch scored the highest at 5.4. When asked how much subjective well-being was ideal, Chinese ranked lowest at 4.5, and Brazilians highest at 6.2, on a scale of 1–7. The study had three main findings: (1) People living in individualistic, rather than collectivist, societies are happier; (2) Psychological attributes referencing the individual are more relevant to Westerners; (3) Self-evaluating happiness levels depend on different cues, and experiences, from one's culture.\n\nThe results of a study by Chang E. C. showed that Asian Americans and Caucasian Americans have similar levels of optimism but Asian Americans are far more pessimistic than Caucasian Americans. However, there were no major differences in depression across cultures. On the other hand, pessimism was positively linked to problem solving behaviors for Asian Americans, but was negatively linked for Caucasian Americans.\n\nReligiousness and spirituality are closely related but distinct topics. Religion is any organized, and often institutionalized, system of cultural practices and beliefs pertaining to the meaning of human existence. It occurs within a traditional context such as a formal religious institution. Spirituality, on the other hand, is a general term applied to the process of finding meaning and a better understanding of one's place in the universe. It is the individual or collective search for that which is sacred or meaningful in life. One may therefore be religious but not spiritual, and vice versa.\n\nThere have been some studies of how religion relates to happiness. Causal relationships remain unclear, but more religion is seen in happier people. Consistent with PERMA, religion may provide a sense of meaning and connection to something bigger, beyond the self. Religion may also provide community membership and hence relationships. Another component may have to do with ritual.\n\nReligion and happiness have been studied by a number of researchers, and religion features many elements addressing the components of happiness, as identified by positive psychology. Its association with happiness is facilitated in part by the social connections of organized religion, and by the neuropsychological benefits of prayer and belief.\n\nThere are a number of mechanisms through which religion may make a person happier, including social contact and support that result from religious pursuits, the mental activity that comes with optimism and volunteering, learned coping strategies that enhance one's ability to deal with stress, and psychological factors such as \"reason for being.\" It may also be that religious people engage in behaviors related to good health, such as less substance abuse, since the use of psychotropic substances is sometimes considered abuse.\n\nThe \"Handbook of Religion and Health\" describes a survey by Feigelman (1992) that examined happiness in Americans who have given up religion, in which it was found that there was little relationship between religious disaffiliation and unhappiness. A survey by Kosmin & Lachman (1993), also cited in this handbook, indicates that people with no religious affiliation appear to be at greater risk for depressive symptoms than those affiliated with a religion. A review of studies by 147 independent investigators found, \"the correlation between religiousness and depressive symptoms was -.096, indicating that greater religiousness is mildly associated with fewer symptoms.\"\n\nThe Legatum Prosperity Index reflects the repeated finding of research on the science of happiness that there is a positive link between religious engagement and well-being: people who report that God is very important in their lives are on average more satisfied with their lives, after accounting for their income, age and other individual characteristics.\n\nSurveys by Gallup, the National Opinion Research Centre and the Pew Organisation conclude that spiritually committed people are twice as likely to report being \"very happy\" than the least religiously committed people. An analysis of over 200 social studies contends that \"high religiousness predicts a lower risk of depression and drug abuse and fewer suicide attempts, and more reports of satisfaction with sex life and a sense of well-being.\nHowever, the links between religion and happiness are always very broad in nature, highly reliant on scripture and small sample number. To that extent there is a much larger connection between religion and suffering (Lincoln 1034).\" And a review of 498 studies published in peer-reviewed journals concluded that a large majority of them showed a positive correlation between religious commitment and higher levels of perceived well-being and self-esteem and lower levels of hypertension, depression, and clinical delinquency. A meta-analysis of 34 recent studies published between 1990 and 2001 found that religiosity has a salutary relationship with psychological adjustment, being related to less psychological distress, more life satisfaction, and better self-actualization. Finally, a recent systematic review of 850 research papers on the topic concluded that \"the majority of well-conducted studies found that higher levels of religious involvement are positively associated with indicators of psychological well-being (life satisfaction, happiness, positive affect, and higher morale) and with less depression, suicidal thoughts and behaviour, drug/alcohol use/abuse.\"\n\nHowever, there remains strong disagreement among scholars about whether the effects of religious observance, particularly attending church or otherwise belonging to religious groups, is due to the spiritual or the social aspects—i.e. those who attend church or belong to similar religious organizations may well be receiving only the effects of the social connections involved. While these benefits are real enough, they may thus be the same one would gain by joining other, secular groups, clubs, or similar organizations.\n\nReligiousness has often been found to correlate with positive health attributes. People who are more religious show better emotional well-being and lower rates of delinquency, alcoholism, drug abuse, and other social problems.\n\nSix separate factors are cited as evidence for religion's effect on well-being: religion (1) provides social support, (2) supports healthy lifestyles, (3) promotes personality integration, (4) promotes generativity and altruism, (5) provides unique coping strategies, and (6) provides a sense of meaning and purpose. Many religious individuals experience emotions that create positive connections among people and allow them to express their values and potential. These four emotions are known as \"sacred emotions,\" which are said to be (1) gratitude and appreciation, (2) forgiveness, (3) compassion and empathy, and (4) humility.\n\nSocial interaction is necessarily a part of the religious experience. Religiosity has been identified to correlate positively with prosocial behavior in trauma patients, and prosocial behavior is furthermore associated with well-being. It also has stronger associations with well-being in individuals genetically predisposed towards social sensitivity in environments where religion prioritizes social affiliation. It has also been linked to greater resilience against stress as well as higher measures of self-actualization and success in romantic relationships and parental responsibilities.\n\nThese benefits, while being correlational, may come about as a result of becoming more religiously involved. The benefit of having a secure social group likely plays a key part in religion's positive effects. One form of Christian counseling uses religion through talk therapy and assessments to promote mental health. In another instance, people who were not Buddhist, but were exposed to Buddhist concepts, scored higher on measures of outgroup acceptance and prosociality. This effect was found not only in Western countries, but also in places where Buddhism is prevalent, indicating a general association of Buddhism with acceptance. This finding seems to indicate that merely encountering a religious belief system such as Buddhism may allow some of its effects to be transferred to nonbelievers.\n\nHowever, many disagree that the benefits the religious experience are due to their beliefs, and some find there to be no conclusive psychological benefits of belief at all. For example, the health benefit that the elderly gain from going to church may in fact be the\" \"reason they are able to go to church; the less healthy cannot leave their homes. Meta analysis has found that find studies purporting the beneficial results of religiosity often fail to fully represent data correctly due to a number of issues such as self-report bias, the use of inappropriate comparison groups, and the presence of criterion contamination. Other studies have disputed the efficacy of intercessory prayer positively affecting the health of those being prayed for. They have shown that, when scientifically rigorous studies are performed (by randomizing the patients and preventing them from knowing that they are being prayed for), there is no discernible effect.\n\nReligion has power as a cohesive social force, and whether or not it is always beneficial is debated. Irrespective of a group's beliefs, many find that simply belonging to a tight social group reduces anxiety and mental health problems. In addition, there may be a degree of self-selectivity amongst the religious; the behavioral benefits they display may simply be common aspects of those who choose to or are able to practice religion. As a result, whether or not religion can be prescribed scientifically as a means of self-betterment is unclear.\n\nWhile religion is often formalised and community-oriented, spirituality tends to be individually based and not as formalised. In a 2014 study, 320 children, ages 8–12, in both public and private schools, were given a Spiritual Well-Being Questionnaire assessing the correlation between spirituality and happiness. Spirituality – and not religious practices (praying, attending church services) – correlated positively with the child's happiness; the more spiritual the child was, the happier the child was. Spirituality accounted for about 3–26% of the variance in happiness.\n\nMeditation has been found to lead to high activity in the brain's left prefrontal cortex, which in turn has been found to correlate with happiness.\n\nA study using the Oxford happiness questionnaire on Brahma Kumaris Raja yoga meditators showed them having higher happiness than the control group. Yongey Mingyur Rinpoche has said that neuro scientists have found that with meditation, an individual's happiness baseline can change.\n\nMany people describe themselves as both religious and spiritual, but spirituality represents just one particular function of religion. Spirituality as related to positive psychology can be defined as \"a search for the sacred\". What is defined as sacred can be related to God, life itself, or almost any other facet of existence. It simply must be viewed as having spiritual implications which are transcendent of the individual. Spiritual well-being addresses this human need for transcendence and involves social as well as existential well-being. Spiritual well-being is associated with various positive outcomes such as better physical and psychological well-being, lower anxiety, less depression, self-actualization, positive relationships with parents, higher rates of positive personality traits and acceptance. Researchers have cautioned to differentiate between correlative and causal associations between spirituality and psychology.\n\nReaching the sacred as a personal goal, also called spiritual striving, has been found to correlate highest with well-being compared to other forms of striving. This type of striving can improve a sense of self and relationships and creates a connection to the transcendent Additionally, multiple studies have shown that self-reported spirituality is related to lower rates of mortality and depression and higher rates of happiness.\n\nCurrently, most research on spirituality examines ways in which spirituality can help in times of crisis. Spirituality has been found to remain constant when experiencing traumatic events and/or life stressors such as accidents, war, sickness, and death of a loved one. When confronted with an obstacle, people might turn to prayer or meditation. Coping mechanisms involving spirituality include meditative meditation, creating boundaries to preserve the sacred, spiritual purification to return to the righteous path, and spiritual reframing which focuses on maintaining belief. One clinical application of spirituality and positive psychology research is the \"psychospiritual intervention,\" which represents the potential that spirituality has to increase well-being. These coping mechanisms that aim to preserve the sacred have been found by researchers to increase well-being and return the individual back to the sacred.\n\nOverall, spirituality is a process that occurs over a lifetime and includes searching, conserving, and redefining what is sacred in an extremely individualized manner. It does not always have a positive effect and in fact has been associated with very negative events and life changes. Research is lacking in spirituality but it is necessary because spirituality can assist in enhancing the experiences of the uncontrollable parts of life.\n\nMuch research has pointed at the rising rates of depression, leading people to speculate that modernization may be a factor in the growing percentage of depressed people. One study found that women in urban America were much more likely to experience depression than those in rural Nigeria. Other studies have found a positive correlation between a country's GDP per capita, as quantitative measure of modernization, and lifetime risk of a mood disorder trended toward significance (p=0.06).\n\nMany people believe it is the increased number of pressures and expectations, increased isolation, increased individualism, and increased inactivity that contribute to higher rates of depression in modern societies.\n\nSome evidence suggests sunnier climates do not predict happiness. In one study both Californians and Midwesterners expected the former's happiness ratings to be higher due to a sunnier environment. In fact, the Californian and Midwestern happiness ratings did not show a significant difference. Other research has found that temperature, wind power, sunlight, precipitation and air temperature has a small impact on mood, but some people appear to be affected in a large way (but it's not 5 factor personality). A study of Dutch teenagers identified that the effect of weather on mood depends on whether they were Summer lovers, summer haters, rain haters and unaffected by weather. Other researchers say the necessary minimum daily dose of sunlight is as little as 30 minutes.\n\nThat is not to say weather is never a factor for happiness. Perhaps the changing norms of sunlight cause seasonal affective disorder, which undermines level of happiness.\n\nPositive psychology research and practice is currently conducted and developed in various countries throughout the world. To illustrate, in Canada, Charles Hackney of Briercrest College applies positive psychology to the topic of personal growth through martial arts training; Paul Wong, president of the International Network on Personal Meaning, is developing an existential approach to positive psychology, which is framed in the second wave positive psychology (PP 2.0). \n\nThe research program ‘Understanding Positive Emotions’ at Human Science Lab, London, investigates how material well-being and perceptual well-being work as relative determinants in conditioning our mind for positive emotions.\n\nCognitive and behavioral change, although sometimes slight and complex, can produce an 'intense affect'.\n\nIsen (2009) remarked that further progress requires suitable research methods, and appropriate theories on which to base contemporary research. Chang (2008) suggested that researchers have a number of paths to pursue regarding the enhancement of emotional intelligence, even though emotional intelligence does not guarantee the development of positive affect; in short, more study is required to track the gradient of positive affect in psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "6966876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6966876", "title": "Wilfred Cantwell Smith", "text": "Wilfred Cantwell Smith\n\nWilfred Cantwell Smith (July 21, 1916 – February 7, 2000) was a Canadian professor of comparative religion who from 1964–1973 was director of Harvard University's Center for the Study of World Religions. The \"Harvard Gazette\" said he was one of the field's most influential figures of the past century. In his 1962 work \"The Meaning and End of Religion\" he notably and controversially questioned the validity of the concept of religion.\n\nSmith was born in Toronto to parents Victor Arnold Smith and Sarah Cory Cantwell. He was the younger brother of Arnold Smith and the father of Brian Cantwell Smith.\n\nHe received a B.A. with honours in oriental languages in 1938 from the University of Toronto. After his thesis was rejected by Cambridge University, supposedly for its Marxist critique of the British Raj, he and his wife Muriel Mackenzie Struthers spent seven years in Pre-Independence India (1940–1946), during which he taught Indian and Islamic history at Forman Christian College in Lahore.\n\nIn 1948 he obtained a Ph.D in oriental languages at Princeton University, after which he taught at McGill, founding in 1952 the university's Institute of Islamic Studies. From 1964 to 1973 Smith taught at Harvard Divinity School. He left Harvard for Dalhousie University in Halifax, NS, where he founded the Department of Religion. He was also among the original Editorial Advisors of the scholarly journal \"Dionysius\". In 1978 he returned to Harvard. In 1979 he received an honorary doctorate from Concordia University. After his retirement from teaching, he was appointed a senior research associate in the Faculty of Divinity at Trinity College, University of Toronto, in 1985. He died on February 7, 2000.\n\nIn his best known and most controversial work, Smith contends that the concept of religion, rather than being a universally valid category as is generally supposed, is a peculiarly European construct of recent origin. Religion, he argues, is a static concept that does not adequately address the complexity and flux of religious lives. Instead of the concept of religion, Smith proffers a new conceptual apparatus: the dynamic dialectic between \"cumulative tradition\" (all historically observable rituals, art, music, theologies, etc.) and \"personal faith\". (p. 194)\n\nSmith sets out chapter by chapter to demonstrate that none of the founders or followers of the world's major religions had any understanding that they were engaging in a defined system called religion. The major exception to this rule, Cantwell Smith points out, is Islam which he describes as the most \"entity like\"' (p. 85). In a chapter titled \"The special case of Islam\", Smith points out that the term Islam appears in the Qur'an, making it the only religion not named in opposition to or by another tradition. (p. 80). Other than the prophet Mani, only the prophet Muhammad was conscious of the establishment of a religion. (p. 106). Smith points out that the Arabic language does not have a word for religion, strictly speaking: he details how the word \"din\", customarily translated as such, differs in significant important respects from the European concept.\n\nThe terms for major world religions today, including Hinduism, Buddhism, and Shintoism, did not exist until the 19th century. Smith suggests that practitioners of any given faith do not historically come to regard what they do as \"religion\" until they have developed a degree of cultural self-regard, causing them to see their collective spiritual practices and beliefs as in some way significantly \"different\" from the \"other\". Religion in the contemporary sense of the word is for Smith the product of both identity politics and apologetics:\n\n\"One's own 'religion' may be piety and faith, obedience, worship, and a vision of God. An alien 'religion' is a system of beliefs or rituals, an abstract and impersonal pattern of observables. A dialectic ensues, however. If one's own 'religion' is attacked, by unbelievers who necessarily conceptualize it schematically, or all religion is, by the indifferent, one tends to leap to the defence of what is attacked, so that presently participants of a faith - especially those most involved in argument - are using the term in the same externalist and theoretical sense as their opponents. Religion as a systematic entity, as it emerged in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, is a concept of polemics and apologetics\" (p. 43).\n\nBy way of an etymological study of \"religion\" (\"religio\", in Latin), Smith further contends that the term, which at first and for most of the centuries denoted an attitude towards a relationship between God and \"man\" (p. 26), has through conceptual slippage come to mean a \"system of observances or beliefs\" (p. 29), a historical tradition which has been institutionalized through a process of reification. Whereas \"religio\" denoted personal piety, \"religion\" came to refer to an abstract entity (or transcendental signifier) which, Smith says, does not exist.\n\nHe argues that the term as found in Lucretius and Cicero was internalized by the Catholic Church through Lactantius and Augustine. During the Middle Ages it was superseded by the term \"faith\", which Smith favors by contrast. In the Renaissance, via the Christian Platonist Marsilio Ficino, \"religio\" becomes popular again, retaining its original emphasis on personal practice, even in John Calvin's \"Christianae Religionis Institutio\" (1536). During 17th Century debates between Catholics and Protestants, religion begins to refer to an abstract system of beliefs, especially when describing an oppositional structure. Through the Enlightenment this concept is further reified, so that by the nineteenth century Hegel defines religion as \"Begriff\", \"a self-subsisting transcendent idea that unfolds itself in dynamic expression in the course of ever-changing history ... something real in itself, a great entity with which man has to reckon, a something that precedes all its historical manifestation\" (p. 47).\n\nSmith concludes (p. 48-9) by arguing that the term religion has now acquired four distinct senses: \n\n\"The Meaning and End of Religion\" remains Smith's most influential work.\nThe anthropologist and writer on religion and post-colonial studies Talal Asad has said \"The Meaning and End of Religion\" is a modern classic and a masterpiece.\n\n\n\n\n"}
