{"id": "3556316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556316", "title": "Apples and oranges", "text": "Apples and oranges\n\nA comparison of apples and oranges occurs when two items or groups of items are compared that cannot be practically compared.\n\nThe idiom, \"comparing apples and oranges\", refers to the apparent differences between items which are popularly thought to be incomparable or incommensurable, such as apples and oranges. The idiom may also be used to indicate that a false analogy has been made between two items, such as where an \"apple\" is faulted for not being a good \"orange\".\n\nThe idiom is not unique to English. In Quebec French, it may take the form \"comparer des pommes avec des oranges\" (to compare apples and oranges), while in European French the idiom says \"comparer des pommes et des poires\" (to compare apples and pears). In Latin American Spanish, it is usually \"comparar papas y boniatos\" (comparing potatoes and sweet potatoes) or commonly for all varieties of Spanish \"comparar peras con manzanas\" (comparing pears and apples). In some other languages the term for 'orange' derives from 'apple', suggesting not only that a direct comparison between the two is possible, but that it is implicitly present in their names. Fruit other than apples and oranges can also be compared; for example, apples and pears are compared in Danish, Dutch, German, Spanish, Swedish, Croatian, Czech, Romanian, Hungarian, Italian, Slovene, Luxembourgish, Serbian, and Turkish. In fact, in the Spanish-speaking world, a common idiom is \"sumar peras con manzanas\", that is, \"to add pears and apples\"; the same thing applies in Italian (\"sommare le mele con le pere\") and Romanian (\"a aduna merele cu perele\"). In Portuguese, the expression is \"comparar laranjas com bananas\" (compare orange to banana). In Czech, the idiom \"míchat jablka s hruškami\" literally means 'to mix apples and pears'.\n\nSome languages use completely different items, such as the Serbian \"Поредити бабе и жабе\" (comparing grandmothers and toads), or the Romanian \"baba şi mitraliera\" (the grandmother and the machine gun); \"vaca şi izmenele\" (the cow and the longjohns); or \"țiganul şi carioca\" (the gypsy and the marker), or the Welsh \"mor wahanol â mêl a menyn\" (as different as honey and butter), while some languages compare dissimilar properties of dissimilar items. For example, an equivalent Danish idiom, \"Hvad er højest, Rundetårn eller et tordenskrald?\" means \"What is highest, the Round Tower or a thunderclap?\", referring to the size of the former and the sound of the latter. In Russian, the phrase \"сравнивать тёплое с мягким\" (to compare warm and soft) is used. In Argentina, a common question is \"¿En qué se parecen el amor y el ojo del hacha?\" (What do love and the eye of an axe have in common?) and emphasizes dissimilarity between two subjects; in Colombia, a similar (though more rude) version is common: \"confundir la mierda con la pomada\" (to confuse shit with ointment). In Polish, the expression \"co ma piernik do wiatraka?\" is used, meaning \"What has (is) gingerbread to a windmill?\". In Chinese, a phrase that has the similar meaning is 风马牛不相及 (fēng mǎ niú bù xiāng jí), literally meaning \"horses and cattles won't mate with each other\", and later used to describe things that are totally unrelated and incomparable.\n\nA number of more exaggerated comparisons are sometimes made, in cases in which the speaker believes the two objects being compared are radically different. For example, \"oranges with orangutans\", \"apples with dishwashers\", and so on. In English, different fruits, such as pears, plums, or lemons are sometimes substituted for oranges in this context.\n\nSometimes the two words sound similar, for example, Romanian \"merele cu perele\" (apples and pears) and the Hungarian \"szezont a fazonnal\" (the season with the fashion).\n\nAt least two tongue-in-cheek scientific studies have been conducted on the subject, each of which concluded that apples can be compared with oranges fairly easily and on a low budget and the two fruits are quite similar.\n\nThe first study, conducted by Scott A. Sandford of the NASA Ames Research Center, used infrared spectroscopy to analyze both apples and oranges. The study, which was published in the satirical science magazine \"Annals of Improbable Research\", concluded: \"[...] the comparing apples and oranges defense should no longer be considered valid. This is a somewhat startling revelation. It can be anticipated to have a dramatic effect on the strategies used in arguments and discussions in the future.\"\n\nA second study, written by Stamford Hospital's surgeon-in-chief James Barone and published in the \"British Medical Journal,\" noted that the phrase \"apples and oranges\" was appearing with increasing frequency in the medical literature, with some notable articles comparing \"Desflurane and propofol\" and \"Salmeterol and ipratropium\" with \"apples and oranges\". The study also found that both apples and oranges were sweet, similar in size, weight, and shape, that both are grown in orchards, and both may be eaten, juiced, and so on. The only significant differences found were in terms of seeds (the study used seedless oranges), the involvement of Johnny Appleseed, and color.\n\nThe \"Annals of Improbable Research\" subsequently noted that the \"earlier investigation was done with more depth, more rigour, and, most importantly, more expensive equipment\" than the \"British Medical Journal\" study.\n\nOn April Fools' Day 2014, \"The Economist\" compared worldwide production of apples and oranges from 1983 to 2013, however noted them to be \"unrelated variables\".\n\nWhile references to comparing apples and oranges are often a rhetorical device, references to adding apples and oranges are made in the case of teaching students the proper uses of units. Here, the admonition not to \"add apples and oranges\" refers to the requirement that two quantities with different units may not be combined by addition, although they may always be combined in ratio form by multiplication, so that multiplying ratios of apples and oranges is allowed. Similarly, the concept of this distinction is often used metaphorically in elementary algebra.\n\nThe admonition is really more of a mnemonic, since in general counts of objects have no intrinsic unit and, for example, a number count of apples may be dimensionless or have dimension \"fruit\"; in either of these two cases, apples and oranges may indeed be added.\n\n"}
{"id": "928216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=928216", "title": "Autological word", "text": "Autological word\n\nAn autological word (also called homological word or autonym) is a word that expresses a property that it also possesses (e.g. the word \"short\" is short, \"noun\" is a noun, \"English\" is English, \"pentasyllabic\" has five syllables, \"word\" is a word). The opposite is a heterological word, one that does not apply to itself (e.g. \"long\" is not long, \"monosyllabic\" has five syllables).\n\nUnlike more general concepts of autology and self-reference, this particular distinction and opposition of \"autological\" and \"heterological words\" is uncommon in linguistics for describing linguistic phenomena or classes of words, but is current in logic and philosophy where it was introduced by Kurt Grelling and Leonard Nelson for describing a semantic paradox, later known as Grelling's paradox or the Grelling–Nelson paradox. \n\nOne source of autological words is ostensive definition: the reference to a class of words by an example of the member of the class, as it were by synecdoche: such as mondegreen, oxymoron, eggcorn, bahuvrihi, etc.\nA word's status as autological may change over time. For example, \"neologism\" was once an autological word but no longer is; similarly, \"protologism\" (a word invented recently by literary theorist Mikhail Epstein) may or may not lose its autological status depending on whether or not it gains wider usage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10018490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10018490", "title": "Citation Style Language", "text": "Citation Style Language\n\nThe Citation Style Language (CSL) is an open XML-based language to describe the formatting of citations and bibliographies. Reference management programs using CSL include Zotero, Mendeley and Papers.\n\nCSL was created by Bruce D'Arcus for use with OpenOffice.org, and an XSLT-based \"CiteProc\" CSL processor. CSL was further developed in collaboration with Zotero developer Simon Kornblith. Since 2008, the core development team consists of D'Arcus, Frank Bennett and Rintze Zelle.\n\nThe releases of CSL are 0.8 (March 21, 2009), 0.8.1 (February 1, 2010), 1.0 (March 22, 2010), and 1.0.1 (September 3, 2012). CSL 1.0 was a backward-incompatible release, but styles in the 0.8.1 format can be automatically updated to the CSL 1.0 format.\n\nOn its release in 2006, Zotero became the first application to adopt CSL. In 2008 Mendeley was released with CSL support, and in 2011, Papers and Qiqqa gained support for CSL-based citation formatting.\n\n\nThe CSL project maintains a CSL 1.0 style repository, which contains over 9000 styles (more than 1700 unique styles).\n\n"}
{"id": "17077434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17077434", "title": "Comparative Toxicogenomics Database", "text": "Comparative Toxicogenomics Database\n\nThe Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is a public website and research tool launched in November 2004 that curates scientific data describing relationships between chemicals/drugs, genes/proteins, diseases, taxa, phenotypes, GO annotations, pathways, and interaction modules.\nThe database is maintained by the Department of Biological Sciences at North Carolina State University.\n\nThe Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is a public website and research tool that curates scientific data describing relationships between chemicals, genes/proteins, diseases, taxa, phenotypes, GO annotations, pathways, and interaction modules, launched on November 12, 2004. \nThe database is maintained by the Department of Biological Sciences at North Carolina State University.\n\nOne of the primary goals of CTD is to advance the understanding of the effects of environmental chemicals on human health on the genetic level, a field called toxicogenomics.\n\nThe etiology of many chronic diseases involves interactions between environmental factors and genes that modulate important physiological processes. Chemicals are an important component of the environment. Conditions such as asthma, cancer, diabetes, hypertension, immunodeficiency, and Parkinson's disease are known to be influenced by the environment; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying these correlations are not well understood. CTD may help resolve these mechanisms. The most up-to-date extensive list of peer-reviewed scientific articles about CTD is available at their publications page\n\nCTD is a unique resource where biocurators read the scientific literature and manually curate four types of core data:\n\n\nBy integrating the above four data sets, CTD automatically constructs putative chemical-gene-phenotype-disease networks to illuminate molecular mechanisms underlying environmentally-influenced diseases.\n\nThese inferred relationships are statistically scored and ranked and can be used by scientists and computational biologists to generate and verify testable hypotheses about toxicogenomic mechanisms and how they relate to human health.\n\nUsers can search CTD to explore scientific data for chemicals, genes, diseases, or interactions between any of these three concepts. Currently, CTD integrates toxicogenomic data for vertebrates and invertebrates.\n\nCTD integrates data from or hyperlinks to these databases:\n\n"}
{"id": "14308145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14308145", "title": "Comparative bullet-lead analysis", "text": "Comparative bullet-lead analysis\n\nComparative bullet-lead analysis (CBLA), also known as compositional bullet-lead analysis, is a now discredited and abandoned forensic technique which used chemistry to link crime scene bullets to ones possessed by suspects on the theory that each batch of lead had a unique elemental makeup.\n\nThe technique was first used after U.S. President John F. Kennedy's assassination in 1963. From the early 1980s through 2004 the US Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted about 2,500 analyses on cases submitted by law-enforcement groups. The results of these analyses had often been questioned by defence lawyers and the press, so the FBI finally asked the United States National Academy of Science's Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy to research the scientific merit of the process.\n\nIn 2004 the Board's study was summarized in \"Forensic Analysis: Weighing Bullet Lead Evidence.\" The Board determined that the chemical analyses were being performed correctly and were probably sufficient to determine correlation between two bullets from separate sources (the analysis used plasma-optical emission spectroscopy to identify trace elements in the bullets). The report also concluded that the seven trace elements selected for the analyses (arsenic, antimony, tin, copper, bismuth, silver and cadmium) are acceptable for sample correlation. The report finally concluded that the procedure is the best available method for such correlations. The greatest caveat in the report was that the statistical tests as applied by the FBI could cause confusion and misinterpretation when transmitted to prosecutors or when explained to a trial jury. Because of the significance of this weakness, the report concluded that the analysis should be used with caution. This report helped the FBI decide in 2004 to voluntarily cease offering the analysis to law-enforcement entities. The National Academy of Sciences never required that the FBI stop using the test.\n\n\"CNN PRESENTS Encore Presentation: Reasonable Doubt\" examined the unreliability of this technique. It has been discontinued as of September 1, 2005.\n\nThe U.S. government has fought releasing the list of the estimated 2,500 cases over three decades in which it performed the analysis, which may have led to false convictions. According to the FBI, only 20% of the 2,500 tests performed introduced the CBLA results into evidence at trial.\n\nOn 17 December 2008, Jimmy Ates was released from a Florida prison after serving ten years on the conviction of having murdered his wife, a conviction obtained largely on the strength of a bullet-lead analysis. His conviction was overturned as a consequence of the 2004 report.\n\n"}
{"id": "652730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652730", "title": "Inc.", "text": "Inc.\n\nInc. or inc may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47089125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47089125", "title": "Roving reference", "text": "Roving reference\n\nRoving reference, also called roaming reference, is a library service model in which, instead of being positioned at a static reference desk, a librarian moves throughout the library to locate patrons with questions or concerns and offer them help in finding or using library resources.\n\nRoving reference as a library service practice was first formalized in the late 1980s and early 1990s. A 1999 report from the International Federation of Library Associations identified several advantages and disadvantages with roving reference in the pre-mobile era. The roving model allowed librarians to engage with \"the majority of users who have questions in mind [who] do not approach the reference desk for assistance\". However, libraries reported that some staff were uncomfortable with the practice, and that there were concerns about user privacy.\n\nBeginning in the 2000s, librarians used laptops or laptop carts to engage in technology-supported roaming reference. Since the development of mobile technologies, roving reference can be facilitated with the use of such technologies, such as tablet computers, which allow librarians to readily check the online public access catalogue or the library's electronic databases while away from their desk. This has contributed to the increased popularization of roving-reference programs as supplements for more traditional reference desks. The model has also been extended to service beyond the library building (library outreach), for example in a dormitory or faculty building at an academic institution.\n"}
{"id": "56067306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56067306", "title": "SDS-PAGE", "text": "SDS-PAGE\n\nSDS-PAGE (sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) is a variant of polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, an analytical method in biochemistry for the separation of charged molecules in mixtures by their molecular masses in an electric field. It uses sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) molecules to help identify and isolate protein molecules.\n\nSDS-PAGE is a discontinuous electrophoretic system developed by Ulrich K. Laemmli which is commonly used as a method to separate proteins with molecular masses between 5 and 250 KDa. The publication describing it is the most frequently cited paper by a single author, and the second most cited overall.\n\nSDS-PAGE is an electrophoresis method that allows protein separation by mass. The medium (also referred to as ′matrix′) is a polyacrylamide-based discontinuous gel. In addition, SDS (sodium dodecyl sulfate) is used. About 1.4 grams of SDS bind to a gram of protein, corresponding to one SDS molecule per two amino acids. SDS acts as a surfactant, covering the proteins' intrinsic charge and conferring them very similar charge-to-mass ratios. The intrinsic charges of the proteins are negligible in comparison to the SDS loading, and the positive charges are also greatly reduced in the basic pH range of a separating gel. Upon application of a constant electric field, the protein migrate towards the anode, each with a different speed, depending on its mass. This simple procedure allows precise protein separation by mass.\n\nSDS tends to form spherical micelles in aqueous solutions above a certain concentration called the critical micellar concentration (CMC). Above the critical micellar concentration of 7 to 10 millimolar in solutions, the SDS simultaneously occurs as single molecules (monomer) and as micelles, below the CMC SDS occurs only as monomers in aqueous solutions. At the critical micellar concentration, a micelle consists of about 62 SDS molecules. However, only SDS monomers bind to proteins via hydrophobic interactions, whereas the SDS micelles are anionic on the outside and do not adsorb any protein. SDS is amphipathic in nature, which allows it to unfold both polar and nonpolar sections of protein structure. In SDS concentrations above 0.1 millimolar, the unfolding of proteins begins, and above 1 mM, most proteins are denatured. Due to the strong denaturing effect of SDS and the subsequent dissociation of protein complexes, quaternary structures can generally not be determined with SDS. Exceptions are e.g. proteins that were previously stabilised by covalent cross-linking and the SDS-resistant protein complexes, which are stable even in the presence of SDS (the latter, however, only at room temperature). To denature the SDS-resistant complexes a high activation energy is required, which is achieved by heating. SDS resistance is based on a metastability of the protein fold. Although the native, fully folded, SDS-resistant protein does not have sufficient stability in the presence of SDS, the chemical equilibrium of denaturation at room temperature occurs slowly. Stable protein complexes are characterised not only by SDS resistance but also by stability against proteases and an increased biological half-life.\n\nAlternatively, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis can also be performed with the cationic surfactants CTAB in a CTAB-PAGE, or 16-BAC in a BAC-PAGE.\n\nThe SDS-PAGE method is composed of gel preparation, sample preparation, electrophoresis, protein staining or western blotting and analysis of the generated banding pattern.\n\nWhen using different buffers in the gel (discontinuous gel electrophoresis), the gels are made up to one day prior to electrophoresis, so that the diffusion does not lead to a mixing of the buffers. The gel is produced by radical polymerisation in a mold consisting of two sealed glass plates with spacers between the glass plates. In a typical mini-gel setting, the spacers have a thickness of 0.75 mm or 1.5 mm, which determines the loading capacity of the gel. For pouring the gel solution, the plates are usually clamped in a stand which temporarily seals the otherwise open underside of the glass plates with the two spacers. For the gel solution, acrylamide is mixed as gel-former (usually 4% V/V in the stacking gel and 10-12 % in the separating gel), methylenebisacrylamide as a cross-linker, stacking or separating gel buffer, water and SDS. By adding the catalyst TEMED and the radical initiator ammonium persulfate (APS) the polymerisation is started. The solution is then poured between the glass plates without creating bubbles. Depending on the amount of catalyst and radical starter and depending on the temperature, the polymerisation lasts between a quarter of an hour and several hours. The lower gel (separating gel) is poured first and covered with a few drops of a barely water-soluble alcohol (usually buffer-saturated butanol or isopropanol), which eliminates bubbles from the meniscus and protects the gel solution of the radical scavenger oxygen. After the polymerisation of the separating gel, the alcohol is discarded and the residual alcohol is removed with filter paper. After addition of APS and TEMED to the stacking gel solution, it is poured on top of the solid separation gel. Afterwards, a suitable sample comb is inserted between the glass plates without creating bubbles. The sample comb is carefully pulled out after polymerisation, leaving pockets for the sample application. For later use of proteins for protein sequencing, the gels are often prepared the day before electrophoresis to reduce reactions of unpolymerised acrylamide with cysteines in proteins.\n\nBy using a gradient mixer, gradient gels with a gradient of acrylamide (usually from 4 to 12%) can be cast, which have a larger separation range of the molecular masses. Commercial gel systems (so-called \"pre-cast gels\") usually use the buffer substance Bis-tris methane with a pH value between 6.4 and 7.2 both in the stacking gel and in the separating gel. These gels are delivered cast and ready-to-use. Since they use only one buffer (continuous gel electrophoresis) and have a nearly neutral pH, they can be stored for several weeks. The more neutral pH slows the hydrolysis and thus the decomposition of the polyacrylamide. Furthermore, there are fewer acrylamide-modified cysteines in the proteins. Due to the constant pH in collecting and separating gel there is no stacking effect. Proteins in BisTris gels can not be stained with ruthenium complexes. This gel system has a comparatively large separation range, which can be varied by using MES or MOPS in the running buffer.\n\nDuring sample preparation, the sample buffer, and thus SDS, is added in excess to the proteins, and the sample is then heated to 95 °C for five minutes, or alternatively 70°C for ten minutes. Heating disrupts the secondary and tertiary structures of the protein by disrupting hydrogen bonds and stretching the molecules. Optionally, disulfide bridges can be cleaved by reduction. For this purpose, reducing thiols such as β-mercaptoethanol (β-ME, 5% by volume), dithiothreitol (DTT, 10 millimolar) or dithioerythritol (DTE, 10 millimolar) are added to the sample buffer. After cooling to room temperature, each sample is pipetted into its own well in the gel, which was previously immersed in electrophoresis buffer in the electrophoresis apparatus.\n\nIn addition to the samples, a molecular-weight size marker is usually loaded onto the gel. This consists of proteins of known sizes and thereby allows the estimation (with an error of ± 10%) of the sizes of the proteins in the actual samples, which migrate in parallel in different tracks of the gel. The size marker is often pipetted into the first or last pocket of a gel.\n\nFor separation, the denatured samples are loaded onto a gel of polyacrylamide, which is placed in an electrophoresis buffer with suitable electrolytes. Thereafter, a voltage (usually around 100 V, 10-20 V per cm gel length) is applied, which causes a migration of negatively charged molecules through the gel in the direction of the positively charged anode. The gel acts like a sieve. Small proteins migrate relatively easily through the mesh of the gel, while larger proteins are more likely to be retained and thereby migrate more slowly through the gel, thereby allowing proteins to be separated by molecular size. The electrophoresis lasts between half an hour to several hours depending on the voltage and length of gel used.\n\nThe fastest-migrating proteins (with a molecular weight of less than 5 KDa) form the buffer front together with the anionic components of the electrophoresis buffer, which also migrate through the gel. The area of the buffer front is made visible by adding the comparatively small, anionic dye bromophenol blue to the sample buffer. Due to the relatively small molecule size of bromophenol blue, it migrates faster than proteins. By optical control of the migrating colored band, the electrophoresis can be stopped before the dye and also the samples have completely migrated through the gel and leave it.\n\nThe most commonly used method is the discontinuous SDS-PAGE. In this method, the proteins migrate first into a collecting gel with neutral pH, in which they are concentrated and then they migrate into a separating gel with basic pH, in which the actual separation takes place. Stacking and separating gels differ by different pore size (4-6 % T and 10-20 % T), ionic strength and pH values (pH 6.8 or pH 8.8). The electrolyte most frequently used is an SDS-containing Tris-glycine-chloride buffer system. At neutral pH, glycine predominantly forms the zwitterionic form, at high pH the glycines lose positive charges and become predominantly anionic. In the collection gel, the smaller, negatively charged chloride ions migrate in front of the proteins (as leading ions) and the slightly larger, negatively and partially positively charged glycinate ions migrate behind the proteins (as initial trailing ions), whereas in the comparatively basic separating gel both ions migrate in front of the proteins. The pH gradient between the stacking and separation gel buffers leads to a stacking effect at the border of the stacking gel to the separation gel, since the glycinate partially loses its slowing positive charges as the pH increases and then, as the former trailing ion, overtakes the proteins and becomes a leading ion, which causes the bands of the different proteins (visible after a staining) to become narrower and sharper - the stacking effect. For the separation of smaller proteins and peptides, the TRIS-Tricine buffer system of Schägger and von Jagow is used due to the higher spread of the proteins in the range of 0.5 to 50 KDa.\n\nAt the end of the electrophoretic separation, all proteins are sorted by size and can then be analyzed by other methods, e. g. protein staining such as Coomassie staining (most common and easy to use), silver staining (highest sensitivity), stains all staining, Amido black 10B staining, Fast green FCF staining, fluorescent stains such as epicocconone stain and SYPRO orange stain, and immunological detection such as the Western Blot. The fluorescent dyes have a comparatively higher linearity between protein quantity and color intensity of about three orders of magnitude above the detection limit, i. e. the amount of protein can be estimated by color intensity. When using the fluorescent protein dye trichloroethanol, a subsequent protein staining is omitted if it was added to the gel solution and the gel was irradiated with UV light after electrophoresis.\n\nProtein staining in the gel creates a documentable banding pattern of the various proteins. Glycoproteins have differential levels of glycosylations and adsorb SDS more unevenly at the glycosylations, resulting in broader and blurred bands. Membrane proteins, because of their transmembrane domain, are often composed of the more hydrophobic amino acids, have lower solubility in aqueous solutions, tend to bind lipids, and tend to precipitate in aqueous solutions due to hydrophobic effects when sufficient amounts of detergent are not present. This precipitation manifests itself for membrane proteins in a SDS-PAGE in \"tailing\" above the band of the transmembrane protein. In this case, more SDS can be used (by using more or more concentrated sample buffer) and the amount of protein in the sample application can be reduced. An overloading of the gel with a soluble protein creates a semicircular band of this protein (e. g. in the marker lane of the image at 66 KDa), allowing other proteins with similar molecular weights to be covered. A low contrast (as in the marker lane of the image) between bands within a lane indicates either the presence of many proteins (low purity) or, if using purified proteins and a low contrast occurs only below one band, it indicates a proteolytic degradation of the protein, which first causes degradation bands, and after further degradation produces a homogeneous color (\"smear\") below a band. The documentation of the banding pattern is usually done by photographing or scanning. For a subsequent recovery of the molecules in individual bands, a gel extraction can be performed.\n\nAfter protein staining and documentation of the banding pattern, the polyacrylamide gel can be dried for archival storage. Proteins can be extracted from it at a later date. The gel is either placed in a drying frame (with or without the use of heat) or in a vacuum dryer. The drying frame consists of two parts, one of which serves as a base for a wet cellophane film to which the gel and a one percent glycerol solution are added. Then a second wet cellophane film is applied bubble-free, the second frame part is put on top and the frame is sealed with clips. The removal of the air bubbles avoids a fragmentation of the gel during drying. The water evaporates through the cellophane film. In contrast to the drying frame, a vacuum dryer generates a vacuum and heats the gel to about 50 °C.\n\nFor a more accurate determination of the molecular weight, the relative migration distances of the individual protein bands are measured in the separating gel. The measurements are usually performed in triplicate for increased accuracy. The relative mobility (called Rf value or Rm value) is the quotient of the distance of the band of the protein and the distance of the buffer front. The distances of the bands and the buffer front are each measured from the beginning of the separation gel. The distance of the buffer front roughly corresponds to the distance of the bromophenol blue contained in the sample buffer. The relative distances of the proteins of the size marker are plotted semi-logarithmically against their known molecular weights. By comparison with the linear part of the generated graph or by a regression analysis, the molecular weight of an unknown protein can be determined by its relative mobility. Bands of proteins with glycosylations can be blurred. Proteins with many basic amino acids (e. g. histones) can lead to an overestimation of the molecular weight or even not migrate into the gel at all, because they move slower in the electrophoresis due to the positive charges or even to the opposite direction. Accordingly, many acidic amino acids can lead to accelerated migration of a protein and an underestimation of its molecular mass.\n\nThe SDS-PAGE in combination with a protein stain is widely used in biochemistry for the quick and exact separation and subsequent analysis of proteins. It has comparatively low instrument and reagent costs and is an easy-to-use method. Because of its low scalability, it is mostly used for analytical purposes and less for preparative purposes, especially when larger amounts of a protein are to be isolated.\n\nAdditionally, SDS-PAGE is used in combination with the western blot for the determination of the presence of a specific protein in a mixture of proteins - or for the analysis of post-translational modifications. Post-translational modifications of proteins can lead to a different relative mobility (i.e. a \"band shift\") or to a change in the binding of a detection antibody used in the western blot (i.e. a band disappears or appears).\n\nIn mass spectrometry of proteins, SDS-PAGE is a widely used method for sample preparation prior to spectrometry, mostly using in-gel digestion. In regards to determining the molecular mass of a protein, the SDS-PAGE is a bit more exact than an analytical ultracentrifugation, but less exact than a mass spectrometry or - ignoring post-translational modifications - a calculation of the protein molecular mass from the DNA sequence.\n\nIn medical diagnostics, SDS-PAGE is used as part of the HIV test and to evaluate proteinuria. In the HIV test, HIV proteins are separated by SDS-PAGE and subsequently detected by Western Blot with HIV-specific antibodies of the patient, if they are present in his blood serum. SDS-PAGE for proteinuria evaluates the levels of various serum proteins in the urine, e.g. Albumin, Alpha-2-macroglobulin and IgG.\n\nSDS-PAGE is the most widely used method for gel electrophoretic separation of proteins. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis sequentially combines isoelectric focusing or BAC-PAGE with a SDS-PAGE. Native PAGE is used if native protein folding is to be maintained. For separation of membrane proteins, BAC-PAGE or CTAB-PAGE may be used as an alternative to SDS-PAGE. For electrophoretic separation of larger protein complexes, agarose gel electrophoresis can be used, e.g. the SDD-AGE. Some enzymes can be detected via their enzyme activity by zymography.\n\nWhile being one of the more precise and low-cost protein separation and analysis methods, the SDS-PAGE denatures proteins. Where non-denaturing conditions are necessary, proteins are separated by a native PAGE or different chromatographic methods with subsequent photometric quantification, for example affinity chromatography (or even tandem affinity purification), size exclusion chromatography, ion exchange chromatography. Proteins can also be separated by size in a tangential flow filtration or a ultrafiltration. Single proteins can be isolated from a mixture by affinity chromatography or by a pull-down assay. Some historically early and cost effective but crude separation methods usually based upon a series of extractions and precipitations using kosmotropic molecules, for example the ammonium sulfate precipitation and the polyethyleneglycol precipitation.\n\nIn 1948, Arne Tiselius was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery of the principle of electrophoresis as the migration of charged and dissolved atoms or molecules in an electric field. The use of a solid matrix (initially paper discs) in a zone electrophoresis improved the separation. The discontinuous electrophoresis of 1964 by L. Ornstein and B. J. Davis made it possible to improve the separation by the stacking effect. The use of cross-linked polyacrylamide hydrogels, in contrast to the previously used paper discs or starch gels, provided a higher stability of the gel and no microbial decomposition. The denaturing effect of SDS in continuous polyacrylamide gels and the consequent improvement in resolution was first described in 1965 by David F. Summers in the working group of James E. Darnell to separate poliovirus proteins. The current variant of the SDS-PAGE was described in 1970 by Ulrich K. Laemmli and initially used to characterise the proteins in the head of bacteriophage T4.\n\n"}
{"id": "4106285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4106285", "title": "Self-referential encoding", "text": "Self-referential encoding\n\nEvery day, people are presented with endless amounts of information, and in an effort to help keep track and organize this information, people must be able to recognize, differentiate and store information. One way to do that is to organize information as it pertains to the self. The overall concept of self-reference suggests that people interpret incoming information in relation to themselves, using their self-concept as a background for new information. Examples include being able to attribute personality traits to oneself or to identify recollected episodes as being personal memories of the past. The implications of self-referential processing are evident in many psychological phenomena. For example, the \"cocktail party effect\" notes that people attend to the sound of their names even during other conversation or more prominent, distracting noise. Also, people tend to evaluate things related to themselves more positively (This is thought to be an aspect of implicit self-esteem). For example, people tend to prefer their own initials over other letters. The self-reference effect (SRE) has received the most attention through investigations into memory. The concepts of self-referential encoding and the SRE rely on the notion that relating information to the self during the process of encoding it in memory facilitates recall, hence the effect of self-reference on memory. In essence, researchers have investigated the potential mnemonic properties of self-reference.\n\nResearch includes investigations into self-schema, self-concept and self-awareness as providing the foundation for self-reference's role in memory. Multiple explanations for the self-reference effect in memory exist, leading to a debate about the underlying processes involved in the self-reference effect. In addition, through the exploration of the self-reference effect, other psychological concepts have been discovered or supported, including simulation theory and the effect.\nAfter researchers developed a concrete understanding of the self-reference effect, many expanded their investigations to consider the self-reference effect in particular groups like those with autism spectrum disorders or those experiencing depression.\n\nSelf-knowledge can be categorized by structures in memory or schemata. A self-schema is a set of facts or beliefs that one has about themselves. For any given trait, an individual may or may not be \"schematic\"; that is, the individual may or may not think about themselves as to where they stand on that trait. For example, people who think of themselves as very overweight or who identify themselves to a greater extent based on their body weight would be considered \"schematic\" on the attribute of body weight. Thus, many everyday events, such as going out for a meal or discussing a friend's eating habits, could induce thoughts about the self. When people relate information to something that has to do with the self, it facilitates memory. Self-descriptive adjectives that fit into one's self-schema are easier to remember than adjectives not viewed as related to the self. Thus, the self-schema is an aspect of oneself that is used as an encoding structure that brings upon memory of information consistent with one's self-schema. Memories that are elaborate and well encoded are usually the result of self-referent correlations during the process of remembering. During the process of encoding, trait representations are encoded in long term memory either directly or indirectly. When they are directly encoded, it is in terms of relating to the self, and when it is indirectly encoded it is done through spouts of episodic information instead of information about the self.\n\nSelf-schema is often used as somewhat of a database for encoding personal data. The self-schema is also used by paying selective attention to outside information and internalizing that information more deeply in one's memory depending on how much that information relates to their schema. When self-schema is engaged, traits that go along with one's view of themselves are better remembered and recalled. These traits are also often recalled much better when processed with respect to the self. Similarly, items that are encoded with the self are based on one's self-schema. Processing the information should balance out when recalled for individuals who have a self-schema that goes along with the information.\n\nSelf-schemas do not necessarily only involve individual traits. People self-categorize at different levels that range from more personal to more social. Self-schemas have three main categories which play a role: the personal self, the relational self, and the collective self. The personal self deals with individual level characteristics, the relational self deals with intimate relationship partners, and the collective self deals with group identities, relating to self-important social groups to which one belongs (e.g., one's family or university). Information that is related to any type of self-schema, including group-related knowledge structures facilitates memory.\n\nIn order for the self to be an effective encoding mechanism, it must be a uniform, consistent, well-developed schema. It has been shown that identity exploration leads to the development of self-knowledge which facilitates self-judgments. Identity exploration led to shorter decision times, higher confidence ratings and more intrusions in memory tasks. Previous researchers hypothesized that words compatible with a person's self-schema are easily accessible in memory and are more likely than incompatible words to intrude on a schema-irrelevant memory task. In one experiment, when participants were asked to decide if certain adjectives were \"like me\" or \"not like me,\" they made the decisions faster when the words were compatible with their self-schema.\n\nHowever, despite the existence of the self-reference effect when considering schemata consistent adjectives, the connection between the self and memory can lead to a larger number of mistakes in recognition, commonly referred to as false alarms. Rogers et al. (1979) found that people are more likely to falsely recognize adjectives they had previously designated to be self-descriptive. Expanding on this, Strube et al. (1986) found that false alarms occurred more for self-schema consistent content, presumably because the presence of such words in the schema makes them more accessible in memory.\n\nIn addition to investigating the self-reference effect in regards to schemata consistent information, Strube et al. discussed how counter schemata information relates to this framework. They noted that the pattern of making correct decisions more rapidly did not hold when considering words that countered a person's self-schema, presumably because they were difficult to integrate into memory due to lack of a preexisting structure. That is, they lacked the organizational structure of encoding because they did not fall into the \"like me\" category, and elaboration would not work because prior connections to the adjective did not exist.\n\nTwo of the most common functions of the self receiving significant attention in research are the self-acting to organize the individual's understanding of the social environment, and the self functioning to regulate behavior through self-evaluation. The concept of self-awareness is considered to be the foundational principle for both functions of the self. Some research presents self-awareness in terms of self-focused attention whereas Hull and Levy suggest that self-awareness refers to the encoding of information based on its relevance to the self. Based on the latter interpretation of self-awareness, individuals must identify the aspects of situations that are relevant to themselves and their behavior will be shaped accordingly. Hull and Levy suggest that self-awareness corresponds to the encoding of information cued by self-symbolic stimuli, and examine the idea of self-awareness as a method of encoding. They structured an investigation that examined self-referent encoding in individuals with different levels of self-awareness, predicting that individuals with higher levels of self-consciousness would encode self-relevant information more deeply than other information, and that they would encode it more deeply than individuals with low levels of self-consciousness. The results of their investigation supported their hypothesis that self-focused attention is not enough to explain the role of self-awareness on attribution. Their results suggest that self-awareness leads to increased sensitivity to the situationally defined meanings of behavior, and therefore organizes the individual's understanding of the social environment. The research presented by Hull and Levy led to future research on the encoding of information associated with self-awareness.\n\nIn later research, Hull and colleagues examined the associations between self-referential encoding, self-consciousness and the extent to which a stimulus is consistent with self-knowledge. They first assumed that the encoding of a stimulus is facilitated if an individual's working memory already contains information consistent with the stimulus, and suggested that self-consciousness as an encoding mechanism relies on an individual's self-knowledge. It is known that situational and dispositional factors may activate certain pools of knowledge, moving them into working memory, and guiding the processing of certain stimulus information.\n\nIn order to better understand the idea of activating information in memory, Hull et al. presented an example of how information is activated. They referred to the sentence \"The robber took the money from the bank\". In English, the word bank has two applicable meanings in the context of this sentence (monetary institution and river shore). However, the monetary institution meaning of the word is more highly activated in this context due to the addition of the words robber and money to the sentence, because they are associatively relevant and therefore pull the monetary institution definition for bank into working memory. Once information is added to working memory, meanings and associations are more easily drawn. Therefore, the meaning of this example sentence is almost universally understood.\n\nIn reference to self-consciousness and self-reference, the connection between self-consciousness and self-referent encoding relies on such information activation. Research suggests that self-consciousness activates knowledge relating to the self, thereby guiding the processing of self-relevant information. Three experiments conducted by Hull and colleagues provided evidence that a manipulation of accessible self-knowledge impacts self-referent encoding based on the self-relevance of such information, individual differences in the accessibility of self-knowledge (self-consciousness) impacts perception, and a mediation relationship exists between self-consciousness and individual differences in self-referential encoding.\n\nSimilar to how self-awareness impacts the availability of self-knowledge and the encoding of self-relevant information, through the development of the self-schema, people develop and maintain certain personality characteristics leading to a variety of behavior patterns. Research has been done on the differences between Type A and Type B behavior patterns, focusing on how people in each group respond to environmental information and their interpretation of the performance of others and themselves. It has been found that Type A behavior is characterized by competitive achievement striving, time urgency and hostility, whereas Type B is usually defined as an absence of Type A characteristics. When investigating causal attributions for hypothetical positive and negative outcomes, Strube et al. found that Type A individuals were more self-serving, in that they took greater responsibility for positive than negative effects. Strube and colleagues argued that this could be a result of the fact that schema-consistent information is more easily remembered and the ease with which past successes and failures are recalled, determined by self-schema, would impact attributions. It is reasonable to believe that Type A's might recall successes more easily and hence be more self-serving.\n\nInfluential psychologists Craik and Lockhart laid the groundwork for research focused on self-referential encoding and memory. In 1972 they proposed their Depth of Processing framework which suggests that memory retention depends on how the stimulus material was encoded in memory. Their original research considered structural, phonemic, and semantic encoding tasks, and showed that semantic encoding is the best method to aid in recall. They asked participants to rate 40 descriptive adjectives on one of four tasks; Structural (Big font or small font?), Phonemic (Rhymes with xxx?), Semantic (Means same as xxx?), or Self-reference (Describes you?). This was then followed by an \"incidental recall task\". This is where participants are asked, without prior warning, to recall as many of the words they had seen as possible within a given time limit. Craik and Tulving's original experiment showed that structural and phonemic tasks lead only to \"shallow\" encoding, while the semantic tasks lead to \"deep\" encoding and resulted in better recall.\n\nHowever, in 1977, it was shown that self-relevant or self-descriptive encoding leads to even better recall than semantic tasks. Experts suggest that the call on associative memory required by semantic tasks is what provides the advantage over structural or phonemic tasks, but is not enough to surpass the benefit provided by self-referential encoding. The fact that self-reference was shown to be a stronger memory encoding method than semantic tasks is what led to more significant interest in the field One early and significant experiment aimed to place self-reference on Craik and Lockhart's depth of processing hierarchy, and suggested that self-reference was a more beneficial encoding method than semantic tasks. In this experiment, participants filled out self-ratings on 84 adjectives. Months later, these participants were revisited and were randomly shown 42 of those words. They then had to select the group of 42 \"revisited\" words out of the total original list. The researchers argued that if the \"self\" was involved in memory retrieval, participants would incorrectly recognize words that were more self-descriptive In another experiment, subjects answered yes or no to cue questions about 40 adjective in 4 tasks (structural, phonemic, semantic and self-referential) and later had to recall the adjectives. This experiment validated the strength of self-reference as an encoding method, and indicated it developed a stronger memory trace than the semantic task.\n\nResearchers are implementing a new strategy by developing different encoding tasks that enhance memory very similarly to self-referential encoding. Symons (1990) had findings that went against the norm when he was unable to find evidence of self-schematicity in the self-reference effect. Another finding was that when referencing gender and religion, there was a low memory recall when compared with referencing the self. A meta-analysis by Symons and Johnson (1997) showed self-reference resulting in better memory in comparison to tasks relying on semantic encoding or other-referent encoding. According to Symons and Johnson, self-referencing questions elicit elaboration and organization in memory, both of which creating a deeper encoding and thus facilitate memory.\n\nTheorists that favor the view that the self has a special role believe that the self leads to more in depth processing, leading to easier recall during self-reference tasks. Theorists also promote the self-schema as being one of the sole inhibitors that allow for recall from deep memory. Thorndyke and Hayes-Roth had the goal of focusing on the process made by the active memory schemata. Sex-typed individuals recall trait adjectives that go along with their sex role more quickly than trait adjectives that are not. During the process of free recall, these individuals also showed more patterns for gender clustering than other sexually typed individuals.\n\nAs research on self-referential encoding became more prolific, some psychologists took an opportunity to delineate specific self-referential encoding tasks. It is noted that descriptive tasks are those that require participants to determine if a stimulus word can be classified as \"self-descriptive.\" Autobiographical tasks are those that require participants to use the stimulus word as a cue to recall an autobiographical memory. Results from experiments that differentiated between these types of self-referential encoding found that they both produced better recall than semantic tasks, and neither was more advantageous than the other. However, research does suggest that the two types of self-referential encoding do rely on different processes to facilitate memory. In most experiments discussed, these types of self- referential encoding were not differentiated.\n\nIn a typical self-reference task, adjectives are presented and classified as either self-descriptive or not. For example, in a study by Dobson and Shaw, adjectives about the self that were preselected were given to the participants and they decide whether or not the adjectives are self-descriptive. The basis for making certain judgments, decisions, inferences and decisions is a self-referent encoding task. If two items are classified as self-descriptive there is no reason one trait would not be equally as easy to retrieve as the other on a self-reference task.\n\nWhile a significant amount of research supports the existence of the self-reference effect, the processes behind it are not well understood. However, multiple hypotheses have been introduced, and two main arguments have been developed: the elaborative processing hypothesis and the organizational processing hypothesis. Encodings in reference to the self are so elaborate because of the information one has about the self. Information encoded with the self is better remembered than information encoded with reference to something else.\n\nElaboration refers to the encoding of a single word by forming connections between it and other material already stored in memory. By creating these connections between the stimulus word and other material already in memory, multiple routes for retrieval of the stimulus word are formed. Based on the depth of processing framework, memory retention increases as elaboration during encoding increases. The Elaborative Processing Hypothesis would suggest that any encoding task that leads to the development of the most trace elaboration or associations is the best for memory retention. Additional research on the depth of processing hierarchy suggests that self-reference is the superior method of information encoding. The elaborative hypothesis would suggest this is because self-reference creates the most elaborate trace, due to the many links that can be made between the stimulus and information about the self already in memory.\n\nThe organizational processing hypothesis was proposed by Klein and Kihlstrom. This hypothesis suggests that encoding is best prompted by considering stimulus words in relation to one another. This thought process and relational thinking creates word to word associations. These inter-item associations are paths in memory that can be used during retrieval. Also, the category labels that define the relations between stimulus items can be used as item cues. Evidence of the organizational component of encoding is demonstrated through the clustering of words during recall. Word clustering during recall indicates that relational information was used to store the words in memory. Rogers, Kuiper and Kirker showed that self-referential judgments were more likely to encourage organization than semantic ones. Therefore, they suggested the self-reference effect was likely due to the organizational processing endured by self-referential encoding.\n\nStructural, phonemic and semantic tasks within the depth of processing paradigm require words to be considered individually, and lend themselves to an elaborative approach. As such, it can be argued that self-referential encoding is superior because it leads to an indirect division of words into categories: words that describe me versus words that do not. Due to this connection between self-reference and organizational processing, further research has been done on this area. Klein and Kihlstrom's research suggests first that, like previous research, self-reference led to better recall than semantic and structural encoding. Second, they found that self-referentially encoded words were more clustered in recall than words from other tasks, suggesting higher levels of organizational processing. From this they concluded that the organization, not encoding task, is what makes self-referential encoding superior \n\nPsychologists Einstein and Hunt showed that both elaborative processing and organizational processing facilitate recall. However, their research argues that the effectiveness of either approach depends on how related the stimulus words are to one another. A list of highly related stimulus words would be better encoded using the elaborative method. The relations between the words would be evident to subjects; therefore, they would not gain any additional pathways for retrieval by encoding the words based on their categorical membership. Instead, the other information gained through elaborative processing would be more beneficial. On the other hand, a list of stimulus words with little relation would be better stored to memory through the organizational method. Since the words have no obvious connection to one another, subjects would likely encode them individually, using an elaborative approach. Since relational information wouldn't be readily detected, focusing on it would add to memory by creating new traces for retrieval. Superior recall was better explained by a combination of elaboration and organization.\nUltimately, the exact processes behind self-referential encoding that makes it superior to other encoding tasks are still under debate. Research suggests that if elaborative processing is behind self-referential encoding, a self-referential task should have the same effect as an elaborative task, whereas if organizational processing underlies the self-reference effect self-referential encoding tasks should function like organizational tasks. To test this, Klein and Loftus ran a 3x2 study testing organizational, elaborative and self-referential encoding with lists of 30 related or unrelated words. When participants were asked to memorize the unrelated list, recall and clustering were higher for the organizational task, which produced almost equal results to the self-referential task, suggesting that has an organizational basis. For the list of related words, the elaborative task led to better recall and had matched results to the self-reference task, suggesting an elaborative basis. This research, then, suggests that the self-reference effect cannot be explained by a single type of processing. Instead, self-referential encoding must lead to information in memory that incorporates item specific and relational information.\n\nOverall, the SRE relies on the unique mnemonic aspects of the self. Ultimately, if the research is suggesting that the self has superior elaborative or organizational properties, information related to the self should be more easily remembered and recalled. The research presented suggests that self-referential encoding is superior because it promotes organization and elaboration simultaneously, and provides self-relevant categories that promote recall.\n\nThe field of social brain science is aimed at examining the neural foundations of social behavior. Neuroimaging and neuropsychology have led to the examination of neuroanatomy and its connection to psychological topics. Through this research, neuropsychologists have found a connection between social cognitive functioning and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In addition, the mPFC has been connected to reflection and introspection about personal mental states. Supporting these findings, it has been shown that damage to the mPFC is connected to impairments with self-reflection, introspection and daydreaming, as well as social competence, but not other areas of functioning. As such, the mPFC has been connected to self-referential processing.\n\nThe research discussed by those focusing on the neuroanatomy of self-referential processing included similar tasks to the memory and depth of processing research discussed previously. When participants were asked to judge adjectives based in whether or not they were self-descriptive, it was noted that the more self-relevant the trait, the stronger the activation of the mPFC. In addition, it was shown that the mPFC was activated during the appraisal of one's own personality traits, as well as during trait retrieval. One study showed that the more activity in the mPFC during self-referential judgments, the more likely the word was to be remembered on a subsequent surprise memory test. These results suggest that the mPFC is involved in both self-referential processing and in creating self-relevant memories.\n\nMedial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) activation occurs during processing of self-relevant information. When self-referent judgment is more relatable and less negative, the mFPC is activated. Finding support clear cut circuits that have high levels of activation when cognitive and emotional aspects of self-reflection are present. The caudate nucleus has not been associated with self-reference before, however, Fossati and colleagues found activity while participants were retrieving self-relevant trait adjectives. The ventral anterior cingulate cortex (vACC) is also a part of the brain that becomes activated when there are signs of self-referencing and processing. The vACC is activated when self-descriptive information is negative. There is also pCC (posterior cingulate cortex) activity seen in neuroimaging studies during self-referential processing.\n\nGiven all of the neurological support for the effect of self-reference on encoding and memory, there is still a debate in the psychological community about whether or not the self-reference effect signifies a special functional role played by the self in cognition. Generally, this question is met by people that have two opposing views on the processes behind self-reference. On one side of the debate, people believe that the self has special mnemonic abilities because it is a unique cognitive structure. On the other side, people support the arguments described above that suggest there is no special structure, but instead, the self-reference effect is simply a part of the standard depth of processing hierarchy. Since the overall hypothesis is the same for both sides of the debate, that self-relevant material leads to enhanced memory, it is difficult to test them using strictly behavioral measures. Therefore, PET and fMRI scans have been used to see the neural marker of self-referential mental activity.\n\nPrevious studies have shown that areas of the left prefrontal cortex are activated during semantic encoding. Therefore, if the self-reference effect works the same way, as part of the depth of processing hierarchy, the same brain region should be activated when judging traits related to the self. However, if the self has unique mnemonic properties, then self-referential tasks should activate brain regions distinct from those activated during semantic tasks. The field is still at is infancy, but future work on this hypothesis might help to settle the debate about the underlying processes of self-referential encoding.\n\nWhile not able to completely settle the debate over the foundation of self-referential processing, studies on the neurological aspect of personality trait judgments did lead to a related, significant result. It has been shown that judging personality traits about oneself and a close friend activated overlapping brain regions, and the activated regions have all been implicated in self-reference. Noting the similarity between making self-judgments and judgments about close others led to the introduction of the simulation theory of empathy. Simulation theory rests on the idea that one can make inferences about others by using the knowledge they have about themselves. In essence, the theory suggests that people use self-reflection to understand or predict the mental state of others. The more similar a person perceives another to be, the more active the mPFC has shown to be, suggesting more deep or intricate self-reference. However, this effect can cause people to make inaccurate judgments about others or to believe that their own opinions are representative of others in general. This misrepresentation is referred to as the false-consensus effect.\n\nIn addition to simulation theory, other expansions of the self-reference effect have been examined. Through studying the self, researchers have found that the self consists of many independent cognitive representations. For example, the personal self composed of individual characteristics is separate from the relational self which is based on relationships with significant others. These two forms of self are again separate from the collective self which corresponds to a particular group identity. Noting the existence of the collective self and the different group identities that combine to form such a self-representation led researchers to question if information stored in reference to a social group identity has the same effects in memory as information stored in reference to the individual self. In essence, researchers questioned if the self-reference effect can be extended to include situations where the self is more socially defined, producing a group-reference effect.\n\nPrevious research supports the idea that the group-reference effect should exist from a theoretical standpoint. First, the self-expansion model argues that individuals incorporate characteristics of their significant others (or other in-group members into the development of their self-concept. From this model, it is reasonable to conclude that characteristics that are common to both oneself and their significant others (or in-group members) would be more accessible. Second, the previous research discussed suggests that the self-reference effect is due to some combination of organizational, elaborative, mental cueing or evaluative properties of self-referential encoding tasks. Given that we have significant stores of knowledge about our social identities, and such collective identities provide an organizational framework, it is reasonable to assume that a group-reference task would operate similar to that of a self-reference task.\n\nIn order to test these claims, Johnson and colleagues aimed to test whether the self-reference effect generalized to group level identities. Their first study was structured to simply assess if group-reference influenced subsequent memory. In their experiment, they used membership at a particular university as the group of reference. They included group-reference, self-reference and semantic tasks. The experiment replicated the self-reference effect, consistent with previous research. In addition, evidence for a group-reference effect was found. Group-referenced encoding produced better recall than the semantic tasks, and the level of recall from the group-referenced task was not significantly different from the self-referenced task.\n\nDespite finding evidence of a group-reference effect, Johnson and colleagues pointed out that people identify with numerous groups, each with unique characteristics. Therefore, in order to reach conclusive evidence of a group-reference effect, alternative group targets need to be considered. In a second experiment by Johnson et al., the group of reference was modified to be the family of the individual. This group has fewer exemplars than the pool of university students, and affective considerations of the family as a group should be strong. No specific instructions or definitions were provided for family, allowing individuals to consider either the group as a whole (prototype) or specific exemplars (group). When the experiment was repeated using family as the group of reference, group-reference produced recall as much as self-reference. The mean number of recall for the group-reference was higher than self-reference. Participants indicated that they considered both the prototype and individual exemplars when responding to the questions, suggesting that the magnitude of the group-reference effect might not be dependent on the number of exemplars in the target group.\nBoth experiments presented by Johnson et al. found evidence for the group-reference effect. However, these conclusions are limited to the target groups of university students and family. Other research included gender (males and females) and religion (Jewish) as the reference groups and the group-reference effect on memory was not as evident. The group-reference recall for these two groups was not significantly more advantageous than the semantic task. Questioning what characteristics of reference groups that lead to the group-reference effect, a meta-analysis of all four group-reference conditions was performed. This analysis found that self-reference emerged as the most powerful encoding device; however, evidence was found to support the existence of a group-reference effect. The size of the reference groups and number of specific, individual exemplars was hypothesized to influence the existence of the group-reference effect. In addition, accessibility and level of knowledge about group members may also impact such an effect. So, while university students is a much larger group than family, individual exemplars may be more readily accessible than those in a religious group. Similarly, different cognitive representations were hypothesized to influence the group-reference effect. When a larger group is considered, people may be more likely to consider a prototype which may lead to fewer elaborations and cues later on. Smaller groups may lead to relying on the prototype and specific exemplars. Finally, desirability judgments that influence later processing may be influenced by self-reference and certain group-reference tasks. Individuals may be more sensitive to evaluative implications for the personal self and some group identities, but not others.\n\nGroups are also a major part of the self; therefore we attribute the role that different groups play in our self-concept also play a role in the self-reference effect. We process information about group members similarly to how we process for ourselves. Recall of remarks referencing our home and our self and group to familiarity of those aspects of our self. Reference to the self and social group and the identity that comes along with being a part of a social group are equally affective for memory. This is especially true when the groups are small, rather than large.\n\nUltimately, the group-reference effect provides evidence to explain the tendency to notice or pay attention to and remember statements made in regard to our home when traveling in a foreign place. Considering the proposal that groups form part of the self, this phenomenon can be considered an extension of the self-reference effect. Similar to the memorable nature of references to a person's individual self, references to social identities are seemed to be privileged in memory as well.\n\nOnce the foundation of research on self-referential encoding was established, psychologists began to explore how the concept applied to different groups of people, and connected to different phenomena.\n\nIndividuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) can display a wide range of symptoms. Some of the most common characteristics of individuals with ASDs include impairments with social functioning, language and communication difficulties, repetitive behaviors and restricted interests. In addition, it is often noted that these individuals are more \"self-focused.\" That is, they have difficulty seeing things from another's perspective. Despite being self-focused, though, research has shown that individuals with ASD's often have difficulty identifying or describing their emotions or the emotions of others. When asked to describe their daily experiences, responses from individuals on the autism spectrum tended to focus more on physical descriptions rather than mental and emotional states. In regards to their social interactions and behavior differences, it is thought that these individuals lack top down control, and therefore, their bottom up decisions remain unchecked. This simply suggests that these individuals cannot use their prior knowledge and memory to make sense of new input, but instead react to each new input individually, compiling them to make a whole picture \n\nNoting the difficulty individuals with ASDs experience with self-awareness, it was thought that they might have difficulty with self-related memory processes. Psychologists questioned if these individuals would show the typical self-reference effect in memory. In one Depth of Processing Study, participants were asked questions about the descriptiveness of certain stimulus words. However, unlike previous DOP studies that focused on phonemic, structural, semantic and self-referential tasks, the tasks were altered for this experiment. To test the referential abilities of individuals with ASD's, the encoding tasks were divided into: \"the self,\" asking to what extent a stimulus word described oneself, \"similar close other,\" asking to what extent a stimulus word was descriptive of one's best friend, \"dissimilar non-close other,\" asking to what extent a stimulus word was descriptive of Harry Potter, and a control group that was asked to determine the number of syllables in each word. Following these encoding tasks, participants were given thirty minutes before a surprise memory task. It was found that individuals with ASD's had no impairment in memory for words encoded in the syllable or dissimilar non-close other condition. However, they had decreased memory for words related to the self.\n\nTherefore, while research suggests that self-referentially encoded information is encoded more deeply than other information, the research on individuals with ASD's showed no advantage for memory recognition with self-reference tasks over semantic encoding tasks. This suggests that individuals with ASD's don't preferentially encode self-relevant information. Psychologists have investigated the biological basis for the decreased self-reference effect among individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders and have suggested that it may be due to less specialized neural activity in the mPFC for those individuals. However, while individuals with ASD's showed smaller self-reference effects than the control group, some evidence of a self-reference effect was evident in some cases. This indicates that self-referent impairments are a matter of degree, not total absence.\n\nLombardo and his colleagues measured empathy among individuals with ASD's, and showed that these individuals scored lower than the control group on all empathy measures. This may be a result of the difficulty for these individuals to understand or take the perspective of others, in conjunction with their difficulty identifying emotions. This has implications for simulation theory, because these individuals are unable to use their self-knowledge to make conclusions about similar others.\n\nUltimately, the research suggests that people with ASD's might benefit from being more self-focused. The better their ability to reflect on themselves, the better the can mentalize with others.\n\nThere are three possible relations between cognitive processes and anxiety and depression. The first is whether cognitive processes are actually caused by the onset of clinically diagnosed symptoms of major depression or just generalized sadness or anxiousness. The second is whether emotional disorders such as depression and anxiety are able to be considered as caused by cognitions. And the third is whether different specific cognitive processes are able to be considered associates of different disorders. Kovacs and Beck (1977) posited a schematic model of depression where an already depressed self was primed by outside prompts that negatively impacted cognitive illusions of the world in the eye of oneself. These prompts only led participants to a more depressive series of emotions and behavior. The results from the study done by Derry and Kuiper supported Beck's theory that a negative self-schema is present in people, especially those with depressive disorder. Depressed individuals attribute depressive adjectives to themselves more than nondepressive adjectives. Those suffering from a more mild case of depression have trouble deciphering between the traits of themselves and others which results in a loss of their self-esteem and their negative self-evaluation. A depressive schema is what causes the negativity reported by those suffering from depression. Kuiper and Derry found that self-referent recall enhancement was limited only to nondepressed content.\n\nGenerally, self-focus is association with negative emotions. In particular private self-focus is more strongly associated with depression than public self-focus. Results from brain-imaging studies shows\nthat during self-referential processing, those with major depressive disorder show greater activation in the medial prefrontal cortex, suggesting that depressed individuals may be exhibiting greater cognitive control than\nnon-depressed individuals when processing self-relevant information.\n"}
