{"id": "48752551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48752551", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Palermo", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Palermo\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Palermo (\"Academy of Fine Arts of Palermo\") is a public tertiary academy of art in Palermo, Sicily. It was established in 1780.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "12465661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12465661", "title": "Acquired taste", "text": "Acquired taste\n\nAn acquired taste is an appreciation for something unlikely to be enjoyed by a person who has not had substantial exposure to it. In the case of food and drink, this may be due to a strong odor (such as certain types of cheese, durian, hákarl, black salt, nattō, asafoetida, surströmming, or stinky tofu), taste (alcoholic beverages, Vegemite or Marmite, bitter teas, salty liquorice, malt bread, unsweetened chocolate, sushi, garnatálg), mouthfeel (such as sashimi and sushi featuring uncooked seafood), appearance, or association (such as eating insects or organ meat).\n\nThe process of acquiring a taste can involve developmental maturation, genetics (of both taste sensitivity and personality), family example, and biochemical reward properties of foods. Infants are born preferring sweet foods and rejecting sour and bitter tastes, and they develop a preference for salt at approximately 4 months. Neophobia (fear of novelty) tends to vary with age in predictable, but not linear, ways. Babies just beginning to eat solid foods generally accept a wide variety of foods, toddlers and young children are relatively neophobic towards food, and older children, adults, and the elderly are often adventurous eaters with wide-ranging tastes. \n\nThe general personality trait of novelty-seeking does not necessarily correlate highly with willingness to try new foods. Level of food adventurousness may explain much of the variability of food preferences observed in \"supertasters\". Supertasters are highly sensitive to bitter, spicy, and pungent flavours, and some avoid them and like to eat only mild, plain foods, but many supertasters who have high food adventurousness enjoy these intense flavors and seek them out. Some chemicals or combinations of chemicals in foods provide both flavor and beneficial or enjoyable effects on the body and mind and may be reinforcing, leading to an acquired taste. A study that investigated the effect of adding caffeine and theobromine (active compounds in chocolate) vs. a placebo to identically-flavored drinks that participants tasted several times, yielded the development of a strong preference for the drink with the compounds.\n\nIntentionally changing one's preferences can be hard to accomplish. It usually requires a deliberate effort, acting as if one likes something in order to have the responses and feelings that will produce the desired taste. The challenge becomes one of distinguishing authentic or legitimate acquired tastes as a result of deeply considered preference changes from inauthentic ones motivated by status or conformity.\n\n"}
{"id": "177483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177483", "title": "Aestheticism", "text": "Aestheticism\n\nAestheticism (also the Aesthetic Movement) is an intellectual and art movement supporting the emphasis of aesthetic values more than social-political themes for literature, fine art, music and other arts. This meant that art from this particular movement focused more on being beautiful rather than having a deeper meaning — \"art for art's sake\". It was particularly prominent in Europe during the 19th century, supported by notable figures such as Walter Pater and Oscar Wilde, but contemporary critics are also associated with the movement, such as Harold Bloom, who has recently argued against projecting social and political ideology onto literary works, which he believes has been a growing problem in humanities departments over the 20th century. \n\nIn the 19th century, it was related to other movements such as symbolism or decadence represented in France, or decadentismo represented in Italy, and may be considered the British version of the same style.\n\nThe British decadent writers were much influenced by the Oxford professor Walter Pater and his essays published during 1867–68, in which he stated that life had to be lived intensely, with an ideal of beauty. His text \"Studies in the History of the Renaissance\" (1873) was very well regarded by art-oriented young men of the late 19th century. Writers of the Decadent movement used the slogan \"Art for Art's Sake\" (\"L'art pour l'art\"), the origin of which is debated. Some claim that it was invented by the philosopher Victor Cousin, although Angela Leighton in the publication \"On Form: Poetry, Aestheticism and the Legacy of a Word\" (2007) notes that the phrase was used by Benjamin Constant as early as 1804. It is generally accepted to have been promoted by Théophile Gautier in France, who interpreted the phrase to suggest that there was not any real association between art and morality.\nThe artists and writers of Aesthetic style tended to profess that the Arts should provide refined sensuous pleasure, rather than convey moral or sentimental messages. As a consequence, they did not accept John Ruskin, Matthew Arnold, and George MacDonald's conception of art as something moral or useful, \"Art for truth's sake\". Instead, they believed that Art did not have any didactic purpose; it only needed to be beautiful. The Aesthetes developed a cult of beauty, which they considered the basic factor of art. Life should copy Art, they asserted. They considered nature as crude and lacking in design when compared to art. The main characteristics of the style were: suggestion rather than statement, sensuality, great use of symbols, and synaesthetic/Ideasthetic effects—that is, correspondence between words, colours and music. Music was used to establish mood.\n\nPredecessors of the Aesthetics included John Keats and Percy Bysshe Shelley, and some of the Pre-Raphaelites who themselves were a legacy of the Romantic spirit. There are a few significant continuities between the Pre-Raphaelite philosophy and that of the Aesthetes: Dedication to the idea of ‘Art for Art’s Sake’; admiration of, and constant striving for, beauty; escapism through visual and literary arts; craftsmanship that is both careful and self-conscious; mutual interest in merging the arts of various media. This final idea is promoted in the poem \"L’Art\" by Théophile Gautier, who compared the poet to the sculptor and painter. Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Edward Burne-Jones are most strongly associated with Aestheticism. However, their approach to Aestheticism did not share the creed of ‘Art for Art’s Sake’ but rather “a spirited reassertion of those principles of colour, beauty, love, and cleanness that the drab, agitated, discouraging world of the mid-nineteenth century needed so much.” This reassertion of beauty in a drab world also connects to Pre-Raphaelite escapism in art and poetry.\n\nIn Britain the best representatives were Oscar Wilde and Algernon Charles Swinburne, both influenced by the French Symbolists, and James McNeill Whistler and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. The style and these poets were satirised by Gilbert and Sullivan's comic opera \"Patience\" and other works, such as F. C. Burnand's drama \"The Colonel\", and in comic magazines such as \"Punch,\" particularly in works by George Du Maurier.\n\nCompton Mackenzie's novel \"Sinister Street\" makes use of the type as a phase through which the protagonist passes as he is influenced by older, decadent individuals. The novels of Evelyn Waugh, who was a young participant of aesthete society at Oxford, describe the aesthetes mostly satirically, but also as a former participant. Some names associated with this assemblage are Robert Byron, Evelyn Waugh, Harold Acton, Nancy Mitford, A.E. Housman and Anthony Powell.\n\nArtists associated with the Aesthetic style include Simeon Solomon, James McNeill Whistler, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and Aubrey Beardsley. Although the work of Edward Burne-Jones was exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery which promoted the movement, it also contains narrative and conveys moral or sentimental messages hence it falls outside the given definition.\n\nThe primary element of Decorative Art is utility. The maxim \"art for art's sake\", identifying art or beauty as the primary element in other branches of the Aesthetic Movement, especially fine art, cannot apply in this context. Decorative art must first have utility, but may also be beautiful. Decorative art is dissociated from fine art.\n\nImportant elements of the Aesthetic Movement have been identified as Reform and Eastern Art. The Government Schools of Design were founded from 1837 onwards in order to improve the design of British goods. Following the Great Exhibition of 1851 efforts were intensified and Oriental objects purchased for the schools teaching collections. Owen Jones, architect and Orientalist was requested to set out key principles of design and these became not only the basis of the schools teaching but also the propositions which preface \"The Grammar of Ornament\" (1856), which is still regarded as the finest systematic study or practical sourcebook of historic world ornament.\n\nJones identified the need for a new and modern style that would meet the requirements of the modern world, rather than the continual re-cycling of historic styles, but saw no reason to reject the lessons of the past. Christopher Dresser, a student and later Professor at the school worked with Owen Jones on \"The Grammar of Ornament\", as well as on the 1863 decoration of The Oriental Courts (Chinese, Japanese, and Indian) at the South Kensington Museum, advanced the search for a new style with his two publications \"The Art of Decorative Design\" 1862, and \"Principles of Design\" 1873.\n\nProduction of Aesthetic style furniture was limited to approximately the late 19th century. Aesthetic style furniture is characterized by several common themes:\n\nEbonized furniture means that the wood is painted or stained to a black ebony finish. The furniture is sometimes completely ebony-colored. More often however, there is gilding added to the carved surfaces of the feathers or stylized flowers that adorn the furniture.\n\nAs aesthetic movement decor was similar to the corresponding writing style in that it was about sensuality and nature, nature themes often appear on the furniture. A typical aesthetic feature is the gilded carved flower, or the stylized peacock feather. Colored paintings of birds or flowers are often seen. Non-ebonized aesthetic movement furniture may have realistic-looking three-dimensional-like renditions of birds or flowers carved into the wood.\n\nContrasting with the ebonized-gilt furniture is use of blue and white for porcelain and china. Similar themes of peacock feathers and nature would be used in blue and white tones on dinnerware and other crockery. The blue and white design was also popular on square porcelain tiles. It is reported that Oscar Wilde used aesthetic decorations during his youth. This aspect of the movement was also satirised by \"Punch\" magazine and in \"Patience\".\n\nIn 1882 Oscar Wilde visited Canada, where he toured the town of Woodstock, Ontario and gave a lecture on May 29 titled \"The House Beautiful\". This particular lecture featured the early Aesthetic art movement, also known as the \"Ornamental Aesthetic\" art style, where local flora and fauna were celebrated as beautiful and textured, layered ceilings were popular. An example of this can be seen in Annandale National Historic Site, located in Tillsonburg, Ontario, Canada. The house was built in 1880 and decorated by Mary Ann Tillson, who happened to attend Oscar Wilde's lecture in Woodstock, and was influenced by it. Since the Aesthetic art movement was only prevalent from about 1880 until about 1890, there are not many surviving examples of this particular stylem but one such example is 18 Stafford Terrace, London, which provides an insight into how the middle classes interpreted the principles of Aesthetics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60731", "title": "Anachronism", "text": "Anachronism\n\nAn anachronism (from the Greek , \"against\" and , \"time\") is a chronological inconsistency in some arrangement, especially a juxtaposition of persons, events, objects, or customs from different periods of time. The most common type of anachronism is an object misplaced in time, but it may be a verbal expression, a technology, a philosophical idea, a musical style, a material, a plant or animal, a custom, or anything else associated with a particular period in time that is placed outside its proper temporal domain.\n\nAn anachronism may be either intentional or unintentional. Intentional anachronisms may be introduced into a literary or artistic work to help a contemporary audience engage more readily with a historical period. Anachronism can also be used for purposes of rhetoric, comedy, or shock. Unintentional anachronisms may occur when a writer, artist, or performer is unaware of differences in technology, language, customs, attitudes, or fashions between different historical eras.\n\nA parachronism (from the Greek , \"on the side\", and , \"time\") is anything that appears in a time period in which it is not normally found (though not sufficiently out of place as to be impossible).\n\nThis may be an object, idiomatic expression, technology, philosophical idea, musical style, material, custom, or anything else so closely bound to a particular time period as to seem strange when encountered in a later era. They may be objects or ideas that were once common but are now considered rare or inappropriate. They can take the form of obsolete technology or outdated fashion.\n\nExamples of parachronisms could include a suburban housewife in the United States around 1960 using a washboard for laundry (well after washing machines had become the norm); or a teenager from that time period being an avid fan of ragtime music. Often, a parachronism is identified when a work based on a particular era's state of knowledge is read within the context of a later era—with a different state of knowledge. Many scientific works that rely on theories that have later been discredited have become anachronistic with the removal of those underpinnings, and works of speculative fiction often find their speculations outstripped by real-world technological developments or scientific discoveries.\n\nA prochronism (from the Greek , \"before\", and , \"time\") is an impossible anachronism which occurs when an object or idea has not yet been invented when the situation takes place, and therefore could not have possibly existed at the time (e.g. \"The Last Supper\" by Leonardo da Vinci at the top of the article). A prochronism may be an object not yet developed, a verbal expression that had not yet been coined, a philosophy not yet formulated, a breed of animal not yet evolved (or perhaps engineered), or use of a technology that had not yet been created.\n\nThe intentional use of older, often obsolete cultural artifacts may be regarded as anachronistic. For example, it could be considered anachronistic for a modern-day person to wear a top hat, write with a quill, or carry on a conversation in Latin. Such choices may reflect an eccentricity or an aesthetic preference.\nSome writings and works of art promoting a political, nationalist or revolutionary cause use anachronism to depict an institution or custom as being more ancient than it actually is. For example, the 19th-century Romanian painter Constantin Lecca depicts the peace agreement between Ioan Bogdan Voievod and Radu Voievod—two leaders in Romania's 16th-century history—with the flags of Moldavia (blue-red) and of Wallachia (yellow-blue) seen in the background. These flags date only from the 1830s. Here anachronism promotes legitimacy for the unification of Moldavia and Wallachia into the Kingdom of Romania at the time the painting was made.\n\nAnachronism is used especially in works of imagination that rest on a historical basis. Anachronisms may be introduced in many ways: for example, in the disregard of the different modes of life and thought that characterize different periods, or in ignorance of the progress of the arts and sciences and other facts of history. They vary from glaring inconsistencies to scarcely perceptible misrepresentation. It is only since the close of the 18th century that this kind of deviation from historical reality has jarred on a general audience. Sir Walter Scott justified the use of anachronism in historical literature: \"It is necessary, for exciting interest of any kind, that the subject assumed should be, as it were, translated into the manners as well as the language of the age we live in.\" However, as fashions move on, such attempts to use anachronisms to engage an audience may have quite the reverse effect, as the details in question are increasingly recognized as belonging neither to the historical era being represented, nor to the present, but to the intervening period in which the artwork was created. \"Nothing becomes obsolete like a period vision of an older period\", writes Anthony Grafton; \"Hearing a mother in a historical movie of the 1940s call out 'Ludwig! Ludwig van Beethoven! Come in and practice your piano now!' we are jerked from our suspension of disbelief by what was intended as a means of reinforcing it, and plunged directly into the American bourgeois world of the filmmaker.\"\n\nAnachronism can also be an aesthetic choice. Anachronisms abound in the works of Raphael and Shakespeare, as well as in those of less celebrated painters and playwrights of earlier times. Anachronisms can exist in ancient texts. Carol Meyers says that these anachronisms can be used to better understand the stories by asking what the anachronism represents. Repeated anachronisms and historical errors can become an accepted part of popular culture, such as Roman legionaries that wear leather armor.\nComedy fiction set in the past may use anachronism for humorous effect. Comedic anachronism can be used to make serious points about both historical and modern society, such as drawing parallels to political or social conventions.\n\nEven with careful research, science fiction writers risk anachronism as their works age because they cannot predict all political and technological change.\n\nFor example, many books and films nominally set in the mid-21st century or later refer to the Soviet Union, to Saint Petersburg in Russia as Leningrad, to the continuing struggle between the Eastern and Western Blocs and to divided Germany and divided Berlin. \"Star Trek\" has suffered from future anachronisms; instead of \"retconning\" these errors, the 2009 film retained them for consistency with older franchises. \n\nBuildings or natural features, such as the World Trade Center in New York City, can become out of place once they disappear.\n\nLanguage anachronisms in novels and films are quite common, both intentional and unintentional. Intentional anachronisms inform the audience more readily about a film set in the past. In this regard, language and pronunciation change so fast that most modern people (even many scholars) would find it difficult, or even impossible, to understand a film with dialogue in 15th-century English; thus, we willingly accept characters speaking an updated language, and modern slang and figures of speech are often used in these films.\n\nUnintentional anachronisms may occur even in what are intended as wholly objective and accurate records or representations of historic artifacts and artworks, because the recorder's perspective is conditioned by the assumptions and practices of his or her own times (a form of cultural bias). One example is the attribution of historically inaccurate beards to various medieval tomb effigies and figures in stained glass in records made by English antiquaries of the late 16th and early 17th centuries. Working in an age in which beards were in fashion and widespread, the antiquaries seem to have subconsciously projected the fashion back into an era in which it was rare.\n\nThe extensive science fiction subgenre depicting time travel in effect consists of deliberate, consciously created anachronisms, letting people of one time meet and interact with those of another time. Covers of time-travel books often depict deliberate anachronisms of this kind. For example, the cover of Harry Turtledove's \"The Guns of the South\" (1992) features a portrait of Confederate General Robert E. Lee holding an AK-47 rifle.\n\nIn historical writing, the most common type of anachronism is the adoption of the political, social or cultural concerns and assumptions of one era to interpret or evaluate the events and actions of another. The anachronistic application of present-day perspectives to comment on the historical past is sometimes described as presentism. Empiricist historians, working in the traditions established by Leopold von Ranke in the 19th century, regard this as a great error, and a trap to be avoided. Arthur Marwick has argued that \"a grasp of the fact that past societies are very different from our own, and ... very difficult to get to know\" is an essential and fundamental skill of the professional historian; and that \"anachronism is still one of the most obvious faults when the unqualified (those expert in other disciplines, perhaps) attempt to do history\". Anachronism in academic writing is considered at best embarrassing, as in early-20th-century scholarship's use of Translatio imperii, first formulated in the 12th century, to interpret 10th-century literature.\n\nThe use of anachronism in a rhetorical or hyperbolic sense is more complex. To refer to the Holy Roman Empire as the First Reich, for example, is technically inaccurate but may be a useful comparative exercise; the application of theory to works which predate Marxist, Feminist or Freudian subjectivities is considered an essential part of theoretical practice. In most cases, however, the practitioner will acknowledge or justify the use or context.\n\nThe ability to identify anachronisms may be employed as a critical and forensic tool to demonstrate the fraudulence of a document or artifact purporting to be from an earlier time. Anthony Grafton discusses, for example, the work of the 3rd-century philosopher Porphyry, of Isaac Casaubon (1559–1614), and of Richard Reitzenstein (1861–1931), all of whom succeeded in exposing literary forgeries and plagiarisms, such as those included in the \"Hermetic Corpus\", through – among other techniques – the recognition of anachronisms. The detection of anachronisms is an important element within the scholarly discipline of diplomatics, the critical analysis of the forms of documents, developed by the Maurist scholar Jean Mabillon (1632–1707) and his successors René-Prosper Tassin (1697–1777) and Charles-François Toustain (1700–1754). The philosopher and reformer Jeremy Bentham wrote at the beginning of the 19th century:\nThe falsehood of a writing will often be detected, by its making direct mention of, or allusions more or less indirect to, some fact posterior to the date which it bears. ... \"The mention of posterior facts;\" – first indication of forgery.<br>\n\nIn a living language there are always variations in words, in the meaning of words, in the construction of phrases, in the manner of spelling, which may detect the age of a writing, and lead to legitimate suspicions of forgery. ... \"The use of words not used till after the date of the writing;\" – second indication of forgery.\n\nThe exposure by Lorenzo Valla in 1440 of the so-called Donation of Constantine, a decree purportedly issued by the Emperor Constantine the Great in either 315 or 317 AD, as a later forgery, depended to a considerable degree on the identification of anachronisms, such as references to the city of Constantinople (a name not in fact bestowed until 330 AD). A large number of apparent anachronisms in the Book of Mormon have served to convince critics that the book was written in the 19th century, and not, as its adherents claim, in pre-Columbian America. The use of 19th- and 20th-century anti-semitic terminology demonstrates that the purported \"Franklin Prophecy\" (attributed to Benjamin Franklin, who died in 1790) is a forgery. The \"\"William Lynch speech\", an address, supposedly delivered in 1712, on the control of slaves in Virginia, is now considered to be a 20th-century forgery, partly on account of its use of anachronistic terms such as \"program\" and \"refueling\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3322157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3322157", "title": "Blason populaire", "text": "Blason populaire\n\nBlason populaire is an umbrella genre in the field of folkloristics used to designate any item of any genre which makes use of stereotypes, usually, but not always, negative stereotypes, of a particular group.\"These stereotypes are manifested in a wide array of folkloric genres, including proverbs, other traditional sayings, nicknames, jokes, songs, rhymes, and football chants. All share a common function in that they are invoked to highlight positive aspects of the in-group by explicit auto-stereotyping or, alternatively, to identify the negative characteristics of out-groups. The explicit positive stereotyping of an in-group may often implicitly suggest negative characteristics of a rival out-group.\"\nIn \"blasons populaires\" nations are homogeneous and have national characteristics.\n\nItems such as ethnic jokes or blonde jokes are very common examples of blason populaire.\n\nThe Irish proverbial material is almost devoid of any national blasons populaires, with the possible exception of the multi-group international comparison. These comparisons are often manifested in epigrammatic form in European languages, with the most salient and representative stereotypical trait being attributed to the nations involved (what Billig (1995) refers to as ‘banal nationalism’). Enumerative structures, usually tri- or quadripartite formulas, are the favoured apparatus. The syntactic and semantic juxtaposition of negative traits for comparative purposes is then counter-balanced by the positive representation of one nation, usually in final position, most commonly the in-group that invokes the comparison. Below is a nineteenth-century German example (Reinsberg-Düringsfeld 1863, 5) in which there is no apparent in-group.\n\nIn Wallonia (Belgium) and Luxembourg, the concept of \"blason populaire\" refers to a demonym-like nickname of the inhabitants of a village or a city.\n\n\"Blasons populaire\" come from the traditional languages (Walloon, Luxembourgish). They are never translated in French, as opposed to the demonyms which exist in French and in Walloon, often in two different constructions.\n\nSome, which have lost their pejorative meaning, are now used to name restaurants, theater groups, communal houses, etc. They are also used in pseudonyms of writers in Walloon.\n\nThe inhabitants of all villages or cities in these regions have a \"blason populaire\" (in Picard language: \"surpitchet\").\n\nFor example, for the town of Amiens the blason is \"chés Maqueus d'gueugues d'Anmien\" ('the Eaters of Walnuts of Amiens'). In 1597, Spanish soldiers mounted a surprise attack. They were disguised as peasants and put walnuts at the doors of the town. The inhabitants were famished and opened the doors, following which the Spanish soldiers entered the city; with deadly consequences for the inhabitants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46862330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46862330", "title": "Book Citation Index", "text": "Book Citation Index\n\nThe Book Citation Index (BCI, BKCI) is an online subscription-based scientific citation indexing service maintained by Clarivate Analytics and is part of the Web of Science Core Collection. It was first launched in 2011 and indexes over 60,000 editorially selected books, starting from 2005. Books in the index are electronic and print scholarly texts that contain articles based on original research and/or reviews of such literature.\n\nThe index covers series and non-series books as long as they include full footnotes and the index has two separate editions, a Science edition and a Social Sciences & Humanities edition. The Science edition covers physics and chemistry, engineering, computing and technology, clinical medicine, life sciences, and agriculture and biology. Currently both series only contain books that date back to 2005.\n\nIn their 2014 book \"Beyond Bibliometrics: Harnessing Multidimensional Indicators of Scholarly Impact\", Blaise Cronin and Cassidy R. Sugimoto noted that \"for impact assessment of book-based fields, bibliometricians need a database with large numbers of books\" and that while the Book Citation Index did meet this need, Google Books also fulfilled this purpose and was not only free, but was (at the time) more comprehensive for bibliometric analyses. A 2013 article in the \"Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology\" remarked on the index's opportunities and limitations. It stated that the \"most significant limitations to this potential application are the high share of publications without address information, the inflation of publication counts, the lack of cumulative citation counts from different hierarchical levels, and inconsistency in citation counts between the cited reference search and the book citation index.\" They also stated that the Book Citation Index was \"a first step toward creating a reliable and necessary citation data source for monographs — a very challenging issue, because, unlike journals and conference proceedings, books have specific requirements, and several problems emerge not only in the context of subject classification, but also in their role as cited publications and in citing publications.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3453723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3453723", "title": "Came glasswork", "text": "Came glasswork\n\nCame glasswork is the process of joining cut pieces of art glass through the use of came strips or foil into picturesque designs in a framework of soldered metal.\n\nFinal products include a wide range of glasswork, including stained glass and lead light pieces. Came is made of different metals, such as lead, zinc, brass and copper. The metal came selected generally depends upon the size, complexity and weight of the project. As an alternative to came, copper foil may be used, for small, intricate pieces.\n\nCame glasswork includes assembling pieces of cut and possibly painted glass using came sections. The joints where the came meet are soldered to bind the sections. When all of the glass pieces have been put within came and a border put around the entire work, pieces are cemented and supported as needed. The work may be made waterproof by forcing a soft oily cement or mastic between the glass and the cames. A form of embellishment and gilding, such as Angel gilding and Eglomise, may be added to finish the piece.\n\nWorks may need to be reinforced, like large pieces or ones that will be exposed to the outdoor elements. Support can be provided as the piece is made through the use of reinforced and metal-covered lead came, the use of steel strips in the came channels, or use of rigid cames, such as copper, brass or zinc. Bars of steel or steel rebar may be attached to the back of finished works as reinforcement.\n\nTheophilus Presbyter, the first to write about joining art glass using the came technique in the book \"De Divers Artibus\". Theophilus was a Benedictine Monk who was a glass and pigment worker who practiced in the late 11th and early 12th centuries.\n\nMaterials to complete a glasswork project may include the pattern, cut glass, came, wood trim, solder, cement. Additional supplies include newspaper, cutter oil, a plywood board, masking tape, flux, and whiting.\n\nLead came is often supplied in lengths of 2 m and in widths of differing sizes. It also comes in flat or domed profiles.\n\nBrass and copper have been used to bring a copper or golden hue to the works. Generally, though, they were used only for windows between about 1890 and 1920. Both metals were often alternatives to zinc for Frank Lloyd Wright designed windows.\n\nBrass-capped lead is another type of came used for glasswork projects.\n\nThe traditional method of creating \"camework glass\" uses lead came, which ages into a dark blue-gray patina. In comparison to other came metal strips, like brass, copper and zinc, lead is softer and more flexible, making it easier to cut and bend. It's also inexpensive and durable. A downside is that the finished projects may be prone to sagging due to lead's softness. This can be mitigated somewhat by stretching the lead to make it more rigid before it is used. Special precautions should be taken when working with this metal came to avoid to lead contamination.\n\nThe lead came windows of the medieval churches are sturdier than those of the 19th century and much of the 20th century. The composition of lead came changed over time, at first by removing other metals to make a \"pure lead\" and then again during war years when lead was needed for ammunition. Since the 1970s a new form of lead, restoration lead, was developed based upon medieval lead's metal composition. Restoration lead is stronger than lead came of the prior 100 years or so.\n\nWater tightness is achieved by brushing cement under the flanges of the leads to both faces prior to installation or by applying putty afterwards. Typically the cement consisted of linseed oil, whiting, lamp black and white spirit.\n\nZinc makes a lightweight, strong and rigid came, which lends itself to glasswork projects that don't have many curved lines, are large, or have a number of straight lines that require greater support than lead would afford. Zinc accepts finishes, such as black and copper. Because of its strength, zinc is often used for border cames, which are U-channel cames for the outside edges.\n\nFrank Lloyd Wright used zinc came for his stained glass windows. Beveled glass work is generally done in zinc came, primarily because of its ability to manage the weight of heavy plate glass; whereas beveled glass works made of lead came are much more likely to buckle or sag over time.\n\nCopper foil is an easy, versatile alternative to came and is particularly useful for small projects. Using copper foil, the edges of the glass pieces are wrapped with adhesive copper tape and soldered together along the adjacent copper strips. The copper foil technique (commonly called \"Tiffany\" stained glass, even though there is a debate about whether John La Farge or Louis Comfort Tiffany originated it) was invented in the 19th century, enabling creation of three-dimensional works, in addition to two-dimensional ones to which the lead came method is limited. A patent for the method of \"Joining Glass Mosaics\" was issued to Sanford Bray in 1886. This new method of joining pieces of stained glass used copper/copper foil instead of lead sashes. By using copper foil, one could now make cylinders, cones, and globe-shaped shades or many other irregular forms.\n\nTools to complete a glasswork project can include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24180533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24180533", "title": "Capsule review", "text": "Capsule review\n\nA capsule review is a form of criticism, usually associated with journalism, that offers a relatively short critique of a specified artistic work (movie, music album, restaurant, painting, etc.). Capsule reviews generally appear in publications like newspapers and magazines, and can range anywhere from just a few sentences up to around 300 words.\n\n\"Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide\" is a famous publication that includes hundreds of capsule movie reviews by prolific film writer Leonard Maltin, including the world's shortest capsule review according to the \"Guinness Book of World Records\", a 2 out of 4 star review of the 1948 musical \"Isn't It Romantic?\" that consisted of only the word \"no\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3610259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3610259", "title": "Chip art", "text": "Chip art\n\nChip art, also known as silicon art, chip graffiti or silicon doodling, refers to microscopic artwork built into integrated circuits, also called chips or ICs. Since ICs are printed by photolithography, not constructed a component at a time, there is no additional cost to include features in otherwise unused space on the chip. Designers have used this freedom to put all sorts of artwork on the chips themselves, from designers' simple initials to rather complex drawings. Given the small size of chips, these figures cannot be seen without a microscope. Chip graffiti is sometimes called the hardware version of software easter eggs.\n\nPrior to 1984, these doodles also served a practical purpose. If a competitor produced a similar chip, and examination showed it contained the same doodles, then this was strong evidence that the design was copied (a copyright violation) and not independently derived. A 1984 revision of the US copyright law (the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984) made all chip masks automatically copyrighted, with exclusive rights to the creator, and similar rules apply in most other countries that manufacture ICs. Since an exact copy is now automatically a copyright violation, the doodles serve no useful purpose.\n\nIntegrated Circuits are constructed from multiple layers of material, typically silicon, silicon dioxide (glass), and aluminum. The composition and thickness of these layers give them their distinctive color and appearance. These elements created an irresistible palette for IC design and layout engineers. \n\nThe creative process involved in the design of these chips, a strong sense of pride in their work, and an artistic temperament combined compels people to want to mark their work as their own. It is very common to find initials, or groups of initials on chips. This is the design engineer's way of \"signing\" his or her work.\n\nOften this creative artist's instinct extends to the inclusion of small pictures or icons. These may be images of significance to the designers, comments related to the chip's function, inside jokes, or even satirical references. Because of the difficulty in verifying their existence, chip art has also been the subject of online hoaxes (e.g. the never-seen \"bill sux\" comment on a Pentium chip—the reputed \"photo\" showing the inscription is a hoax).\n\nThe mass production of these works of art as parasites on the body of a commercial IC goes unnoticed by most observers and is discouraged by semiconductor corporations, primarily from the fear that the presence of the artwork (which is clearly unneeded) will interfere with some necessary function in the chip or design flow.\n\nSome laboratories have started collaborating with artists or directly producing books and exhibits with the micrographs of these chips. Such is the case of Harvard chemist George Whitesides, who collaborated with pioneer photographer Felice Frankel to publish \"On the Surface of Things\", a highly praised photography book on experiments from (mostly) the Whitesides lab. Also, the laboratory of Albert Folch (who, perhaps not coincidentally, works in BioMEMS, the same field as George Whitesides) at the University of Washington's Bioengineering Dept. has a highly popular online gallery with more than 1,700 free BioMEMS-related chip art micrographs and has already produced three art exhibits in the Seattle area, with online sales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21011109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21011109", "title": "Combine painting", "text": "Combine painting\n\nA combine painting is an artwork that incorporates various objects into a painted canvas surface, creating a sort of hybrid between painting and sculpture. Items attached to paintings might include photographic images, clothing, newspaper clippings, ephemera or any number of three-dimensional objects. The term is most closely associated with the artwork of American artist Robert Rauschenberg (1925–2008) who coined the phrase to describe his own creations. Rauschenberg’s Combines explored the blurry boundaries between art and the everyday world. In addition, his cross-medium creations challenged the doctrine of medium specificity mentioned by modernist art critic Clement Greenberg. Frank Stella created a large body of paintings that recall the combine paintings of Robert Rauschenberg by juxtaposing a wide variety of surface and material in each work ultimately leading to Stella's sculpture and architecture of the 21st century.\n\nRauschenberg and his artist friend/flatmate Jasper Johns used to design window displays together for upscale retailers such as Tiffany's and Bonwit Teller in Manhattan before they became better established as artists. They shared ideas about art as well as career strategies. Paul Schimmel of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art described Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" as \"some of the most influential, poetic and revolutionary works in the history of American art.\" But they've also been called \"ramshackle hybrids between painting and sculpture, stage prop and three-dimensional scrap-book assemblage\" according to \"The Guardian\"s critic Adrian Searle. Searle believed the \"different elements of the Combines have been described as having no more relation than the different stories that vie for attention on a newspaper page.\" Jasper Johns, as well, used similar techniques; in at least one painting, Johns attached a paintbrush right inside his painting.\n\nExamples of Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" include \"Bed\" (1955), \"Canyon\" (1959), and the free-standing \"Monogram\" (1955–1959). Rauschenberg's works mostly incorporated two-dimensional materials held together with \"splashes and drips of paint\" with occasional 3-D objects. Critic John Perreault wrote \"The Combines are both painting and sculpture–or, some purists would say, neither.\" Perreault liked them since they were memorable, photogenic, and could \"stick in the mind\" as well as \"surprise and keep on surprising.\" Rauschenberg added stuffed birds on his 1955 work \"Satellite\", which featured a stuffed pheasant \"patrolling its top edge.\" In another work, he added a ladder. His Combine \"Broadcast\", featuring three radios blaring at once, was a \"melange of paint, grids, newspaper clips and fabric snippets.\" According to one source, his \"Broadcast\" had three radios playing simultaneously, which produced a sort of irritating static, so that one of the work's owners, at one point, replaced the \"noise\" with tapes of actual programs when guests visited. Rauschenberg's \"Bed\" had a pillow attached to a patchwork quilt with paint splashed over it. The idea was to promote immediacy.\n\nThe prevailing theme of Rauschenberg's \"combine\" paintings is \"nonmeaning, the absurd, or antiart.\" In this regard the combine paintings relate to Pop art and their much earlier predecessor Dada.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Rauschenberg's Combines sold from $400 to $7,500. But their value shot upwards. In 1999, the Museum of Modern Art, which had balked at buying Rauschenberg's work decades earlier, spent $12 million to buy his \"Factum II\" which the artist made in 1957. Rauschenberg's \"Rebus\" was valued in 1991 at $7.3 million. A three-panel work created in 1955 that takes its name from the Latin for a \"puzzle of images and words\", it \"builds a narrative from seemingly nonsensical sequences of found images and abstract elements,\" according to \"The New York Times\". MOMA bought \"Rebus\" in 2005. Rauschenberg reportedly said that the images in \"Rebus\" jostle with each other \"like pedestrians on a street.\" Rauschenberg's \"Photograph\", a Combine painting from 1959, was valued at $10.7 million by Sotheby's in 2008. His work \"Bantam\" sold for $2.6 million in 2009. In 2008, \"The New York Times\" art critic Roberta Smith, who described Combines as \"multimedia hybrids\", wrote MOMA was \"Rauschenberg Central\" because it owned over 300 of his works. The Whitney owned 60 Rauschenbergs. In 2012, \"Canyon\" was donated to MoMA by the children of Ileana Sonnabend as part of an IRS settlement that valued the work at $65 million.\n\n\"Canyon,\" one of Rauschenberg's most recognizable Combines, has been the subject of art historical debate revolving around the validity of reading Rauschenberg's work iconographically. Historian Kenneth Bendiner famously proposed \"Canyon\" as a playful recreation of a 1635 Rembrandt painting depicting the abduction of Ganymede, interpreting the suspended pillow as Ganymede's buttocks and the stuffed bald eagle as the form assumed by the Greek god Zeus. Other historians and critics, such as Joseph Branden have argued that searching for iconography in Rauschenberg's Combines is useless because it can be made to exist anywhere. Bendiner's interpretation is discredited for failing to account for compositional movement and for disregarding a number of elements within the work, for example the blue and red text in the center, in order to mould the interpretation to it.\n\nInterpretations of Rauschenberg's Combines vary from: a deeply personal and subjective collage of expression (often homoerotic), to a surface of indecipherable, or rather infinitely cipher-able, materials which challenge notions of painting, sculpture, reception, and chance, to a multivalent iconographic landscape that seems to resist fixed decoding in favor of a more open-ended play of meaning. Rauschenberg himself states \"I don't want a painting to be just an expression of my personality. I feel it ought to be much better than that … I’ve always felt as though, whatever I’ve used and whatever I’ve done, the method was always closer to a \"collaboration\" with materials than to any kind of conscious manipulation and control.\"\n\nMoira Roth links the Combines to Duchamp's indifferent attitude in art, arguing that the perceived density of the content, and the integration of mass media elements is a facade born out of the alienation and indifference experienced by the artist during the McCarthy Period. Jonathan Katz argues that underneath the impersonal and inexpressive appearance of his work is a secret homosexual code that can unlock some of the significance of Rauschenberg's work, but Ed Krčma points out the weakness of steering the analysis towards preconceived conclusions, especially since Rauschenberg's work is described as a poetry of infinite possibilities.\n\nMore recent interpretations of \"Canyon,\" reconsider the work in postmodern terms, claiming that the Combine works more like a human mind than a human eye; Fragmented scraps of images, news cutouts, found objects and paint interact in esoteric ways and more closely resemble a cerebral process than a 'traditional' image. Yve-Alain Bois calls the search for iconographic meaning in Rauschenberg's work misguided because it is too limiting. His art's \"lack of center\" is a statement in itself, and the infinite permutations of meaning that can result highlight the subjectivity of art reception that postmodernism explores.\n\nUnder U.S. law, \"Canyon\" can never be sold since it contains a stuffed bald eagle, violating the 1940 Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act as well as the 1918 Migratory Bird Treaty Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "3574096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3574096", "title": "Community arts", "text": "Community arts\n\nCommunity arts, also sometimes known as \"dialogical art\", \"community-engaged\" or \"community-based art,\" refers to artistic activity based in a community setting. Works from this genre can be of any media and is characterized by interaction or dialogue with the community. Often professional artists collaborate with people who may not otherwise normally actively engage in the arts. The term was defined in the late-1960s and spawned a movement which grew in the United States, Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Australia. In Scandinavia, the term \"community art\" means more often contemporary art project.\n\nOften community art is based in economically deprived areas, with a community-oriented, grassroots approach. Members of a local community will come together to express concerns or issues through an artistic process, sometimes this may involve professional artists or actors. These communal artistic processes act as a catalyst to trigger events or changes within a community or even at a national or international level.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, community art is often seen as the work of community arts centre. Visual arts (fine art, video, new media art), music, and theater are common mediums in community art centers. Many arts companies in the UK do some community-based work, which typically involves developing participation by non-professional members of local communities.\n\nThe term \"community art\" refers also to the field of community, neighbourhood and public art practice with roots in social justice and popular and informal education methods. In the art world, community art signifies a particular art making practice, emphasizing community involvement and collaboration. Community art is most often art for social change and involves some empowerment of the community members who come together to create artwork/s with artists. This is a growing national, international, regional and local field. Recently community arts and sustainability work or environmental action have begun to interface, including urban revitalization projects creating artwork at a neighbourhood level.\n\nModels of community-engaged arts can vary with three forms of collaborative practices emerging from among the sets of common practices. In the artist-driven model, artists are seen as the catalysts for social change through the social commentary addressed in their works. A muralist whose work elicits and sustains political dialogue would be a practitioner of this model. In the second model, artists engage with community groups to facilitate specialized forms of art creation, often with the goal of presenting the work in a public forum to promote awareness and to further discourse within a larger community. In the process-driven or dialogic model, artists may engage with a group in order to facilitate an artistic process that addresses particular concerns specific to the group. The use of an artistic process (such as dance or social circus) for problem-solving, therapeutic, group-empowerment or strategic planning purposes may result in artistic works that are not intended for public presentation. In the second and third models, the individuals who collaborate on the artistic creation may not define themselves as artists but are considered practitioners of an art-making process that produces social change.\n\nDue to its roots in social justice and collaborative, community-based nature, art for social change may be considered a form of cultural democracy. Often, the processes (or the works produced by these processes) intend to create or promote spaces for participatory public dialogue.\n\nIn Canada, the field of community-engaged arts has recently seen broader use of art for social change practices by non-arts change organizations. The resultant partnerships have enabled these collaborative communities to address systemic issues in health, education, as well as empowerment for indigenous, immigrant, LGBT and youth communities. A similar social innovation trend has appeared where business development associations have engaged with artists/artistic organizations to co-produce cultural festivals or events that address social concerns.\n\nAs the field diversifies and practices are adopted by various organizations from multiple disciplines, ethics and safety have become a concern to practitioners. As a result, opportunities for cross-disciplinary training in art for social change practices have grown within the related field of arts education.\n\nA community can be seen in many ways, it can refer to different kind of groups. There are also virtual communities or online communities. Internet art has many different forms, but often there is some kind of community that is created for a project or it is an effect of an art project.\n\nCommunity theatre includes theatre made by, with, and for a community—it may refer to theatre that is made almost by a community with no outside help, or to a collaboration between community members and professional theatre artists, or to performance made entirely by professionals that is addressed to a particular community. Community theatres range in size from small groups led by single individuals that perform in borrowed spaces to large permanent companies with well-equipped facilities of their own. Many community theatres are successful, non-profit businesses with a large active membership and, often, a full-time professional staff. Community theatre is often devised and may draw on popular theatrical forms, such as carnival, circus, and parades, as well as performance modes from commercial theatre. Community theatre is understood to contribute to the social capital of a community, insofar as it develops the skills, community spirit, and artistic sensibilities of those who participate, whether as producers or audience-members.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2488782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2488782", "title": "Cultural Medallion", "text": "Cultural Medallion\n\nThe Cultural Medallion is a Singapore cultural award conferred to those who have achieved artistic excellence in dance, theatre, literature, music, photography, art and film. It is widely recognized as Singapore's pinnacle arts award.\n\nIt was instituted in March 1979 as an initiative of the late President, Ong Teng Cheong who was the then Minister for Culture. It is administered by the National Arts Council.\n\nOn 20 October 2006, Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts Dr Lee Boon Yang announced that Cultural Medallion recipients are eligible for a project grant of up to S$80,000 each, up from S$50,000. The increase would enable recipients to create major new works.\n\nIt was previously conferred by the Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts (the modern equivalent of the Minister for Culture). However, in 2006, the status of the award was further elevated by being conferred by the President of Singapore.\n\nFrom 2013, in an effort to recognise multi-disciplinary artists, it was announced that recipients of the Cultural Medallion and Young Artist Award will no longer be categorised according to art forms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "101140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101140", "title": "Cultural resources management", "text": "Cultural resources management\n\nIn the broadest sense, cultural resources management (CRM) is the vocation and practice of managing cultural resources, such as the arts and heritage. It incorporates Cultural Heritage Management which is concerned with traditional and historic culture. It also delves into the material culture of archaeology. Cultural resources management encompasses current culture, including progressive and innovative culture, such as urban culture, rather than simply preserving and presenting traditional forms of culture.\n\nHowever, the broad usage of the term is relatively recent and as a result it is most often used as synonymous with heritage management. In the United States, cultural resources management is not usually divorced from the heritage context. The term is, \"used mostly by archaeologists and much more occasionally by architectural historians and historical architects, to refer to managing historic places of archaeological, architectural, and historical interests and considering such places in compliance with environmental and historic preservation laws.\" \n\nCultural resources include both physical assets such as archaeology, architecture, paintings and sculptures and also intangible culture such as folklore and interpretative arts, such as storytelling and drama. Cultural resource managers are typically in charge of museums, galleries, theatres etc., especially those that emphasize culture specific to the local region or ethnic group. Cultural tourism is a significant sector of the tourism industry.\n\nAt a national and international level, cultural resource management may be concerned with larger themes, such as languages in danger of extinction, public education, the ethos or operation of multiculturalism, and promoting access to cultural resources. The Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity is an attempt by the United Nations to identify exemplars of intangible culture.\n\nCultural resource management can trace its beginning to the environment/conservational movement in the 1960s and 1970s. During this time, there was growth in legislation concerning the protection of cultural resources. The Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, commonly known as the Moss-Bennett Act, helped to fuel the creation of CRM, while creating “growth in archaeological jobs in the federal government, academia, and private sector.” Federal legislation had passed earlier in 1906 under the Antiquities Act, but it was not until the 1970s when the term “cultural resources” was coined by the National Park Service. This term came into more popular usage after two meetings in 1974: the Cultural Resource Management conference and the Airlie House conference. Following these conferences, the National Park Service (NPS) defined cultural resources in the Cultural Resource Management Guidelines as being:\n\n“Those tangible and intangible aspects of cultural systems, both living and dead, that are valued by or representative of a given culture or that contain information about a culture…[They] include but are not limited to sites, structures, districts, objects, and historic documents associated with or representative of peoples, cultures, and human activities and events, either in the present or in the past. Cultural resources also can include primary written and verbal data for interpretation and understanding of those tangible resources.” \n\nCultural resources management in the heritage context is mainly concerned with the investigation of sites with archaeological potential, the preservation and interpretation of historic sites and artifacts, and the culture of indigenous people. The subject developed from initiatives in rescue archaeology, sensitivities to the treatment of indigenous people, and subsequent legislation to protect cultural heritage.\n\nIn the 1970s, archaeologists created the term \"cultural resource management\" as a parallel to natural resource management to address the following resources:\n\nA significant proportion of the archaeological investigation in countries that have heritage management legislation including the United States and United Kingdom is conducted on sites under threat of development. In the US, such investigations are now done by private companies on a consulting basis, and a national organization exists to support the practice of CRM. Museums, besides being popular tourist attractions, often play roles in conservation of, and research on, threatened sites, including as repositories for collections from sites slated for destruction.\n\nIn the United States, a common Cultural Resource Management task is the implementation of a Section 106 review: CRM archaeologists determine whether federally funded projects are likely to damage or destroy archaeological sites that may be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. This process commonly entails one or more archaeological field surveys.\n\nCultural resource management features people from a wide array of disciplines. The general education of most involved in CRM includes, but is not limited to, sociology, archaeology, architectural history, cultural anthropology, social and cultural geography, and other fields in the social sciences.\n\nIn the field of cultural resource management there are many career choices. One could obtain a career with an action agency that works directly with the NEPA or even more specifically, Native American resources. There are also careers that can be found in review agencies like the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP), or the state historic preservation office (SHPO) Beyond these choices, one could also obtain a career as part of the local government and work with planning agencies, housing agencies, social service agencies, local museums, libraries, or educational institutions. Jobs at private cultural resource management companies can range from field technicians (see shovelbum) to principal investigators, project archaeologists, historic preservationists, and laboratory work. One could also become a part of an advocacy organization, such as the National Trust for Historic Preservation.\n\nIt is commonly debated in cultural resource management how to determine whether cultural or archaeological sites should be considered significant or not. The criteria that is stated by the National Register of Historic Places is said to be able to be “interpreted in different ways so that the significance… may be subjectively argued for many cultural resources.” Another issue that arises among scholars is that “protection does not necessarily mean preservation.” Any public projects occurring near the cultural resource can have adverse effects. Development plans for a proposed project may not be able to be changed to limit impact and to avoid damage to the resource.\n\nThe vocation of management in cultural and creative sectors is the subject of research and improvement initiatives, by organizations such as Arts and Business which take a partnership approach to involving professional business people in running and mentoring arts organizations. Some universities now offer vocational degrees.\n\nThe management of cultural heritage is underpinned by academic research in archaeology, ethnography and history. The broader subject is also underpinned by research in sociology and culture studies.\n\nUnderstanding the traditional cultures of all peoples (Indigenous or not) is essential in mitigating the adverse impact of development and ensuring that intervention by more developed nations is not prejudicial to the interests of local people or results in the extinction of cultural resources.\n\nCultural resources policies have developed over time with the recognition of the economic and social importance of heritage and other cultural assets.\n\nThe exploitation of cultural resources can be controversial, particularly where the finite cultural heritage resources of developing countries are exported to satisfy the demand for antiquities market in the developed world. The exploitation of the potential intellectual property of traditional remedies in identifying candidates for new drugs has also been controversial. On the other hand, traditional crafts can be important elements of income from tourism, performance of traditional dances, and music that is popular with tourists and traditional designs can be exploited in the fashion industry. Popular culture can also be an important economic asset.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183728", "title": "Cultural subsidy", "text": "Cultural subsidy\n\nA cultural subsidy is a payment from the government to specific cultural industries to ensure that some public policy purpose in culture (e.g. multiculturalism, bilingualism, minority and languages, and preservation of traditional dance, music, food, art or other practices) are preserved and maintained in society. Cultural subsidies work similarly to other forms of subsidies such as industrial and consumer subsidies and have similar goals of expansionary economic results and increased utility for their targeted recipients.\n\nImplementation: Cultural subsidies are distributed in the form of grants and payment from the government to various institutions, groups or citizens who are seen to meaningfully contribute to their society's culture. Some of the most familiar efforts are: free museum entrances for children and seniors, public art instalments, government funding for afterschool art-based programs and government grants to culturally focused non-profits.\n\nA common emphasis for cultural subsidies is the provision of resources for underserved communities or groups, whose cultural background and heritage may be at risk without additional financial support, or who traditionally lack access to mainstream cultural events and participation. For example, the National Endowment for the Arts states that 40% of their activities support high-poverty neighbourhoods, 36% of their grants are awarded to organisations that serve those with disabilities, in institutions and veterans, while 33% of their grants are awarded to serve low-income audiences.\n\nCultural Subsidy Implementation in the US\n\nThe National Council for the Arts was established by US President Lyndon B. Johnson through the National Arts and Cultural Development Act of 1964 and is the US federal program which provides cultural subsidies. Its purpose is to review and recommend applications for grants, funding guidelines and leadership initiatives in the US. to the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. There are eighteen Presidentially appointed members of the council, with six additional members of Congress serving two-year, non-voting terms. Members are selected for their extensive knowledge, expertise and interest in the arts as well as outstanding backgrounds in service or recognition within the arts.\n\nThe annual budget for the National Council for the Arts is set by Congress and currently receives .004% of the total, or 149.8 million USD. 40% of their grant budget is directly received by states via regional arts agencies who distribute the funds, with stipulations that every state and regional partnership allocates a portion of funding for underserved communities. Direct awards to organisations and individuals who apply through the National Endowment for the Arts make up the remaining 60% of their annual budget.\n\nIntended Economic Effects\n\nLike other subsidies, cultural subsidies are utilized with the intent to expand economic growth and utility within a specific area. The functionality of cultural subsidies can be seen through typical supply and demand graphs like those pictured below.\n\nAs prices for arts and culture related items, events and classes increase, the demand for them decreases. On the other hand, as prices increase, the supply also increases as more artists and cultural entities seek gains. Where the two forces of supply and demand meet is the equilibrium point (e).\n\nWhen cultural subsidies are applied from the demand-side that means they focus on growing the demand from consumers for art and culture related products. This most often is reflected in free or discounted ticket sales for art and culture events and purchases for pieces of art that consumers would otherwise not be able to buy due to budget constraints. The ultimate goal in utilising demand-side cultural subsidies is to increase the demand for art at every price level it is offered. Below, we can see the result is an outward shift of the demand curve to the right, and an increase in both the equilibrium supply \"and\" demand (e to e). The difference from P to P is the amount which is compensated by the subsidy, and the total area of from P, e and Q is the cultural sector's revenue. Demand-side subsidies are typically viewed as an effective way to increase both the output of the cultural sector and increase incomes for the providers within it.\n\nGovernments can also approach cultural subsidies from the supply-side in an effort to increase the economic power of those who supply cultural products. This allows cultural providers the opportunity to produce and supply more than they would be able to without subsidised assistance. Instead of raising both the price and quantity of cultural products, as the demand-side subsidies do, supply-side subsidies lower price while increasing quantity, as show in the model below. Supply shifts downward, to the right and the new equilibrium moves from e to e. Total revenue shifts from the blue rectangle to the red rectangle, which demonstrates an expansion of cultural sector output (Q to Q), but not necessarily an increase in economic growth.\n\nIssues facing cultural subsidies\n\nAs with other sectors reliant on subsidies, the cultural sector is constantly subject to the budget decisions made by the government. In the US, government subsidies for arts and culture have steadily been declining as spending emphasis shifts elsewhere. Cultural providers are forced to turn to state and private philanthropic groups and individuals for greater and greater percentages of their funding.\n\nUnder the current US administration of President Donald Trump, there have been proposals to eliminate the National Endowment for the Arts, the US grant-making organisation responsible for cultural subsidy provision. The main argument behind this comes from the private taxation of citizens to fund the program. Policymakers in favour of reduced taxes often view cultural subsidies as a non-necessary expense, and one which should be privately, versus publicly funded.\n\nOpinions on the importance of cultural subsidies vary widely by each nation, as well as the levels of investment in cultural products by consumers and cultural professions by suppliers. In Australia, there is a current over-supply in the cultural sector which has been supported through supply-side subsidies from the government. This issue, paired with a drastic increase in the number of cultural professionals in the early 2000s, has been blamed for steadily declining salaries for cultural suppliers. Advocates for reform are stressing the importance of demand-side policies in the country as an alternative way to increase artist salary and most importantly, increase demand for the large supply of cultural products available.\n\n"}
{"id": "1323462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323462", "title": "Cutup", "text": "Cutup\n\nCutup is a group of London-based artists, whose work mainly revolves around the manipulation of billboard advertisements. Their first works consisted of removing a billboard, painstakingly cutting it up into roughly 4000 small rectangles, each one in essence a pixel, and then reassembling the billboard.\n\nMore recently, Cutup have started other projects, such as replacing small bus-shelter advertisements with a drilled sheet of wood. The illuminating back lights that turn on at dusk reveal an image, as the many holes light up against the dark background.\n\nAlthough they mainly deal with art on the street, the group have also created installations, including setting 96 different alarm clocks one a minute apart and sound installations, made up of 94 speakers, mini disks and circuit boards.\n\nCutup have held shows in London, New York and Barcelona, including two shows at London's Seventeen Gallery, including a recent show which exhibited a full size billboard and a bus shelter, brought inside especially for the show, as well as related video and film pieces.\n\nOther shows have included \"La Vida Te Espera\" at NIU Gallery, Barcelona in June 2006, \"Satellites\", at Tanya Bonakdar Gallery, New York and a show at the Kemistry Gallery in Shoreditch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52175897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52175897", "title": "Dark Watchers", "text": "Dark Watchers\n\nThe Dark Watchers (also known by early Spanish settlers as Los Vigilantes Oscuros) is a name given to a group of entities in California folklore purportedly seen observing travelers along the Santa Lucia Mountains.\n\nThe Dark Watchers are described as tall, sometimes giant sized featureless dark silhouettes often adorned with brimmed hats or walking sticks. They are most often reported to be seen in the hours around twilight and dawn. They are said to motionlessly watch travelers from the horizon along the Santa Lucia Mountain Range. According to legend no one has seen one up close and if someone were to approach them they disappear.\n\nWhile sometimes attributed to the Chumash people who historically inhabited the central and southern coastal regions of California, nothing analogous to the legend appears to exist in their mythology. When Spanish Settlers first moved into the area they were said to have witnessed the Dark Watchers whom they dubbed Los Vigilantes Oscuros.\n\nThe Dark Watchers are most famously given a brief mention in John Steinbeck's \"Flight\", included in the 1938 collection of his short stories, \"The Long Valley\":\nAlong with this, \"watchers\" are also referenced by poet Robinson Jeffers in the titular poem of his 1937 collection \"Such Counsels You Gave to Me & Other Poems\":\nJohn Steinbeck's son Thomas Steinbeck would grow up to report having seen The Dark Watchers during his childhood and later along with artist Benjamin Brode collaborate on a book titled \"In Search of the Dark Watchers\", where they go into the history of the legend and interview locals who claim to have seen them, such as famed Big Sur resident Billy Post.\n\nAccording to newspaper archives in the mid-1960s, a Monterery Peninsula local and former high school principal went on a hiking trip in the Santa Lucias when he suddenly spotted a dark figure standing on a rock and surveying the area. When the principal called out to the other hikers, the creature vanished.\n\nIllusions, hallucinations or misinterpretation of natural stimulus brought on by exhaustion or isolation have been proposed by psychologists. Infrasound, which can be generated by wind, can cause feelings of uneasiness and anxiety in some people and is frequently connected to paranormal sightings.\n\nAn optical illusion known as the Brocken spectre is a plausible explanation for the legend. A Brocken spectre, \"mountain spectre\" can occur in certain atmospheric conditions when the sun is at a particular angle. The subject's shadow can be cast onto a cloud bank around them, creating the illusion of a large shadowy humanoid figure.\n\n"}
{"id": "5678514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5678514", "title": "Decadent movement", "text": "Decadent movement\n\nThe Decadent Movement was a late 19th-century artistic and literary movement, centered in Western Europe, that followed an aesthetic ideology of excess and artificiality. The visual artist Félicien Rops's body of work and Joris-Karl Huysmans's novel \"Against Nature\" (1884) are considered the prime examples of the decadent movement. It first flourished in France and then spread throughout Europe and to the United States. The movement was characterized by self-disgust, sickness at the world, general skepticism, delight in perversion and employment of crude humor and a belief in the superiority of human creativity over logic and the natural world.\n\nThe concept of decadence dates from the eighteenth century, especially from the writings of Montesquieu, the Enlightenment philosopher who suggested that the decline (\"décadence\") of the Roman Empire was in large part due to their moral decay and loss of cultural standards. When Latin scholar Désiré Nisard turned toward French literature, he compared Victor Hugo and Romanticism in general to the Roman decadence, men sacrificing their craft and their cultural values for the sake of pleasure. The trends that he identified, such as an interest in description, a lack of adherence to the conventional rules of literature and art, and a love for extravagant language were the seeds of the Decadent Movement.\n\nThe first major development in French decadence would come when writers Théophile Gautier and Charles Baudelaire used the word proudly, to represent a rejection of what they considered banal \"progress.\" Baudelaire referred to himself as decadent in his 1857 edition of \"Les Fleurs du Mal\" and exalted the Roman decline as a model for modern poets to express their passion. He would later use the term \"decadence\" to include the subversion of traditional categories in pursuit of full, sensual expression. In his lengthy introduction to Baudelaire in the front of the 1868 \"Les Fleurs du Mal,\" Gautier at first rejects the application of the term decadent, as meant by the critic, but then works his way to an admission of decadence on Baudelaire's own terms: a preference for what is beautiful and what is exotic, an ease with surrendering to fantasy, and a maturity of skill with manipulating language.\n\nThough he was Belgian, Félicien Rops was instrumental in the development of this early stage of the Decadent Movement. A friend of Baudelaire, he was also a frequent illustrator of Baudelaire's writing, at the request of the author himself. Rops delighted in breaking artistic convention and shocking the public with gruesome, fantastical horror. He was explicitly interested in the Satanic, and he frequently sought to portray the double-threat of Satan and Woman. At times, his only goal was the portrayal of a woman he'd observed debasing herself in the pursuit of her own pleasure. It has also been suggested that, no matter how horrific and perverse his images could be, Rops' invocation of supernatural elements was sufficient to keep Baudelaire situated in a spiritually-aware universe that maintained a cynical kind of hope, even if the poetry \"requires a strong stomach.\" Their work was the worship of beauty disguised as the worship of evil. For both of them, mortality and all manner of corruptions were always on their mind. The ability of Rops to see and portray the same world as they did, made him a popular illustrator for other decadent authors.\n\nThe concept of decadence lingered after that, but it wasn't until 1884 that Maurice Barrès referred to a particular group of writers as \"Decadents.\" He defined this group as those who had been influenced heavily by Baudelaire, though they were also influenced by Gothic novels and the poetry and fiction of Edgar Allan Poe. Many were associated with Symbolism, others with Aestheticism. The pursuit of these authors, according to Arthur Symons, was \"a desperate endeavor to give sensation, to flash the impression of the moment, to preserve the very heat and motion of life,\" and their achievement, as he saw it, was \"to be a disembodied voice, and yet the voice of a human soul.\"\n\nIn his 1884 decadent novel \"À Rebours (\"English, \"Against Nature\" or \"Against the Grain\"), Joris-Karl Huysmans overthrew the past, subordinated nature to the human creative will, and suggested the primacy of, but inherent disillusion in, pleasure. He also identified likely candidates for the core of the Decadent Movement, which he seemed to view Baudelaire as sitting above: Paul Verlaine, Tristan Corbière, Theodore Hannon, and Stéphane Mallarmé. His character Des Esseintes hailed these writers for their creativity and their craftsmanship, suggesting that they filled him with \"insidious delight\" as they used a \"secret language\" to explore \"twisted and precious ideas.\"\n\nNot only did \"Against Nature\" define an ideology and a literature, but it also created an influential perspective on visual art. The character of Des Esseintes explicitly heralded the work of Gustave Moreau, Jan Luyken, and Odilon Redon. None of these artists would have identified themselves as part of this movement. Nevertheless, the choice of these three established a decadent perspective on art which favored madness and irrationality, graphic violence, frank pessimism about cultural institutions, and a disregard for visual logic of the natural world. It has also been suggested that a dream vision that Des Esseintes describes is based on the series of satanic encounters painted by Félicien Rops.\n\nCapitalizing on the momentum of Huysmans' work, Anatole Baju founded the magazine \"Le Décadent\" in 1886, an effort to define and organize the Decadent Movement in a formal way. This group of writers did not only look to escape the boredom of the banal, but they also sought to shock, scandalize, and subvert the expectations and values of society, believing that such freedom and creative experimentation would better humanity.\n\nNot everyone was comfortable with Baju and \"Le Décadent,\" even including some who had been published in its pages. Rival writer Jean Moréas published his Symbolist Manifesto, largely to escape association with the Decadent Movement, despite their shared heritage. Moréas and Gustave Kahn, among others, formed rival publications to reinforce the distinction. Paul Verlaine embraced the label at first, applauding it as a brilliant marketing choice by Baju. After seeing his own words exploited and tiring of \"Le Décadent\" publishing works falsely attributed to Arthur Rimbaud, however, Verlaine came to sour on Baju personally, and he eventually rejected the label, as well.\n\nDecadence continued on in France, but it was limited largely to Anatole Baju and his followers, who refined their focus even further on perverse sexuality, material extravagance, and up-ending social expectations. Far-fetched plots were acceptable if they helped generate the desired moments of salacious experience or glorification of the morbid and grotesque. Writers who embraced the sort of decadence featured in \"Le Décadent\" include Albert Aurier, Rachilde, Pierre Vareilles, Miguel Fernandez, Jean Lorrain, and Laurent Tailhaide. Many of these authors did also publish symbolist works, however, and it unclear how strongly they would have identified with Baju as decadents.\n\nIn France, the Decadent Movement is often said to have begun with either Joris-Karl Huysmans' \"Against Nature\" (1884) or Baudelaire's \"Les Fleur du Mal\". This movement essentially gave way to Symbolism when \"Le Décadent\" closed down in 1889 and Anatole Baju turned toward politics and became associated with anarchy. A few writers continued the decadent tradition, such as Octave Mirbeau, but Decadence was no longer a recognized movement, let alone a force in literature or art.\n\nBeginning with the association of decadence with cultural decline, it is not uncommon to associate decadence in general with transitional times and their associated moods of pessimism and uncertainty. In France, the heart of the Decadent Movement was during the 1880s and 1890s, the time of fin de siècle, or end-of-the-century gloom. As part of that overall transition, many scholars of Decadence, such as David Weir, regard Decadence as a dynamic transition between Romanticism and Modernism, especially considering the decadent tendency to dehumanize and distort in the name of pleasure and fantasy.\n\nSymbolism has often been confused with the Decadent Movement. Arthur Symons, a British poet and literary critic contemporary with the movement, at one time considered Decadence in literature to be a parent category that included both Symbolism and Impressionism, as rebellions against realism. He defined this common, decadent thread as, \"an intense self-consciousness, a restless curiosity in research, an over-subtilizing refinement upon refinement, a spiritual and moral perversity.\" He referred to all such literature as, \"a new and beautiful and interesting disease.\" Later, however, he would go on to instead describe the Decadent Movement as an \"interlude, half a mock interlude\" that distracted critics from seeing and appreciating the larger and more important trend, which was the development of Symbolism.\n\nIt is true that the two groups share an ideological descent from Baudelaire and for a time they both considered themselves as part of one sphere of new, anti-establishment literature. They worked together and met together for quite a while, as if they were part of the same movement. Maurice Barrès referred to this group as decadents, but he also referred to one of them (Stéphane Mallarmé) as a symbolist. Even Jean Moréas used both terms for his own group of writers as late as 1885.\n\nOnly a year later, however, Jean Moréas wrote his Symbolist Manifesto to assert a difference between the symbolists with whom he allied himself and this the new group of decadents associated with Anatole Baju and \"Le Décadent\". Even after this, there was sufficient common ground of interest, method, and language to blur the lines more than the manifesto might have suggested.\n\nIn the world of visual arts, it can be even more difficult to distinguish decadence from symbolism. In fact, Stephen Romer has referred to Félicien Rops, Gustave Moreau, and Fernand Khnopff as \"Symbolist-Decadent painters and engravers.\"\n\nNevertheless, there are clear ideological differences between those who continued on as symbolists and those who have been called \"dissidents\" for remaining in the Decadent Movement. Often, there was little doubt that Baju and his group were producing work that was decadent, but there is frequently more question about the work of the symbolists.\n\nIn a website associated with Dr. Petra Dierkes-Thrun's Stanford University course, Oscar Wilde and the French Decadents (2014), a student named Reed created a blog post that is the basis for much of what follows.\n\nBoth groups reject the primacy of nature, but what that means for them is very different. Symbolism uses extensive natural imagery as a means to elevate the viewer to a plane higher than the banal reality of nature itself, as when Stéphane Mallarmé mixes descriptions of flowers and heavenly imagery to create a transcendent moment in \"Flowers.\"\n\nDecadence, in contrast, actually belittles nature in the name of artistry. In Huysmans’ \"Against Nature\", for instance, the main character Des Esseintes says of nature: “There is not one of her inventions, no matter how subtle or imposing it may be, which human genius cannot create . . . There can be no doubt about it: this eternal, driveling, old woman is no longer admired by true artists, and the moment has come to replace her by artifice.\"\n\nSymbolism treats language and imagery as devices that can only approximate meaning and merely evoke complex emotions and call the mind toward ideas it might not be able to comprehend. In the words of symbolist poet Stéphane Mallarmé:Languages are imperfect because multiple; the supreme language is missing... no one can utter words which would bear the miraculous stamp of Truth Herself Incarnate... how impossible it is for language to express things... in the Poet's hands... by the consistent virtue and necessity of an art which lives on fiction, it achieves its full efficacy.As Moréas would go on to assert in his manifest on symbolism, words and images serve to dress up the incomprehensible in such a way that it can be approached, if not understood.\n\nDecadence, on the other hand, sees no path to higher truth in words and images. Instead, books, poetry, and art itself as the creators of valid new worlds, thus the allegory of decadent Wilde's Dorian Gray being poisoned by a book like a drug. Words and artifice are the vehicles for human creativity, and Huysmans suggests that the illusions of fantasy have their own reality: \"The secret lies in knowing how to proceed, how to concentrate deeply enough to produce the hallucination and succeed in substituting the dream reality for the reality itself.\"\n\nBoth groups are disillusioned with the meaning and truth offered by the natural world, rational thought, and ordinary society. Symbolism turns its eyes toward Greater Purpose or on the Ideal, using dreams and symbols to approach these esoteric primal truths. In Mallarme's poem “Apparition”, for instance, the word “dreaming” appears twice, followed by “Dream” itself with a capital D. In “The Windows,” he speaks of this decadent disgust of contentment with comfort and an endless desire for the exotic. He writes: “So filled with disgust for the man whose soul is callous, sprawled in comforts where his hungering is fed.” In this continuing search for the spiritual, therefore, Symbolism has been predisposed to concern itself with purity and beauty and such mysterious imagery as those of fairies.\n\nIn contrast, Decadence says there is no oblique approach to ultimate truth, because there is no secret, mystical truth. They despise the very idea of searching for such a thing. If there is truth of value, it is purely in the sensual experience of the moment. The heroes of Decadent novels, for instance, have the unquenchable accumulation of luxuries and pleasure, often exotic, as their goal, would have space in its search for thrills for even the gory and the shocking. In \"The\" \"Temptation of Saint Anthony\", decadent Gustave Flaubert describes Saint Anthony's pleasure from watching disturbing scenes of horror. Later Czech decadent Arthur Breisky has been quoted by scholars as speaking to both the importance of illusion and of beauty: \"But isn’t it necessary to believe a beautiful mask more than reality?\"\n\nUltimately, the distinction may best be seen in their approach to art. Symbolism is an accumulation of “symbols” that are there not to present their content but to evoke greater ideas that their symbolism cannot expressly utter. According to Moréas, it is an attempt to connect the object and phenomena of the world to \"esoteric primordial truths\" that cannot ever be directly approached.\n\nDecadence, on the other hand, is an accumulation of signs or descriptions acting as detailed catalogs of human material riches as well as artifice. It was Oscar Wilde who perhaps lay this out most clearly in \"The Decay of Lying\" with the suggestion of three doctrines on art, here excerpted into a list:\nAfter which, he suggested a conclusion quite in contrast to Moréas' search for shadow truth: \"Lying, the telling of beautiful untrue things, is the proper aim of Art.\"\n\nIn France, the Decadent Movement could not withstand the loss of its leading figures. Many of those associated with the Decadent Movement became symbolists after initially associating freely with decadents. Paul Verlaine and Stéphane Mallarmé were among those, though both had been associated with Baju's \"Le Décadent\" for a time. Others kept a foot in each camp. Albert Aurier wrote decadent pieces for \"Le Décadent\" and also wrote symbolist poetry and art criticism. Decadent writer Rachilde was staunchly opposed to a symbolist take over of \"Le Décadent\" even though her own one-act drama \"The Crystal Spider\" is almost certainly a symbolist work. Others, once strong voices for decadence, abandoned the movement altogether. Joris-Karl Huysmans grew to consider \"Against Nature\" as the starting point on his journey into Roman Catholic symbolist work and the acceptance of hope. Anatole Baju, once the self-appointed school-master of French decadence, came to think of the movement as naive and half-hearted, willing to tinker and play with social realities, but not to utterly destroy them. He left decadence for anarchy.\n\nWhile the Decadent Movement, per se, was truly a French phenomenon, the impact was felt more broadly. Typically, the influence was felt as an interest in pleasure, an interest in experimental sexuality, and a fascination with the bizarre, all packaged with a somewhat trangressive spirit and an aesthetic that values material excess. Many were also influenced by the Decadent Movement's aesthetic emphasis on art for its own sake.\n\nBohemia\n\nCzech writers who were exposed to the work of the Decadent Movement saw in it the promise of a life they could never know. They were neither aristocrats nor bored bourgeoisie. They were poor and hungry for something better. The dreams of the decadents gave them that something better, but something that was hopelessly unattainable. It was that melancholy that drove their art. These Bohemian decadent writers included Karel Hlaváček, Arnošt Procházka, Jiří Karásek ze Lvovic, and Louisa Zikova. One Czech writer, Arthur Breisky, embraced the full spirit of \"Le Décadent\" with its exultation in material excess and a life of refinement and pleasure. From the Decadent Movement he learned the basic idea of a dandy, and his work is almost entirely focused on developing a philosophy in which the Dandy is the consummate human, surrounded by riches and elegance, theoretically above society, just as doomed to death and despair as they.\n\nBritain\nThough influenced through general exposure but also direct contact, the leading decadent figures in Britain associated with decadence were Irish writer Oscar Wilde, poet Algernon Charles Swinburne, and illustrator Aubrey Beardsley, as well as other artists and writers associated with \"The Yellow Book\". Others, such as Walter Pater, resisted association with the movement, even though their works seemed to reflect similar ideals. While most of the influence was from figures such as Baudelaire and Verlaine, there was also very strong influence at times from more purely decadent members of the French movement, such as the influence that Huysmans and Rachilde had on Wilde, as seen explicitly in \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\". British decadents embraced the idea of creating art for its own sake, pursuing all possible desires, and seeking material excess. At the same time, they were not shy about using the tools of decadence for social and political purpose. Beardsley had an explicit interest in the improvement of the social order and the role of art-as-experience in inspiring that transformation. Oscar Wilde published an entire work exploring socialism as a liberating force: \"Socialism would relieve us from that sordid necessity of living for others which, in the present condition of things, presses so hardly upon almost everybody.\" Swinburne wrote explicitly addressed Irish-English politics in poetry, as when he wrote, \"Thieves and murderers, hands yet red with blood and tongues yet black with lies | Clap and clamour--'Parnell spurs his Gladstone well!'\" In many of their personal lives, they also pursued decadent ideals. Wilde had a secret homosexual life. Swinburne had an obsession with flagellation.\n\nRussia\nThe Decadent Movement reached into Russia primarily through exposure to the writings of Charles Baudelaire and Paul Verlaine. The earliest Russian adherents lacked idealism and focused on such decadent themes as subversion of morality, disregard for personal health, and living in blasphemy and sensual pleasure. Russian writers were especially drawn to the morbid aspects of decadence and in the fascination with death. Dmitry Merezhkovsky is thought to be the first to clearly promote a Russian decadence that included the idealism that would eventually inspire the French symbolists to disassociate from the more purely materialistic Decadent Movement. The first Russian writers to achieve success as followers of this Decadent Movement included Konstanin Balmont, Fyodor Sologub, Valery Bryusov, and Zinaida Gippius. As they refined their craft beyond imitation of Baudelaire and Verlaine, most of these authors became much more clearly aligned with symbolism than with decadence. Some visual artists adhered to the Baju-esque late Decadent Movement approach to sexuality as purely an act of pleasure, often ensconced in a context of material luxury. They also shared the same emphasis on shocking society, purely for the scandal. Among them were Konstantin Somov, , and Nikolay Feofilaktov.\n\nSpain\n\nSome art historians consider Francisco de Goya one of the roots of the Decadent movement in Spain, almost 100 years before its start in France. Their works were a cry of denouncement against injustice and oppression. However, Ramón Casas and José María López Mezquita can be considered the model artists of this period. Their paintings are an image of the social conflicts and police repression that was happening in Spain at the time.\nSpaniard writers also wanted to be part of this movement. Emilia Pardo Bazán with works like Los Pazos de Ulloa where terror and decadent topics appear. El monstruo (The Monster), written by Antonio de Hoyos y Vinent belongs to Decadent Movement. But the Decadent Movement is overlapped by the Fin de Siglo Movement with the authors of the Generación del 98 being part-decadent: Ramón María del Valle-Inclán, Unamuno and Pío Baroja are the most essential figures of this period. \n\nUnited States\n\nFew prominent writers or artists in the United States were connected with the Decadent Movement. Those who were connected struggled to find an audience, for Americans were reluctant to see value for them in what they considered the art forms of fin de siècle France. Poet Francis Saltus Saltus was inspired by Charles Baudelaire, and his unpracticed style was occasionally compared to the French poet's more refined experimentation. He embraced the most debauched lifestyle of the French decadents and celebrated that life in his own poetry. At the time, mostly before Baju's \"Le Décadent\", this frivolous poetry on themes of alcohol and depravity found little success and no known support from those who were part of the Decadent Movement. The younger brother of Francis, writer Edgar Saltus had more success. He had some interaction with Oscar Wilde, and he valued decadence in his personal life. For a time, his work exemplified both the ideals and style of the movement, but a significant portion of his career was in traditional journalism and fiction that praised virtue. At the time when he was flourishing, however, multiple contemporary critics, as well as other decadent writers, explicitly considered him one of them. Writer James Huneker was exposed to the Decadent Movement in France and tried to bring it back with him to New York. He has been lauded to his dedication to this cause throughout his career, but it has also been suggested that, while he lived as a decadent and heralded their work, his own work was more frustrated, hopeless, and empty of the pleasure that had attracted him to the movement in the first place. Largely, he focused on cynically describing the impossibility of a true American decadence.\n\nGerman doctor and social critic Max Nordau wrote a lengthy book entitled \"Degeneration\" (1892). It was an examination of decadence as a trend, and specifically attacked several people associated with the Decadent Movement, as well as other figures throughout the world who deviated from cultural, moral, or political norms. His language was colorful and vitriolic, often invoking the worship of Satan. What made the book a success was its suggestion of a medical diagnosis of \"degeneration,\" a neuro-pathology that resulted in these behaviors. It also helped that the book named such figures as Oscar Wilde, Algernon Charles Swinburne, Paul Verlaine, and Maurice Barrès, members of the Decadent Movement who were in the public eye.\n\nIn 1930 Italian art and literature critic Mario Praz completed a broad study of morbid and erotic literature, translated and published in English as \"The Romantic Agony\" (1933). The study included decadent writing (such as Baudelaire and Swinburne), but also anything else that he considered dark, grim, or sexual in some way. His study centered on the 18th and 19th Centuries. The danger of such literature, he believed it unnaturally elevated the instinctive bond between pain and pleasure and that, no matter the artists' intention, the essential role of art is to educate and teach culture.\n\nFrench\n\nAustrian\n\nRussian\n\nBritish\n\nIrish\n\nItalian\n\nAmerican\n\nBelgian\nSpanish\nOthers\n\nFrench\n\nAustrian\n\nBelgian\nSpanish\n\nOther\n\n"}
{"id": "1704177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704177", "title": "Drabble", "text": "Drabble\n\nA drabble is a short work of fiction of one hundred words in length. The purpose of the drabble is brevity, testing the author's ability to express interesting and meaningful ideas in a confined space.\n\nThe concept is said to have originated in UK science fiction fandom in the 1980s; the 100-word format was established by the Birmingham University SF Society, taking a term from Monty Python's 1971 \"Big Red Book\". In the book, \"Drabble\" was described as a word game where the first participant to write a novel was the winner. In order to make the game possible in the real world, it was agreed that 100 words would suffice. \nIn drabble contests, participants are given a theme and a certain amount of time to write. (For example, Wilfrid Laurier University conducted a \"100 Words Centennial Drabble Contest\" in commemoration of its 100th anniversary in 2011, in which contestants were asked to write about \"inspiration, leadership or purpose\".) Drabble contests, and drabbles in general, are popular in science fiction fandom and in fan fiction. Beccon Publications published three volumes, \"The Drabble Project\" (1988) and \"Drabble II: Double Century\" (1990), both edited by Rob Meades and David Wake, and \"Drabble Who\" (1993), edited by David J. Howe and David Wake.\n\nPublished science fiction writers who have written drabbles include Brian Aldiss and Gene Wolfe (both of whom contributed to \"The Drabble Project\"), Lois McMaster Bujold (whose novel \"Cryoburn\" finishes with a sequence of five drabbles, each told from the point of view of a different character), and Jake Bible (whose novel \"Dead Mech\" was written entirely in drabble format). \n\n\"100 Word Story\" is an online literary journal that was co-founded in 2011 by Grant Faulkner and Lynn Mundell. It publishes stories that are exactly 100 words long.\n\nThe web has also enabled a rapid spread of the genre, with publishers such as The Third Word Press using the web to collect drabble stories.\n\nOne example of drabble is 55 Fiction, which is a form of microfiction that refers to the works of fiction that are either limited to a maximum of 55 words or have a requirement of exactly 55 words. The origin of \"55 Fiction\" can be traced to a short story writing contest organized by \"New Times\", an independent alternative weekly in San Luis Obispo, California, in 1987. The idea was proposed by \"New Times\" founder and publisher Steve Moss.\n\nA literary work will be considered \"55 Fiction\" if it has:\nThe title of the story is not part of the overall word count, but cannot exceed seven words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11117031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11117031", "title": "Fire art", "text": "Fire art\n\nFire art is a piece of art that uses active flames as an essential part of the piece. The piece may either use flame effects as part of a sculpture, or be a choreographed performance of fire effects as the piece burns; the latter being almost a type of performance art. \n\nFire can be a compelling medium for artists and viewers. It has a direct effect on its surroundings, consuming materials and giving heat and light. It is constantly moving and can appear to be alive. There is also the inherent perceived danger of fire.\n\nFire artists use various fuels and colorants to achieve desired effects. The choice of fuel is largely dependent on the effects desired. In large stationary pieces, propane gas is a popular fuel. Gas escaping from its container can be set alight. Different plumbing, pressures, nozzles alter the nature of the flames. Controlling how the propane mixes with the oxygen in the air is important. \n\nLiquid fuels like alcohol, methanol, kerosene, mixes of kerosene and diesel, and others, can produce spectacular results. Extra precautions must be taken with liquids because they fall and splash, while gasses usually dissipate. \n\nMost colorants are solids ground into a powder. As the powder is heated, it begins to oxidize and burns a color particular to the chemical used. Some colorants can be dissolved in alcohol or water or other liquids to facilitate their dispersion in the fire. Some colorants are toxic and should not be used in proximity to people. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12856145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12856145", "title": "Funk art", "text": "Funk art\n\nFunk art is an American art movement that was a reaction against the nonobjectivity of abstract expressionism. An anti-establishment movement, Funk art brought figuration back as subject matter in painting again rather than limiting itself to the non-figurative, abstract forms that abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko were depicting. The movement’s name was derived from the jazz musical term \"funky\", describing the passionate, sensuous, and quirky. During the 1920s, jazz was thought of as very basic, unsophisticated music, and many people believed Funk was an unrefined style of art as well. The term funk also had negative connotations because the word had an association with a foul odor. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Funk was a popular art form, mainly in California's Bay Area in the United States. Although discussed as a cohesive movement, Funk artists did not feel as if they belonged to a collective art style or group. This is because while its artists shared the same attitudes and created similar works, they were not necessarily working together.\n\nThe Funk art movement was a regional art movement, most predominant in Northern California. Some notable cities where the Funk movement was concentrated in consisted of Berkeley, Marin County, Big Sur, and North Beach. Many Funk artists began as Bay Area Figurative Movement painters in the 1950s. The movement originated from the bohemian underground in the Bay Area. During the 1960s, the Bay Area, specifically San Francisco, was a free and spiritual environment due to its beatnik art culture and the youth political activism reacting against the Vietnam War going on at the time. A variety of different cultures existed in the city, including poetry, jazz, and art. The freedom of thinking and culture was one of the main reasons that Funk art, a combination of both painting and sculpture, could develop and prosper in the Bay Area.\n\nThe Funk art that occurred throughout Northern California was the exact opposite of the \"Fetish Finish\" sculptures made in Southern California and the \"primary structures\" constructed in New York at the time. Funk art in the Bay Area was unique and not similar to any other movement of the 1960s. Jess, Wally Hedrick, Jay DeFeo, Viola Frey, Wallace Berman and Bruce Conner were notable Funk artists who emerged from the Bay Area. Jess was one of the earliest and most influential Funk artists. In 1967, Peter Selz, the first director of the University of Art Museum in Berkeley, California, organized a Funk Show there. Selz wanted to showcase the strange mindset in California through an array of Funk pieces. The exhibition featured works from Peter Voulkos, Mowry Baden and Bruce Conner, and it brought national recognition to the movement for the first time. Before this show, not many people outside of the Bay Area had seen or heard of Funk works, which relieved artists of pressures to become successful.\n\nThe characteristics and techniques of Funk art works were more important than the subject matter.\n\nUnlike earlier movements, such as Dada and Surrealism, Funk art was not concerned with public morality. Its artists were committed to identifying with their works on a personal level instead of the social or existential. Through their absurdist works, Funk artists demonstrated personal feelings, emotions and processes and in this way their work had a closer relationship to nature rather than to culture. The works had creative freedom and demonstrated the artists' lives, personalities and experiences. Funk artists treated their work with a sense of humor, senselessness, confrontation, vulgar sexuality and autobiographical references. In their pieces, Funk artists are sometimes self-deprecating and ironic. Although the works are humorous, they sometimes cover a more serious undertone. Since there was no clear meaning in many pieces, Funk art contains a sense of ambiguity.\n\nFunk art was inspired by popular culture, contains attitude and uses an unlikely mixture of materials and techniques. One of the movement's main characteristics is that it incorporates found objects from consumer culture. It was a part of the larger movement called Assemblage, which also included paintings that were composed of three-dimensional objects. Bruce Conner was known for his assemblage works, including \"Arachne\", \"Spider Lady\", \"For Marilyn\", \"Cosmic Death Song\", and \"Tick Tock Jelly Clock Cosmotron\". Many of the Funk assemblage pieces were composed of thrown out garbage to demonstrate that Funk art was not a part of consumer culture. The pieces are usually three dimensional, but they resemble paintings more than sculptures. Jess and Wally Hedrick were two of the first Funk artists to use found objects in their works. The objects used tended to be items that were not meant to be noticed. The idea of using ordinary subject matter and common objects in art was influenced by Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns. This concept is also influenced by the pieces of the Dada movement because both art movements use everyday objects and have a sense of freedom.The objects and debris used in works symbolized decay many of the time. Due to the artists lack of concern with impeccable technique, durability or form, the works each possessed a somewhat sloppy finish.\n\nNon-functional ceramic art was an important element in the Funk art movement, especially in Regina and the San Francisco Bay Area. Funk art ceramics were primarily composed from clay and possessed themes that were thought of as inappropriate by artists belonging to other movements. Similar to its three dimensional paintings, Funk ceramics contained vulgar male humor, as well as sexual references. Like other Funk works, the ceramics also used funny and absurd styles and images to relay the message that people should not take art or themselves too seriously. The ceramics were unrefined and blatant, and they all possessed the idea of a functionless sculpture for sculptures sake.\n\nRobert Arneson started the ceramic art movement within Funk art in the Bay Area. Before him, ceramics were considered more of a craft rather than a prestigious art form. After him, ceramics caught on as a serious form of art nationally. Robert Arneson created many ceramic sculptures, which eventually became a common work of Funk artists. Some believe his ceramics were influenced by pop art sculptures because they were of mundane, everyday objects. A main difference was that Robert Arneson also included personal elements to his sculptures, which was a defining factor of Funk art. His works were playful and full of color.\nRobert Arneson, along with other Funk artists, such as Roy De Forest, Manuel Neri, and William T. Wiley taught at the University of California, Davis, which was a center for the movement. Students from University of California, Davis, such as Margaret Dodd, David Gilhooly, Victor Cicansky, Chris Unterseher, and Peter Vandenberge, continued Arneson's ceramics tradition.\n\nIn 1967, Robert Arneson drafted ceramicist Clayton Bailey to cover his classes at University of California, Davis while he took a sabbatical. Bailey, who hailed from Wisconsin, had been pursuing a personal, but similar artistic vision to what had been happening with the Funk art movement in northern California. In 1968, Bailey permanently relocated to the Bay Area, where he soon became a key figure in the region's developing Funk art scene.\n\nFounded in Folsom, California, in 1962, the Candy Store Gallery played a key role in promoting Funk art by means of regular exhibitions until its closure in 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14724", "title": "Intellectual property", "text": "Intellectual property\n\nIntellectual property (IP) is a category of property that includes intangible creations of the human intellect, and primarily encompasses copyrights, patents, and trademarks. It also includes other types of rights, such as trade secrets, publicity rights, moral rights, and rights against unfair competition. Artistic works like music and literature, as well as some discoveries, inventions, words, phrases, symbols, and designs, can all be protected as intellectual property. It was not until the 19th century that the term \"intellectual property\" began to be used, and not until the late 20th century that it became commonplace in the majority of the world.\n\nThe main purpose of intellectual property law is to encourage the creation of a large variety of intellectual goods. To achieve this, the law gives people and businesses property rights to the information and intellectual goods they createusually for a limited period of time. This gives economic incentive for their creation, because it allows people to profit from the information and intellectual goods they create. These economic incentives are expected to stimulate innovation and contribute to the technological progress of countries, which depends on the extent of protection granted to innovators.\n\nThe intangible nature of intellectual property presents difficulties when compared with traditional property like land or goods. Unlike traditional property, intellectual property is \"indivisible\" – an unlimited number of people can \"consume\" an intellectual good without it being depleted. Additionally, investments in intellectual goods suffer from problems of appropriation – a landowner can surround their land with a robust fence and hire armed guards to protect it, but a producer of information or an intellectual good can usually do very little to stop their first buyer from replicating it and selling it at a lower price. Balancing rights so that they are strong enough to encourage the creation of intellectual goods but not so strong that they prevent the goods' wide use is the primary focus of modern intellectual property law.\n\nThe Statute of Monopolies (1624) and the British Statute of Anne (1710) are seen as the origins of patent law and copyright respectively, firmly establishing the concept of intellectual property.\n\nThe first known use of the term \"intellectual property\" dates to 1769, when a piece published in the \"Monthly Review\" used the phrase. The first clear example of modern usage goes back as early as 1808, when it was used as a heading title in a collection of essays.\n\nThe German equivalent was used with the founding of the North German Confederation whose constitution granted legislative power over the protection of intellectual property (\"Schutz des geistigen Eigentums\") to the confederation. When the administrative secretariats established by the Paris Convention (1883) and the Berne Convention (1886) merged in 1893, they located in Berne, and also adopted the term intellectual property in their new combined title, the United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property.\n\nThe organization subsequently relocated to Geneva in 1960, and was succeeded in 1967 with the establishment of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) by treaty as an agency of the United Nations. According to legal scholar Mark Lemley, it was only at this point that the term really began to be used in the United States (which had not been a party to the Berne Convention), and it did not enter popular usage there until passage of the Bayh-Dole Act in 1980.\n\n\"The history of patents does not begin with inventions, but rather with royal grants by Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603) for monopoly privileges... Approximately 200 years after the end of Elizabeth's reign, however, a patent represents a legal right obtained by an inventor providing for exclusive control over the production and sale of his mechanical or scientific invention... [demonstrating] the evolution of patents from royal prerogative to common-law doctrine.\"\n\nThe term can be found used in an October 1845 Massachusetts Circuit Court ruling in the patent case \"Davoll et al. v. Brown.\", in which Justice Charles L. Woodbury wrote that \"only in this way can we protect intellectual property, the labors of the mind, productions and interests are as much a man's own...as the wheat he cultivates, or the flocks he rears.\" The statement that \"discoveries are..property\" goes back earlier. Section 1 of the French law of 1791 stated, \"All new discoveries are the property of the author; to assure the inventor the property and temporary enjoyment of his discovery, there shall be delivered to him a patent for five, ten or fifteen years.\" In Europe, French author A. Nion mentioned \"propriété intellectuelle\" in his \"Droits civils des auteurs, artistes et inventeurs\", published in 1846.\n\nUntil recently, the purpose of intellectual property law was to give as little protection as possible in order to encourage innovation. Historically, therefore, they were granted only when they were necessary to encourage invention, limited in time and scope. This is mainly as a result of knowledge being traditionally viewed as a public good, in order to allow its extensive dissemination and improvement thereof.\n\nThe concept's origins can potentially be traced back further. Jewish law includes several considerations whose effects are similar to those of modern intellectual property laws, though the notion of intellectual creations as property does not seem to exist – notably the principle of Hasagat Ge'vul (unfair encroachment) was used to justify limited-term publisher (but not author) copyright in the 16th century. In 500 BCE, the government of the Greek state of Sybaris offered one year's patent \"to all who should discover any new refinement in luxury\".\n\nAccording to Jean-Frédéric Morin, \"the global intellectual property regime is currently in the midst of a paradigm shift\". Indeed, up until the early 2000s the global IP regime used to be dominated by high standards of protection characteristic of IP laws from Europe or the United States, with a vision that uniform application of these standards over every country and to several fields with little consideration over social, cultural or environmental values or of the national level of economic development. Morin argues that \"the emerging discourse of the global IP regime advocates for greater policy flexibility and greater access to knowledge, especially for developing countries.\" Indeed, with the Development Agenda adopted by WIPO in 2007, a set of 45 recommendations to adjust WIPO’s activities to the specific needs of developing countries and aim to reduce distortions especially on issues such as patients’ access to medicines, Internet users’ access to information, farmers’ access to seeds, programmers’ access to source codes or students’ access to scientific articles. However, this paradigm shift has not yet manifested itself in concrete legal reforms at the international level.\n\nSimilarly, it is based on these background that the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement requires members of the WTO to set minimum standards of legal protection, but its objective to have a “one-fits-all” protection law on Intellectual Property has been viewed with controversies regarding differences in the development level of countries. Despite the controversy, the agreement has extensively incorporated intellectual property rights into the global trading system for the first time in 1995, and has prevailed as the most comprehensive agreement reached by the world.\n\nIntellectual property rights include patents, copyright, industrial design rights, trademarks, plant variety rights, trade dress, geographical indications, and in some jurisdictions trade secrets. There are also more specialized or derived varieties of \"sui generis\" exclusive rights, such as circuit design rights (called mask work rights in the US) and supplementary protection certificates for pharmaceutical products (after expiry of a patent protecting them) and database rights (in European law). The term \"industrial property\" is sometimes used to refer to a large subset of intellectual property rights including patents, trademarks, industrial designs, utility models, service marks, trade names, and geographical indications.\n\nA patent is a form of right granted by the government to an inventor or their successor-in-title, giving the owner the right to exclude others from making, using, selling, offering to sell, and importing an invention for a limited period of time, in exchange for the public disclosure of the invention. An invention is a solution to a specific technological problem, which may be a product or a process and generally has to fulfill three main requirements: it has to be new, not obvious and there needs to be an industrial applicability. To enrich the body of knowledge and stimulate innovation, it is an obligation for patent owners to disclose valuable information about their inventions to the public.\n\nA copyright gives the creator of an original work exclusive rights to it, usually for a limited time. Copyright may apply to a wide range of creative, intellectual, or artistic forms, or \"works\". Copyright does not cover ideas and information themselves, only the form or manner in which they are expressed.\n\nAn industrial design right (sometimes called \"design right\" or \"design patent\") protects the visual design of objects that are not purely utilitarian. An industrial design consists of the creation of a shape, configuration or composition of pattern or color, or combination of pattern and color in three-dimensional form containing aesthetic value. An industrial design can be a two- or three-dimensional pattern used to produce a product, industrial commodity or handicraft. Generally speaking, it is what makes a product look appealing, and as such, it increases the commercial value of goods.\n\nPlant breeders' rights or plant variety rights are the rights to commercially use a new variety of a plant. The variety must amongst others be novel and distinct and for registration the evaluation of propagating material of the variety is considered.\n\nA trademark is a recognizable sign, design or expression which distinguishes products or services of a particular trader from the similar products or services of other traders.\n\nTrade dress is a legal term of art that generally refers to characteristics of the visual and aesthetic appearance of a product or its packaging (or even the design of a building) that signify the source of the product to consumers.\n\nA trade secret is a formula, practice, process, design, instrument, pattern, or compilation of information which is not generally known or reasonably ascertainable, by which a business can obtain an economic advantage over competitors and customers. There is no formal government protection granted; each business must take measures to guard its own trade secrets (e.g., Formula of its soft drinks is a trade secret for Coca-Cola.)\n\nThe main purpose of intellectual property law is to encourage the creation of a wide variety of intellectual goods for consumers. To achieve this, the law gives people and businesses property rights to the information and intellectual goods they create, usually for a limited period of time. Because they can then profit from them, this gives economic incentive for their creation. The intangible nature of intellectual property presents difficulties when compared with traditional property like land or goods. Unlike traditional property, intellectual property is indivisible – an unlimited number of people can \"consume\" an intellectual good without it being depleted. Additionally, investments in intellectual goods suffer from problems of appropriation – while a landowner can surround their land with a robust fence and hire armed guards to protect it, a producer of information or an intellectual good can usually do very little to stop their first buyer from replicating it and selling it at a lower price. Balancing rights so that they are strong enough to encourage the creation of information and intellectual goods but not so strong that they prevent their wide use is the primary focus of modern intellectual property law.\n\nBy exchanging limited exclusive rights for disclosure of inventions and creative works, society and the patentee/copyright owner mutually benefit, and an incentive is created for inventors and authors to create and disclose their work. Some commentators have noted that the objective of intellectual property legislators and those who support its implementation appears to be \"absolute protection\". \"If some intellectual property is desirable because it encourages innovation, they reason, more is better. The thinking is that creators will not have sufficient incentive to invent unless they are legally entitled to capture the full social value of their inventions\". This absolute protection or full value view treats intellectual property as another type of \"real\" property, typically adopting its law and rhetoric. Other recent developments in intellectual property law, such as the America Invents Act, stress international harmonization. Recently there has also been much debate over the desirability of using intellectual property rights to protect cultural heritage, including intangible ones, as well as over risks of commodification derived from this possibility. The issue still remains open in legal scholarship.\n\nThese exclusive rights allow owners of intellectual property to benefit from the property they have created, providing a financial incentive for the creation of an investment in intellectual property, and, in case of patents, pay associated research and development costs. In the United States Article I Section 8 Clause 8 of the Constitution, commonly called the Patent and Copyright Clause, reads; \"[The Congress shall have power] 'To promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries.'\" ”Some commentators, such as David Levine and Michele Boldrin, dispute this justification.\n\nIn 2013 the United States Patent & Trademark Office approximated that the worth of intellectual property to the U.S. economy is more than US $5 trillion and creates employment for an estimated 18 million American people. The value of intellectual property is considered similarly high in other developed nations, such as those in the European Union. In the UK, IP has become a recognised asset class for use in pension-led funding and other types of business finance. However, in 2013, the UK Intellectual Property Office stated: \"There are millions of intangible business assets whose value is either not being leveraged at all, or only being leveraged inadvertently\".\n\nThe WIPO treaty and several related international agreements underline that the protection of intellectual property rights is essential to maintaining economic growth. The \"WIPO Intellectual Property Handbook\" gives two reasons for intellectual property laws:\nOne is to give statutory expression to the moral and economic rights of creators in their creations and the rights of the public in access to those creations. The second is to promote, as a deliberate act of Government policy, creativity and the dissemination and application of its results and to encourage fair trading which would contribute to economic and social development.\n\nThe Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) states that \"effective enforcement of intellectual property rights is critical to sustaining economic growth across all industries and globally\".\n\nEconomists estimate that two-thirds of the value of large businesses in the United States can be traced to intangible assets. \"IP-intensive industries\" are estimated to generate 72 percent more value added (price minus material cost) per employee than \"non-IP-intensive industries\".\n\nA joint research project of the WIPO and the United Nations University measuring the impact of IP systems on six Asian countries found \"a positive correlation between the strengthening of the IP system and subsequent economic growth.\"\n\nAccording to Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, \"everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author\". Although the relationship between intellectual property and human rights is a complex one, there are moral arguments for intellectual property.\n\nThe arguments that justify intellectual property fall into three major categories. Personality theorists believe intellectual property is an extension of an individual. Utilitarians believe that intellectual property stimulates social progress and pushes people to further innovation. Lockeans argue that intellectual property is justified based on deservedness and hard work.\n\nVarious moral justifications for private property can be used to argue in favor of the morality of intellectual property, such as:\n\n\nLysander Spooner (1855) argues \"that a man has a natural and absolute right—and if a natural and absolute, then necessarily a perpetual, right—of property, in the ideas, of which he is the discoverer or creator; that his right of property, in ideas, is intrinsically the same as, and stands on identically the same grounds with, his right of property in material things; that no distinction, of principle, exists between the two cases\".\n\nWriter Ayn Rand argued in her book \"\" that the protection of intellectual property is essentially a moral issue. The belief is that the human mind itself is the source of wealth and survival and that all property at its base is intellectual property. To violate intellectual property is therefore no different morally than violating other property rights which compromises the very processes of survival and therefore constitutes an immoral act.\n\nViolation of intellectual property rights, called \"infringement\" with respect to patents, copyright, and trademarks, and \"misappropriation\" with respect to trade secrets, may be a breach of civil law or criminal law, depending on the type of intellectual property involved, jurisdiction, and the nature of the action.\n\nAs of 2011 trade in counterfeit copyrighted and trademarked works was a $600 billion industry worldwide and accounted for 5–7% of global trade.\n\nPatent infringement typically is caused by using or selling a patented invention without permission from the patent holder. The scope of the patented invention or the extent of protection is defined in the claims of the granted patent. There is safe harbor in many jurisdictions to use a patented invention for research. This safe harbor does not exist in the US unless the research is done for purely philosophical purposes, or in order to gather data in order to prepare an application for regulatory approval of a drug. In general, patent infringement cases are handled under civil law (e.g., in the United States) but several jurisdictions incorporate infringement in criminal law also (for example, Argentina, China, France, Japan, Russia, South Korea).\n\nCopyright infringement is reproducing, distributing, displaying or performing a work, or to make derivative works, without permission from the copyright holder, which is typically a publisher or other business representing or assigned by the work's creator. It is often called \"piracy\". While copyright is created the instant a work is fixed, generally the copyright holder can only get money damages if the owner registers the copyright. Enforcement of copyright is generally the responsibility of the copyright holder. The ACTA trade agreement, signed in May 2011 by the United States, Japan, Switzerland, and the EU, and which has not entered into force, requires that its parties add criminal penalties, including incarceration and fines, for copyright and trademark infringement, and obligated the parties to active police for infringement. There are limitations and exceptions to copyright, allowing limited use of copyrighted works, which does not constitute infringement. Examples of such doctrines are the fair use and fair dealing doctrine.\n\nTrademark infringement occurs when one party uses a trademark that is identical or confusingly similar to a trademark owned by another party, in relation to products or services which are identical or similar to the products or services of the other party. In many countries, a trademark receives protection without registration, but registering a trademark provides legal advantages for enforcement. Infringement can be addressed by civil litigation and, in several jurisdictions, under criminal law.\n\nTrade secret misappropriation is different from violations of other intellectual property laws, since by definition trade secrets are secret, while patents and registered copyrights and trademarks are publicly available. In the United States, trade secrets are protected under state law, and states have nearly universally adopted the Uniform Trade Secrets Act. The United States also has federal law in the form of the Economic Espionage Act of 1996 (), which makes the theft or misappropriation of a trade secret a federal crime. This law contains two provisions criminalizing two sorts of activity. The first, , criminalizes the theft of trade secrets to benefit foreign powers. The second, , criminalizes their theft for commercial or economic purposes. (The statutory penalties are different for the two offenses.) In Commonwealth common law jurisdictions, confidentiality and trade secrets are regarded as an equitable right rather than a property right but penalties for theft are roughly the same as in the United States.\n\nCriticism of the term \"intellectual property\" ranges from discussing its vagueness and abstract overreach to direct contention to the semantic validity of using words like \"property\" and \"rights\" in fashions that contradict practice and law. Many detractors think this term specially serves the doctrinal agenda of parties opposing reform in the public interest or otherwise abusing related legislations; and that it disallows intelligent discussion about specific and often unrelated aspects of copyright, patents, trademarks, etc.\n\nFree Software Foundation founder Richard Stallman argues that, although the term \"intellectual property\" is in wide use, it should be rejected altogether, because it \"systematically distorts and confuses these issues, and its use was and is promoted by those who gain from this confusion\". He claims that the term \"operates as a catch-all to lump together disparate laws [which] originated separately, evolved differently, cover different activities, have different rules, and raise different public policy issues\" and that it creates a \"bias\" by confusing these monopolies with ownership of limited physical things, likening them to \"property rights\". Stallman advocates referring to copyrights, patents and trademarks in the singular and warns against abstracting disparate laws into a collective term. He argues that \"to avoid spreading unnecessary bias and confusion, it is best to adopt a firm policy not to speak or even think in terms of 'intellectual property'.\"\n\nSimilarly, economists Boldrin and Levine prefer to use the term \"intellectual monopoly\" as a more appropriate and clear definition of the concept, which they argue, is very dissimilar from property rights. They further argued that “stronger patents do little or nothing to encourage innovation”, mainly explained by its tendency to create market monopolies, thereby restricting further innovations and technology transfer.\n\nOn the assumption that intellectual property rights are actual rights, Stallman says that this claim does not live to the historical intentions behind these laws, which in the case of copyright served as a censorship system, and later on, a regulatory model for the printing press that may have benefited authors incidentally, but never interfered with the freedom of average readers. Still referring to copyright, he cites legal literature such as the United States Constitution and case law to demonstrate that the law is meant to be an optional and experimental bargain to temporarily trade property rights and free speech for public, not private, benefits in the form of increased artistic production and knowledge. He mentions that \"if copyright were a natural right nothing could justify terminating this right after a certain period of time\".\n\nLaw professor, writer and political activist Lawrence Lessig, along with many other copyleft and free software activists, has criticized the implied analogy with physical property (like land or an automobile). They argue such an analogy fails because physical property is generally rivalrous while intellectual works are non-rivalrous (that is, if one makes a copy of a work, the enjoyment of the copy does not prevent enjoyment of the original). Other arguments along these lines claim that unlike the situation with tangible property, there is no natural scarcity of a particular idea or information: once it exists at all, it can be re-used and duplicated indefinitely without such re-use diminishing the original. Stephan Kinsella has objected to \"intellectual property\" on the grounds that the word \"property\" implies scarcity, which may not be applicable to ideas.\n\nEntrepreneur and politician Rickard Falkvinge and hacker Alexandre Oliva have independently compared George Orwell's fictional dialect Newspeak to the terminology used by intellectual property supporters as a linguistic weapon to shape public opinion regarding copyright debate and DRM.\n\nIn civil law jurisdictions, intellectual property has often been referred to as intellectual rights, traditionally a somewhat broader concept that has included moral rights and other personal protections that cannot be bought or sold. Use of the term \"intellectual rights\" has declined since the early 1980s, as use of the term \"intellectual property\" has increased.\n\nAlternative terms \"monopolies on information\" and \"intellectual monopoly\" have emerged among those who argue against the \"property\" or \"intellect\" or \"rights\" assumptions, notably Richard Stallman. The backronyms \"intellectual protectionism\" and \"intellectual poverty\", whose initials are also \"IP\", have found supporters as well, especially among those who have used the backronym \"digital restrictions management\".\n\nThe argument that an intellectual property right should (in the interests of better balancing of relevant private and public interests) be termed an \"intellectual monopoly privilege\" (IMP) has been advanced by several academics including Birgitte Andersen and Thomas Alured Faunce.\n\nSome critics of intellectual property, such as those in the free culture movement, point at intellectual monopolies as harming health (in the case of pharmaceutical patents), preventing progress, and benefiting concentrated interests to the detriment of the masses, and argue that the public interest is harmed by ever-expansive monopolies in the form of copyright extensions, software patents, and business method patents. More recently scientists and engineers are expressing concern that patent thickets are undermining technological development even in high-tech fields like nanotechnology.\n\nPetra Moser has asserted that historical analysis suggests that intellectual property laws may harm innovation:\nOverall, the weight of the existing historical evidence suggests that patent policies, which grant strong intellectual property rights to early generations of inventors, may discourage innovation. On the contrary, policies that encourage the diffusion of ideas and modify patent laws to facilitate entry and encourage competition may be an effective mechanism to encourage innovation.\n\nIn support of that argument, Jörg Baten, Nicola Bianchi and Petra Moser find historical evidence that especially compulsory licensing – which allows governments to license patents without the consent of patent-owners – encouraged invention in Germany in the early 20th century by increasing the threat of competition in fields with low pre-existing levels of competition.\n\nPeter Drahos notes, \"Property rights confer authority over resources. When authority is granted to the few over resources on which many depend, the few gain power over the goals of the many. This has consequences for both political and economic freedoms with in a society.\"\n\nThe World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) recognizes that conflicts may exist between the respect for and implementation of current intellectual property systems and other human rights. In 2001 the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights issued a document called \"Human rights and intellectual property\" that argued that intellectual property tends to be governed by economic goals when it should be viewed primarily as a social product; in order to serve human well-being, intellectual property systems must respect and conform to human rights laws. According to the Committee, when systems fail to do so they risk infringing upon the human right to food and health, and to cultural participation and scientific benefits. In 2004 the General Assembly of WIPO adopted \"The Geneva Declaration on the Future of the World Intellectual Property Organization\" which argues that WIPO should \"focus more on the needs of developing countries, and to view IP as one of many tools for development—not as an end in itself\".\n\nFurther along these lines, The ethical problems brought up by IP rights are most pertinent when it is socially valuable goods like life-saving medicines are given IP protection. While the application of IP rights can allow companies to charge higher than the marginal cost of production in order to recoup the costs of research and development, the price may exclude from the market anyone who cannot afford the cost of the product, in this case a life-saving drug. \"An IPR driven regime is therefore not a regime that is conductive to the investment of R&D of products that are socially valuable to predominately poor populations\".\n\nLibertarians have differing views on intellectual property. Stephan Kinsella, an anarcho-capitalist on the right-wing of libertarianism, argues against intellectual property because allowing property rights in ideas and information creates artificial scarcity and infringes on the right to own tangible property. Kinsella uses the following scenario to argue this point:\n[I]magine the time when men lived in caves. One bright guy—let's call him Galt-Magnon—decides to build a log cabin on an open field, near his crops. To be sure, this is a good idea, and others notice it. They naturally imitate Galt-Magnon, and they start building their own cabins. But the first man to invent a house, according to IP advocates, would have a right to prevent others from building houses on their own land, with their own logs, or to charge them a fee if they do build houses. It is plain that the innovator in these examples becomes a partial owner of the tangible property (e.g., land and logs) of others, due not to first occupation and use of that property (for it is already owned), but due to his coming up with an idea. Clearly, this rule flies in the face of the first-user homesteading rule, arbitrarily and groundlessly overriding the very homesteading rule that is at the foundation of all property rights.\n\nThomas Jefferson once said in a letter to Isaac McPherson on August 13, 1813:\n\"If nature has made any one thing less susceptible than all others of exclusive property, it is the action of the thinking power called an idea, which an individual may exclusively possess as long as he keeps it to himself; but the moment it is divulged, it forces itself into the possession of every one, and the receiver cannot dispossess himself of it. Its peculiar character, too, is that no one possesses the less, because every other possesses the whole of it. He who receives an idea from me, receives instruction himself without lessening mine; as he who lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me.\"\n\nIn 2005 the RSA launched the Adelphi Charter, aimed at creating an international policy statement to frame how governments should make balanced intellectual property law.\n\nAnother aspect of current U.S. Intellectual Property legislation is its focus on individual and joint works; thus, copyright protection can only be obtained in 'original' works of authorship.\n\nOther criticism of intellectual property law concerns the expansion of intellectual property, both in duration and in scope.\n\nIn addition, as scientific knowledge has expanded and allowed new industries to arise in fields such as biotechnology and nanotechnology, originators of technology have sought IP protection for the new technologies. Patents have been granted for living organisms, (and in the United States, certain living organisms have been patentable for over a century).\n\nThe increase in terms of protection is particularly seen in relation to copyright, which has recently been the subject of serial extensions in the United States and in Europe. With no need for registration or copyright notices, this is thought to have led to an increase in orphan works (copyrighted works for which the copyright owner cannot be contacted), a problem that has been noticed and addressed by governmental bodies around the world.\n\nAlso with respect to copyright, the American film industry helped to change the social construct of intellectual property via its trade organization, the Motion Picture Association of America. In amicus briefs in important cases, in lobbying before Congress, and in its statements to the public, the MPAA has advocated strong protection of intellectual-property rights. In framing its presentations, the association has claimed that people are entitled to the property that is produced by their labor. Additionally Congress's awareness of the position of the United States as the world's largest producer of films has made it convenient to expand the conception of intellectual property. These doctrinal reforms have further strengthened the industry, lending the MPAA even more power and authority.\nThe growth of the Internet, and particularly distributed search engines like Kazaa and Gnutella, have represented a challenge for copyright policy. The Recording Industry Association of America, in particular, has been on the front lines of the fight against copyright infringement, which the industry calls \"piracy\". The industry has had victories against some services, including a highly publicized case against the file-sharing company Napster, and some people have been prosecuted for sharing files in violation of copyright. The electronic age has seen an increase in the attempt to use software-based digital rights management tools to restrict the copying and use of digitally based works. Laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act have been enacted that use criminal law to prevent any circumvention of software used to enforce digital rights management systems. Equivalent provisions, to prevent circumvention of copyright protection have existed in EU for some time, and are being expanded in, for example, Article 6 and 7 the Copyright Directive. Other examples are Article 7 of the Software Directive of 1991 (91/250/EEC), and the Conditional Access Directive of 1998 (98/84/EEC). This can hinder legal uses, affecting public domain works, limitations and exceptions to copyright, or uses allowed by the copyright holder. Some copyleft licenses, like GNU GPL 3, are designed to counter that. Laws may permit circumvention under specific conditions like when it is necessary to achieve interoperability with the circumventor's program, or for accessibility reasons; however, distribution of circumvention tools or instructions may be illegal.\n\nIn the context of trademarks, this expansion has been driven by international efforts to harmonise the definition of \"trademark\", as exemplified by the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights ratified in 1994, which formalized regulations for IP rights that had been handled by common law, or not at all, in member states. Pursuant to TRIPs, any sign which is \"capable of distinguishing\" the products or services of one business from the products or services of another business is capable of constituting a trademark.\n\nIntellectual property has become a core tool in corporate tax planning and tax avoidance. IP is a key component of the leading multinational tax avoidance base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tools, which the OECD estimates costs $100-240 billion in lost annual tax revenues, and includes:\nIn 2017-2018, both the U.S. and the EU Commission simultaneously decided to depart from the OECD BEPS Project timetable, which was set up in 2013 to combat IP BEPS tax tools like the above, and launch their own anti-IP BEPS tax regimes:\n\nThe departure of the U.S. and EU Commission from the OECD BEPS Project process, is attributed to frustrations with the rise in IP as a key BEPS tax tool, creating intangible assets, which are then turned into royalty payment BEPS schemes (double Irish), and/or capital allowance BEPS schemes (capital allowances for intangibles). In contrast, the OECD has spent years developing and advocating intellectual property as a legal and a GAAP accounting concept.\n\nThe EU Commission's €13 billion fine of Apple's pre 2015 double Irish IP BEPS tax scheme, is the largest corporate tax fine in history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17037919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17037919", "title": "Kendell Geers", "text": "Kendell Geers\n\nKendell Geers is a South African conceptual artist.\n\nKendell Geers was born in Johannesburg into a white working-class Afrikaans family during the time of apartheid. \n\nBecoming aware of the political struggles in his country, he ran away from home at the age of 15 to get involved in the anti-apartheid movement. \nKendell finished his schooling at the end of 1984. At the beginning of 1985, to avoid conscription, he enrolled at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg for a Fine Arts degree. \nIn 1988, Kendell Geers was one of 143 young men who publicly refused to serve in the South African Defence Force and faced either a life in exile or six years' imprisonment in a civilian jail. In 1989 he left South Africa and lived for a brief period in exile in the United Kingdom and New York where he worked as an assistant to artist Richard Prince. \n\nIt was only after Nelson Mandela and other political prisoners' release from prison, that Geers could return from exile to Johannesburg without fear of being imprisoned. In 1990, he returned to Johannesburg where he worked as an artist, and art critic, curator and performance artist. The first work of art he created back on South African soil was \"Bloody Hell\", a ritual washing of his white Afrikaaner Boer body with his own fresh blood. \n\nRejecting everything his family and his community stood for, in 1993 he changed his name to Kendell Geers and his date of birth to May 1968 as a political act, reclaiming his identity.\n\nHe moved to Brussels in 2003.\n\nSometimes described as a political artist, Kendell Geers is known best for using a variety of colors and materials that signal danger such as sirens, broken glass, and barbed wire in an attempt to examine power structures, social injustices, and establishment values. Geers has worked with different media ranging from objects to large scale installation, neon works, performances and video.\nGeers also uses words as a means to explore the coding and reinterpretation of language and its meaning and to communicate with his audience.\n\nHis work had heavily political elements from 1988 to 2000, during which time Geers, explored the moral and ethical contradictions of the apartheid system through his practice. He developed a visual vocabulary characterized by provocation as well as humor by using found objects such as barbed wire or glass shards. By appropriating historical events and ideas, he focused on questions of relationship between individual and society. It was in this context that Geers changed his date of birth to May 1968, the start of the student and civil revolution, and joined every political party in the period before South Africa’s first democratic elections, from the extreme right-wing to the Communist party. In this way, he expressed his doubts about the fetishization of party politics.\n\nHe participated in the Venice Biennale in 1993, the first time since the anti-Apartheid boycotts that South African artists had been invited.\n\nFrom 1999 until 2004, Geers worked as the curator and art consult for Gencor which was later bought out by BHP Billiton. The collection focused on artists and works of art that were central to the Anti-Apartheid Movement spirit. In 1997 Geers edited and published \"Contemporary South African Art,\" with essays by Okwui Enwezor, Olu Oguibe, and others.\n\nInitiated by his move to Brussels in 2000, his later European period is characterized by a more poetic aesthetic. Here, Geers transferred his incendiary practice into a post-colonial and increasingly global context, suggesting more universal themes like terrorism, spirituality, and mortality. As such, the artist’s life and work can be said to constitute a living archive composed of political events, photographs, letters, and literary texts that serve as a source of inspiration and represent a continuation of his oeuvre.\n\nIn January 2013 a Geers retrospective called \"1988-2012\" opened at the Haus der Kunst in Munich. \nThe exhibition divided his life and work into two decade-long periods, the first political phase until 2000, and the later more poetic phase.\n\nIn 2011 Geers wrote a Manifesto in which through a series of statements, he explores the link between political and natural revolutions, mourns the loss of our talent for revolution and the underlying causes, and gives us clues on how to remember our inner selves to live a more true life.\n\nTogether with musician Patrick Codenys (Front 242) Kendell Geers formed the Belgium Audio-Visual group \"thefucKINGFUCKS\" in 2007. The project grew out of the now defunct \"Red Snyper\" collaboration between Geers and Codenys.\n\nHe has exhibited globally since 1993 and participated in numerous exhibitions including Documenta, the Carnegie International, Havana Biennial, Istanbul Biennial, Kwang Ju Biennial, Taipei Biennial, Gwangju Biennale, Lyon Biennial, Glasstress at the Venice Biennale, as well as presented solo exhibitions in the CCA Cincinnati, Stedelijk Museum voor Actuele Kunst Gent, Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Aspen Art Museum, MOCA in Rome, Migros Museum, Palais de Tokyo, the CAC in Lyon and Haus der Kunst in Munich. The Divine Comedy. Heaven, Purgatory and Hell Revisited by Contemporary African Artists -Museum für Moderne Kunst (MMK), Frankfurt/Main, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "50504032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50504032", "title": "Leaf carving", "text": "Leaf carving\n\nLeaf carving is an artwork involving the delicate trimming of leaves to develop a picture or landscape. The process of carving is performed by artists using tools to carefully cut the surface without cutting or removing the veins. The veins add detail into the subject matter of the carving. Leaf carving originated out of China and gained popularity in 1994 by artist Huag Tai Sheng after he got the Guinness Book of World Records to recognize his work. The art may related to Chinese paper cutting. The material or most common leaf used in leaf carving is that of the Chinar tree. The Chinar tree is native to India, Pakistan and China. Chinar leaves have a close resemblance to maple leaves.\n"}
{"id": "22266498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22266498", "title": "List of United States airmail stamps", "text": "List of United States airmail stamps\n\nDomestic U.S. Air Mail was established as a new class of mail service by the United States Post Office Department (POD) on May 15, 1918, with the inauguration of the Washington–Philadelphia–New York route. Special postage stamps were issued for use with this service. Domestic air mail became obsolete in 1975, and international air mail in 1995, when the USPS began transporting First Class mail by air on a routine basis. All post-1977 United States stamp images are copyright of USPS.\n\nScott cataloged stamps received a \"C\" designation for airmail issues beginning in 1940. Designated for international mail, and showing a small airplane, the January, 2012 $1.05 Scenic America series issue was designated C150. However, with the January, 2013 issue of the $1.10 Global Forever Stamp no specific airmail purpose was shown in the design. Rather, the Postal Service stated that this \"stamp offers a single price for any First-Class Mail International 1-ounce letter to any country in the world.\" Thus a regular series Scott number, 4740, was designated.\n\nReference:\n\nReference:\n\nReference:\n\nReference:\n\n"}
{"id": "38181580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38181580", "title": "List of fictional colors", "text": "List of fictional colors\n\nThis is a list of fictional colors which were invented for a work of fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37512586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37512586", "title": "List of media set within one day", "text": "List of media set within one day\n\nFull-length media whose entire plot takes place during one day.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19908853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19908853", "title": "Madí", "text": "Madí\n\nMadí (or MADI; also known as Grupo Madí or Arte Madí) is an international abstract (or concrete) art movement initiated in Buenos Aires in 1946 by the Hungarian-Argentinian artist and poet Gyula Kosice, and the Uruguayans Carmelo Arden Quin and Rhod Rothfuss.\n\nThe movement focuses on creating concrete art (i.e., non-representational geometric abstraction) and encompasses all branches of art (the plastic and pictorial arts, music, literature, theater, architecture, dance, etc.). The artists in the Madí movement consider the concrete, physical reality of the art medium and play with the traditional conventions of Western art (for instance, by creating works on irregularly-shaped canvases). Artwork of Madí movement appeared in eight issues of its magazine, \"Arte Madí Universal\", published between 1947 and 1954.\n\nThe Madí art movement formed as a reaction to the major concrete art movement in Argentina at the time, known as the Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención (AACI), whose art was perceived by the Madí group as being too strict in their method of creating concrete art, resulting in a lack of expression in their artworks. \n\nOperating under the rule of Colonel Perón, whose time in power was characterized by a volatile political climate, the Madí artists used their art to make statements with social and political implications. One of the most overt criticisms made by the Madí movement criticized cultural authorities in the \"Arte Madí Universal\" magazine\",\" commenting \"[t]he last submission to the Venice Biennial has signified for Argentina a blunt negation of the new [artistic] values. We invite competent authorities to stop and compare the true current of contemporary plastic arts with the submissions that today put us [our country] half a century behind\", which vaguely attack the aesthetic choices of certain cultural officers under Perón. According to Pérez-Barreiro, Madí and Concrete art (referring to the Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención (AACI)) are the artistic parallel(s) of the political phenomenon of Peronism. These artists were also seen as combining modern art with Communist ideology. Some scholars, including Barreiro, saw the government was an outspoken critic against concrete art as a whole, whereas others such as Andrea Giunta assert that the Madí and Concrete groups were not victimized under Perón's regime; rather, they \"coexisted on its margins\".\n\nThe political regime of Perón made use of both linguistic and visual images for propaganda purposes. This is seen in his use of an image, \"the shirtless workers\" (los descamisados), as an alternative to the concept of the working class. This image had strong connections and connotations with the male worker, shirtless and, unrealistically, without much affliction. In a speech given October 17th, 1946 at Plaza de Mayo, Perón addressed the workers in speeches as \"mis queridos descamisados\" (my loving shirtless workers). At this speech, he declared October 17th the \"Day of the Shirtless Workers\" and stated \"I don’t want to govern over men but over their hearts, because mine beats in unison with the heart of each shirtless worker, which I interpret and love above all things.” The use of representations to create propaganda opened up a clear target for the Madí artists to oppose.\n\nGyula Kosice, who also operated under the pseudonym Raymundo Rasas Pèt, has explained that the name for the movement is derived from the Republican motto in the Spanish Civil War, \"Madrí, Madrí, no pasarán\" (\"Madrid, Madrid, they will not make it in\", i.e., the Francoist forces will not invade Madrid). The name is most typically understood as an acronym for \"Movimiento, Abstracción, Dimensión, Invención\" (Movement, Abstraction, Dimension, Invention).\n\nA Madí work is non-figurative and non-representational; it has a cut-out or irregularly-shaped form, which takes away the viewer's perception of spatial depth that a rectangular frame provides; its colors are flat and sharply defined; it is often three-dimensional and sometimes articulated and/or mechanical; and it is playful in spirit. Madí artists were concerned with creating artworks that were autonomous with functions that naturally transcend the physical features that constitute the work. Introducing elements of transformation and ambiguity were techniques commonly employed by these artists to avoid representation as well as avoid the fixity of representations. In painted works, some artists would intentionally lower the legibility of the design.\n\nThe incorporation of unusual materials into artworks is seen throughout the art movement movement; this includes Plexiglas, fluorescent tubes, neon lights, water, metal, and other materials. An example of this is seen in Kosice's first hydraulic piece, \"La arquitectura del agua: Hidro-escultura (The Architecture of Water: Hydro-Sculpture)\", which utilized light and water interaction.\n\nMadí artists sought to combat representational forms because this art reflected and perpetuated class-based social organizations. They believed that representational images \"forced others to relate to concepts, connotations, and feelings which were superfluous to the object itself... which enticed individuals into supporting class-based organizations\". The Concrete art they produced was meant to have a reality that was self-contained. In other words, the reality of the art ended in the object. In the minds of the Madí artists, \"Concrete art was worthy as a contribution to social liberation\" because it helped its audience grasp true reality while standing against the concepts, connotations and feelings associated with art. To state this differently, exposing people to what is actually reality allows people to eventually confront myths perpetuated by the bourgeois that has suppressed revolution.\n\nMadí is perhaps the sole remaining art movement which can boast of a half-century of uninterrupted activity since its creation in Buenos Aires in 1946. Today, the MADI movement has over 60 members — painters, sculptors, architects and poets — working in France, Italy, Belgium, Spain, Hungary, Japan, Argentina and the United States. One prominent figure behind this fifty years of artistic creation is Carmelo Arden Quin.\n\nThe Madí Manifesto was created to defend the importance of invention in the light of limitations imposed on concrete art by the excessive rationalism of European concrete art. This strictness of form in concrete art was also demonstrated by the Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención (AACI). The manifesto also called for \"the integration of the nonorthogonal framework into representational space\".\n\nIn written works, artists \"disrupted the construction of semantically coherent structures\" to avoid attaching meaning to the art and the possibility of representation. The Madí created a dictionary that accomplished the opposite of what a normal dictionary does in that it confused and distorted the meanings of words and made up words. The following excerpt is from the Madí dictionary, which demonstrates a correct grammatical structure that relates ideas that are impossible to interpret meaningfully. This is an example of this incoherent construction which prevents interpretation:M               Maclode: Upward hill. / Slope to insinuate land.Meril: Kidnapping of flat centimeters. / \"Madícional\" [‘Madí-like’ or ‘of Madí origin’] opposition and resistance.Miogue: Account of events in which the authors of great answers participated.Molois: Site where the most varied adjectives are collected. / \"Fam\". Insult.Musver: About the manner to focus in photography the liveliest glare of a childhood memory. / Fixation.Macichud: Line of shade that emits a loosening of gray beams.NNandy: Arrangement for new personal cuño.Nem-Er: Record of instances.Nigs: Opening that is left so that a cluster of enchanted powder emigrates.Novoh: Shooter that the riverside authority exercises to learn the coastal ruling\n\nRepresentatives of the Madí movement, in addition to Kosice, Quin and Rothfuss, include Martín Blaszko, Waldo Longo, Juan Bay, Esteban Eitler, Diyi Laañ, and Valdo Wellington, among others.\n\n\n\n\n\nTo the question, \"Why MADI?\" Josee Lapeyrere, who met Arden Quin in 1962 and has since participated with her poem-objects in most of the events organized by the movement, replies: \"MADI's goal is to be rigorous, inventive, gay and ludic.\" By the importance to which they accord spiritual and imaginative games, even the most serious MADI artists can be described as playful. Already in 1795, Schiller focused on \"the inborn playful nature of man\" as an explanation for his production of art forms. In his essay, \"Homo Ludens\" (\"Ludic Man\") (1938), Johan Huizinga observed that, \"Play reveals an aspiration to beauty. The terms we use to designate the elements of play are, for the most part, the same as those utilized in the aesthetic realm: beauty, tension, balancing, equilibrium, gradation, contrast, etc. Like art, play engages and delivers. It absorbs. It captivates, or, in other words, it charms. It is full of those two supremely noble qualities which man expresses through rhythm and harmony.\" The French art critic Dominique Jacquemin also remarks that, \"It is possible that Arden Quin's passion for game playing led him to create MADI, the only remaining contemporary art movement which can pride itself in possessing both coherence and a truly international outlook.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127639", "title": "Mise en abyme", "text": "Mise en abyme\n\nIn Western art history, Mise en abyme (; also mise en abîme) is a formal technique of placing a copy of an image within itself, often in a way that suggests an infinitely recurring sequence. In film theory and literary theory, it refers to the technique of inserting a story within a story. The term is derived from heraldry and literally means \"placed into abyss\". It was first appropriated for modern criticism by the French author André Gide.\n\nA common sense of the phrase is the visual experience of standing between two mirrors, seeing as a result an infinite reproduction of one's image. Another is the Droste effect, in which a picture appears within itself, in a place where a similar picture would realistically be expected to appear. That is named after the 1904 Droste cocoa package, which depicts a woman holding a tray bearing a Droste cocoa package, which bears a smaller version of her image.\n\nIn the terminology of heraldry, the \"abyme\" is the center of a coat of arms. The term \"mise en abyme\" then meant put in the center. It described a coat of arms that appears as a smaller shield in the center of a larger one (see Droste effect).\n\nA complex example of \"mise en abyme\" is seen in the coat of arms of the United Kingdom for the period 1816–1837, as used by King George III. The crown of Charlemagne is placed \"en abyme\" within the escutcheon of Hanover, which in turn is \"en abyme\" within the arms of England, Scotland, and Ireland.\n\nAnother example is the two-headed eagle in the modern coat of arms of Russia, which holds a sceptre topped by a similar eagle holding a similar sceptre.\n\nWhile art historians working on the early-modern period adopted this phrase and interpreted it as showing artistic \"self awareness\", medievalists tended not to use it. Many examples, however, can be found in the pre-modern era, as in a mosaic from the Hagia Sophia dated to the year 944. To the left, Justinian I offers the Virgin Mary the Hagia Sophia, which contains the mosaic itself. To the right, Constantine I offers the city of Constantinople (now known as Istanbul), which itself contains the Hagia Sophia.\n\nMore medieval examples can be found in the collection of articles \"Medieval mise-en-abyme: the object depicted within itself\", in which Stuart Whatling conjectures that the self-references sometimes are used to strengthen the symbolism of gift-giving by documenting the act of giving on the object itself. An example of this self-referential gift-giving appears in the Stefaneschi Triptych in the Vatican Museum, which features Cardinal Giacomo Gaetani Stefaneschi as the giver of the altarpiece.\n\nIn Western art history, \"mise en abyme\" is a formal technique in which an image contains a smaller copy of itself, in a sequence appearing to recur infinitely; \"recursive\" is another term for this. The modern meaning of the phrase originates with the author André Gide who used it to describe self-reflexive embeddings in various art forms and to describe what he sought in his own work. As examples, Gide cites both paintings such as \"Las Meninas\" by Diego Velázquez and literary forms such as William Shakespeare's use of the \"play within a play\" device in \"Hamlet\", where a theatrical company presents a performance for the characters that illuminates a thematic aspect of the play itself. This use of the phrase \"mise en abyme\" was picked up by scholars and popularized in the 1977 book \"Le récit spéculaire. Essai sur la mise en abyme\" by Lucien Dällenbach.\n\n\"Mise en abyme\" occurs within a text when there is a reduplication of images or concepts referring to the textual whole. \"Mise en abyme\" is a play of signifiers within a text, of sub-texts mirroring each other. This mirroring can attain a level where meaning may become unstable and, in this respect, may be seen as part of the process of deconstruction. The film-within-a-film, where a film contains a plot about the making of a movie, is an example of \"mise en abyme\". The film being made within the film refers, through its \"mise en scène\", to the real film being made. The spectator sees film equipment, stars getting ready for the take, crew sorting out the various directorial needs. The narrative of the film within the film may directly reflect the one in the real film. An example is \"La Nuit américaine\" (1973) by François Truffaut.\n\nIn film, the meaning of \"mise en abyme\" is similar to the artistic definition, but also includes the idea of a \"dream within a dream\". For example, a character awakens from a dream and later discovers that s/he is still dreaming. Activities similar to dreaming, such as unconsciousness and virtual reality, also are described as \"mise en abyme\". This is seen in the film \"eXistenZ\" where the two protagonists never truly know whether or not they are out of the game. It also becomes a prominent element of Charlie Kaufman's \"Synecdoche, New York\" (2008). A more recent instance can be found in the film \"Inception\" (2010). Classic filmic examples include the snow globe in \"Citizen Kane\" (1941) which provides a clue to the film's core mystery, and the discussion of Edgar Allan Poe's written works (particularly \"The Purloined Letter\") in the Jean-Luc Godard film \"Band of Outsiders\" (1964). \n\nIn literary criticism, \"mise en abyme\" is a type of frame story, in which the core narrative may be used to illuminate some aspect of the framing story. The term is used in deconstruction and deconstructive literary criticism as a paradigm of the intertextual nature of language, that is, of the way language never quite reaches the foundation of reality because it refers in a frame-within-a-frame way, to other language, which refers to other language, and so forth.\n\n"}
{"id": "6648761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6648761", "title": "Morphology (folkloristics)", "text": "Morphology (folkloristics)\n\nMorphology, broadly, is the study of form or structure. Folkloristic morphology, then, is the study of the structure of folklore and fairy tales. \n\nFolkloristic morphology owes its existence to two seminal researchers and theorists: Russian scholar Vladimir Propp and Finnish folklorist Antti Aarne.\n\nAntti Aarne's theories, enlarged and expanded by American folklorist Stith Thompson in 1961 and by Hans-Jörg Uther in 2004, look at motifs rather than actions – for example, \"a soldier makes a deal with the devil\" or \"a soldier marries the youngest of three sisters\". More than 2500 folk and fairy tales have been cataloged under this taxonomy; the AaTh or Aarne–Thompson number is as well-known to folklorists as Francis James Child's identification of ballads are to scholars of folk songs.\n\nVladimir Propp was a Russian structuralist scholar. He criticized Aarne's work for ignoring what motifs \"did\" in a tale, and analysed the basic plot, or action, components of Russian folk tales to identify their simplest irreducible narrative elements. His \"Morphology of the Folk Tale\" was published in Russian in 1928 and influenced Claude Lévi-Strauss and Roland Barthes, though it received little attention from Western scholars until it was translated into English in the 1950s. \n\nIn the Afanasyev's collection of Russian fairy tales, Propp found a limited number of plot elements or \"functions\" that constructed all. These elements occurred in a standard, consistent sequence. He derived thirty-one generic functions, such as \"a difficult task is proposed\" or \"donor tests the hero\" or \"a magical agent is directly transferred\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1430291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430291", "title": "Neomodern", "text": "Neomodern\n\nNeomodern or neomodernist art is a reaction to the complexity of postmodern architecture and eclecticism, seeking greater simplicity.\n\nNeomodern architecture continues modernism as a dominant form of architecture in the 20th and 21st centuries, especially in corporate offices. It tends to be used for certain segments of buildings. Many residential houses tend to embrace postmodern, new classical and neo-eclectic styles, for instance, and major monuments today most often opt for starchitect inspired uniqueness. \nNeomodern architecture shares many of the basic characteristics of modernism. Both reject classical ornamentation, decorations, and deliberate ambitions to continue pre-modernist traditions. Neomodernist buildings, like modernist ones, are designed to be largely monolithic and functional.\n\nThe neomodern artist group was founded in 1997 by Guy Denning on the premise that the diversity of contemporary art was being stifled by the state supported art institutions and organisations. The group have no common style or media but there is a bias towards figurative painting. Original artists listed: Jim Butler, David Cobley, Emily Cole, Mark Demsteader, Guy Denning, Ian Francis, Juno Doran, Ghislaine Howard, Jamin, Maya Kulenovic, Mark Stephen Meadows, Antony Micallef, Motorboy, Carol Peace, Graeme Robbins, Harry Simmonds, Tom Wilmott, Franklin Torres, Kit Wise and Claire Zakiewicz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "378212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378212", "title": "Obverse and reverse", "text": "Obverse and reverse\n\nObverse and its opposite, reverse, refer to the two flat faces of coins and some other two-sided objects, including paper money, flags, seals, medals, drawings, old master prints and other works of art, and printed fabrics. In this usage, \"obverse\" means the front face of the object and \"reverse\" means the back face. The obverse of a coin is commonly called \"heads\", because it often depicts the head of a prominent person, and the reverse \"tails\".\n\nIn fields of scholarship outside numismatics, the term \"front\" is more commonly used than \"obverse\", while usage of \"reverse\" is widespread.\n\nThe equivalent terms used in codicology, manuscript studies, print studies and publishing are \"recto\" and \"verso\".\n\nGenerally, the side of a coin with the larger-scale image will be called the obverse (especially if the image is a single head) and, if that does not serve to distinguish them, the side that is more typical of a wide range of coins from that location will be called the obverse. Following this principle, in the most famous of ancient Greek coins, the tetradrachm of Athens, the obverse is the head of Athena and the reverse is her owl. Similar versions of these two images, both symbols of the state, were used on the Athenian coins for more than two centuries.\n\nIn the many republics of ancient Greece, such as Athens or Corinth, one side of their coins would have a symbol of the state, usually their patron goddess or her symbol, which remained constant through all of the coins minted by that state, which is regarded as the obverse of those coins. The opposite side may have varied from time to time. In ancient Greek monarchical coinage, the situation continued whereby a larger image of a deity, is called the obverse, but a smaller image of a monarch appears on the other side which is called the reverse.\nIn a Western monarchy, it has been customary, following the tradition of the Hellenistic monarchs and then the Roman emperors, for the currency to bear the head of the monarch on one side, which is almost always regarded as the obverse. This change happened in the coinage of Alexander the Great, which continued to be minted long after his death. After his conquest of ancient Egypt, he allowed himself to be depicted on the obverse of coins as a god-king, at least partly because he thought this would help secure the allegiance of the Egyptians, who had regarded their previous monarchs, the pharaohs, as divine. The various Hellenistic rulers who were his successors followed his tradition and kept their images on the obverse of coins.\nA movement back to the earlier tradition of a deity being placed on the obverse occurred in Byzantine coinage, where a head of Christ became the obverse and a head or portrait (half or full-length) of the emperor became considered the reverse. The introduction of this style in the gold coins of Justinian II from the year 695 provoked the Islamic Caliph, Abd al-Malik, who previously had copied Byzantine designs, replacing Christian symbols with Islamic equivalents, finally to develop a distinctive \"Islamic style\", with just lettering on both sides of their coins. This script alone style then was used on nearly all Islamic coinage until the modern period. The type of Justinian II was revived after the end of Iconoclasm, and with variations remained the norm until the end of the Empire. Without images, therefore, it is not always easy to tell which side will be regarded as the obverse without some knowledge.\n\nAfter 695 Islamic coins avoided all images of persons and usually contained script alone. The side expressing the Six Kalimas (the Islamic profession of faith) is usually defined as the obverse.\n\nA convention exists typically to display the obverse to the left (or above) and the reverse to the right (or below) in photographs and museum displays, but this is not invariably observed.\n\nThe form of currency follows its function, which is to serve as a readily accepted medium of exchange of value. Normally, this function rests on a state as guarantor of the value: either as \"trustworthy\" guarantor of the kind and amount of metal in a coin, or as \"powerful\" guarantor of the continuing acceptance of token coins.\n\nTraditionally, most states have been monarchies where the person of the monarch and the state were equivalent for most purposes. For this reason, the \"obverse\" side of a modern piece of currency is the one that evokes that reaction by invoking the strength of the state, and that side almost always depicts a symbol of the state, whether it be the monarch or otherwise.\n\nIf not provided for on the obverse, the reverse side usually contains information relating to a coin's role as medium of exchange (such as the value of the coin). Additional space typically reflects the issuing country's culture or government, or evokes some aspect of the state's territory.\n\nRegarding the euro, some confusion regarding the obverse and reverse of the euro coins exists. Officially, as agreed by the informal Economic and Finance Ministers Council of Verona in April 1996, and despite the fact that a number of countries have a different design for each coin, the distinctive national side for the circulation coins is the \"obverse\" and the common European side (which includes the coin value) is the \"reverse\". This rule does not apply to the collector coins as they do not have a common side.\n\nA number of the designs used for obverse national sides of euro coins were taken from the reverse of the nations' former pre-euro coins. Several countries (such as Spain and Belgium) continue to use portraits of the reigning monarch; while the Republic of Ireland continues to use the State Arms, as on its earlier issues.\n\nIn Japan, from 1897 to the end of World War II, the following informal conventions existed:\n\nThe Chrysanthemum Crest was no longer used after the war, and so (equally informally):\n\nFollowing ancient tradition, the obverse of coins of the United Kingdom (and predecessor kingdoms going back to the middle ages) almost always feature the head of the monarch.\n\nBy tradition, each British monarch faces in the opposite direction of his or her predecessor; this is said to date from 1661, with Charles II turning his back on Oliver Cromwell. Hence, George VI faced left and the present Queen faces right. The only break in this tradition almost occurred in 1936 when Edward VIII, believing his left side to be superior to his right, insisted on his image facing left, as his father's image had. No official legislation prevented his wishes being granted, so left-facing obverses were prepared for minting. Very few examples were struck before he abdicated later that year, but none bearing this portrait ever were issued officially. When George VI acceded to the throne, his image was placed to face left, implying that, had any coins been minted with Edward's portrait the obverses would have depicted Edward facing right and maintained the tradition.\n\nCurrent UK coinage features the following abbreviated Latin inscription: D(ei) G(ratia) REG(ina) F(idei) D(efensor) (\"By the Grace of God, Queen Defender of the Faith\"). Earlier issues, before 1954, included BRITT(anniarum) OMN(ium) (\"of all the Britains\"that is, Britain and its dominions) and before 1949 IND(iae) IMP(erator) (\"Emperor of India\").\n\nThe United States specifies what appears on the obverse and reverse of its currency. The specifications mentioned here imply the use of all upper-case letters, although they appear here in upper and lower case letters for the legibility of the article.\nThe United States government long adhered to including all of the following:\n\nThe ten-year series of Statehood Quarters, whose issue began in 1999, was seen as calling for more space and more flexibility in the design of the reverse. A law specific to this series and the corresponding time period permits the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "252958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252958", "title": "Old wives' tale", "text": "Old wives' tale\n\nAn old wives' tale is a supposed truth which is actually spurious or a superstition. It can be said sometimes to be a type of urban legend, said to be passed down by older women to a younger generation. Such tales are considered superstition, folklore or unverified claims with exaggerated and/or inaccurate details. Old wives' tales often center on women's traditional concerns, such as pregnancy, puberty, social relations, health, herbalism and nutrition.\n\nIn this context, the word \"wife\" means \"woman\" rather than \"married woman\". This usage stems from Old English ' (\"woman\") and is akin to the German ' (also meaning \"woman\"). This sense of the word is still used in Modern English in constructions such as \"midwife\" and \"fishwife\".\n\nOld wives' tales are often invoked to discourage certain behaviors, usually of children, or to share knowledge of folk cures for ailments ranging from toothaches to dysentery.\n\nThe concept of old wives' tales has existed for centuries. In 1611, the King James Bible was published with the following translation of the Apostle Paul writing to his young protégé Timothy, \"But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself [rather] unto godliness\" (I Timothy 4:7 KJV).\n\nOld wives' tales originate in the oral tradition of storytelling. They were generally propagated by illiterate women, telling stories to each other or to children. The stories do not attempt to moralise, but to teach lessons and make difficult concepts like death or coming of age easy for children to understand. These stories are also used to scare children so they don't do certain things.\n\nThese tales have often been collected by literate men, and turned into written works. Fairy tales by Basile, Perrault, and the Grimms have their roots in the oral tradition of women. These male writers took the stories from women, with their plucky, clever heroines and heroes, and turned them into morality tales for children.\n\nExamples of old wives' tales include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1848891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848891", "title": "Paper craft", "text": "Paper craft\n\nPaper craft is the collection of art forms employing paper or card as the primary artistic medium for the creation of three-dimensional objects. It is the most widely used material in arts and crafts. It lends itself to a wide range of techniques, as it can for instance be folded, cut, glued, molded, stitched, or layered. Papermaking by hand is also an important paper craft. Painting and calligraphy though they are commonly applied as decoration are normally considered as separate arts or crafts.\n\nPaper crafts are known in most societies that use paper, with certain kinds of crafts being particularly associated with specific countries or cultures. In Caribbean countries paper craft is unique to Caribbean culture which reflect the importance of native animals in life of people. \n\nIn addition to the aesthetic value of paper crafts, various forms of paper crafts are used in the education of children. Paper is a relatively inexpensive medium, readily available, and easier to work with than the more complicated media typically used in the creation of three-dimensional artwork, such as ceramics, wood, and metals. It is also neater to work with than paints, dyes, and other coloring materials. Paper crafts may also be used in therapeutic settings, providing children with a safe and uncomplicated creative outlet to express feelings.\n\nThe word \"paper\" derives from papyrus, the name of the ancient material manufactured from beaten reeds in Egypt as far back as the third millennium B.C. Indeed, the earliest known example of \"paper folding\" is an ancient Egyptian map, drawn on papyrus and folded into rectangular forms like a modern road map. However, it does not appear that intricate paper folding as an art form became possible until the introduction of wood-pulp based papers. \n\nThe first Japanese origami is dated from the 6th century A.D. In much of the West, the term origami is used synonymously with paper folding, though the term properly only refers to the art of paper folding in Japan. Other forms of paper folding include Zhezhi (Chinese paper folding), Jong-i.e.-jeop-gi, from Korea, and Western paper folding, such as the traditional paper boats and paper planes.\n\nPapel picado, as practiced in Mexico and other places in Latin America is done using chisels to cut 50 to a hundred sheets at a time, while Chinese paper cutting uses knives or scissors for up to 8 sheets. Wycinanki and other European forms usually are done on one single sheet. In either of these traditions, paper sheets are folded prior to cutting to achieve symmetrical designs.\n\nImages built using colored paper pulp are a form of paper art that started in the 20th century. Chuck Close, Lynn Sures are among contemporary artist developing this medium. Paper pulp craft is widely used in rural India for making kitchen utility baskets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "150463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150463", "title": "Parable", "text": "Parable\n\nA parable is a succinct, didactic story, in prose or verse that illustrates one or more instructive lessons or principles. It differs from a fable in that fables employ animals, plants, inanimate objects, or forces of nature as characters, whereas parables have human characters. A parable is a type of analogy.\n\nSome scholars of the canonical gospels and the New Testament apply the term \"parable\" only to the parables of Jesus, though that is not a common restriction of the term. Parables such as \"The Prodigal Son\" are central to Jesus's teaching method in the canonical narratives and the apocrypha.\n\nThe word \"parable\" comes from the Greek παραβολή (\"parabolē\"), meaning \"comparison, illustration, analogy.\" It was the name given by Greek rhetoricians to an illustration in the form of a brief fictional narrative.\n\nParables are often used to explore ethical concepts in spiritual texts. The Bible contains numerous parables in the Gospels section of the New Testament (Jesus's parables). These are believed by some scholars (such as John P. Meier) to have been inspired by mashalim, a form of Hebrew comparison. Examples of Jesus' parables include the Good Samaritan and the Prodigal Son. Mashalim from the Old Testament include the parable of the ewe-lamb (told by Nathan in 2 Samuel 12:1-9) and the parable of the woman of Tekoah (in 2 Samuel 14:1-13 ).\n\nParables also appear in Islam. In Sufi tradition, parables are used for imparting lessons and values. Recent authors such as Idries Shah and Anthony de Mello have helped popularize these stories beyond Sufi circles.\n\nModern parables also exist. A mid-19th-century example, the Parable of the broken window, criticises a part of economic thinking.\n\nA parable is a short tale that illustrates a universal truth; it is a simple narrative. It sketches a setting, describes an action, and shows the results. It may sometimes be distinguished from similar narrative types, such as the allegory and the apologue.\n\nA parable often involves a character who faces a moral dilemma or one who makes a bad decision and then suffers the unintended consequences. Although the meaning of a parable is often not explicitly stated, it is not intended to be hidden or secret but to be quite straightforward and obvious.\n\nThe defining characteristic of the parable is the presence of a subtext suggesting how a person should behave or what he should believe. Aside from providing guidance and suggestions for proper conduct in one's life, parables frequently use metaphorical language which allows people to more easily discuss difficult or complex ideas. Parables express an abstract argument by means of using a concrete narrative which is easily understood.\n\nThe allegory is a more general narrative type; it also employs metaphor. Like the parable, the allegory makes a single, unambiguous point. An allegory may have multiple noncontradictory interpretations and may also have implications that are ambiguous or hard to interpret. As H.W. Fowler put it, the object of both parable and allegory \"is to enlighten the hearer by submitting to him a case in which he has apparently no direct concern, and upon which therefore a disinterested judgment may be elicited from him, ...\" The parable is more condensed than the allegory: it rests upon a single principle and a single moral, and it is intended that the reader or listener shall conclude that the moral applies equally well to his own concerns.\n\nMedieval interpreters of the Bible often treated Jesus' parables as allegories, with symbolic correspondences found for every element in his parables. But modern scholars, beginning with Adolf Jülicher, regard their interpretations as incorrect. Jülicher held that Jesus' parables are intended to make a single important point, and most recent scholarship agrees.\n\nGnostics suggested that Jesus kept some of his teachings secret within the circle of his disciples and that he deliberately obscured their meaning by using parables. For example, in Mark 4:11–12:\n\nThe parable is related to figures of speech such as the metaphor and the simile, but it should not be identified with them.\n\nA parable is like a metaphor in that it uses concrete, perceptible phenomena to illustrate abstract ideas. It may be said that a parable is a metaphor that has been extended to form a brief, coherent narrative.\n\nA parable also resembles a simile, i.e., a metaphorical construction in which something is said to be \"like\" something else (e.g., \"The just man is like a tree planted by streams of water\"). However, unlike the meaning of a simile, a parable's meaning is implicit (although not secret).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "504974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504974", "title": "Patronage", "text": "Patronage\n\nPatronage is the support, encouragement, privilege, or financial aid that an organization or individual bestows to another. In the history of art, arts patronage refers to the support that kings, popes, and the wealthy have provided to artists such as musicians, painters, and sculptors. It can also refer to the right of bestowing offices or church benefices, the business given to a store by a regular customer, and the guardianship of saints. The word \"patron\" derives from the (\"patron\"), one who gives benefits to his clients (see Patronage in ancient Rome).\n\nIn some countries the term is used to describe political patronage, which is the use of state resources to reward individuals for their electoral support. Some patronage systems are legal, as in the Canadian tradition of the Prime Minister to appoint senators and the heads of a number of commissions and agencies; in many cases, these appointments go to people who have supported the political party of the Prime Minister. As well, the term may refer to a type of corruption or favoritism in which a party in power rewards groups, families, ethnicities for their electoral support using illegal gifts or fraudulently awarded appointments or government contracts.\n\nFrom the ancient world onward, patronage of the arts was important in art history. It is known in greatest detail in reference to medieval and Renaissance Europe, though patronage can also be traced in feudal Japan, the traditional Southeast Asian kingdoms, and elsewhere—art patronage tended to arise wherever a royal or imperial system and an aristocracy dominated a society and controlled a significant share of resources. Samuel Johnson defined a patron as \"one who looks with unconcern on a man struggling for life in the water, and, when he has reached ground, encumbers him with help\".\n\nRulers, nobles and very wealthy people used patronage of the arts to endorse their political ambitions, social positions, and prestige. That is, patrons operated as sponsors. Most languages other than English still use the term \"mecenate\", derived from the name of Gaius Maecenas, generous friend and adviser to the Roman Emperor Augustus. Some patrons, such as the Medici of Florence, used artistic patronage to \"cleanse\" wealth that was perceived as ill-gotten through usury. Art patronage was especially important in the creation of religious art. The Roman Catholic Church and later Protestant groups sponsored art and architecture, as seen in churches, cathedrals, painting, sculpture and handicrafts.\n\nWhile sponsorship of artists and the commissioning of artwork is the best-known aspect of the patronage system, other disciplines also benefited from patronage, including those who studied natural philosophy (pre-modern science), musicians, writers, philosophers, alchemists, astrologers, and other scholars. Artists as diverse and important as Chrétien de Troyes, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, William Shakespeare, and Ben Jonson all sought and enjoyed the support of noble or ecclesiastical patrons. Figures as late as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Ludwig van Beethoven also participated in the system to some degree; it was only with the rise of bourgeois and capitalist social forms in the middle 19th century that European culture moved away from its patronage system to the more publicly supported system of museums, theaters, mass audiences and mass consumption that is familiar in the contemporary world. \nThis kind of system continues across many fields of the arts. Though the nature of the sponsors has changed—from churches to charitable foundations, and from aristocrats to plutocrats—the term \"patronage\" has a more neutral connotation than in politics. It may simply refer to direct support (often financial) of an artist, for example by grants. In the latter part of the 20th century, the academic sub-discipline of patronage studies began to evolve, in recognition of the important and often neglected role that the phenomenon of patronage had played in the cultural life of previous centuries.\n\nCharitable and other non-profit making organisations often seek an influential figurehead to act as patron. The relationship often does not involve money. As well as conferring credibility, these people can use their contacts and charisma to assist the organisation to raise funds or to affect government policy. The British Royal Family are especially prolific in this respect, devoting a large proportion of their time to a wide range of causes.\n\nSometimes consumers support smaller or local businesses or corporations out of loyalty even if less expensive options exist. Their regular custom is referred to as 'patronage'. Patronage may entitle members of a cooperative to a share of the surplus or profit generated by the co-op, called a \"patronage refund\". This refund is a form of dividend.\n\nIn the Church of England, \"patronage\" is the commonly used term for the right to present a candidate to a benefice.\n\nThe liturgical feast of the Patronage of Our Lady was first permitted by Decree of the Sacred Congregation of Rites on 6 May 1679, for all the ecclesiastical provinces of Spain, in memory of the victories obtained over the Saracens, heretics and other enemies from the sixth century to the reign of Philip IV of Spain. Pope Benedict XII ordered it to be kept in the Papal States on the third Sunday of November. To other places it is granted, on request, for some Sunday in November, to be designated by the ordinary. In many places the feast of the Patronage is held with an additional Marian title of Queen of All Saints, of Mercy, Mother of Graces. The Office is taken entirely from the Common of the Blessed Virgin, and the Mass is the \"Salve sancta parens\".\n\nThe Church Patronage (Scotland) Act 1711, (in force until 1874) resulted in multiple secessions from the Church of Scotland, including the secession of 1733, which led to the formation of the Associate Presbytery, the secession of 1761, which led to the formation of the Relief Church, and the Disruption of 1843, which led to the formation of the Free Church of Scotland.\n\nWhile most news companies, particularly in North America are funded through advertising revenue, secondary funding sources include audience members and philanthropists who donate to for-profit and non-profit organizations.\n\nPolitical leaders have at their disposal a great deal of patronage, in the sense that they make decisions on the appointment of officials inside and outside government (for example on quangos in the UK). Patronage is therefore a recognized power of the executive branch. In most countries the executive has the right to make many appointments, some of which may be lucrative (see also sinecures). In some democracies, high-level appointments are reviewed or approved by the legislature (as in the advice and consent of the United States Senate); in other countries, such as those using the Westminster system, this is not the case. Other types of political patronage may violate the laws or ethics codes, such as when political leaders engage in nepotism (hiring family members) and cronyism such as fraudulently awarding non-competitive government contracts to friends or relatives or pressuring the public service to hire an unqualified family member or friend.\n\nPolitical patronage, also known as \"Padrino System\" also a slang call as \"balimbing\" (starfruit), in the Philippines, has been the source of many controversies and corruption. It has been an open secret that one cannot join the political arena of the Philippines without mastery of the Padrino System. From the lowest Barangay official, to the President of the Republic, it is expected that one gains political debts and dispenses political favor to advance one's career or gain influence, if not wealth.\n\nAfter Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin's retirement from politics in March 1923 following a stroke, a power struggle began between Soviet Premier Alexei Rykov, Pravda editor Nikolai Bukharin, Profintern leader Mikhail Tomsky, Red Army founder Leon Trotsky, former Premier Lev Kamenev, Comintern leader Grigory Zinoviev, and General Secretary Joseph Stalin. Stalin used patronage to appoint many Stalinist delegates (such as Vyacheslav Molotov, Lazar Kaganovich, Grigory Ordzhonikidze, and Mikhail Kalinin) to the Party Politburo and Sovnarkom in order to sway the votes in his favour, making Stalin the effective leader of the country by 1929.\n\nDuring 2012, the African National Congress (ANC) mayor of Beaufort West in the Western Cape Province wrote a letter which openly and illegally solicited funds from the Construction Education and Training Authority for the ANC's 2016 election campaign. This episode, amongst many others including instances revolving around president Jacob Zuma, revealed how the African National Congress as ruling political party utilized patronage to reward supporters and strengthen the leading faction of the party's control over governmental institutions.\n\nIn the United States during the Gilded Age, patronage became a controversial issue. Tammany boss William M. Tweed was an American politician who ran what is considered now to have been one of the most corrupt political machines in the country's history. Tweed and his cronies ruled for a brief time with absolute power over the city and state of New York. At the height of his influence, Tweed was the third-largest landowner in New York City, a director of the Erie Railway, the Tenth National Bank, and the New-York Printing Company, as well as proprietor of the Metropolitan Hotel. At times he was a member of the United States House of Representatives, the New York City Board of Advisors, and the New York State Senate. In 1873, Tweed was convicted for diverting between $40 million and $200 million of public monies.\n\nSix months after James Garfield became president in 1881, Charles J. Guiteau, a disappointed office-seeker, assassinated him. To prevent further political violence and to assuage public outrage, Congress passed the Pendleton Act in 1883, which set up the Civil Service Commission. Henceforth, applicants for most federal government jobs would have to pass an examination. Federal politicians' influence over bureaucratic appointments waned, and patronage declined as a national political issue.\n\nBeginning in 1969, a Supreme Court case in Chicago, Michael L. Shakman v. Democratic Organization of Cook County, occurred involving political patronage and its constitutionality. Shakman claimed that much of the patronage going on in Chicago politics was unlawful on the grounds of the first and fourteenth amendments. Through a series of legal battle and negotiations, the two parties agreed upon The Shakman Decrees. Under these decrees it was declared that the employment status of most public employees could not be affected positively or negatively based on political allegiance, with exceptions for politically inclined positions. The case is still in negotiation today, as there are points yet to be decided.\n\nPolitical patronage is not always considered corrupt. In the United States, the U.S. Constitution provides the president with the power to appoint individuals to government positions. He or she also may appoint personal advisers without congressional approval. Not surprisingly, these individuals tend to be supporters of the president. Similarly, at the state and local levels, governors and mayors retain appointments powers. Some scholars have argued that patronage may be used for laudable purposes, such as the \"recognition\" of minority communities through the appointment of their members to a high-profile positions. Bearfield has argued that patronage be used for four general purposes: create or strengthen a political organization; achieve democratic or egalitarian goals; bridge political divisions and create coalitions; and to alter the existing patronage system.\n\nBoliburguesía is a term that was coined by journalist Juan Carlos Zapata in order to \"define the oligarchy that has developed under the protection of the Chavez government\". During Hugo Chávez's tenure, he seized thousands of properties and businesses while also reducing the footprint of foreign companies. Venezuela's economy was then largely state-run and was operated by military officers that had their business and government affairs connected. Senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, Harold Trinkunas, stated that involving the military in business was \"a danger\", with Trinkunas explaining that the Venezuelan military \"has the greatest ability to coerce people, into business like they have\". According to \"Bloomberg Business\", \"[b]y showering contracts on former military officials and pro-government business executives, Chavez put a new face on the system of patronage\".\n\nThere are historical examples where the noble classes financed scientific pursuits.\n\nMany Barmakids were patrons of the sciences, which greatly helped the propagation of Indian science and scholarship from the neighbouring Academy of Gundishapur into the Arabic world. They patronized scholars such as Gebir and Jabril ibn Bukhtishu. They are also credited with the establishment of the first paper mill in Baghdad. The power of the Barmakids in those times is reflected in \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\"; the vizier Ja'far appears in several stories, as well as a tale that gave rise to the expression \"Barmecide feast\".\n\nIn the same manner as commercial patronage, those who attend a sporting event may be referred to as patrons, though the usage in much of the world is now considered archaic—with some notable exceptions. Those who attend the Masters Tournament, one of the four major championship of professional golf, are still traditionally referred to as \"patrons,\" largely at the insistence of the Augusta National Golf Club. This insistence is occasionally made fun of by sportswriters and other media. In polo, a \"patron\" is a person who puts together a team by hiring one or more professionals. The rest of the team may be amateurs, often including the patron himself (or, increasingly, herself).\n\nAlso, people who attend hurling or Gaelic football games organised by the Gaelic Athletic Association are referred to as patrons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21052174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21052174", "title": "Pleiades in folklore and literature", "text": "Pleiades in folklore and literature\n\nThe high visibility of the star cluster Pleiades in the night sky has guaranteed it a special place in many cultures, both ancient and modern. The heliacal rising of Pleiades often marks important calendar points for ancient peoples.\n\nThe Tuareg Berbers living in the desert of North Africa call the Pleiades Cat iheḍ (pronounced: \"shat ihedd\"), or Cat ahăḍ (pronounced: \"shat ahadd\"). The name means in Berber: \"daughters of the night\". Other Berbers call this star cluster: Amanar (meaning: \"the guide\") or Tagemmunt (meaning: \"the group\").\n\nA Tuareg Berber proverb says:\n\n\"Cat ahăḍ as uḍănăt, ttukayeɣ ttegmyeɣ, anwar daɣ ttsasseɣ. As d-gmaḍent, ttukayeɣ ttegmyeɣ tabruq ttelseɣ.\"\n\nTranslation: When the Pleiades fall, I wake up looking for my goatskin bag to drink. When (the Pleiades) rise, I wake up looking for a cloth to wear.\n\nMeaning: When the Pleiades \"fall\" with the sun on the west, it means the hot season is coming, which implies the heat and the thirst of the summer. When the Pleiades rise from the east with the sun, it means the cold and rainy season is coming, and thus one does well to prepare for the cold.\n\nIn the Bible, the Pleiades are mentioned as כימה (\"Khima\") three times, always in conjunction with Orion—Amos 5:8; Job 9:9; and Job 38:31. The first two verses are references about their creation, but the third (taken in the context of the following verses) may be more about their ongoing appearance in the night sky. In Job 38:31, the Lord is speaking directly to Job and challenges him, asking if he can bind the chains of the Pleiades—the implication being that Job cannot, but the Lord can. Talmud (Bavli, Berakhot, 58b) says that it has about 100 stars, understanding the word כימה as כמאה \"ke' me-ah,\" \"about one hundred\" in Hebrew.\n\nThey are known as kimah in Jewish culture.\n\nLike most other astronomical findings in the Talmud, rabbinic tradition claims to have gotten such knowledge from Moses when he descended down from Mount Sinai, and hence, from God Himself.\n\nRabbi Shlomo Yitzchaki (\"Rashi\", 1040-1105), suggested that there were even more stars within the Pleiades Cluster when he expanded on the Talmud's question, \"What is meant by Kimah?” which is understood by the modern Orthodox community to mean that there are more than a hundred stars. Therefore, Rashi was saying that the passage in the Talmud only mentioned the most important stars, this numbering to about a hundred, while leaving out the less important ones (which could be hundreds more).\n\nAmazingly, the Pleiades are at max, 500 light years away, and here were the rabbis, commenting on the number of stars where other cultures could only detect 6-7.\n\nIn Arabic the Pleiades are known as \"al-Thurayya\" الثريا, and mentioned in Islamic literature. Muhammad is noted to have counted twelve stars in the constellation as reported in Ibn Ishaq (this was in the time before telescopes when most could only see six).\nThe name was borrowed into Persian and Turkish as a female given name, and is in use throughout the Middle East (for example Princess Soraya of Iran and Thoraya Obaid). It is also the name of the Thuraya satellite phone system based in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nMuhammad made mention of the Pleiades. A Hadith recalled by Imam Bukhari, states:\n\n\"*The chapter talked about above is Chapter 62 - Surah Al-Jummah - from the Qur'an.\"\n\n\"**The verse quoted here is verse 3 from the aforementioned chapter.\"\n\nIn Turkish the Pleiades are known as \"Ülker\". According to the Middle Turkic lexicographer Kaşgarlı Mahmud, writing in the 11th century, \"ülker çerig\" refers to a military ambush (\"çerig\" meaning 'troops in battle formation'): \"The army is broken up into detachments posted in various places,\" and when one detachment falls back the others follow after it, and by this device \"(the enemy) is often routed.\" Thus \"ülker çerig\" literally means 'an army made up of a group of detachments', which forms an apt simile for a star cluster. Ülker is also a unisex given name, a surname and the name of a food company best known for its chocolates.\n\nIn the Persian language Pleiades is known as \"Parvin\". Parvin is also a very popular given name in Iran and neighbouring countries (for example Parvin E'tesami).\n\nThe word has acquired a meaning of \"multitude\", inspiring the name of the French literary movement La Pléiade and an earlier group of Alexandrian poets, the Alexandrian Pleiad.\n\nIn Greek mythology, the stars of Pleiades represented the Seven Sisters.\n\nTo the Vikings, the Pleiades were Freyja's hens, and their name in many old European languages such as Hungarian compares them to a hen with chicks.\n\nThe astrological Pleiades were described in \"Three Books of Occult Philosophy\" by Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa (Köln, 1533, but published manuscript as early as 1510).\n\nIn Western astrology they represent coping with sorrow and were considered a single one of the medieval fixed stars. As such, they are associated with quartz and fennel.\n\nIn esoteric astrology the seven solar systems revolve around Pleiades.\n\nTo the Bronze Age people of Europe, such as the Celts (and probably considerably earlier), the Pleiades were associated with mourning and with funerals, since at that time in history, on the cross-quarter day between the autumn equinox and the winter solstice (see Samhain, also Halloween or All Souls Day), which was a festival devoted to the remembrance of the dead, the cluster rose in the eastern sky as the sun's light faded in the evening. It was from this acronychal rising that the Pleiades became associated with tears and mourning. As a result of precession over the centuries, the Pleiades no longer marked the festival, but the association has nevertheless persisted, and may account for the significance of the Pleiades astrologically.\n\nIn Baltic languages the name for this constellation is Sietynas in Lithuanian and Sietiņš in Latvian which is derived from \"sietas\" meaning \"a sieve\". In Lithuanian folk songs this constellation is often personified as a benevolent brother who helps orphan girls to marry or walks soldiers along the fields. But in Lithuanian folk tales as well as Latvian folk songs this constellation is usually depicted as an inanimate object, a sieve which gets stolen by the devil from the thunder god or is used to conjure light rain by thunder's wife and children.\n\nIn Ukrainian traditional folklore the Pleiades are known as Стожари (Stozhary), Волосожари (Volosozhary), or Баби-Звізди (Baby-Zvizdy).\n\n'Stozhary' can be etymologically traced to \"стожарня\" (stozharnya) meaning a 'granary', 'storehouse for hay and crops', or can also be reduced to the root \"сто-жар\", (sto-zhar) meaning 'hundredfold glowing' or \"a hundred embers\".\n\n'Volosozhary' (the ones whose hair is glowing), or 'Baby-Zvizdy' (female-stars) refer to the female tribal deities. According to the legend, seven maids lived long ago. They used to dance the traditional round dances and sing the glorious songs to honor the gods. After their death the gods turned them into water nymphs, and, having taken them to the Heavens, settled them upon the seven stars, where they dance their round dances (symbolic for moving the time) to this day. (see article in Ukrainian Wikipedia)\n\nIn Ukraine this asterism was considered a female talisman until recent times.\n\nThe old name of the starcluster in Hungarian is \"Fiastyúk\", meaning 'a hen with chicks'. There is also a version of the story popularized by the song \"A Nap és Szép háza\" (House of Sun and Wind) of Hungarian folk metal band Dalriada speaking of a poor woman with seven sons who cursed her sons to turn into ravens after the sons wasted their only food. She failed to find them, but received a prophecy that an eighth brother could find the sons. Her eighth son thus went to look for his brothers, died and the brothers as ravens came to feast on his carcass, resulting in them dying as well and the eight of them getting a place in the sky as the Pleiades cluster. \n\nIt was common among the indigenous peoples of the Americas to measure keenness of vision by the number of stars the viewer could see in the Pleiades, a practice which was also used in historical Europe, especially in Greece.\n\nIn the ancient Andes, the Pleiades were associated with abundance, because they return to the Southern Hemisphere sky each year at harvest-time. In Quechua they are called \"Qullqa\" (storehouse).\n\nThe ancient Aztecs of Mexico and Central America based their calendar upon the Pleiades. Their year began when priests first remarked the asterism heliacal rising in the east, immediately before the sun's dawn light obliterated the view of the stars. Aztecs called the Pleiades Tianquiztli (meaning \"marketplace\").\n\nPaul Goble, Native American storyteller, tells a Blackfoot legend that he says is told by other tribes as well. In the story, the Pleiades are orphans (\"Lost Boys\") that were not cared for by the people, so they became stars. Sun Man is angered by the mistreatment of the children and punishes the people with a draught, causing the buffalo to disappear, until the dogs, the only friends of the orphans, intercede on behalf of the people. Because the buffalo are not available while the Lost Boys are in the skies, the cosmical setting of the Pleaides was an assembly signal for Blackfoot hunter to travel to their hunting grounds to conduct the large-scale hunts, culminating in slaughters at buffalo jumps, that characterized their culture.\n\nA Cherokee myth (similar to that of the Onondaga people) indicates that seven boys who would not do their ceremonial chores and wanted only to play, ran around and around the ceremonial ball court in a circle, and rose up into the sky. Only six of the boys made it to the sky; the seventh was caught by his mother and fell to the ground with such force that he sank into the ground. A pine tree grew over his resting place.\n\nA Cheyenne myth \"The Girl Who Married a Dog\", states that the group of seven stars known as the Pleiades originated from seven puppies which a Cheyenne chief's daughter gave birth to after mysteriously being visited by a dog in human form to whom she vowed \"Wherever you go, I go\".\n\nThe Hopi had a relatively limited star lore, but determined the passage of time for nighttime rituals in the winter by observing the Pleiades (\"Tsöösöqam\") and Orion through a kiva entrance hatch as they passed overhead. The Pleiades were depicted in a mural on one kiva wall.\n\nThe Lakota Tribe of North America had a legend that linked the origin of the Pleiades to Devils Tower. According to the Seris (of northwestern Mexico), these stars are seven women who are giving birth. The constellation is known as \"Cmaamc\", which is apparently an archaic plural of the noun \"cmaam\" \"woman\".\n\nThe Monache people tell of six wives who loved onions more than their husbands and now live happily in \"sky country\".\n\nThe early Monte Alto Culture, and others in Guatemala such as Ujuxte and Takalik Abaj, made their early observatories using the Pleiades and \"Eta Draconis\" as reference; they were called \"the seven sisters\", and thought to be their original land.\n\nA Nez Perce myth about this constellation mirrors the ancient Greek myths about the Lost Pleiades. In the Nez Perce version the Pleiades is also a group of sisters, however the story itself is somewhat different. One sister falls in love with a man and, following his death, is so absorbed by her own grief that she tells her sisters about him. They mock her and tell her how silly it is of her to feel sad for the human after his death, and she in return keeps her growing sadness to herself, eventually becoming so ashamed and miserable about her own feelings that she pulls the sky over her face like a veil, blocking herself from view. This myth explains why there are only six of the seven stars visible to the naked eye.\n\nThe Pleiades (\"dilγéhé\") play a major role in Navajo folklore and ritual. In the Navajo creation story, Upward-reachingway, \"dilγéhé\" was the first constellation placed in the sky by Black God. When Black God entered the hogan of creation, the Pleiades were on his ankle; he stamped his foot and they moved to his knee, then to his ankle, then to his shoulder, and finally to his left temple. The seven stars of \"dilγéhé\" are depicted on ceremonial masks of Black God, in sand paintings and on ceremonial gourd rattles.\n\nThe Onondaga people's version of the story has lazy children who prefer to dance over their daily chores ignoring the warnings of the Bright Shining Old Man.\n\nThe Skidi Pawnee consider the Pleiades to be seven brothers. They observed the seven brothers, as well as Corona Borealis, the Chiefs, through the smoke hole of Pawnee lodges to determine the time of night.\n\nThe Shasta people tell a story of the children of racoon killed by coyote avenging their father's death and then rising into the sky to form the Pleiades. The smallest star in the cluster is said to be coyote's youngest who aided the young racoons.\n\nAmong the Ban Raji people, who live in semi-nomadic settlements scattered throughout western Nepal and northern India, the Pleiades are called the \"Seven sisters-in-law and one brother-in-law\" (\"Hatai halyou daa salla\"). Ban Rajis note that when the Pleiades rises up over the mountain each night, they feel happy to see their ancient kin (Fortier 2008: in press). On a more practical note, Ban Rajis can tell that evening has arrived, indicating that it is about eight o'clock by local time standards when their star-kin rise above the Nepali mountains bordering the Kali River.\n\nIn Chinese constellations they are 昴 \"mao\", the \"Hairy Head\" of the white tiger of the West.\n\nIn Indian astrology the Pleiades were known as the nakshatra which in Sanskrit is translated as \"the cutters\". The Pleiades are called the \"star of fire,\" and their ruling deity is the fire god Agni. It is one of the most prominent of the nakshatra, and is associated with anger and stubbornness. Karthigai (கார்த்திகை) in Tamil refers to the six wives of the six rishi (sages), the seventh being Arundhati the wife of Vasistha which relates to the star Alcor in Ursa Major. The six stars in Pleiades correspond to six wives, while the faithful wife Arundhati stuck with Sage Vasistha in Ursa Major. The six wives fell in love with Agni, hence the name Pleiades (star of fire).\n\nIn the island of Java, the asterism is known in Javanese as \"Lintang Kartika\" or \"Gugus Kartika\" (\"Kartika cluster\"), a direct influence from the ancient Hindu Javanese. Influenced by Hinduism, the stars represent the seven princesses, which is represented in the court dance of Bedhaya Ketawang of the royal palaces of Surakarta. The dance is performed once per year, on the second day of the Javanese month of Ruwah (during May) and is performed by the nine females, relatives or wives of the Susuhunan (prince) of Surakarta before a private audience in the inner circle of the Sultanate family. Another name for Pleiades in Java is \"Wuluh\".\n\nIn northern Java, its rising marks the arrival of the \"mangsa kapitu\" (\"seventh season\"), which marks the beginning of rice planting season.\n\nIn Japan, the Pleiades are known as 昴 \"Subaru\" which means \"coming together\" or cluster in Japanese, and have given their name to the car manufacturer whose logo incorporates six stars to represent the five companies that merged into one. Subaru Telescope, located in Mauna Kea Observatory on Hawaii, is also named after the Pleiades.\n\nIn Thailand the Pleiades are known as (ดาวลูกไก่) or the \"Chick Stars\", from a Thai folk tale. The story tells that a poor elderly couple who lived in a forest had raised a family of chickens: a mother hen and her six (or alternately seven) chicks. One day a monk arrived at the couple's home during his Dhutanga journey. Worried that they had no suitable food to offer him, the elderly couple contemplated cooking the mother hen. The hen overheard the conversation, and rushed back to the coop to say farewell to her children. She told them to take care of themselves, and that her death would repay the kindness of the elderly couple, who had taken care of all of them for so long. As the mother hen's feathers were being burned over a fire, the chicks threw themselves into fire in order to die along with their mother. The deity, impressed by and in remembrance of their love, immortalized the seven chickens as the stars of the Pleiades. In tellings of the story in which there were only six chicks, the mother is included, but often includes only the seven chicks.\n\nDepending on the language group or clan, there are several Aboriginal stories regarding the origins of the Pleiades. Some Indigenous Australian peoples believed the Pleiades was a woman who had been nearly raped by Kidili, the man in the moon.\n\nIn a legend told by the Wurundjeri people of south-eastern Australia, the Pleiades were represented by the seven Karatgurk sisters. These women were the first to possess the secret of fire and each one carried live coals on the end of her digging stick. Although they refused to share these coals with anybody, they were ultimately tricked into giving up their secret by Crow, who subsequently brought fire to mankind. After this, the Karatgurk sisters were swept into the night sky. Their glowing fire sticks became the bright stars of the Pleiades cluster.\n\nAnother version, often painted by Gabriella Possum Nungurayyi as this is her dreaming (or creation story), daughter of the late Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri from the Central desert art movement of Papunya, depicts the story of seven Napaltjarri sisters being chased by a man named Jilbi Tjakamarra. He tried to practice love magic on one of the sisters but the sister did not want to be with him, and ran away from him together with her sisters. They sat down at Uluru to search for honey ants but when they saw Jilbi, they went to Kurlunyalimpa and with the spirits of Uluru, transformed into stars. Jilbi transforms himself into what is commonly known as the Morning Star in Orion's belt , thus continuing to chase the seven sisters across the sky.\n\nThere is an analogous holiday in Hawaiʻi known as Makahiki.\n\nOccurring June 20 – June 22, the winter solstice (\"Te Maruaroa o Takurua\") is seen by the New Zealand Māori as the middle of the winter season. It follows directly after the first sighting of \"Matariki\" (The Pleiades) and \"Puanga/Puaka\" (Rigel) in the dawn sky, an event which marked the beginning of the New Year and was said to be when the Sun turned from his northern journey with his winter-bride \"Takurua\" (Sirius) and began his journey back to his summer-bride \"Hine Raumati\".\n\nIn the Swahili language of East Africa they are called \"kilimia\" (Proto-Bantu *ki-dimida in Bantu areas E, F, G, J, L, and S) which comes from the verb \"-lima\" meaning \"dig\" or \"cultivate\" as their visibility was taken as a sign to prepare digging as the onset of the rain was near.\n\nIn the closely related Sesotho language of the Southern Africa's Basotho people the Pleiades are called \"Seleme se setshehadi\" (\"the female planter\"). Its disappearance in April (the 10th month) and the appearance of the star Achernar signals the beginning of the cold season. Like many other Southern African cultures, Basotho associate its visibility with agriculture and plenty.\n\nThe 19th century astronomer Johann Heinrich von Mädler proposed the Central Sun Hypothesis, according to which all stars revolve around the star Alcyone, in the Pleiades. Based on this hypothesis, the Jehovah's Witnesses religion taught until the 1950s that Alcyone was likely to be the site of the throne of God.\n\nIn Theosophy, it is believed the \"Seven Stars of the Pleiades\" focus the spiritual energy of the Seven Rays from the \"Galactic Logos\" to the \"Seven Stars of the Great Bear\", then to Sirius, then to the Sun, then to the god of Earth (Sanat Kumara) and finally through the seven Masters of the Seven Rays to us.\n\nIn Ufology some believers describe Nordic alien extraterrestrials (called Pleiadeans) as originating from this system.\n\nIn New Age lore, some believe that Sun and the Earth will pass through a Photon belt from the Pleiades, causing a cataclysm and/or initiating a spiritual transition (referred to variously as a \"shift in consciousness,\" the \"Great Shift,\" the \"Shift of the Ages\").\n\nBarbara Marciniak, author of \"Bringers of the Dawn\", is one of the authors who contributes to the New Age mythos of Pleiadian ET beings who are linked to human ancestry.\n\n"}
{"id": "44185600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44185600", "title": "Posthumanist art", "text": "Posthumanist art\n\nPosthumanist art refers to art that can only be created in some part through the aid of digital technology. Posthumanist art can be either human-conceived, or machine-produced in whole or in part. The extent to which the human element is involved in the creation, whether by direct manipulation of the technology, or by creation of the algorithm through which the art is created, can vary.\n"}
{"id": "2077282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077282", "title": "Purism", "text": "Purism\n\nPurism, referring to the arts, was a movement that took place between 1918 and 1925 that influenced French painting and architecture. Purism was led by Amédée Ozenfant and Charles Edouard Jeanneret (Le Corbusier). Ozenfant and Le Corbusier created a variation of the Cubist movement and called it Purism: where objects are represented as elementary forms devoid of detail. The main concepts were presented in their book \"Après le Cubisme\" (After Cubism) published in 1918.\n\nLe Corbusier and Ozenfant were the creators of Purism. Fernand Léger was a principle associate. Purism was an attempt to restore regularity in a war-torn France post World War I. Unlike what they saw as 'decorative' fragmentation of objects in Cubism, Purism proposed a style of painting where elements were represented as robust simplified forms with minimal detail, while embracing technology and the machine.\n\nPurism culminated in Le Corbusier’s \"Pavillon de l'Esprit Nouveau\" (Pavilion of the New Spirit), constructed for the International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts in 1925. This included the work of Cubists Juan Gris and Jacques Lipchitz. Following this exhibition the relationship between Le Corbusier and Ozenfant declined.\n\nOzenfant and Le Corbusier contributed extensively to an art magazine called \"L'Esprit Nouveau\" from 1920 to 1925 serving as a platform for propaganda towards their Purist movement.\n\nThe Purist Manifesto lays out the rules Ozenfant and Le Corbusier created to govern the Purist movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29133421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29133421", "title": "Quotidian", "text": "Quotidian\n"}
{"id": "7303657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7303657", "title": "Sentimental poetry", "text": "Sentimental poetry\n\nSentimental poetry is a melodramatic poetic form. It is aimed primarily at stimulating the emotions rather than at communicating experience truthfully. Bereavement is a common theme of sentimental poetry. \n\nFriedrich Schiller discussed sentimental poetry in his influential essay, \"On Naïve and Sentimental Poetry\".\n\nSentimental poetry was parodied by Mark Twain in \"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36315801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36315801", "title": "Social artistry", "text": "Social artistry\n\nSocial artistry is the attempt to address or recognize a particular social issue using art and creativity. Social artists are people who use creative skills to work with people or organizations in their community to affect change. While a traditional artist uses their creative skills to express their take on the world, a social artist puts their skills to use to help promote and improve communities. Thus, the main aim of a social artist is to improve society as a whole and to help other people find their own means of creative expression.\n\nSocial artists may address issues such as youth alienation or the breakdown of communities. Most commonly, social artists will address these problems by helping people express themselves and find their voice, or by bringing people together and using art to help them to foster an understanding of each other.\n\nSocial artistry can incorporate several different art forms including theatre, poetry, music and visual art. \n\nFindings from 2013 confirm the shift from individual expression to community engagement, or \"from autonomous to socially engaged.\" Lingo and Tepper cite several examples:\n\n"}
{"id": "15587594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15587594", "title": "Sustainable art", "text": "Sustainable art\n\nSustainable art is art in harmony with the key principles of sustainability, which include ecology, social justice, non-violence and grassroots democracy.\n\nSustainable art may also be understood as art that is produced with consideration for the wider impact of the work and its reception in relationship to its environments (social, economic, biophysical, historical and cultural).\n\nAccording to the contemporary art historians and curators Maja and Reuben Fowkes, the origins of sustainable art can be traced to the conceptual art of the late 1960s and early 1970s, with its stress on dematerialisation and questioning of the functioning of the art system. They also connect the rise of the concept of sustainability to the ending of the Cold War in 1989 and the emergence of a new awareness of the global character of ecological and social problems. Sustainable art adopts, according to these authors, a critical position towards some key practitioners in the land art movement of the 1960s, who showed little concern for the environmental consequences of e.g. treating the landscape like a giant canvas with a bulldozer for a brush. They have questioned the polemical division between 'autonomous' and 'instrumental' art originating with modernism, arguing that it is 'autonomy that gives art, as well as artists as social actors, the potential to be free and able to offer alternatives to dominant ideological paradigms.'\n\nSince 2005 there is a Sustainable Arts Biennale running at Ihlienworth near Hamburg, Germany, curated by the German conceptional artist and curator Samuel J. Fleiner.\nThere are a range of interpretations over the relations between art and sustainability, besides the term 'sustainable art' promoted by Maja and Reuben Fowkes: Other authors prefer the broader notions of 'sustainability arts' or 'art and sustainability' (e.g. Kagan and Kirchberg). Still others explicitly rejected the use of the term 'sustainable art', referring instead to 'artistic work that inspires us to think about sustainability\" (Margot Käßmann).\n\nProfessional discussion of the relationship of contemporary art to notions of sustainability blossomed across Europe in the early years 2000, with e.g. the conference of the German Society for Political Culture (Instituts für Kulturpolitik der Kulturpolitischen Gesellschaft e.V.), in January 2002 at the Art Academy of Berlin, and the 'Tutzinger Manifest'. An International Symposium on Sustainability and Contemporary Art took place at Central European University, in Budapest (Hungary) in March 2006. This was the first in a series of international symposia organised by Maja and Reuben Fowkes bringing together contemporary artists, philosophers, environmental sciences and acvitists to explore common ground around issues such as 'Exit or Activism' (2008), 'Hard Realities and the New Materiality' (2009) and 'Art, Post-Fordism and Eco-Critique' (2010).. In March–April 2007 at the Leuphana University Lüneburg, the Arts Research Network of the European Sociological Association focused its attention on the recent movements and approaches to 'arts and sustainability' at its biennial conference.\n\nKey texts in the emerging field of sustainable art include 'Kultur - Kunst - Nachhaltigkeit' (2002) by Hildegard Kurt and Bernd Wagner, ‘The Principles of Sustainability in Contemporary Art’ (2006) by Maja and Reuben Fowkes and 'Art and Sustainability' (2011) by Sacha Kagan. A collection of interdisciplinary analyses of the arts and cultures with relationship to sustainability is available in 'Sustainability: a new frontier for the arts and cultures' (2008) edited by Sacha Kagan and Volker Kirchberg.\n\nExhibitions devoted explicitly to \"sustainable art\" include e.g. ‘Beyond Green: Towards a Sustainable Art’ at the Smart Museum in Chicago in November 2005. For an analysis of the conflictual politics of sustainability and the ambiguity of the term sustainability (which oscillates between \"ecological sustainability\" and \"economic sustainable development,\" see TJ Demos, “The Politics of Sustainability: Art and Ecology” (2009). For a recent account of the multi-faceted role of contemporary art in highlighting environmental issues, expressing criticism towards unsustainable factors in society, and offering imaginative solutions for the achievement of sustainability, see Maja and Reuben Fowkes's essay on 'Art and Sustainability' in Enough for All Forever (2012).\n\nModern sustainable artists include artists who are using non-toxic, sustainable materials in their art practices as well as integrating conceptual ideas of sustainability into their work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20637639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20637639", "title": "Talking animals in fiction", "text": "Talking animals in fiction\n\nTalking animals are a common theme in mythology and folk tales, as well as children's literature. Fictional talking animals often are anthropomorphic, possessing human-like qualities but appearing as a creature. The usage of talking animals enable storytellers to combine the basic characteristics of the animal with human behavior, to apply metaphor, and to entertain children.\n\nThere are a number of alleged real-life talking animals.\n\nThe creature retains its original form without much change, other than being able to speak. Sometimes it may only speak as a narration for the reader's convenience. The rabbits in \"Watership Down\" who, except for the ability to discuss their actions, behave exactly as normal rabbits, also come under this category, as do characters from animated films like \"Happy Feet\" and \"The Lion King\".\n\nThe talking creature concept is featured within much traditional literature, such as in Aesop's Fables, and several mythologies, including Greek, Chinese and Indian mythologies. A notable example from the Judaeo-Christian tradition is the talking serpent from the Book of Genesis, which tempts Eve to eat the forbidden fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil.\n\nMany fairy tales include apparent talking creatures that prove to be shapeshifted people, or even ghosts. The fairy tales \"How Ian Direach got the Blue Falcon\" and \"Tsarevitch Ivan, the Fire Bird and the Gray Wolf\" have the hero aided by a fox and a wolf respectively, but in the similar tale \"The Golden Bird\", the talking fox is freed from a spell to become the heroine's brother, and in \"The Bird 'Grip'\", the fox leaves the hero after explaining that it was the dead man whose debts the hero had paid.\n\nWhether shape-shifted or merely having the magical ability to speak, the talking creature is perhaps the most common trait of fairy tales. The motif is certainly present in many more tales than fairies.\n\nNumerous modern science fiction and fantasy stories intermix human and creature characters. In L. Frank Baum's Land of Oz, creatures (such as the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger) talk. The chicken Billina gains the ability to talk when she is swept away by a storm to land near Oz, as do other animals, and Toto, it is explained in a retcon, always had the ability since arriving in Oz, but never used it. In C. S. Lewis's \"Chronicles of Narnia\", the world of Narnia is ruled by a talking lion by the name of Aslan, and many small characters are talking woodland animals, both of which interact with both the humans of Narnia, and the children who act as the protagonists of the books.\n\nMost people in the industries of professional illustration, cartooning, and animation refer to these types of creature characters as talking animals, funny animals or anthropomorphic characters. However, the mainstream news media and members of furry fandom more commonly refer to this variety of talking animals as furries. The earliest example of talking creatures portraying humans, as opposed to talking creatures portraying creatures, was in Vishnu Sarma's \"Panchatantra\" (\"Fables of Bidpai\"), which was set in a world of talking creatures who represent human morals and behavior. A good Western example of the genre is Henryson's \"Fabillis\". The webcomic \"Anima: Age of the Robots\" (Anima (webcomic)) uses anthropomorphism to portray an alternate world as modern as ours, but inhabited by creature-lookalikes. The intelligent robots they have made rebel and threaten the creatures. This serves as a warning to mankind's thoughtless pursuit of technological advancement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50883655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50883655", "title": "The Floating Piers", "text": "The Floating Piers\n\nThe Floating Piers was a site-specific work of art by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, consisting of 70,000 square meters of yellow fabric, carried by a modular floating dock system of 226,000 high-density polyethylene cubes installed at Lake Iseo near Brescia, Italy. The fabric created a walkable surface between Sulzano, Monte Isola and the island of San Paolo.\n\nChristo and Jeanne-Claude began conceptualizing of \"The Floating Piers\" in 1970. Their initial site was Rio de la Plata between Argentina and Uruguay. The couple also considered Tokyo Bay as a location before moving on to other projects.\n\nIn late 2013, Christo settled on Lake Iseo as the location for \"The Floating Piers\" and dedicated the next 22 months to realizing the project. It was the first major project he undertook after the death of his partner and collaborator Jeanne-Claude.\n\nThe project was estimated to cost $11 million, but was later reported at closer to $17 million. The funds were raised by Christo himself through sales of his project sketches and original art. Permits took less than a year.\n\nThe physical installation of the piers was handled by Deep Dive Systems, a company based in Bulgaria. They installed about 220 six-ton anchors in the lake floor at depths of up to 92 meters, over a period of three months. 226,000 cubes were then attached to those anchors, and covered by 70,000 sq. meters of nylon fabric. Over 600 workers were involved in the installation. Traffic planning required a 175-page document and cost €100,000 to produce.\n\nOn June 18, 2016, the saffron-colored walkway opened to the public. 270,000 people visited the free installation in its first five days. Due to the unexpectedly large crowds, organizers began closing the installation from midnight to 6 a.m. each day to allow for cleaning. On June 22, the large crowds caused some chaos at the main train station in nearby Brescia.\n\nOn July 3, 2016, the work closed to the public; local officials estimated that it had attracted 1.2 million visitors, or an average of 72,000 per day, over its 16-day run. Police estimates were even higher, at 100,000 visitors per day. Dismantling of the project began in the early morning of July 4, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "31142766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31142766", "title": "Victimless Leather", "text": "Victimless Leather\n\nVictimless Leather – a prototype of a stitch-less jacket, grown from cell cultures into a layer of tissue supported by a coat shaped polymer layer.\n\nThis is a sub-project of the Tissue Culture & Art Project where the artists are growing a leather jacket without killing any animals. Growing the victimless leather problematizes the concept of garment by making it semi-living. This artistic grown garment is intended to confront people with the moral implications of wearing parts of dead animals for protective and aesthetic reasons and confronts notions of relationships with manipulated living systems.\n\nThe SymbioticA website explains what it is, \"an artistic laboratory dedicated to the research, learning, critique and hands-on engagement with the life sciences.\". The artists work with tissue, constructing and growing complex organisms that can live outside the body, making the new objects semi-living. Their projects are meant to question life, identity and the relationship between humans and other living beings and environments. They are also interested in the ethics around partial life and the possibilities around this type of technology in the future.\n\nThese are some of the sub-projects that are also part of the TC&A project, in addition to Victimless Leather:\n\nNoArk – NoArk is a collection of cells and tissue from many different organisms, growing together inside a \"vessel\", a reference to Noah's Ark. The project website states that NoArk is \"a tangible as well as symbolic ‘craft’ for observing and understanding a biology that combines the familiar with the other\".\nWorry Dolls – Seven modern versions of the Guatemalan Worry doll were hand-crafted of degradable polymers and surgical sutures and seeded with skin, muscle and bone tissue. The tissue was then allowed to grow inside a bioreactor, replacing the polymers as it degrades, thus creating seven semi-living dolls. \nDisembodied Cuisine – Along with Victimless Leather, this is part of the \"Victimless Utopia\". The idea for this project was to take cells from a frog and grow them into something possible to eat, displaying it next to the still living frog the food came from. This problemetizes the whole meat industry – how we kill animals to eat them. Growing tissue outside of the body of the animal is a way to \"make\" meat while the animal stays healthy and living.\nExtra Ear – ¼ Scale – Using human tissue, a quarter-scale replica of artist Stelarc's ear was grown. The project wanted to confront the cultural perceptions of life now that we are able to manipulate living systems, and also discuss the notions of the wholeness of the body. \nThe Pig Wings Project – This project bases its ideas on xenotransplantation and genetically modifying pigs so their organs can be transplanted to humans. The artists used tissue engineering and stem cell technologies to grow pig bone tissue, forming three different sets of wings. One set shaped as bat wings (\"evil\"), one as bird wings (\"good\") and one as pterosaurs wings (\"neutral\").\n\nAn aim for the \"Victimless Leather\" project is to explore and provoke scientific truths, using conceptual art projects to encourage better understanding of cultural ideas around scientific knowledge. The project website point out how clothing has always been used to protect the fragile skin of humans, but lately have evolved into a fabricated object used as a tool to show one's identity. Based on this, clothing can be explored as a tangible example of the relationship between humans and others, and how humans treat others. As the artists put it: \"This particular project will deconstruct our cultural meaning of clothes as a second skin by materialising it and displaying it as an art object.\"\n\nThe intention to grow artificial leather without killing an animal is meant as a contribution to a cultural discussion between art, science and society. Making this jacket presents a possibility of wearing leather that is not part of a dead animal. The projects are presented in Workshops and exhibitions throughout the world to address ethical questions related to bioscience and technology. The artists want the project to be seen in this cultural context, not a commercial one. Their intention is not to create a consumer product, but to offer a starting point for the cultural discussion points mentioned above. As with most of the TC&A projects the artists are concerned with the relationship between humans and other living systems, both natural and scientific made or manipulated.\n\nThe artists wanted to make a leather-like material using living tissue, and ended up making it in the shape of a stitchless jacket. The artists based the jacket on a biodegradable polymer, coated it with 3T3 mouse cells to form connective tissue and topped it up with human bone cells in order to create a stronger skin layer.\n\nTo create the victimless leather, the team needed an artificial environment where semi-living entities are grown, so it is grown inside a bioreactor that acts as a surrogate body. The bioreactor used in this project was custom made, based on an organ perfusion pump designed by Alexis Carrel and Charles Lindbergh. It has an automatic dripping system which feeds the cells. The artists assumed that when the polymer degraded, an integrated jacket would appear. The resulting jacket was tiny, about 2 inches high and 1,4 inches wide and would just fit a mouse.\n\nTo idealize the \"victimless\" of the jacket, immortalized cell lines or cells that divide and multiply forever once they are removed from an animal or human host forming a renewable resource, have been used in the project. The 3T3 mouse cells all come from a mouse who lived in the 1970s.\n\nThe research and development of “Victimless Leather” has been conducted in SymbioticA: the Art and Science Collaborative Research Laboratory, School of Anatomy and Human Biology at the University of Western Australia and in consultation with Professor Arunasalam Dharmarajan from the School of Anatomy and Human Biology as well as Verigen, a Perth-based company that specializes in tissue engineered cartilage for clinical applications. Western Australia state made the investment in the project through ArtsWa in Association with the Lotteries Commission.\n\nFrom a list of selected TC&A exhibitions.\n\nThe victimless leather was featured in the exhibition “Design and the Elastic Mind” at The Museum of Modern Art in New York City, United States. February 24 – May 12, 2008 The project was scheduled to grow continuously until May 12 when the exhibition ended. There were some problems though, when the leather started expanding too quickly, clogging tubes inside the bioreactor. The exhibition leader therefore decided to unplug the project before the end of the exhibition – in a way, killing it.\n\nBecause the artificial leather is made semi-living, the project might be seen as speculative and provocative to some people – questioning whether it is better to kill semi-living beings rather than living beings. \"One of the most common and somewhat surprising comments we heard was that people were disturbed by our ethics of using living cells to grow living fabric, while the use of leather obtained from animals seems to be accepted without any concern for the well-being of the animals from which the skin has been removed.\" artist Ionat Zurr uttered after showing the jacket to the public on \"The Space Between\" exhibition in Australia.\n\nOron Catts was born in Helsinki, Finland in 1967, and is currently residing in Perth, Australia where he has been employed at the University of Western Australia since 1996. He works as an artistic director of SymbioticA, which he is also co-founder of. He is founder of the Tissue Culture & Art Project. From 2000–2001 he was a Research Fellow at the Tissue Engineering and Organ Fabrication Laboratory at Harvard Medical School. He has also worked with numerous other bio-medical laboratories in several different countries.\n\nIonat Zurr was born in London, UK in 1970, and is currently residing in Perth, Australia. Since 1996 she has been employed at the University of Western Australia, where she also did her PhD titled \"Growing Semi-Living Art\" under the Faculty of Architecture, Landscape and Visual Arts . Zurr specialises in video production and biological and digital imaging. She works as an assistant professor and academic coordinator at SymbioticA and is co-founder of the Tissue Culture & Art Project. From 2000–2001 she was a research fellow at the Tissue Engineering and Organ Fabrication Laboratory at Harvard Medical School.\n\nThe project also focuses on human consumption, highlighting that there are victims on every level of it, and that the boundaries between harm and benefit often are blurred. The French actress Brigitte Bardot strongly opposed hunting of animals for vanity and the commercial purpose of the skin. From an indigenous point of view, the context must be seen different. An Inuit hunts the seal and uses the whole body of the animal as a basic resource for his survival.\n\nSimilar to ethics like this, is the interest for artificial meat production due to reactions against the livestock sector because of health and environmental problems. A 2006 UN Food and Agriculture Organization FAO report pointed out the livestock sector as one of the most significant contributors to the most serious environmental problems like soil degradation and water pollution. And because of methane, it spews out more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "455403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455403", "title": "Video game art", "text": "Video game art\n\nVideo game art is a specialized form of computer art employing video games as the artistic medium. Video game art often involves the use of patched or modified video games or the repurposing of existing games or game structures, however it relies on a broader range of artistic techniques and outcomes than artistic modification and it may also include painting, sculpture, appropriation, in-game intervention and performance, sampling, etc. It may also include the creation of art games either from scratch or by modifying existing games. Notable examples of video game art include Cory Arcangel's \"Super Mario Clouds\" and \"I Shot Andy Warhol,\" Joseph Delappe's projects including \"Dead in Iraq\" and the \"Salt Satyagraha Online: Gandhi's March to Dandi in Second Life,\" the 2004-2005 Rhizome Commissions \"relating to the theme of games,\" Paolo Pedercini's Molleindustria games such as \"Unmanned\" and \"Every Day the Same Dream\", and Ian Bogost's \"Cowclicker.\"\n\nArtistic modifications are frequently made possible through the use of level editors, though other techniques exist. Some artists make use of machinima applications to produce non-interactive animated artworks, however artistic modification is not synonymous with machinima as these form only a small proportion of artistic modifications. Machinima is distinct from art mods as it relies on different tools, though there are many similarities with some art mods.\n\nLike video games, artistic game modifications are often interactive and may allow for single-player or multiplayer experience. Multiplayer works make use of networked environments to develop new kinds of interaction and collaborative art production.\n\nMachinima is the use of real-time three-dimensional (3-D) graphics rendering engines to generate computer animation. The term also refers to works that incorporate this animation technique.\n\nArtists may intervene in online games in a non-play manner, often disrupting games in progress in order to challenge or expose underlying conventions and functions of game play. Examples of this include Anne Marie Schleiner's \"Velvet-Strike\" (a project designed to allow players of realistic first person shooter games to use anti-war graffiti within the game to make an artistic statement) and \"Dead in Iraq\" (an art project created by Joseph DeLappe in which the player character purposely allows himself to be shot and then recites the names of US soldiers who have died in the Iraq War).\n\nSite-specific installations and site-relative gaming modifications (\"mods\"), replicate real-world places (often the art gallery in which they are displayed) to explore similarities and differences between real and virtual worlds. An example is \"What It Is Without the Hand That Wields It\", where blood from kills in Counterstrike manifests and spills into a real life gallery.\n\nVideo games can be incorporated into live audio and visual performance using a variety of instruments and computers such as keyboards embedded with music chips. See also chiptune and the Fijuu project.\n\nGenerative art mods exploit the real-time capabilities of game technologies to produce ever-renewing autonomous artworks. Examples include Julian Oliver's \"ioq3apaint\", a generative painting system that uses the actions of software agents in combat to drive the painting process, Alison Mealy's \"UnrealArt\" which takes the movements of game entities and uses them to control a drawing process in an external program, Kent Sheely's \"Cities in Flux,\" a mod that glitches and distorts the game's world in real-time, and RetroYou's \"R/C Racer\" a modification of the graphic elements of a racing game which results in rich fields of colour and shape.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "372478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372478", "title": "Video game industry", "text": "Video game industry\n\nThe video game industry is the economic sector involved in the development, marketing, and monetization of video games. It encompasses dozens of job disciplines and its component parts employ thousands of people worldwide.\n\nThe computer and video game industry has grown from focused markets to mainstream. They took in about US$9.5 billion in the US in 2007, 11.7 billion in 2008, and 25.1 billion in 2010 (ESA annual report).\n\nModern personal computers owe many advancements and innovations to the game industry: sound cards, graphics cards and 3D graphic accelerators, faster CPUs, and dedicated co-processors like PhysX are a few of the more notable improvements.\n\nSound cards were developed for addition of digital-quality sound to games and only later improved for music and audiophiles. Early on, graphics cards were developed for more colors. Later, graphic cards were developed for graphical user interfaces (GUIs) and games; GUIs drove the need for high resolution, and games began using 3D acceleration. They also are one of the only pieces of hardware to allow multiple hookups (such as with SLI or CrossFire graphics cards). CD- and DVD-ROMs were developed for mass distribution of media in general; however the ability to store more information on cheap easily distributable media was instrumental in driving their ever-higher speeds.\n\nBen Sawyer of Digitalmill observes that the game industry value chain is made up of six connected and distinctive layers:\n\nThe game industry employs those experienced in other traditional businesses, but some have experience tailored to the game industry. Some of the disciplines specific to the game industry include: game programmer, game designer, level designer, game producer, game artist and game tester. Most of these professionals are employed by video game developers or video game publishers. However, many hobbyists also produce computer games and sell them commercially. Game developers and publishers sometimes employ those with extensive or long-term experience within the modding communities.\n\nPrior to the 1970s, there was no significant commercial aspect of the video game industry, but many advances in computing would set the stage for the birth of the industry.\n\nMany early publicly-available interactive computer-based game machines used or other mechanisms to mimic a display; while technically not \"video games\", they had elements of interactivity between the player and the machine. Some examples of these included the 1940 \"Nimatron\", an electromagentic relay-based Nim-playing device designed by Edward Condon and built by Westinghouse Electric for the New York World's Fair, \"Bertie the Brain\", an arcade game of tic-tac-toe, built by Josef Kates for the 1950 Canadian National Exhibition, and Nimrod created by engineering firm Ferranti for the 1951 Festival of Britain,\n\nThe development of cathode ray tube—the core technology behind televisions—created several of the first true video games. In 1947 Thomas T. Goldsmith Jr. and Estle Ray Mann filed a patent for a \"cathode ray tube amusement device\". Their game, which uses a cathode ray tube hooked to an oscilloscope display, challenges players to fire a gun at target.\n\nBetween the 1950s and 1960s, with mainframe computers becoming available to campus colleges, students and others started to develop games that could be played at terminals that accessed the mainframe. One of the first known examples is \"Spacewar!\", developed by Harvard and MIT employees Martin Graetz, Steve Russell, and Wayne Wiitanen. The introduction of easy-to-program languages like BASIC for mainframes allowed for more simplistic games to be developed.\n\nIn 1971, the arcade game, \"Computer Space was released.\" The following year, Atari, Inc. released the first commercially successful video game, \"Pong\", the original arcade version of which sold over 19,000 arcade cabinets. That same year saw the introduction of video games to the home market with the release of the early video game console, the Magnavox Odyssey. However, both the arcade and home markets would be dominated by \"Pong\" clones, which flooded the market and led to the video game crash of 1977. The crash eventually came to an end with the success of Taito's \"Space Invaders\", released in 1978, sparking a renaissance for the video game industry and paving the way for the golden age of video arcade games. The game's success inspired arcade machines to become prevalent in mainstream locations such as shopping malls, traditional storefronts, restaurants and convenience stores during the golden age. \"Space Invaders\" would go on to sell over 360,000 arcade cabinets worldwide, and by 1982, generate a revenue of $2 billion in quarters, equivalent to $4.6 billion in 2011.\n\nSoon after, \"Space Invaders\" was licensed for the Atari VCS (later known as Atari 2600), becoming the first \"killer app\" and quadrupling the console's sales. The success of the Atari 2600 in turn revived the home video game market during the second generation of consoles, up until the North American video game crash of 1983. By the end of the 1970s, the personal computer game industry began forming from a hobby culture.\n\nThe early 1980s saw the golden age of video arcade games reach its zenith. The total sales of arcade video game machines in North America increased significantly during this period, from $50 million in 1978 to $900 million by 1981, with the arcade video game industry's revenue in North America tripling to $2.8 billion in 1980. By 1981, the arcade video game industry was generating an annual revenue of $5 billion in North America, equivalent to $12.3 billion in 2011. In 1982, the arcade video game industry reached its peak, generating $8 billion in quarters, equivalent to over $18.5 billion in 2011, surpassing the annual gross revenue of both pop music ($4 billion) and Hollywood films ($3 billion) combined at that time. This was also nearly twice as much revenue as the $3.8 billion generated by the home video game industry that same year; both the arcade and home markets combined add up to a total revenue of $11.8 billion for the video game industry in 1982, equivalent to over $27.3 billion in 2011. The arcade video game industry would continue to generate an annual revenue of $5 billion in quarters through to 1985. The most successful game of this era was Namco's \"Pac-Man\", released in 1980, which would go on to sell over 350,000 cabinets, and within a year, generate a revenue of more than $1 billion in quarters; in total, \"Pac-Man\" is estimated to have grossed over 10 billion quarters ($2.5 billion) during the 20th century, equivalent to over $3.4 billion in 2011.\n\nThe early part of the decade saw the rise of 8-bit home computing, and home-made games, especially in Europe (with the ZX Spectrum and Commodore 64) and Asia (with the NEC PC-88 and MSX). This time also saw the rise of video game journalism, which was later expanded to include covermounted cassettes and CDs.\nIn 1983, the North American industry crashed due to the production of too many badly developed games (quantity over quality), resulting in the fall of the North American industry. The industry would eventually be revitalized by the release of the Nintendo Entertainment System, which resulted in the home console market being dominated by Japanese companies such as Nintendo, while a professional European computer game industry also began taking shape with companies such as Ocean Software and Gremlin Interactive. The latter part of the decade saw the rise of the Game Boy handheld system. In 1987, Nintendo lost a legal challenge against Blockbuster Entertainment, which enabled games rentals in the same way as movies.\n\nThe 1990s saw advancements in game related technology. Among the significant advancements were:\n\nAside from technology, in the early part of the decade, licensed games became more popular, as did video game sequels.\n\nThe video game industry generated worldwide sales of $19.8 billion in 1993 (equivalent to $31 billion in 2011), $20.8 billion in 1994 (equivalent to $32 billion in 2011), and an estimated $30 billion in 1998 (equivalent to $41.5 billion in 2011). In the United States alone, in 1994, arcades were generating $7 billion in quarters (equivalent to $11 billion in 2011) while home console game sales were generating revenues of $6 billion (equivalent to $9 billion in 2011). Combined, this was nearly two and a half times the $5 billion revenue generated by movies in the United States at the time.\n\nIn 2000s, the video game industry is a juggernaut of development; profit still drives technological advancement which is then used by other industry sectors. Technologies such as Smartphones, virtual reality and augmented reality are major drivers for game hardware and gameplay development. Though maturing, the video game industry was still very volatile, with third-party video game developers quickly cropping up, and just as quickly, going out of business. Nevertheless, many casual games and indie games were developed and become popular and successful, such as \"Braid\" and \"Limbo\". Game development for mobile phones (such as iOS and Android devices) and social networking sites emerged. For example, a Facebook game developer, Zynga, has raised in excess of $300 million.\n\nThough not the main driving force, indie games continue to have a significant impact on the industry, with sales of some of these titles such as \"Spelunky\", \"Fez\", \"Don't Starve\", \"Castle Crashers\", and \"Minecraft\", exceeding millions of dollars and over a million users. The 2010s have seen a larger shift to casual and mobile gaming; in 2016, the mobile gaming market is estimated to have taken $38 billion in revenues, compared to $6 billion for the console market and $33 billion for personal computing gaming. Games centered on virtual reality and augmented reality equipment also arose during this decade. As of 2014, newer game companies arose that vertically integrate live operations and publishing such as crowdfunding and other direct-to-consumer efforts, rather than relying on a traditional publishers, and some of these have grown to substantial size. Spurred by some initial events in the late 2000s, eSports centered around professional players in organized competitions and leagues for prize money, grew greatly over this decade, drawing hundreds of millions of viewers and reaching nearly $500 million in revenue by 2016 and expected to break $1 billion by 2019.\n\nEarly on, development costs were minimal, and video games could be quite profitable. Games developed by a single programmer, or by a small team of programmers and artists, could sell hundreds of thousands of copies each. Many of these games only took a few months to create, so developers could release multiple titles per year. Thus, publishers could often be generous with benefits, such as royalties on the games sold. Many early game publishers started from this economic climate, such as Origin Systems, Sierra Entertainment, Capcom, Activision and Electronic Arts.\n\nAs computing and graphics power increased, so too did the size of development teams, as larger staffs were needed to address the ever-increasing technical and design complexities. The larger teams consist of programmers, artists, game designers, and producers. Their salaries can range anywhere from $50,000 to $120,000 generating large labor costs for firms producing videogames which can often take between one and three years to develop. Now budgets typically reach millions of dollars despite the growing popularity of middleware and pre-built game engines. In addition to growing development costs, marketing budgets have grown dramatically, sometimes consisting of two to three times of the cost of development.\n\nThe game development team has to select a profitable and suitable method to sell or earn money from the finished game. Traditionally, the game monetization method is to sell hard copies in retail store. Now some developers are turning to alternative production and distribution methods, such as online distribution, to reduce costs and increase revenue.\n\nToday, the video game industry has a major impact on the economy through the sales of major systems and games such as \"\", which took in over $650 USD million of sales in the game's first five days and which set a five-day global record for a movie, book or videogame. The game's income was more than the opening weekend of \"Spider-Man 3\" and the previous title holder for a video game \"Halo 3\". Many individuals have also benefited from the economic success of video games including the former chairman of Nintendo and Japan's third richest man: Hiroshi Yamauchi. Today the global video game market is valued at over $93 billion.\n\nThe industry wide adoption of high-definition graphics during the seventh generation of consoles greatly increased development teams' sizes and reduced the number of high-budget, high-quality titles under development. In 2013 Richard Hilleman of Electronic Arts estimated that only 25 developers were working on such titles for the eighth console generation, compared to 125 at the same point in the seventh generation-console cycle seven or eight years earlier.\n\nThe games industry's shift from brick and mortar retail to digital downloads led to a severe sales decline at video game retailers such as GameStop, following other media retailers superseded by Internet delivery, such as Blockbuster, Tower Records, and Virgin Megastores. GameStop diversified its services by purchasing chains that repair wireless devices and expanding its trade-in program through which customers trade used games for credit towards new games. The company began to produce its own merchandise and games. In Britain, the games retailer Game revamped its stores so customers would spend time playing games there. It built a gaming arena for events and tournaments. The shift to digital marketplaces, especially for smartphones, led to an influx of inexpensive and disposable titles, as well as lower engagement among gamers who otherwise purchased new games from retail. Customers also shifted away from the tradition of buying games on their first day of release.\n\nPublishers often funded trade-in deals to encourage consumers to purchase new games. Trade-in customers at the Australia retailer Game would purchase twice the games per year as non-trade-in customers. The sale of pre-owned games kept retailers in business, and composed about a third of Game's revenue. Retailers also saved on the UK's value-added tax, which only taxed the retailer's profit on pre-owned games, rather than the full sale on regular games. The former trade-in retail executives behind the trade-in price comparison site Trade In Detectives estimated that the United Kingdom's trade-in industry was about a third of the size of its new games business. They figured that sites such as eBay, which convert used games into cash, compose about a quarter of the UK's trade-in market, but do not keep the credit within the industry. While consumers might appear to receive better offers on these sites, they also take about 15 percent of the selling price in fees. Alternatively, some retailers will match the trade-in values offered by their competitors. Microsoft's original plan for the Xbox One attempted to translate trade-in deals for the digital marketplace, with a database of product licenses that shops would be able to resell with publisher permission, though the plan was poorly received or poorly sold.\n\nVideo game industry practices are similar to those of other entertainment industries (e.g., the music recording industry), but the video game industry in particular has been accused of treating its development talent poorly. This promotes independent development, as developers leave to form new companies and projects. In some notable cases, these new companies grow large and impersonal, having adopted the business practices of their forebears, and ultimately perpetuate the cycle.\n\nHowever, unlike the music industry, where modern technology has allowed a fully professional product to be created extremely inexpensively by an independent musician, modern games require increasing amounts of manpower and equipment. This dynamic makes publishers, who fund the developers, much more important than in the music industry.\n\nIn the video game industry, it is common for developers to leave their current studio and start their own. A particularly famous case is the \"original\" independent developer Activision, founded by former Atari developers. Activision grew to become the world's second largest game publisher. In the mean time, many of the original developers left to work on other projects. For example, founder Alan Miller left Activision to start another video game development company, Accolade (now Atari née Infogrames).\n\nActivision was popular among developers for giving them credit in the packaging and title screens for their games, while Atari disallowed this practice. As the video game industry took off in the mid-1980s, many developers faced the more distressing problem of working with fly-by-night or unscrupulous publishers that would either fold unexpectedly or run off with the game profits.\n\nThe industry claims software piracy to be a big problem, and take measures to counter this. \nDigital rights management have proved to be the most unpopular with gamers, as a measure to counter piracy.\nThe most popular and effective strategy to counter piracy is to change the business model to Freemium, where gamers pay for their in-game needs or service. Strong server-side security is required for this, to properly distinguish authentic transactions from hacked (faked) transactions.\n\nOn various Internet forums, some gamers have expressed disapproval of publishers having creative control since publishers are more apt to follow short-term market trends rather than invest in risky but potentially lucrative ideas. On the other hand, publishers may know better than developers what consumers want. The relationship between video game developers and publishers parallels the relationship between recording artists and record labels in many ways. But unlike the music industry, which has seen flat or declining sales in the early 2000s, the video game industry continues to grow. Also, personal computers have made the independent development of music almost effortless, while the gap between an independent game developer and the product of a fully financed one grows larger.\n\nIn the computer games industry, it is easier to create a startup, resulting in many successful companies. The console games industry is a more closed one, and a game developer must have up to three licenses from the console manufacturer:\n\nIn addition, the developer must usually buy development systems from the console manufacturer in order to even develop a game for consideration, as well as obtain concept approval for the game from the console manufacturer. Therefore, the developer normally has to have a publishing deal in place before starting development on a game project, but in order to secure a publishing deal, the developer must have a track record of console development, something which few startups will have.\n\nAn alternative method for publishing video games is to self-publish using the shareware or open source model over the Internet.\n\nGaming conventions are an important showcase of the industry. The major annual gaming conventions include gamescom in Cologne (Germany), the E3 in Los Angeles (USA), the Penny Arcade Expo, and .\n\nAs with other forms of media, video games have often been released in different world regions at different times. The practice has been used where localization is not done in parallel with the rest of development or where the game must be encoded differently, as in PAL vs. NTSC. It has also been used to provide price discrimination in different markets or to focus limited marketing resources. Developers may also stagger digital releases so as not to overwhelm the servers hosting the game.\n\nInternational video game revenue is estimated to be $81.5B in 2014. This is more than double the revenue of the international film industry in 2013. In 2015, it was estimated at .\n\nThe largest nations by estimated video game revenues in 2016 are China ($24.4B), the United States ($23.5B) and Japan ($12.4B). The largest regions in 2015 were Asia-Pacific ($43.1B), North America ($23.8B), and Western Europe ($15.6B).\n\nGaming conventions are an important showcase of the industry. The annual gamescom in Cologne (Germany) is a major expo for video games. The E3 in Los Angeles (USA) is also of global importance, but is an event for industry insiders only.\n\nOther notable conventions and trade fairs include Tokyo Game Show (Japan), Brasil Game Show (Brazil), EB Games Expo (Australia), KRI (Russia), ChinaJoy (China) and the annual Game Developers Conference. Some publishers, developers and technology producers also have their own regular conventions, with BlizzCon, QuakeCon, Nvision and the X shows being prominent examples.\n\nVideo gaming is still in its infancy throughout the African continent, but due to the continent's young population and increasing technological literacy, the sector is growing rapidly. African countries such as South Africa, Nigeria and Kenya have been making rapid advances in mobile game development, both within their country and internationally, but due to limited funding and a market over-crowded with western games, success has thus far been minimal.\n\nCanada has the third largest video game industry in terms of employment numbers. The video game industry has also been booming in Montreal since 1997, coinciding with the opening of Ubisoft Montreal. Recently, the city has attracted world leading game developers and publishers studios such as Ubisoft, EA, Eidos Interactive, Artificial Mind and Movement, BioWare, Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment and Strategy First, mainly because video games jobs have been heavily subsidized by the provincial government. Every year, this industry generates billions of dollars and thousands of jobs in the Montreal area. Vancouver has also developed a particularly large cluster of video game developers, the largest of which, Electronic Arts, employs over two thousand people. The \"Assassin's Creed\" series, along with the \"Tom Clancy\" series have all been produced in Canada and have achieved worldwide success. For consumers, the largest video games convention in Canada is the Enthusiast Gaming Live Expo (EGLX).\n\nChina is the largest country by game revenue, and has a gaming public that exceeds the population of the entire United States. It is home to Asia Game Show, the largest game convention in the world by attendance. In 2014, the Xbox One became the first new game console sold since China's ban on consoles in 2000.\n\nGermany has the largest video games market in Europe, with revenues of $4.1 billion forecast for 2017. The annual gamescom in Cologne is Europe's largest gaming expo.\n\nOne of the earliest internationally successful video game companies was Gütersloh-based Rainbow Arts (founded in 1984) who were responsible for publishing the popular \"Turrican\" series of games. The Anno series and The Settlers series are globally popular strategy game franchises since the 1990s. The Gothic series, and Risen are established RPG franchises. The X series by Egosoft is the best-selling space simulation. The FIFA Manager series was also developed in Germany. The German action game (2012) was successful in the markets and received largely positive reviews. One of the most famed titles to come out of Germany is \"Far Cry\" (2004) by Frankfurt-based Crytek, who also produced the topseller \"Crysis\" and its sequels later.\n\nOther well-known current and former developers from Germany include Ascaron, Blue Byte, Deck13, Phenomic, Piranha Bytes, Radon, Related, Spellbound and Yager Development. Publishers include Deep Silver (Koch Media), dtp entertainment, Kalypso and Nintendo Europe. Bigpoint Games, Gameforge, Goodgame Studios and Wooga are among the world's leading browser game and social network game developers/distributors.\n\nThe Japanese video game industry is markedly different from the industry in North America, Europe and Australia.\nJapanese companies have created some of the largest and most lucrative titles ever made, such as the \"Mario\", \"Final Fantasy\", \"Metal Gear\", \"Pokémon\" and \"Resident Evil\" series of games.\nIn recent years, consoles and arcade games have both been overtaken by downloadable free-to-play games on the PC and mobile platforms.\n\nThe UK industry is the third largest in the World in terms of developer success and sales of hardware and software by country alone but fourth behind Canada in terms of people employed. The size of the UK game industry is comparable to its film or music industries. In recent years some of the studios have become defunct or been purchased by larger companies such as \"LittleBigPlanet\" developer, Media Molecule and Codemasters. The country is home to some of the world's most successful video game franchises, such as \"Tomb Raider\", \"Grand Theft Auto\", \"Fable\", \"\" and \"Total War\".\n\nThe country also went without tax relief until March 21, 2012 when the British government changed its mind on tax relief for UK developers, which without, meant most of the talented development within the UK may move overseas for more profit, along with parents of certain video game developers which would pay for having games developed in the UK. The industry trade body TIGA estimates that it will increase the games development sector's contribution to UK GDP by £283 million, generate £172 million in new and protected tax receipts to HM Treasury, and could cost just £96 million over five years. Before the tax relief was introduced there was a fear that the UK games industry could fall behind other leading game industries around the world such as France and Canada, of which Canada overtook the UK in terms of job numbers in the industry in 2010.\n\nThe United States has the largest video games presence in the world in terms of total industry employees. In 2004, the U.S. game industry as a whole was worth US$10.3 billion. U.S. gaming revenue is forecast to reach $23.5 billion in 2017, making it the second largest market behind China.\n\nMagnavox is credited for releasing the first video game console, the Odyssey. Activision was the first developer to create independent/third-party video games. Once the fastest-growing American company, Atari crashed in spectacular fashion, resulting in the North American video game crash of 1983. This resulted in the domination of the Japanese video game industry worldwide throughout the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe U.S. is home to major game development companies such as Activision Blizzard (\"Call of Duty\", \"World of Warcraft\"), Electronic Arts (\"FIFA\", \"Battlefield\", \"Mass Effect\"), and Take-Two Interactive (Civilization, \"NBA 2K\" series, \"Grand Theft Auto\"). ZeniMax Media (\"Doom\", \"Fallout\", \"The Elder Scrolls\") is the world's largest privately held video game company. Niantic (\"Ingress\", \"Pokémon Go\") is a notable mobile game developer.\n\nValve Corporation operates Steam, the largest computer gaming platform, with an active user base (~125 million) that rivals the combined user bases of the current console generation (~150 million). While not specifically focused on games, the largest mobile gaming platforms are operated by Google (Google Play), and Apple Inc. (App Store), with the majority of mobile revenue coming from Asia. Microsoft operates Xbox, the only major game console hardware franchise not controlled by a Japanese company. Sony established Sony Interactive Entertainment in Silicon Valley to run PlayStation, the world's largest and longest-running video game console franchise.\n\nIntel and Nvidia are the largest makers of PC graphics chips. Advanced Micro Devices has become the most important console processor vendor, with all three of the eighth generation home consoles using AMD GPUs, and two of them use AMD CPUs. Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony were not aware that they were all using AMD processors until all their consoles were announced, underscoring the secrecy found within the game industry. Notable game engine developers include Epic Games (Unreal Engine) and Unity Technologies (Unity).\n\nThe West Coast is home to important video game conventions, such as Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), one of the largest video game industry-only events in the world, and Penny Arcade Expo (PAX West), the largest public video game convention in North America. The West Coast is also home to many of the major American video game industry companies, particularly the regions of Los Angeles, San Francisco Bay Area, and Seattle. Major game development regions outside of the West Coast include the Northeast and Texas.\n\nOver 150 million Americans play video games, with an average age of 35 and a gender breakdown of 59 percent male and 41 percent female. American gamers are more likely to vote than non-gamers, feel that the economy is the most important political issue, and lean conservative.\n\nSeveral important game development personalities were born in or moved to the United States. Notable developers include Ralph H. Baer (Magnavox Odyssey, the \"Father of Video Games\"), Jonathan Blow (\"Braid\"), John D. Carmack (\"Doom\", \"Quake\"), and Alexey Pajitnov (\"Tetris\"). Mario is named after Mario Segale, a former landlord of Nintendo of America. Some right-wing and left-wing activists, including Jack Thompson and Anita Sarkeesian, have met extreme resistance from the gaming public in response to the perceived politicizing of their art form.\n\nThe United States recognizes eSports players as professional athletes. Major League Gaming has eSports arenas and studios across the nation. Robert Morris University has a League of Legends varsity team, whose members are eligible for scholarships.\n\nPlayers become fourth-party developers, allowing for more open source models of game design, development and engineering. Players also create modifications (mods), which in some cases become just as popular as the original game for which they were created. An example of this is the game \"Counter-Strike\", which began as a mod of the video game \"Half-Life\" and eventually became a very successful, published game in its own right.\n\nWhile this \"community of modifiers\" may only add up to approximately 1% of a particular game's user base, the number of those involved will grow as more games offer modifying opportunities (such as, by releasing source code) and the video user base swells. According to Ben Sawyer, as many as 600,000 established online game community developers existed as of 2012. This effectively added a new component to the game industry value chain and if it continues to mature, it will integrate itself into the overall industry.\n\nThe industry has seen a shift towards games with multiplayer facilities. A larger percentage of games on all types of platforms include some type of competitive online multiplayer capability.\n\nIn addition, the industry is experiencing further significant change driven by convergence, with technology and player comfort being the two primary reasons for this wave of industry convergence. Video games and related content can now be accessed and played on a variety of media, including: cable television, dedicated consoles, handheld devices and smartphones, through social networking sites or through an ISP, through a game developer's website, and online through a game console and/or home or office personal computer. In fact, 12% of U.S. households already make regular use of game consoles for accessing video content provided by online services such as Hulu and Netflix. In 2012, for the first time, entertainment usage passed multiplayer game usage on Xbox, meaning that users spent more time with online video and music services and applications than playing multiplayer games. This rapid type of industry convergence has caused the distinction between video game console and personal computers to disappear. A game console with high-speed microprocessors attached to a television set is, for all intents and purposes, a computer and monitor.\n\nAs this distinction has been diminished, players' willingness to play and access content on different platforms has increased. The growing video gamer demographic accounts for this trend, as former president of the Entertainment Software Association Douglas Lowenstein explained at the 10th E3 expo, \"Looking ahead, a child born in 1995, E3's inaugural year, will be 19 years old in 2014. And according to Census Bureau data, by the year 2020, there will be 174 million Americans between the ages of 5 and 44. That's 174 million Americans who will have grown up with PlayStations, Xboxes, and GameCubes from their early childhood and teenage years...What this means is that the average gamer will be both older and, given their lifetime familiarity with playing interactive games, more sophisticated and discriminating about the games they play.\"\n\nEvidence of the increasing player willingness to play video games across a variety of media and different platforms can be seen in the rise of casual gaming on smartphones, tablets, and social networking sites as 92% of all smartphone and tablet owners play games at least once a week, 45% play daily, and industry estimates predict that, by 2016, one-third of all global mobile gaming revenue will come from tablets alone. Apple's App Store alone has more than 90,000 game apps, a growth of 1,400% since it went online. In addition, game revenues for iOS and Android mobile devices now exceed those of both Nintendo and Sony handheld gaming systems combined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54561571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54561571", "title": "Women in Latin music", "text": "Women in Latin music\n\nWomen have made significant contributions to Latin music, a genre which predates Italian explorer Christopher Columbus' arrival in Latin America in 1492 and the Spanish colonization of the Americas. The earliest musicians were Native Americans, hundreds of ethnic groups across the continent, whose lyrics \"reflect conflict, beauty, pain, and loss that mark all human experience.\" Indigenous communities reserved music for women, who were given equal opportunities with men to teach, perform, sing, and dance. Ethnomusicologists have measured ceramic, animal-bone, and cane flutes from the Inca Empire which indicate a preference for women with a high vocal range. Women had equal social status, were trained, and received the same opportunities in music as men in indigenous communities until the arrival of Columbus in the late 15th century. European settlers brought patriarchal, machismo ideologies to the continent, replacing the idea of equality between men and women. They equated native music with \"savagery\" and European music with \"civilization\". Female musicians tended to be darker-skinned as a result of the slave trade (which increased the population of African slaves), and contemporary society denigrated music as a profession. Latin music became Africanized, with syncopated rhythms and call-and-response; European settlement introduced harmony and the Spanish décima song form.\n\nSince the pre-recording era of music, Latin music was male-dominated, and there are relatively few examples of female songwriters, music producers, record executives, and promoters. Women lacked access to musical training; music programs were nonexistent, and cultural norms discouraged female participation. Latin music had a primarily male presence; men discriminated against women, limiting them to singing or dancing and discouraging them from becoming instrumentalists, writers, composers, arrangers, and executives. Women artists in the sub-genres of Latin music, such as Selena, Jenni Rivera, Jennifer Lopez, Ivy Queen, Julieta Venegas, and Ely Guerra. have been credited with enhancing the genres' female presence; they have broken through barriers, reshaping Latin music and public perceptions of female sexuality, gender, and femininity. Women in salsa music are significantly underrepresented in the industry as very few women, with the exception of Celia Cruz, have been associated with the emergence of the genre; for example, in the British documentary \"Salsa: Latin Pop Music in the Cites\" (1985), Cruz is one of the only female singers who is mentioned.\n\nWomen Latin singers have a significant demographic imbalance on \"Billboard\" music charts compared with their male counterparts. As radio formats explore genres popularized and led by men, such as reggaeton and regional Mexican music, women on the \"Billboard\" Latin music charts are periodically absent. The last female singer with a number-one single was Sofia Reyes, whose collaborative \"Solo Yo\" ended a five-year drought on the Latin Pop Songs chart in 2016. A year earlier, on the 50-position Hot Latin Songs chart, 22 weeks passed without a song by a women. Reyes has expressed concern about the disparity between male and female performances at Latin music award shows, noting that 90 percent of the performers are male. Other female singers, such as Chiquis Rivera, have attributed the decline in visibility of women in Latin music to sexist radio programmers. Latin music executive Alexandra Lioutikoff believes that the decline is due to a lack of female collaboration. Latin music remains male-dominated, and the music industry has \"prejudiced practice\" limiting female recording artists.\n\nLatin American music is varied; it includes thirty countries, influenced by European, African, and Amerindian cultures. Latin music uses two European languages: Spanish and Portuguese, though modern-day widely distinguishes the genre as primarily sung or recorded in Spanish and to a lesser extent French and Italian. Although heterogeneous, Latin music commonly includes the Spanish décima song form, African syncopated rhythms and call-and-response, and European harmony.\n\nPre-modern Latin music refers to music made by Native Americans, hundreds of ethnic groups across the continent. The first inhabitants of Latin America settled 30,000 years before the arrival of Italian explorer Christopher Columbus at the peak of native cultural diversification into simple and complex societies. These societies included sedentary agricultural tribes and hunter gatherers, who sang prayers to a deity asking for prosperity with lyrics of \"conflict, beauty, pain, and loss that mark all human experience\" and music reflecting their understanding of the universe. They had \"intricate ways of explaining the relationships between the sound, social organization, time, and the sacred\", and their rituals included dramatized performances of mythology vocalizing their view of creation. The creation myth of the Keres people of Laguna Pueblo (present west-central New Mexico) describes \"the unformed cosmos as the domain of Tse che nako (Thought Woman or Spider Woman) who chants life into two sacred bundles that become the sisters Uretsete and Naosete (She Who Matters and She Who Remembers).\"\n\nIndigenous communities predating Columbus' arrival reserved music for women, although men were equally involved in dance. During the Inca Empire in the mid-14th century, women from royal families and selected \"acallas\" (chosen ones) were taught science, art, poetry, and music from \"wise elders\". The \"chosen ones\" were selected for their beauty and \"quality of their voices.\" There were six houses, one of which was called the \"taquiaclla\" (\"taqui\" means \"song\"), which housed girls aged nine to fifteen with \"gifted\" singing voices. The Andeans preferred young women with a high vocal range. Although no scripts or musical notation survive, archaeologists have uncovered a variety of ceramic, animal bone, and cane flutes. Ethnomusicologists who have measured the flutes have found their pitch compatible with a high vocal range. Women in these communities were well-treated, with equal opportunities to teach, perform, sing, and dance (as soloists, with other women, or in pairs with men). Female singers had a social status equal to men, receiving musical training and opportunities with their male counterparts.\n\nColumbus' arrival in 1492 and the Spanish colonization of the Americas brought patriarchy and machismo to the continent, overriding sexual equality. Early Spanish music described women as \"property and mistrusted [by men].\" In a song, \"Delgadina\", women are servants who must please their men \"no matter the cost.\" According to author Janet Sturman, the Iberian idea of machismo (in which a strong man is superior to others, including women) was held by the conquistadors. Europeans who settled in the New World associated native music with \"savagery\" and European music with \"civilization\". During the slave trade, musicians in Latin America primarily had a dark complexion. This was due to an increased population of African slaves and contemporary society's view of music as a profession. Most slaves arriving in Brazil were \"bi-musical\", and introduced their music to the country. Rural Quechua-speaking Bolivian farmers sang about European resistance in songs with Native American and European influences. Black Bolivians sang songs with lyrics reflecting a European influence, performed as Africanized European music.\n\nIn colonial Latin America, nuns wrote, directed, and performed music. They played a variety of instruments, including the clavichord, harp, flageolet, and flute. The nuns played in front of spectators, choirs, and high-ranking government officials. Musically-adept, underprivileged women were allowed to perform during the nuns' Christmas recital. Performances were often \"feminine acts\", such as sewing, embroidery, bakery, and selling \"special confections.\" For two hundred years in Latin America, the \"elite woman\" was educated in the arts; \"the rest\" were consigned to cooking, sewing, spinning, weaving, embroidery, and music. In 17th- and 18th-century Mexico City, music was often heard by visitors. The music emanated from cathedral choirs, indigenous dancers, or black musicians organized in the city. During the 17th century, Europeans and their descendants wrote and performed music at cathedrals in Mexico's cities which was repeated in song by blacks, mulattos, indigenous Mexicans, Asians, and ethnicities. In 1690, Mexican author Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz wrote secular and religious poetry, plays, philosophy, and theology. She often discussed topics ranging from mathematics to music with visitors, had no interest in marriage and wanted to pursue \"a life of the mind.\" Although her views were suppressed, de la Cruz defended women's rights in education.\n\nAt a 1691 celebration, European traveler Juan de Galde described his participation in dancing and singing and placing a scapular on two young women in Mexico. A Mexican singer named Reina performed for six hours, which made \"the event more enjoyable\". The \"wild\" celebration banned Jamaicans from entry. In 1697, Neapolitan chronicler Gemelli Carreri wrote during his trip off the coast of the Dominican Republic that he saw a canoe of musicians trying to outdo each other in singing and drawing attention to their \"perfection\". In 1799 Buenos Aires, privileged women were encouraged to educate themselves in the arts. The government required that women be taught to read and write, in addition to physical education and music.\n\nSince the arrival of European settlers, Latin music has been male-dominated. Musical training was nonexistent for women. Male predominance in the genre left \"power imbalances that acted as barriers to women's participation in Latin music.\" Despite this barrier, women have become successful. Under the authority of men, they were limited to roles as vocalists or dancers rather than instrumentalists, writers, composers, arrangers, and executives. According to musicologist Ilan Stavans, female roles were related to traditional norms; \"decent women\" cared for their children and remained at home, cleaning and cooking. Women's dance routines were a growing concern among female fans and performers. Female dancers, more closely scrutinized than males, were expected to follow \"normative gender expectations\" and exhibit \"appropriate behavior\". Although male dancers typically performed suggestively, women who danced similarly were accused of being \"loose\" or \"slack\".\n\nAccording to author Lise Waxer, Cuban trova singer María Teresa Vera is the \"great-grandmother of all Latin women singers\". \"Arroz Con Leche\" (\"Rice Pudding\"), which advises the listener to find a spouse who will take care of them, was criticized by feminist groups. Bolero lyrics have a central theme of women as the object of male desire, unrequited love, and abandonment, portraying women as \"physical absence and emotional distance, as ungrateful beings\" unequipped to love a man. Cuban singer La Lupe \"pushed the boundaries\" of bolero music, and was called the queen of Latin soul music. She toured the U.S. with bandleader Tito Puente, and was one of the most popular Latin performers of the 1960s. In her youth she dominated local singing competitions, which inspired her to pursue a career in music despite her parents' desire for her to become a teacher. After divorcing her first husband, La Lupe began a solo career and performed in Havana nightclubs. Her popularity grew, and she owned and operated a nightclub in Cuba which was seized by the Castro government. La Lupe emigrated to the United States, settled in New York in 1962 and began touring the country with other bolero and salsa performers. She released several salsa albums with \"devotional lyrics.\" Her concert requests began diminishing at the turn of the 1970s as her savings drained because of her second husband's failing health. She ended her professional career in a wheelchair at a final, 1985 concert with Puente to help pay her medical expenses. La Lupe, who devoted her remaining years to Christian music in the Bronx, died of cardiac arrest in February 1992. Cuban singers Rita Montaner and Celeste Mendoza were involved in the \"appropriation and rearticulation of rumba\", a genre popular before salsa.\nAs salsa music grew in popularity, Celia Cruz emerged during the 1950s and was known as the queen of the genre. Although Cruz was instrumental in popularizing and developing male-dominated salsa, few other women are associated with it. She was the only female singer featured in the British documentary, \"Salsa: Latin Pop Music in the Cities\" (1985), which noted the absence of women in the industry. According to the documentary, women were \"not trained in popular music and that women dared not improvise—\"sonear\" (closeness)—on stage\". Cruz crossed boundaries set by public expectations for music performed at nightclubs, but she was the exception who proved the rule. Opportunities for all-female salsa bands were nonexistent; gender discrimination flourished in the market, and women were seen as \"less competent than their male counterparts.\" In 1977 Cruz recorded \"Usted Abusó\", which gave a voice to battered women. The 1980s saw the emergence of salsa romántica, which was \"deemed as homogenized, depoliticized, and ultimately, feminized.\"\n\nDuring the 1990s women began playing a larger role in salsa music, increasing the genre's popularity, and female salsa singers broke \"the sexist boundaries of the [Latin] music industry\". Although women singers were becoming more popular, images of men were emphasized to the public more than those of women. La India, Corinne, Brenda K. Starr, Lissette Melendez, and Yolanda la Duke were instrumental in refining salsa in that decade, although all were managed by men. Their new salsa sound was influenced by African American music (hip-hop, R&B, gospel, jazz, and soul), which revolutionized traditional 1970s salsa. According to author Lise Waxer, a \"careful and attentive listening\" of their recordings indicated the \"female authority and influence—a female genealogy—of salsa music.\" Salsa's leading female singer was La India, who developed salsa romantica music during the 1990s and whose lyrics \"turn the tables\" on the male salsa narrative of women as objects of desire, \"cruel and evil or idealized and unattainable.\" In her most-popular song, \"Ese Hombre\" (originally recorded by Rocío Jurado), La India contradicts male stereotypes. The song's lyrics describe a man who is \"a fool/stupid and conceited/selfish and capricious\", reversing male \"discursive terrorism\" toward their female partners. La India has been compared to Celia Cruz as leaders in their respective eras, and to La Lupe in musical style: \"nasal style of singing, growls, and screams that evoke an androgynous style rather than a soft melodious tone.\"\n\nIn her Spanish-language debut, Gloria Estefan released \"Mi Tierra\" (1993). It was a commercial success, debuting atop the new US \"Billboard\" Top Latin Albums chart. Estefan has been described by her Latin pop contemporaries as performing pop ballads and soft rock. She has also ventured into salsa and merengue music, using salsa in her English-language compositions; \"Conga\" brought her to European clubs. The rural Cuban genre guajira offered a musical identity to Afro-Cubans; Albita Rodriguez became popular, and was named one of the top 100 personalities of the 20th century by \"Newsweek\" magazine. Most of her repertoire are love songs with \"openly erotic lyrics\" with hetero- and homosexual themes.\n\nThe duo of Monchy y Alexandra \"established bachata as a 'nice' music that could be listened to in the home by women and children.\" Women \"embraced [the] clean-up\"; the romantic bachata style, with emotive lyrics, expressed longing for a lost lover. In 1950s bachata music, women were accused of \"treachery or promiscuity or, in more humorous moments, referring to their sexuality and sexual organs with thinly veiled double entendres.\" The lyrics were rooted in an era where women in the workplace became more common, displacing men as breadwinners.\n\nIn 19th-century merengue music, a man \"won the love of woman\" by dancing. Modern merengue (a party genre) lyrics explored the \"vicissitudes of urban life [and] employed skillful wordplay and humorous double entendres about women and sex.\" Because of the genre's \"air of male-dominated sexuality\", Dominican men believed that making merengue music is \"no fitting occupation for women.\" According to Santo Domingans, listening to merengue music \"is only for men\" and a woman who enjoys the music is considered \"a crazy girl [and] a bad girl.\" During the 1970s, attitudes toward women and merengue music changed with the changing roles of women in Dominican society. All-female merengue bands emerged in the 1980s, beginning with Las Chicas Del Can in 1984. Participation in merengue increased in 1990, with women playing percussion and brass instruments formerly considered too difficult for women.\n\nFemale merengue bands were often formed by successful male merengue musicians, who \"often referred to them as the property of the [male musicians who formed them].\" The mainly-female merengue band Milly, Jocelyn y Los Vecinos formed after Las Chicas del Can. The group became popular, despite not setting out to challenge existing gender roles. Feminists have noted the \"limited values\" in merengue recordings by women, since most of their songs are written by men who \"do not resolutely challenge patriarchal attitudes.\" Olga Tañón was the most successful female merengue artist in the 1990s, and has been called the queen of merengue music. Tañón has been credited with popularizing merengue in Puerto Rico, a salsa-dominated market. Her 1994 album, \"Siente el Amor\", outsold her previous recordings: \"Mujer de Fuego\" (1993) and her platinum-certified debut studio album, \"Sola\" (1992).\n\nSince the beginning of radio women have been accepted as mariachi singers, often performing duets with men. The Mexican quintet Las Coronelas, formed by María Carlota Noriega during the 1940s, was the first mariachi all-female band. The first all-female ranchera band, Las Generales (formed by Elena Muñoz), consisted of wives and mothers of male professional mariachi musicians. The group was criticized by the public for playing in \"cantinas\" (bars), and their partners destroyed their instruments. Other all-female bands tried unsuccessfully to be pioneers. Four of the six-member Mariachi Estrella de Topeka and 110 others were killed in the 1981 Hyatt Regency walkway collapse. Rebecca Gonzales, who later joined the Los Angeles Uclatlan band, was the first female mariachi violinist. According to Gonzales, the other members of Uclatlan found it \"bizarre\" that a woman was playing with them and it took the group about a month to accept her. Gonzales was the first female mariachi musician to break through professionally. A role model for female mariachi hopefuls, she was inducted into the Mariachi Hall of Fame in Tucson, Arizona in 2004. Eva Ybarra mastered the accordion at a young age and began performing with her parents during the 1940s. The 1962 film \"El Mariachi Canta\" pokes fun at the rarity of female mariachi singers, with men cross-dressing as women.\n\nLinda Ronstadt debuted on the Latin-music scene with \"Canciones de Mi Padre\" (1987), credited with inspiring a mariachi renaissance in the United States. Other moderately-successful mariachi singers are educator and Mariachi Hall of Famer Laura Sobrino, Cindy Reifer, Marisa Orduno, trumpeter Cindy Shea, Patricia Martin, and Judith Kamel. In corrido, a ballad form consisting of four-line verses, women played supporting roles as mothers, wives \"or represented the subject of the protagonist's affections.\" Female soldiers in the Mexican Revolution were styled as \"corridistas\". Women were discouraged from playing and singing Tejano music due to Tejano patriarchy. Only a handful of female Tejano singers, including Chavela Ortiz, Lisa Lopez, Patsy Torres, Laura Canales, and Elsa Garcia, were successful in the genre before it became popular. Other female singers who were moderately successful during the Tejano golden age were Shelly Lares, Stefani Montiel, Mary Lee Ochoa, and Stephanie Lynn. \n\nAt the turn of the decade, Tejano music was the fastest-growing music genre in the United States. The American singer Selena dominated Tejano music, bringing it mainstream success. During her early career, she was often turned down by music venues because of her age and her fronting of a Tejano band. Selena's father, Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. was told that she would not be successful because she was a woman. She was the first female Tejano singer to receive gold and platinum certifications, the first female Tejano singer to receive a Grammy Award for Best Mexican American Album, the first Tejano singer to top the US \"Billboard\" Top Latin Albums chart, and the first female to outsell male Tejano singers. After Selena's 1995 murder, Tejano music waned in popularity. Selena's popularity increased after her death, and she is the only Tejano singer with constant appearances on the US \"Billboard\" 200. Her posthumously-released album, \"Dreaming of You\" (1995), was the first recording by a Hispanic singer to debut atop the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. Selena's music explored love, pain, strength and passion, and \"Billboard\" called her the best-selling Latin artist of the 1990s. Latin music entered the mainstream market in the late 1990s, believed by music critics to be due to the death of Selena and the emergence of Ricky Martin, Christina Aguilera, Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony, with greater commercial success and worldwide recognition than ever before.\n\nAs Tejano music declined in popularity, norteño music was pioneered by Lydia Mendoza and Alicia Villareal. Although Ilan Stavans found it challenging to describe Mexican singer Jenni Rivera as a feminist, he found that her recordings sparked debate in the Latino community about women's roles. Debuting on the music scene in 1994, Rivera's music \"addresses the lives of men and women of humble backgrounds\". She was commercially successful as a vocalist in the regional Mexican music scene and its subgenres, banda, conjunto (small band) and Tejano, before her 2012 death in a plane crash. Mexican singer Lila Downs debuted on the Latin-music scene with her album, \"Ofrenda\", in 1994. Downs, a prolific innovator, popularized Latin folk music in recordings blending folk instrumentals with Oaxaca references.\n\nAna Bárbara is the leading female in grupera, a regional Mexican folk genre, and Jennifer Peña was called \"one of Latin music's most promising female singers\" by \"Billboard\" magazine. The mid-2000s decline of women in regional Mexican music slowed, with greater representation by Graciela Beltran, Yolanda Perez, Los Horóscopos de Durango, Diana Reyes, and Jenni Rivera.\n\nAs hip-hop and rap became popular in the United States during the 1990s, Latin singers began emulating them. Men dominated the Latin urban scene; women were objectified, seen as accessories indicating male status. Unlike the hip-hop and rap music scenes, their Latin equivalents did not formulate a female role model; female Latina urban singers failed to attain commercial success. During the popularity of Latin freestyle (also called freestyle music or Latin hip-hop) in the 1980s, record companies began signing \"attractive young women with little musical talent using the same production style for all of them, weakening rather than strengthening the style.\" Many Hispanic freestyle singers tried to downplay their Latino identity after radio programmers discriminated against records by Hispanic performers. Lisa Velez changed her name to Lisa Lisa, and became one of the first commercially successful freestyle musicians. Latin hip-hop singer Roja (one half of Rima Roja en Venus) expressed the difficulty of performing (in a male-dominated genre) a song which \"insults based on having sex with the opponent's mother, sister, aunt; or calling each other by the names of women's sexual organs. It was bizarre: they were managing to totally objectify women, and at the same time make us invisible.\" According to Roja, in her early career as a rap freestyler men tried to \"shut [her] up\". Other female hip-hop singers, such as Argentinian MC Rebeca Lane and Ecuadorian Audry Funk, concur. Argentinian Actitud María Marta, a hip-hop group formed in prison, has been called a pioneer and has inspired other female hip-hop singers. \nReggaeton dancers (to music exemplifying sexual desire) have received a negative public reception of their sexually-suggestive routines, with most public outcry about this type of dance focusing on female morality. Reggaeton singer Ivy Queen addressed concerns in her 2003 single, \"Yo Quiero Bailar\", which confronts sexual accessibility; dancing suggestively with a man does not necessarily mean that she wants to sleep with him. Recording Reggaeton Women called Ivy Queen \"the spokeswoman for females in reggaeton\" after her 2005 debut album, and she remains the only woman visible in the genre. Reggaeton has been criticized for the roles women play. Recordings often reflect lyrics and dance routines suggesting doggy style sex, exemplifying machismo behavior and hypermasculinity. Most reggaeton songs \"[circumscribe women] to dancing and fulfilling male sexual desire\", which \"eliminates almost all possibility of action and translates their presence into a prize or trophy that men exhibit, dominate, and manipulate.\" In Ivy Queen's song, \"Chika Ideal\", the singer introduces her female friend to \"the dance floor to satisfy her man's fantasies and answer (with her body) each time he wants to call her.\" In reggaeton music videos, women often act out or \"beg for sexual action\" from male musicians. In Residente's music video for \"Chulin Culin Chunfly\", women wore costumes and played police officers, bartenders, and servers. Before reggaeton became popular, Cuban singer Pedro Calvo invited preteens and middle-aged women onstage and began to \"[go] down on them\". Sexuality among young women in Cuba has been viewed as \"normative learning behavior\" descended from the Afro-Cuban Palo religion, where men and women dance closely before \"the man goes behind the women in a picaresque way\" and emulates a \"gesture of appreciation\". Cover images of reggaeton records often feature women who are \"voluptuous, provocative, and scantily clad.\"\n\nSelena's music influenced Jennifer Lopez, who played the singer in her 1997 biographical film and debuted in the Latin music market with salsa singer Marc Anthony on the 1999 single \"No Me Ames\". Lopez remained in the American pop market through the early 2000s and returned to Latin music with her Spanish-language debut, \"Como Ama Una Mujer\", in 2006. The album was a commercial success, debuting in the top ten of the \"Billboard\" 200 and joining the handful of Hispanic artists with an album in the chart's top ten. Mexican actress and singer Thalía debuted on the Latin music scene during the early 1990s. In mid-decade the singer became commercially successful, with her album \"En Éxtasis\" (1995) certified platinum. She contributed to three tracks for the 1997 soundtrack of Fox Animation Studios' \"Anastasia\". Thalía's lyrics explore \"women or men in a narcissistic, neoliberal, first-world context but do not make sense in the general context of Latin American ordinary life\" attributed to other female performers, such as the Mexican singer Paulina Rubio and the Spanish singer Belinda. Thalía and Rubio have been called \"young, blonde, and thin\", wearing \"fashionable\" clothing, whose \"dull\" lyrics assume the role of a \"seductive, sexy, young woman who wants a macho-man at heart.\" According to musicologists Jacqueline Eyring Bixler and Laurietz Seda, Thalía and Rubio's music does not address \"mature and/or working-class women\".\nShakira's major-label debut, \"Pies Descalzos\" (1995), was the singer's \"breakthrough album\" in the Latin-music market and yielded the hit single \"Estoy Aquí\". She had a Latin pop rock sound, influenced by Middle Eastern and Latin American music. Shakira continued her career with the Grammy Award for Best Latin Rock Album-nominated \"Dónde Están los Ladrones?\" (1998), and joined Gloria Estefan and her husband, Emilio, to produce her first English-language album; it yielded \"Suerte\", which brought her mainstream success. Formed in 2006 in Argentina, the Kumbia Queers have recorded cumbia and Latin pop tracks with \"ironic and witty articulations of desire\".\n\nIn Spain, Lola Flores is hailed as the queen of flamenco music and Rocío Jurado is considered \"one of the purest voices of all time\" in the country. Music executive Lynn Santiago, who represented Yolandita Monge, Lissette Melendez, and Vikki Carr during the 1980s, said in a \"Billboard\" interview that she wanted \"to represent only a few artists in order to give them individual attention.\" Latin pop musicians from Puerto Rico, such as Lucecita Benítez and Monge, had male promoters who wanted to \"bring local performers\" by \"offering a big fiesta for the people [of Puerto Rico].\" Other Latin pop musicians popular in Puerto Rico during the 1980s include Conchita Alonso, Maggy, Lunna \"Cheo\" Feliciano, Sophy Hernandez, and the Argentine duo Pimpinela. In mainstream pop, female musicians Mariah Carey, Debelah Morgan, Jessica Simpson, Celine Dion, Carole King, Tina Arena, Gloria Gaynor, Alexia, Jennifer Rush, Lara Fabian, Madonna, Laura Pausini, Beyoncé, Selena Gomez, Demi Lovato, Azealia Banks, Ariana Grande, and Toni Braxton often record Spanish-language versions of their songs.\n\nAfter winning the inaugural Festival of Latin Song in Puerto Rico in 1969, Lucecita Benítez \"single-handedly put Puerto Rico on the map.\" Her winning song, \"Génesis\", expressed \"extreme male melancholy\"; author Licia Fiol-Matta called Benitez a \"masculine female\" whose delivery \"unexpectedly delivered this affect home.\" Throughout her career, Benítez performed and recorded compositions atypical of Puerto Rican music; nonconforming to gender roles, they did not address heterosexual desire. She survived several silencing attempts by those who disliked her music. Women remain a minority in Puerto Rican music, although singers Myrta Silva, Ruth Fernandez, Ernestina Reyes, and La Calandria have achieved moderate success.\n\nThe 1989 single \"Virginidad Sacudida\" by Mexican hardcore punk band Secta Suicida Siglo explores sexual repression among women, challenged heterosexism in Latin music, and opposed refraining from premarital sex for fear of being called a prostitute. Colombian singer Andrea Echeverri's music \"underlines the hybrid nature of Latin American culture\"; called the most-important female rock en español interpreter, she \"incorporates [her music with] the past rather than refusing it or mocking it.\" Echeverri is the lead singer of Aterciopelados, the only female-led rock en español band. She pursues a feminist agenda with her music, which has made her popular in the \"most revolutionary and controversial musical genres in Latin America.\" The singer grew up encouraged by her mother to sing boleros, ballads, and rancheras. She decided to continue her education in the arts, returning to music during the 1980s. Echeverri joined Delia y Los Aminoácidos in the 1990s; influenced by punk and hardcore music, the band's name was later changed to the Aterciopelados. Because of Echeverri's interest the band's repertoire focused on women's issues, with lyrics about women's relationships with men, and performed songs exploring domestic abuse, denouncing misogyny and \"overdramatized passionate love\", and examining Latin America's ideology and history of traditional love. As her popularity grew, Echeverri became a feminist icon and released an underground recording: \"Con el Corazón en la Mano\" (1993). The album, intended as a demo, reached the top ten in Colombia and piqued the interest of BMG Music Group and MTV. The band followed with \"El Dorado\" (1995) and went to London to produce \"La Pipa de la Paz\" (1996), which was certified gold in Colombia and received Aterciopelados' first nomination for the Grammy Award for Best Latin Alternative Music Album.\nAlthough some female Latin singers have explored a range of feminist topics, including sexism, domestic abuse, and \"reclaiming women's sexuality through their music\", others (such as Julieta Venegas) have refrained from labeling themselves as feminists. Venegas said in a 2004 interview that her music has a \"feminine point of view\" and does not delve into feminism. Chilean folklorist Violeta Parra recorded songs about failed heterosexual relationships, emphasizing men's incapability to commit to a woman. Called the \"bad girl\" of Latin pop and the queen of Latin American rock music, Alejandra Guzmán has attained \"tabloid notoriety for her flesh-baring displays on stage and for a series of controversial moves and wrong turns in her personal life\" but has been credited with breaking barriers in Latin music for women. Her parents, Enrique Guzmán and Silvia Pinal, often recorded and performed music together and were considered the Mexican Sonny and Cher.\n\nIn Portuguese music, Amália Rodrigues is considered the \"best-known and most famous\" \"fadista\" by author Paul Buck; Rodrigues' lyrics were written by \"the most celebrated poets and writers of the day.\" The singer was instrumental in popularizing fado, \"attract[ing] attention around the world.\" Ana Moura has emerged in modern fado with \"transcendent singing [which] personifies [fado music]\" and lyrics reflecting \"lost love, separation, and longing.\" Fado, a traditional folk genre popular in Lisbon, was once a male enclave. Female singers such as Mariza, Mísia, Mafalda Arnauth, Dulce Pontes, Cristina Branco, Joana Amendoeira, Raquel Tavares, Yolanda Soares and Kátia Guerreiro have reinvigorated modern fado. In Portuguese folk, Teresa Salgueiro's \"rich and enchanting\" vocals have been praised. Other Portuguese female singers (Felipa Pais, Marta Dias, Sofia Varela, Anabella, Bevinda, Sara Tavares, Cesaria Evora, Maria João, Marisa Monte, and Lura) have attained moderate success in the country. Cristina Pato, Xiradela, Leilia, Ialma, and Donicelas \"represent the rediscovery of the importance of female singers in Galician traditional music.\" Ugia Pedreira, the Galician lead singer of Marful, \"mixes traditional Galician song with new jazz arrangements [and] harmonies.\"\n\nDaniela Mercury is one of the \"best-known Brazilian female singers\". During the 1950s, some female singers in Brazil were called prostitutes and risked being labeled \"promiscuous or masculine ... [or] lesbians\". According to authors Oliver Marshall, Dilwyn Jenkins and David Cleary, the country has \"a strong tradition of producing excellent female singers\". They list Elis Regina, Gal Costa, Marisa Monte, Silvia Torres, Belô Velloso, and Fernanda Porto as examples of the sizable roster of women in Brazilian music.\n\nAlthough women have been credited with reshaping Latin music and public perceptions of sexuality, gender, and feminism, the Latin music industry remains male-dominated. American musicologist Ilan Stavans credits Selena, Jenni Rivera, Jennifer Lopez, Ivy Queen, Julieta Venegas, and Ely Guerra for the visibility of women in Latin music. NPR named Maluca, Bomba Estereo, La Lupe, Gloria Trevi, Chavela Vargas, Tita Merello, as \"\"las mostras\", fierce women of Latin music.\" \"Billboard\" magazine named Selena as a \"role model to Latinas everywhere\", and \"Latina\" magazine named Gloria Estefan as \"a role model for women across the globe.\" According to \"Latina\", singers Rita Moreno, Selena, Gloria Estefan, Celia Cruz, Shakira, and Jennifer Lopez \"changed the world\" with their work, achieved \"more and [gave] more.\" With Selena, Jenni Rivera has been credited with the visibility of women in regional Mexican music with the \"very large population of Mexican American women in the United States [with whom they] could identify\". In Tejano music, Selena's popularity has helped \"open the doors\" to other female singers. Because of the singer's influence, women in Tejano music emerged \"as a significant [demographic]\" in the genre during the 1990s and major record labels began increasing their female representation. After Selena, women were \"a significant part of [the Tejano and regional Mexican music] industry.\" Her \"Dreaming of You\" (1995) album topped the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, the first Hispanic artist and the first woman to do so. At the turn of the 21st century, Thalía, Paulina Rubio, Jennifer Lopez, Shakira, and Pilar Montenegro were the most popular female Latin pop singers. Graciela Beltran, Jennifer Pena, Ana Gabriel, and Paquita la del Barrio were the most popular female singers in their respective regional-Mexican genres, but female singers remain \"rare\" in regional Mexican music. \"People en Espanol\" named singers Lucero, Chiquis Rivera, and Jennifer Lopez in its 2017 list of the top 25 most-powerful Latina women. \"Billboard\" released a list of the top 100 music executives, which included Maria Fernandez (senior vice president operations and CFO of Latin Iberia-Sony Music Entertainment) and Rocio Guerrero (global head of Latin content programming for Spotify).\n\nAlthough women in mariachi music are perceived to be widely accepted, contemporary female singers in the genre have found it an \"unwelcoming environment for females.\" According to the Duranguense group Los Horóscopos de Durango, in 21st-century regional Mexican music it is \"hard for women to actually be respected, to be taken into consideration, to be given the time to show [their] talent.\" The group has found the genre a \"struggle\" because of male dominance. In 2017, Univision broadcast the reality television competition show \"La Reina de la Canción\" (\"Queen of Song\"), in which participants with \"the best voices, compelling stories, and a desire to become a superstar\" compete to become the next star of regional Mexican music. \"Billboard\" executive director of Latin content and programming Leila Cobo wrote that the public perception of regional Mexican music is a group of men dressed as cowboys. In the 2004 and 2005 year-end charts, only one female in the genre reached the top twenty; in 2006, there were three. That year, three singles by women topped the Hot Latin Songs chart: Shakira's collaborative single with Wyclef Jean, \"Hips Don't Lie\"; Paulina Rubio's \"Ni Una Sola Palabra\", and Anais' \"Lo Que Son Las Cosas\". In 2008, there were no number-one singles by a woman on the Latin music charts. Early in 2009 Jennifer Lopez ended the drought with \"Qué Hiciste\" (number one for a week), followed by Gloria Estefan's \"No Llores\" and Fanny Lu's \"Y Si Te Digo\". In August 2009 three women (Shakira, Paulina Rubio, and Nelly Furtado) made the top ten of the Hot Latin Songs chart, a \"rare occurrence\". According to industry observers, women on the charts are \"cyclical, as every couple of years a burst of estrogen appears on the typically testosterone-dominated Latin charts.\"\nWomen finalists at the 2016 \"Billboard\" Latin Music Awards were outnumbered by men, which was described by the magazine as a \"continuing [challenge] facing female artists in Latin music.\" For 2017 International Women's Day and Women's History Month, the music streaming service Spotify curated a playlist of women in Latin music. The playlist included music from Selena, Celia Cruz, and Natalia Lafourcade. An April 2016 \"Billboard\" report noted the absence of women from the magazine's music charts. The report found that the last female soloist topped the US Hot Latin Songs chart four years earlier: Shakira, with Maná (a male rock en español group), singing \"Mi Verdad\". In 2012 seven women had number-ones on the Top Latin Albums chart, compared with 33 men. \"Billboard\" executive Leila Cobo found that three of the seven women were veterans (Gloria Trevi, Thalía, and Ednita Nazario), and another three were deceased (Selena, Jenni Rivera, and Natalie Cole. Leslie Grace was the youngest female singer to reach number one on the Latin Airplay chart when she was 17 years old, and Alexandra Lioutikoff was the first woman executive vice-president at Universal Music Publishing Group's Latin division. Asked why the visibility of women in Latin music has declined, Chiquis Rivera suggested that radio programmers are to blame for their \"\"machista\" culture.\" According to Lioutikoff, women (unlike their male counterparts) \"rarely collaborate\". In its report, \"Billboard\" compiled a list of the top five women with the most number-ones on the Hot Latin Songs; Gloria Estefan led the list with 15, Shakira had 10, Selena seven, Ana Gabriel six, and Paulina Rubio five. The magazine found women \"underrepresented on the Latin-music-focused \"Billboard\" charts\", with Rubio the last female number-one with \"Me Gustas Todo\" on February 11, 2012. A discrepancy existed between the Top Latin Albums and the \"Billboard\" 200 charts; seven women topped the Latin Albums chart, compared to 21 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nWomen remain a minority in Puerto Rican music. According to Licia Fiol-Matta, the music industry has a \"prejudiced practice of limiting the number of women recording artists\" and women singers \"did not sell records since women did not buy records.\" In July 2017, Alejandra Guzmán and Gloria Trevi were the first female collaboration in the 24-year history of the Top Latin Albums chart to debut atop the chart. In 2016, Mexican pop singer Sofia Reyes was the first female lead singer with a number-one single in five years. Her collaboration with Prince Royce on \"Solo Yo\" was the first number-one single on the Latin Pop Songs chart by a woman since Jennifer Lopez' \"Ven A Bailar\" (2011) with Pitbull. Eight women have topped the Latin Pop Songs chart as featured acts, duos or groups with female leads: \"Solo Yo\" (Sofia Reyes with Prince Royce, April 23, 2016); \"Mi Verdad\" (Maná, featuring Shakira, April 4, 2015); \"Corre!\" (Jesse & Joy, March 31, 2012); \"Dutty Love\" (Don Omar with Natti Natasha, March 24, 2012), \"Fuiste Tu\" (Ricardo Arjona with Gaby Moreno, March 10, 2012); \"Give Me Everything\" (Pitbull with Ne-Yo, Afrojack and Nayer, July 23, 2011), and \"Ven A Bailar\" (Jennifer Lopez with Pitbull, June 18, 2011). Amaya Mendizabal of \"Billboard\" called the decline of women on the Latin music charts \"an ongoing trend.\" In 2015, 22 weeks passed without a female-led single on the 50-position Hot Latin Songs chart. According to Mendizabal, the absence of women on the Latin music charts is \"partly attributed to the steady popularity of reggaeton and regional Mexican music, which is often led by male acts.\" Mendizabal wrote that \"traditional pop songs\" rarely top the Hot Latin Songs chart; four pop songs did so in the previous three years, most by men. Sofia Reyes has expressed concern about the lack of women performers at Latin-music awards shows, telling Jeff Benjamin of Fuse TV that 90 percent of awards-show performers are men.\n\nIn July 2017, Spanish writer Daniela Bose noted the absence of women in Spanish music charts in comparison with those of France and Italy; culturally similar to Spain, women were more successful in the latter countries. Bose analyzed the Spanish Albums and Singles Charts, finding that the only Spanish singers who placed in the top 50 were Malú, Vanesa Martin, Sweet California, India Martinez, and the Spanish folk music singers Mónica Naranjo and Isabel Pantoja. When Bose expanded her search to the next 50 positions, she found only non-Spanish singers. She concluded that listeners had replaced Spanish and Latin pop music with reggaeton and trap music, genres performed by men with lyrics belittling women \"as meat\". Bose found a subtext in the songs encouraging female infidelity for sexual reasons, alluding to a non-committed relationship. According to Bose, music \"is not one of those 'secure' professions [for those who] seek stability\"; she found women absent from prominent positions held by men, such as heading a record label, producing concerts, and audio engineering; in these fields, with higher pay and power, women lack \"decision-making process[es] that set the path for [the Latin music] industry.\" She ended her report by urging the music industry to avoid gender imbalances in their markets: \"What dazzles is the beauty of the final work, regardless of who creates it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2583747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2583747", "title": "Work of art", "text": "Work of art\n\nA work of art, artwork, art piece, piece of art or art object is an aesthetic physical item or artistic creation. Apart from \"work of art\", which may be used of any work regarded as art in its widest sense, including works from literature and music, these terms apply principally to tangible, portable forms of visual art: \nUsed more broadly, the term is less commonly applied to:\n\nThis article is concerned with the terms and concept as used in and applied to the visual arts, although other fields such as aural-music and written word-literature have similar issues and philosophies. The term \"objet d'art\" is reserved to describe works of art that are not paintings, prints, drawings or large or medium-sized sculptures, or architecture (e.g. household goods, figurines, etc., some purely aesthetic, some also practical). The term oeuvre is used to describe the complete body of work completed by an artist throughout a career.\n\nA \"work of art\" in the visual arts is a physical two- or three- dimensional object that is professionally determined or otherwise considered to fulfill a primarily independent aesthetic function. A singular art object is often seen in the context of a larger art movement or artistic era, such as: a genre, aesthetic convention, culture, or regional-national distinction. It can also be seen as an item within an artist's \"body of work\" or \"oeuvre\". The term is commonly used by: museum and cultural heritage curators, the interested public, the art patron-private art collector community, and art galleries.\n\nPhysical objects that document immaterial or conceptual art works, but do not conform to artistic conventions can be redefined and reclassified as art objects. Some Dada and Neo-Dada conceptual and readymade works have received later inclusion. Also, some architectural renderings and models of unbuilt projects, such as by Vitruvius, Leonardo da Vinci, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Frank Gehry, are other examples.\n\nThe products of environmental design, depending on intention and execution, can be \"works of art\" and include: land art, site-specific art, architecture, gardens, landscape architecture, installation art, rock art, and megalithic monuments.\n\nLegal definitions of \"work of art\" are used in copyright law; \"see \".\n\nMarcel Duchamp critiqued the idea that the work of art should be a unique product of an artist's labour, representational of their technical skill or artistic caprice. Theorists have argued that objects and people do not have a constant meaning, but their meanings are fashioned by humans in the context of their culture, as they have the ability to make things mean or signify something.\n\nArtist Michael Craig-Martin, creator of \"An Oak Tree\", said of his work – \"It's not a symbol. I have changed the physical substance of the glass of water into that of an oak tree. I didn't change its appearance. The actual oak tree is physically present, but in the form of a glass of water.\"\n\nSome art theorists and writers have long made a distinction between the physical qualities of an art object and its identity-status as an artwork. For example, a painting by Rembrandt has a physical existence as an \"oil painting on canvas\" that is separate from its identity as a masterpiece \"work of art\" or the artist's \"magnum opus\". Many works of art are initially denied \"museum quality\" or artistic merit, and later become accepted and valued in museum and private collections. Works by the Impressionists and non-representational abstract artists are examples. Some, such as the \"Readymades\" of Marcel Duchamp including his infamous urinal \"Fountain\", are later reproduced as museum quality replicas.\n\nThere is an indefinite distinction, for current or historical aesthetic items: between \"fine art\" objects made by \"artists\"; and folk art, craft-work, or \"applied art\" objects made by \"first, second, or third-world\" designers, artisans and craftspeople. Contemporary and archeological indigenous art, industrial design items in limited or mass production, and places created by environmental designers and cultural landscapes, are some examples. The term has been consistently available for debate, reconsideration, and redefinition.\n\n\n"}
