{"id": "40266796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40266796", "title": "Alpheios Project", "text": "Alpheios Project\n\nThe Alpheios Project is an open source initiative originally focused on developing software to facilitate reading Latin and ancient Greek. Dictionaries, grammars and inflection tables were combined in a set of web-based tools to provide comprehensive reading support for scholars, students and independent readers. The tools were implemented as browser add-ons so that they could be used on any web site or any page that a user might create in Unicoded HTML.\nIn collaboration with the Perseus Digital Library, the goals of the Alpheios Project were subsequently broadened to combine reading support with language learning. Annotation and editing tools were added to help users contribute to the development of new resources, such as enhanced texts that have been syntactically annotated or aligned with translations.\nThe Alpheios tools are designed modularly to encourage the addition of other languages that have the necessary digital resources, such as morphological analyzers and dictionaries. In addition to Latin and ancient Greek, Alpheios tools have been extended to Arabic and Chinese. \nThe Alpheios Project is a non-profit (501c3) initiative. The software is open source, and resides on Sourceforge.com. The Alpheios software is released as GPL 3.0 and texts and data as CC-by-SA.\n\nThe Alpheios Project was established in 2007 by Mark Nelson, the founder of the commercial software company Ovid Technologies, which he started after writing a search engine for medical literature that became widely popular in medical libraries and research facilities (Strauch, 1996). Nelson, who holds an MA in English literature from Columbia University, sold the company to Wolters Kluwer in 1999 (Quint, 1998). Nelson created Alpheios by recruiting several developers and programmers from his previous company, defining the project's initial goals and funding its first three years of operation. In 2008 he also provided the initial funding for The Perseus Treebank of Ancient Greek, which has subsequently been crowd-sourced.\n\nIn 2011, the Perseus Project hired key Alpheios staff and the activities of the projects were extensively integrated, although Alpheios remains an independent organization focused on developing adaptive reading and learning tools that can provide formative assessment customized to the individual user's special abilities and goals, including the study of specific authors or texts.\n\nTo date, all Alpheios applications, enhanced texts and code have been provided without any fees or licenses. A separate Alpheios LLC provides commercial consultation on customization and extension of the Alpheios tools.\n\nThe reading tools also contain some pedagogical features typically found in e-tutors such as morphological and lexical quizzes and games and the automatic comparison of the user's own claims about vocabulary proficiency with his recorded use of the dictionary resources.\n\na number of the Arabic texts that Perseus has digitized are available directly from Alpheios, including:\n\nSupports manual diagramming of sentences in any language that has spaces or punctuation between its words, annotating the nodes and arcs as desired, and exporting as a re-usable xml document.\n\nSupports manual word or phrase alignment of a text in any language with its translation into any other language, and export as a re-usable xml document.\n\nAlpheios encourages participation by interested individuals whether or not they have current academic affiliations.\n\n"}
{"id": "26498821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26498821", "title": "Big Writing", "text": "Big Writing\n\nBig Writing is an approach to teaching writing developed by Ros Wilson and marketed by Andrell Education. The aim of Big Writing is to advise schools on how to raise attainment level in speaking, listening and writing. The method is currently used by numerous schools, primarily in the UK but also overseas. The target audience for Big writing are Key Stage 1 and Key Stage 2 students (i.e. those aged 5 to 11), although a slightly adjusted method is also taught that focuses on Foundation stage pupils and is known as 'Big Talk'. Andrell Education claims that Big Writing has proven to be successful in a number of schools, both with teachers and pupils, and points to case studies as evidence of this.\n\nThe first part of the Big Writing course to be developed was the Criterion Scale, an assessment tool linked to National Curriculum levels. From October 1999, Wilson spent three years working with the Kirklees LEA re-assessing work other teachers had already graded. During this time she read through and marked around 20,000 pieces of writing and observed that some teachers struggled to properly assess work, and had too high of an opinion of their pupils' writing. She also noticed the students who were underachieving, particularly the ones that teachers had given too high a grade, all had similar weaknesses in their writing. Ros Wilson decided to develop a standard that teachers could use to assess pupils' writing more accurately, and in a way that Wilson claims is more scientific. Using this, Wilson believes teachers can more accurately assess a student's work, and provide better targeted teaching and more helpful feedback.\nIn order to address the weaknesses in children's writing that she noted as being common across schools, Wilson identified four features that she believes are key to improving writing in the primary age range: vocabulary, connectives, openers and punctuation, or V.C.O.P. Stealing and borrowing are also encouraged when pupils see elements of V.C.O.P. in peers' work that they like. Together with the Criterion Scale, V.C.O.P. became a core part of the Big Writing approach, which Wilson and Andrell Education have promoted through books and professional development courses.\n\nBig Writing also emphasises talk for writing, and that pupils need to be taught to speak Standard English in order to help them make fewer spelling and grammar mistakes in their writing.\n\nAndrell advises that classes have regular Big Write sessions (ideally lasting one and a half hours, in order to allow children time to write at length), perhaps once a week, as well as regular short exercises throughout the school week in which children develop writing and editing skills with a focus on V.C.O.P.\n\nRos Wilson also advocates creating a positive environment for a writing through the use of candles, music and whatever else a teacher feels is beneficial in creating the right mood for learning.\n\n"}
{"id": "1155571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155571", "title": "Block letters", "text": "Block letters\n\nBlock letters (known as printscript, manuscript, print writing or ball and stick in academics) are a sans-serif (or \"gothic\") style of writing Latin script in which the letters are individual glyphs, with no joining. In English-speaking countries, children are often first taught to write in block letters, and later may be taught cursive (joined) writing. In Germany, children start writing with block letters in the first grade and learn cursive writing from the second grade. Other countries (Dominican Republic, Poland, Italy, Austria, France, Romania, etc.) focus on cursive writing from the first grade.\n\nOn official forms, one is often asked to \"please print\". This is because cursive handwriting is harder to read, and the glyphs are joined so they do not fit neatly into separate boxes.\n\nBlock letters may also be used as a synonym of block capitals, which means writing in all capital letters or in large and small capital letters, imitating the style of typeset capital letters. This is not a necessary implication, however: in at least one court case involving patents, trademarks and registration of designs, the term \"block letters\" was found to include both upper and lower case.\n"}
{"id": "43874698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43874698", "title": "Citywide Educational Coalition", "text": "Citywide Educational Coalition\n\nThe Citywide Educational Coalition (CWEC), is a tax-exempt, non-profit educational reform organization whose goal is to provide reliable and objective information on the Boston Public Schools to parents and citizens, enabling citizens to participate in policy making directly and through their school committee and increasing support for public education in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nThe Citywide Education Coalition was created in Boston, Massachusetts in order to create a community agenda for the Boston Public Schools. Incorporated in 1973 with the mission of circulating clear and accurate information regarding education reform, the Coalition was actively involved in a number of major decisions influencing the Boston School System, including the desegregation of Boston Public Schools.\n\nThe CWEC was formed in 1972 by Mary Ellen Smith, who brought together parents and concerned citizens from across Boston who felt a need for involvement in the selection of a new superintendent of Boston Public Schools. This group, composed of parents, teachers, school administrators, church groups, community groups and concerned individuals came together around several major issues facing the Boston Public Schools: the search for superintendent, the need to improve quality of education in public schools, the desegregation crisis in Boston and the lack of reliable and accurate information about schools. Since its founding, the CWEC has focused its energy on monitoring the implementation of the desegregation order, community organizing around educational issues, representing citizens in areas of educational decision making and on research and public information activities.\n\nIn the 1954 landmark case, Brown v. Board of Education, the legal basis for segregation within public schools is dismantled. The ruling declared that racial segregation violates the rights of United States citizens according to the Constitution, which guarantees equal protection of laws for all American citizens.\n\nEighteen years later, in 1972, de facto segregation still existed in the Boston Public School System as a result of school districting practices by geographical location, which remained largely segregated within the city. A class action suit was filed on behalf of fifteen parents and forty-three children, with Tallulah Morgan as lead plaintiff, in the case that would come to be known as Morgan v. Hennigan. At that time sixty-eight schools in Boston were racially imbalanced and 30,000 Boston students used public transportation to get to school. In 1974, Judge W. Arthur Garrity sided with the plaintiffs in Morgan vs. Hennigan and stated Boston School Committee had engaged in segregation. Garrity then ordered the school committee to implement the State Board of Education's Racial Imbalance plan until they produced a plan of their own for desegregation. September 12, 1974 marked the first day of school under this new program. The anti-desegregation group Restore our Alienated Rights (ROAR) called for a two-week boycott of schools, which caused a violent reaction, especially in South Boston, and left eighteen school buses damaged citywide.\n\nDuring this time, members of the Citywide Educational Coalition (CWEC) shifted focus to support the needs of the Boston school system, as well as its students and parents during this unstable period. By disseminating accurate information to parents through the Rumor Control Center and its newsletters, reports and parent guides, the Coalition actively participated in the desegregation of Boston schools. Throughout this volatile process, the Coalition developed safety procedures in the schools and along the bus routes, worked with students, parents, teachers and school administrators to improve the educational experience. The CWEC developed a mailing list of over 3,000 people in neighborhoods across the city of racial and ethnic groups and also mobilized over 500 parent volunteers who worked to promote calm and diffuse violence in neighborhoods throughout the city, in the process gathering supporters with a continuing interest in bettering the school system as a whole.\n\nBy stepping into the space created by the failure of the Boston School Department and the city to distribute credible information on the desegregation of public schools, the CWEC continued to build its constituency. This expanding support, in combination with the unprecedented focus on public schools as a result of the desegregation orders created the perfect environment for the CWEC to use segregation related issues as a vehicle for pursuing broader educational reform.\n\nThe Citywide Educational Coalition (CWEC) has produced and widely circulated five major publications: Parents’ Guide to Magnet Schools (1977), Magnet School in Boston: A Guide for Parents and Students (1978), Survey of Magnet Schools in Three Cities (1978), Boston Public Schools: A Guide for Parents and Students (1979) and The Basic Skills Improvement Program: What Parents Should Expect (1979). The CWEC has also recruited and trained a number of parent researchers to assist the Boston School Department in their production of the 1980 Guide to Elementary and Magnet Schools as well as publishing annual analyses of the Boston Public School Budget.\nThese publications attempt to increase parent and citizen participation by providing clear, concise, objective information that is free of jargon and encourages parents and concerned citizens to act toward improving their child’s school and schools throughout the city.\n\nBeginning in August 1974, the CWEC published a monthly newsletter first known as “Coalition” and later as “Common Ground.” Nearly 20,000 copies were distributed each month with the help of volunteers to households throughout the city of Boston.\n\nOne of CWEC’s major projects was the creation of BPS Watch, a program that requires the Coalition decide upon a single issue facing the Boston Public Schools, such as reading competency, and research it in depth. The goal is to find ways in which this specific issue can be addressed by both the school and the community to improve its function within the school system.\n\nCWEC acts also in an advisory capacity and technical assistant to the School Department. Members have become focused on basic skill competency and have examined vocational/occupational education planning with Boston schools.\n"}
{"id": "46234009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46234009", "title": "Educator effectiveness", "text": "Educator effectiveness\n\nEducator effectiveness is a K-12 school system education policy initiative that measures the quality of an educator performance in terms of improving student learning. It describes a variety of methods, such as observations, student assessments, student work samples and examples of teacher work, that education leaders use to determine the effectiveness of a K-12 educator.\n\nThe drive for educator effectiveness programs stem from Race to the top where states were awarded points for meeting educational policies based on the teacher's effectiveness. This policy was the basis of the emergence of statewide educator effectiveness programs.\n\nEducator effectiveness programs vary from state to state. Typically, an educator effectiveness program describes a cycle of observations and assessments that apply to different groups of teachers during an academic year. New teachers are evaluated more frequently, and veteran teachers are evaluated across multiple year cycles. Evaluated teachers have multiple scheduled classroom observations and conferences with the evaluator in addition to unannounced classroom observations. A controversial aspect of The purpose of evaluations is to help educators determine what is effective in their practices and provides them a medium to reflect upon and change their practice to help teachers become more effective.\n\nEducator effectiveness is a method used in the K-12 school system that uses multiple measures of assessments including classroom observations, student work samples, assessment scores and teacher artifacts, to determine the impact a particular teacher has on student's learning outcomes. While schools have used teacher evaluation practices and policies for many years, the emergence of educator effectiveness policies combines these existing practices with rubrics and test scores to provide more robust perspectives on the work of teachers. Educator effectiveness initiatives often use descriptions of effective teaching practices, such as Charlotte Danielson's \"Framework for Teaching\", to organize teaching separate domains for assessment. Danielson's domains include: Planning and Preparation, Classroom Environment, Professional Responsibilities, and Instruction.\n\nTeacher evaluations have changed over time and have had different standards across the United States. Evaluation systems often have been comprised an administrator observing a teacher a couple times per year. In some locations, teacher observations were only done on a three-year or longer cycle. In the past, a Widget Effect, as described by The New Teacher Project has been established that has developed a culture where all teachers feel as though they deserve the highest marks on evaluations. Schools used to see their job as filling positions and thought that any teacher who was given a license was high quality, and thus scored them according to that thought process. Therefore, all teachers were getting scores that were good or great and no variation was able to be determined between any two teachers.\n\nToday, federal and state policies have encouraged school systems to design more comprehensive evaluation systems that rely on multiple measures of how a teacher performs by looking at items such as student performance gains, classroom observations, teacher reflections, content specific knowledge and student reflections. Some policy makers and researchers encourage the design of systems to identify and sort good and bad teachers; others are designed to provide meaningful feedback and professional development to teachers in order to enhance their skills.\n\nOverall, the purpose of educator effectiveness is to build the capacity for teachers to enhance their skills. The effective teachers have an effect on student's ability to have a higher level of conceptual understanding of a topic and have displayed the ability to think more abstractly than peers taught by less effective teachers. Quality teaching also has been identified as a key influence for positive learning outcomes for the diverse body of students in the classroom.\n\nAs of 2013, US schools United States had very little cohesiveness in their teacher effectiveness requirements and implementations. In 2013, 25 states required that student achievement is a big or the biggest part of teacher evaluations. Twenty-seven states required teacher evaluations be based on a variety of student assessments and work samples and 44 states required classroom observations to be put into teacher evaluations. Overall, 11 states require a statewide teacher evaluation system; 10 states gave a statewide evaluation model that districts can either do or decide to do a similar model. To date only a small handful of states have adopted policies connecting the performance of students to their teachers and the colleges where the teachers were trained.\n\nMany countries have national policies that decide what teacher evaluation systems that schools will have to follow. Some countries such as Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden provide annual feedback on teaching practices. Other countries, such as Norway and Iceland leave the decision about how the teacher evaluations systems will be done to be determined at a local level. The quality of teaching in these countries is compared to the curriculum they follow and with the school instructional plan. Finland does not use any standardized testing as a measure of teacher effectiveness. Singapore is another country that does not use test scores but rather focuses on how teachers work together as a main part of their evaluation system. Singapore also focuses heavily on professional development around evaluation, coaching, mentoring and collaborating with other educators with an overall goal of getting a high quality teaching staff.\n\nThere is significant debate in the U.S. about how to reward teachers for performance as measured by educator effectiveness policies. Some schools rewards teachers by paying them more based upon their student's test scores, which is linked to the Race to the Top funding in the United States. However, other reward systems are being created based on the idea that improving a teacher's capacity to learn and improve upon their practice will have a direct impact on student achievement. These schools increase pay for teachers who have a National Board Certification using National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, advanced degrees, engaging in professional development, mentor new colleagues and paying more for these qualified teachers in hard to staff schools \n\nThe connection of teacher effectiveness and merit pay varies in different countries. In Finland and Canada, they do not to use merit-pay approaches but encourage conversations between the evaluator and teacher about student progress and success. In contrast, Chinese and Singaporean teachers, get financial bonuses and promotions for high performance. High-performing countries have a strong system of professional and school-level accountability but look at success on things such as school improvement goals, professional contributions, and indicators of student well-being.\n\nMost educator effectiveness programs rely two kinds of data: observations of teaching practices and student outcomes data. There are four main sources of observational data collected by schools:\n\nThe new part of educator effectiveness policies is the integration of outcome data into the evaluation process. The biggest component of the outcome data is growth of student learning as measured by standardized tests. Most educator effectiveness programs rely on some form of value-added measures to determine student growth. Value-added measure use longitudinal measures of student achievement to estimate the growth in student learning that can be attributed to individual teachers. If the students of a specific teacher demonstrate growth in learning better than predicated on standardized tests, the teacher is said to be effective; if the students score below the predicted scores, the teacher is said to be ineffective. Parent and student surveys are another method of collecting data on teachers and their educational practices.\n\nMany argue that it is difficult to measure the effect that teachers have on student learning. Many teachers who are in the K-12 system, teach subjects that are not assessed on state mandated testing. In order to effectively implement an educator effectiveness system, some argue that states need to create different evaluation systems for the teachers who teach students in non-tested areas such as submitted portfolios of student work, lesson logs, video clips of them teaching and reflective commentaries on lessons.\n\nOthers argue about the methodology as some districts are using value added models to determine the effectiveness to teachers. They state that it is an unreliable measurement tool because the makeup of classes differ greatly from teacher to teacher and from year to year. Some say that it ends up penalizing teachers who traditionally do not score well on standardized assessments such as students who receive free and reduce lunch and students with disabilities. They state that this may cause the highly effective teachers to work at schools with a low disability rate and a middle to high socioeconomic status. There are different ways to calculate the value-added effect of teachers that changes depending on how they define value-added and what they use to calculate it. It typically does not account for the expectations put on students who go into a classroom reading below grade level and are expected to have a much higher growth rate than their peers. Through many research studies, it has shown that the estimates of teacher effectiveness were not through the same throughout different years or content areas such as reading and math and may be difficult to compare gains from tests from year to year when they don't measure the same content \n\nSome have commented that evaluators in states with teacher evaluation systems do not have through enough training. Furthermore, these evaluators often do not have to prove themselves as effective teachers themselves. As of 2013, only 13 states require a certification for their evaluators that require evaluators are effective teachers. Furthermore, often the same evaluator is observing students every time. In order to have high quality teacher feedback, some would argue that multiple perspectives by highly effective educators would create the dialogue and feedback that would help teachers to grow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6490834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6490834", "title": "Endurance training", "text": "Endurance training\n\nEndurance training is the act of exercising to increase endurance. The term endurance training generally refers to training the aerobic system as opposed to the anaerobic system. The need for endurance in sports is often predicated as the need of cardiovascular and simple muscular endurance, but the issue of endurance is far more complex. Endurance can be divided into two categories including: general endurance and specific endurance. It can be shown that endurance in sport is closely tied to the execution of skill and technique. A well conditioned athlete can be defined as, the athlete who executes his or her technique consistently and effectively with the least effort.\n\nEndurance training is essential for a variety of endurance sports. A notable example is distance running events (800 meters upwards to marathon and ultra-marathon) with the required degree of endurance training increasing with race distance. Two other popular examples are cycling (particularly road cycling) and competitive swimming. These three endurance sports are combined in triathlon. Other sports for which extensive amounts of endurance training are required include rowing and cross country skiing. Athletes can also undergo endurance training when their sport may not necessarily be an endurance sport in the whole sense but may still demand some endurance. For instance aerobic endurance is necessary (to varying extents) in racket sports, football, rugby, martial arts, basketball and cricket. Endurance exercise tends to be popular with non-athletes for the purpose of increasing general fitness or burning more calories to increase weight loss potential.\n\nLong-term endurance training induces many physiological adaptations both centrally and peripherally mediated. Central cardiovascular adaptations include decreased heart rate, increased stroke volume of the heart, increased blood plasma, without any major changes in red blood cell count, which reduces blood viscosity and increased cardiac output as well as total mitochondrial volume in the muscle fibers used in the training (i.e. the thigh muscles in runners will have more mitochondria than the thigh muscles of swimmers). Mitochondria increase in both number and size and there are similar increases in myoglobin and oxidative enzymes. Adaptations of the peripheral include capillarization, that is an increase in the surface area that both the venous and arterial capillaries supply. This also allows for increased heat dissipation during strenuous exercise. The muscles heighten their glycogen and fat storing capabilities in endurance athletes in order to increase the length in time in which they can perform work. Endurance training primarily work the slow twitch (type 1) fibers and develop such fibers in their efficiency and resistance to fatigue. Catabolism also improves increasing the athletes capacity to use fat and glycogen stores as an energy source. These metabolic processes are known as glycogenolysis, glycolysis and lipolysis. There is higher efficiency in oxygen transport and distribution. In recent years it has been recognized that oxidative enzymes such as succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) that enable mitochondria to break down nutrients to form ATP increase by 2.5 times in well trained endurance athletes In addition to SDH, myoglobin increases by 75-80% in well trained endurance athletes.\n\nThe potential for negative health effects from long-term, high-volume endurance training have begun to emerge in the scientific literature in recent years. The known risks are primarily associated with training for and participation in extreme endurance events, and affect the cardiovascular system through adverse structural remodeling of the heart and the associated arteries, with heart-rhythm abnormalities perhaps being the most common resulting symptom. Endurance exercise can also reduce testosterone levels.\n\nCommon methods for training include periodization, intervals, hard easy, long slow distance, and in recent years high-intensity interval training. The periodization method is very common and was accredited to Tudor Bompa and consists of blocks of time, generally 4–12 weeks each. The blocks are called preparation, base, build and race. The goal of a structured training program with periodization is to bring the athlete into peak fitness at the time of a big race or event. Preparation as the name suggests lays the groundwork for heavier work to follow. For a runner contemplating a competitive marathon the preparation phase might consist of easier runs of 1–4 miles 3-4 times per week and including 2–3 days of core strengthening. In the base phase the athlete now works on building cardiovascular endurance by having several long runs staying in heart rate zone 1-2 every week and each week adding slightly more mileage (using 10% rule for safely increasing the mileage). Core strengthening is continued in the base period. Once the base phase is complete and the athlete has sufficient endurance, the build period is needed to give the athlete the ability to hold a faster pace for the race duration. The build phase is where duration of runs is traded for intensity or heart rate zones 3-5. An easy method to obtain intensity is interval training and interval training starts to happen in the build phase. Through interval training during the build phase the athlete can achieve higher lactate threshold and in some athletes VO2 max is increased. Because interval training is demanding on the body, a professional coach should be consulted. In the very least the athlete should do a warm up and active stretching before the interval session and static stretch or yoga after hard interval sessions. It is also advisable to have days of rest or easy workouts the day after interval sessions. Finally the race phase of the periodization approach is where the duration of the workouts decreases but intense workouts remain so as to keep the high lactate threshold that was gained in the build phase. In Ironman training, the race phase is where a long \"taper\" occurs of up to 4 weeks for highly trained Ironman racers. A final phase is designated transition and is a period of time, where the body is allowed to recover from the hard race effort and some maintenance endurance training is performed so the high fitness level attained in the previous periods will not be lost.\n\nTraditionally, strength training (the performance of exercises with resistance or added weight) was not deemed appropriate for endurance athletes due to potential interference in the adaptive response to the endurance elements of an athlete's training plan. There were also misconceptions regarding the addition of excess body mass through muscle hypertrophy (growth) associated with strength training, which could negatively effect endurance performance by increasing the amount of work required to be completed by the athlete. However, more recent and comprehensive research has proved that short-term (8 weeks) strength training in addition to endurance training is beneficial for endurance performance, particularly long-distance running.\n\nThe heart rate monitor is one of the relatively easy methods to assess fitness in endurance athletes. By comparing heart rate over time fitness gains can be observed when the heart rate decreases for running or cycling at a given speed. In cycling the effect of wind on the cyclists speed is difficult to subtract out and so many cyclists now use power meters built into their bicycles. The power meter allows the athlete to actually measure power output over a set duration or course and allows direct comparison of fitness progression. In the 2008 Olympics Michael Phelps was aided by repeated lactate threshold measurement. This allowed his coaches to fine tune his training program so that he could recover between swim events that were sometimes several minutes apart. Much similar to blood glucose for diabetes, lower priced lactate measurement devices are now available but in general the lactate measurement approach is still the domain of the professional coach and elite athlete.\n\n"}
{"id": "35973649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35973649", "title": "Individual Education", "text": "Individual Education\n\nIndividual Education is a school system rooted in the individual psychology of Alfred Adler. Designed by Raymond Corsini, the Individual Education program includes a number of basic principles. The program consists of three components: Academic; Creative/Applied; Socialization. Corsini also outlined disciplinary procedures and a number of other principles to ensure the most productive possible school environment.\n\nThe following are the basic principles of the Individual Education School System:\n\n\nA primary goal of Individual Education is to make children self-sufficient, giving them the mean to become a productive member of society; to become mature and self-reliant. Individual Education is against the infantilization of the child. Instead, Individual Education maximizes the child's self-determination.\n\nIndividual Education is designed to develop in children feeling of respect of the self and of others. Traditional school systems make children feel inferior and make many of them feel unsuccessful. A system based on rewards and punishment, praise and disapproval, is considered morally bankrupt in the Individual Education system. Some children are not born into environments conducive to academics. Some children have strengths not visible in the traditional system. Any system that insults these children is wrong.\n\nEvery child has innate talents, and some strengths and weaknesses. Whatever resources the child has, Individual Education permits expression, whether academic or non-academic. If little Michaelangelo wants to paint, let him. If he therefore never learns how to solve square roots, so be it. If little Willy Gates doesn't want to leave his computer alone, let him. If he therefore never reads Shakespeare, so be it. As long as Michaelangelo can do basic math, and Willy can read well, that is enough. For others, a broader program will be necessary. The child will determine the program that best suits him/her. The curriculum will be there when he/she needs it. The teacher will encourage learning of all types of academe, but will not force it.\n\nThe concept of Social Interest (\"Gemeinschaftsgefuhl\" in Adlerian theory) is central to Individual Education. It means responding to the needs of others. It can be seen in school spirit, patriotism, love for family, or elsewhere. This is critical to a child becoming a productive and happy member of society. This goal is not achieved directly, but rather through the achievement of the first 3 Rs.\n\nThe curriculum in the academic component is similar to that in the traditional system. Language, mathematics, history/geography and science are developed along the mastery model—through a skills list through which children progress from the beginning of school to the end. Children are tested weekly on average but it is the children who request to be tested; teachers cannot demand that tests be written. Instead a Progress Chart shows how far along the child is (80% is considered mastery). The child doesn't have to learn what he/she has already learned—if the child can pass a test without attending class, the Progress Chart is marked identically to that of a child that attended hours of classroom study. A quick learner is offered the next level of curriculum and the opportunity to tutor others. No numerical or letter-based grading system is used.\n\nThese courses can be offered in 6-8 week blocks. 1-3 can be chosen out of 9-12 courses offered. Included are topics students want to learn but do not find in traditional curriculum. They usually involve some physical activities (e.g. soccer), some artistic ones (visual arts) and some applied (horticulture). Teachers offer courses in areas of their interest. Community resources are used where possible.\n\nTeachers socialize children through their positions as teachers and advisers. Children can choose their adviser, though the teacher can choose whether to accept that student. The adviser is an equal to the child in this environment (unlike during the academic program), and can only enforce the first school rule, related to dangerous behavior (see below). They meet as a group (the adviser with all children who have chosen him or her, or in the absence of a decision by the child, the child is assigned an adviser).Among other things, students learn about problem solving, health maintenance, interpersonal communications and purpose in life. The adviser supervises homeroom, which occurs at the beginning and end of the day and is unstructured. At least once a week and sometimes every day, the adviser holds a class meeting during which time the children discuss their various concerns. Rules regarding homeroom and class meetings can only be decided democratically. The teacher can suggest rules but the children decide by a vote.\n\nThe adviser is also the liaison between the child and other teachers with whom there may be difficulties, and can act as a mediator. The adviser also liaises with the child's parents but only on rare occasions and only with the child's consent. The child should always be in the room during such discussions if possible.\n\nThe socialization program includes \"playtime\" for younger children. Other teachers are also free to discuss social matters with children, as equals.\n\nIndividual Education schools have only three school rules:\n\nThere are no exceptions to these rules. Violation of one of these rules means the child is given a violation slip which they take to the office to have recorded.\n\nTeachers can establish idiosyncratic classrooms, but they cannot violate the three rules above. Because there are so few rules, teachers must ensure that they are strictly enforced.\n\nThese rules are largely based on the discipline concepts of Rudolf Dreikurs. Dreikurs' concept of logical consequences is particularly useful in understanding the Individual Education disciplinary procedure.\n\nThe GO signal is a gesture towards the door. A teacher may quietly say the child's name and make the gesture. The child must then leave the classroom immediately and silently without disruption to others. The child then has a few options: go to another class; go to the study hall; go to the library; seek to re-enter the classroom. The child can return to the classroom but may be given the STOP signal at that time, which means the child must go to another option. The STOP signal is a hand held face up in the direction of the child entering.\n\nTeachers should not keep track of the number of times they give out the GO and STOP signals. They have no meaning in terms of the child's progress in school, and should carry no social consequences. A teacher must not warn the child of an impending GO signal, nor intimidate the child by standing close to them or giving them negative looks. There is no use in intimidating the child, who will rebel against such an attempt.\n\nFor each violation there is a consequence. If the ultimate consequence of expulsion is applied, it should include a referral to other professional help.\n\nResearch articles have indicated the following findings:\n\nRaymond Corsini recognized in the late 1960s that adults were mistakenly blaming children for their poor behavior and grades in school when the problems were promoted by the school system in which the children operated. Corsini argued that the traditional system of education was fundamentally undemocratic. Children were \"sentenced\" to attend an institution where they had no choice of teacher or level of study, and minimal choice in terms of subjects, places or means of study. He set out to design a school system in which respect would be a central principle. Research by Paul Clark confirmed that Individual Education is an effective method of encouraging learning.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, there were a dozen individual education schools operating in North America and Europe, including Hawaii, Illinois, Colorado, British Columbia and the Netherlands. One school, the Blooming Grove Academy, operated in Bloomington, Illinois from 1986 until 2011.\nForest Park I.E. (K-5) and Hufford I.E.(6-8), both in Joliet, IL continue to operate using the Corsini system.\nThe original Individual Education School, Ho'Ala School in Wahiawa, Hawaii, continues to be in operation for kindergarten to grade 12. DaVinci Charter School closed down in February 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1343032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343032", "title": "List of Friends schools", "text": "List of Friends schools\n\nFriends schools are institutions that provide an education based on the beliefs and testimonies of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). This article is a list of schools currently or historically associated with the Society of Friends, regardless of their current degree of affiliation.\n\nFriends schools vary greatly, both in their interpretation of Quaker principles and in how they relate to formal organizations that make up the Society of Friends. Most Friends schools are similar in their mission however: to provide an academically sound education while also instilling values of community, spirituality, responsibility and stewardship in their students.\n\nSome institutions founded by Friends were never formally \"Quaker schools.\" Some historically Friends institutions are no longer formally associated with the Society of Friends. Those that continue to call themselves \"Quaker schools\" may have formal oversight from a Friends yearly or monthly meetings (often called coming \"under care of\" a meeting), and others are governed by members of the Society of Friends and/or adhere to aspects of Quaker practice.\n\nBecause of the wide range of Friends, the branch (or branches) of Quakerism with which the school affiliates are included, and where applicable the Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly Meeting under whose care or governance the school is held is shown.\n\n\n\nBolivian Friends have established several schools, which are supported from the United States by the Bolivian Quaker Education Fund.\n\n\n\n\n\"For Northern Ireland, see Ireland below.\"\n\n\nNon-Friends schools with Friends connections\n\nDefunct Friends schools\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll Quaker schools and yearly meetings in Kenya are affiliated with Friends United Meeting. Note that the Friends World Committee for Consultation counts, but does not name, many more Kenyan Friends schools than are listed here,\n\n\n\n\nAbbreviations:\n\n\n\"\"Independent Quaker schools\" are operated using Quaker principles and often include a majority of Quakers among trustees, but are not formally under care of a meeting.\"\n\n\n\n\"Note: This section lists schools with grades only below 9th grade. Schools including high school grades are listed above.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6674998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6674998", "title": "List of works on Waldorf education", "text": "List of works on Waldorf education\n\nThis is a list of works on Waldorf education by authors other than Rudolf Steiner. See also this List of Rudolf Steiner's works on education.\n\n\"Works on Waldorf education include:\"\n\nReviews at:\nhttps://www.amazon.com.au/Steiner-Education-Theory-Practice-Gilbert/dp/0863151310\n"}
{"id": "5151803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151803", "title": "Microlearning", "text": "Microlearning\n\nMicrolearning deals with relatively small learning units and short-term learning activities. The term is used in e-learning and related fields in the sense of learning processes in mediated environments. Microlearning is a holistic approach for skill based learning and education which deals with relatively small learning units. It involves short-term-focused strategies especially designed for skill based understanding/learning/education. Microlearning refers to micro-perspectives of learning, education, training and skill development. The approaches followed for assessment of microlearning are multidimensional & holistic in nature and need based in particular cases [Patil U.K., 1999] [Patil U.K., 2000]. An ideal instructional approach for many situations especially in higher education for skill development, trainability and employability of learners/students [Patil U.K., 2002]. The technique is capable enough to address challenges associated with slow learners [Patil U.K., 2005]. This learning technique is versatile not only for skill based education but also for sustainable socioeconomic development. Without taking care of micro-perspectives in the context of learning, education, training and skill development, a skill based education cannot be imparted effectively [Patil U.K., 2009].\n\nIn a wide sense, microlearning can be understood as a metaphor which refers to micro aspects of a variety of learning models, concepts and processes.\n\nDepending on frames and domains of reference, micro, meso and macro aspects vary. They are relational concepts. For example, in the context of language learning, one might think of micro aspects in terms of vocabularies, phrases, sentences, and distinguish them from situations and episodes (meso aspects) and socio-cultural specifics or complex semantics (macro aspects). In a more general discourse on learning, one might differentiate between the learning of individuals, group learning or learning of organizations and the learning of generations or societies.\n\nFurthermore, microlearning marks a transition from common models of learning towards micro perspectives on and the significance of micro dimensions in the process of learning. The microlearning approach is an emergent paradigm, so there are no hard definitions or coherent uses of the term yet. However, the growing focus on microlearning activities can be seen by web users' activities on the subject, who tag their corresponding weblog postings and social bookmarks with the term \"microlearning\".\n\nAs an instructional technology, microlearning focuses on the design of microlearning activities through micro steps in digital media environments, which already is a daily reality for today's knowledge workers. These activities can be incorporated into learner's daily routines and tasks. Unlike \"traditional\" e-learning approaches, microlearning often tends towards push technology through push media, which reduces the cognitive load on the learners. Therefore, the selection of micro learning objects and also pace and timing of microlearning activities are of importance for didactical designs.\n\nMicrolearning, in a nutshell, is a digital learning experience designed to be effective, engaging and enjoyable. Microlearning provides bite-sized learning content in stark contrast to the traditional model of learning and thus engagement follows.\n\nMicrolearning can be characterized as follows:\n\nThe following dimensions can be used to describe or design microlearning activities:\n(Hug 2005, used with permission)\n\n\"Subscription learning, as its name implies, provides an intermittent stream of learning-related interactions to those who are subscribed. These learning-related interactions—called \"nuggets\"—can involve a great variety of learning-related events, including content presentation, diagnostics, scenario-based questions, job aids, reflection questions, assignments, discussions, etc. Nuggets are short, usually presented in less than five to ten minutes. Nuggets are intentionally scheduled over time to support learning, often utilizing research-based findings related to the spacing effect. Learners subscribe (or are subscribed) to one or more series of learning nuggets, called \"threads\". Learning threads can be predesigned, selecting nuggets based on anticipated learner needs or they can be dynamically created based on learner performance.\" (Thalheimer, 2013).\n\nSubscription learning characteristics:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47392247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47392247", "title": "Non-Verbal Reasoning", "text": "Non-Verbal Reasoning\n\nIn non-verbal reasoning (NVR) diagrams are used for expressing the ideas instead of using numbers and words. Non-verbal reasoning shows a series of figures arranged in a sequence or pattern and then the missing figure is required to identified or the next in the sequence. Because the non-verbal reasoning questions are believed to be the best indicator of general intelligence and don't rely on a knowledge of either English or maths.\n\nNon-verbal reasoning includes\n\nIt involves identifying relationship, similarities and differences between shapes and patterns, recognizing visual sequences and relationship between objects and remembering this. It enables the ability to analyze and solve complex problems without relying upon or being limited by language skills As these tests don't require reading they can give insight into the abilities of those who have problems with reading and thinking verbally.\n\n"}
{"id": "5808214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5808214", "title": "On-the-job training", "text": "On-the-job training\n\nOn-the-job training (sometimes called direct instruction) is one-on-one training located at the job site. It usually consists of an experienced workers passing down their skills to a new employee. This type of training is usually used for practical tasks.\n\nIn antiquity, the work performed by most people did not rely on abstract thinking, or academic education. Parents or community members, who knew the skills necessary for survival, passed their knowledge on to the children through direct instruction. This method is still widely used today. It is a frequently used because it requires only a person who knows how to do the task and the tools the person uses to do the task. It may not be the most effective or the most efficient method at times, but it is normally the easiest to arrange and manage. Because the training takes place on the job, it can be highly realistic and no transfer of learning is required. It is often inexpensive because no special equipment is needed other than what is normally used on the job. One drawback is that takes the trainer and materials out of production for the duration of the training time. In addition, due to safety or other production factors, it is prohibitive in some environment.\nEven many researchers show the importance of the On the Job Training.A large majority of employee learning is accomplished through on-the-job training. Well designed OJT training programs are well planned and resourced, staff managers with competent coaching ability, and define the criterion for performance standards.\n\nOn the job training is one of the earliest forms of training in the United States. It is the method in which someone is taught by watching an already trained professional. This is typically done on a one-to-one basis. This was originally used as the method of training, when people were not capable of being able to read and write. This is why this method dates back to many, many years ago. This method was used because it didn’t require many materials, just one person who knows how to do the job, and the necessary tools. This method of training does not require any training guides, etc. Over the years, as society has grown, on the job training has become less popular. Now that people are able to read and write, many companies have switched to doing training in simulation fields, and having employees read training guides. Many jobs that would use on the job training, now prefer to hire employees who are already experienced and have the required skill set. However, there are still many companies who feel that on the job training is the best for their employees. This means that the new employee will be taught the necessary skills to complete the job while they are on the job site.\n\nThe concept of observational learning was introduced by Albert Bandura. Bandura’s theory about people learning best from the people surrounding them, is called the Social Cognitive Theory. Bandura believes that people learn best by observing people around them. Some of the things that he brings up during this theory, is that people first must pay attention to those around them. Next, the learner must retain what they have observed, and try to reproduce what they have watched. This links nicely to the idea of on the job training, in the aspect that the new employees first observe their trainer. They may watch this person first complete the task, before trying it themselves. After observing for some time, people typically will imitate the action they had observed. This is exactly how on the job training is expected to occur. First, the trainer will model their task for the new employee to watch. After this is done a few times, the new employee will try their best to produce the same outcome. This type of training will occur as long as necessary, until the new employee is capable of performing the task on their own.\n\nAs far as on the job training goes, there are both advantages and disadvantages to this type of training goes. Most companies have to weigh out these options before they decide which type of training they will use with their new employees. In some case, the disadvantages are too strong, and companies have to shy away from OJT. A list of pros and cons can be found below.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> On the job training is a quick method of training. There is no time being wasted in the classroom, only for the person to get to the job and still not know what to do. This is also a way of someone getting their feet wet from the get go, and not having to learn over a long period of time.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> When a company is short on employees, and needs to hire someone new, they are able to have the employee immediately on the job! This means there is not any extra time wasted with fewer people on the job.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> It is oftentimes hard to create a simulation of the work environment in a training field. By doing the on the job training, everyone is taught exactly what they will be using on a daily basis.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Cost effective method of on the job training, means that no money is being wasted on separate training.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> On the job training can sometimes cause an issue when employees are not properly trained teachers. Not every employee is capable of training someone, which would then mean that trainers would need to placed on the job site.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> On the job training can also cause distractions to the job. This would also affect the productivity of the job, and lead to it being down in a slower amount of time. If the employees are constantly having to help someone new, they are spending less time on the task.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> In many jobs, there are safety precautions that need to be taught prior to entering the job field. Without employees being properly trained, there could be injuries that occur on the jobsite.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> On the job training, is oftentimes rushed, which results in low productivity of the employee.\n"}
{"id": "7583732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7583732", "title": "Raising of school leaving age in England and Wales", "text": "Raising of school leaving age in England and Wales\n\nThe raising of school leaving age (shortened to ROSLA) is the name given by the government to refer to changes regarding the legal age a child is permitted to leave compulsory education in England and Wales as specified under an Education Act. As in most countries, the school leaving age often reflects when young people are seen to be mature enough within their society, but not necessarily when they are old enough to be regarded as an adult.\n\nIn England and Wales this age has been raised numerous times since the introduction of compulsory education in 1870. On 1 September 1972, the age was raised from 15 to 16, following preparations which began eight years earlier in 1964. This left a gap year of school leavers who, by law, had to complete an additional year of education from 1973 onwards. Many of the age raisings in the 19th and 20th centuries were aimed at generating more skilled labour by providing additional time for students to gain additional skills and qualifications. In recent years, government statistics showed that 11% of 16 to 18 year-olds were neither continuing their education after completion of their GCSEs, nor in full-time employment or an apprenticeship, thus increasing the overall unemployment rate given many are unable to find work. The UK Government hoped that by making education compulsory up to the age of seventeen years by 2013 and eighteen years by 2015, it could change this.\n\nPrior to the 19th century, there were very few schools. Most of those that existed were run by the church, for the church, stressing religious education. In the latter part of the 19th Century, compulsory attendance at school ceased to be a matter for local option, with the introduction of the Elementary Education Act 1870 a milestone in the British school education system. Children had to attend between the ages of 5 and 10 though with some local discretion such as early leaving in agricultural areas.\n\nThe introduction of the Elementary Education Act 1870 (applying to England and Wales), commonly known as \"Forster's Education Act\" having been drawn up by William Edward Forster, created the concept of compulsory education for children under thirteen, although the decision to make education compulsory was at the discretion of school boards; education was compulsory in approximately 40% of schools by 1873. In areas where education was considered a problem, elected school boards could be set up. These boards could, at their discretion, create local by-laws, confirmed by Parliament, to require attendance and fine the parents of children who did not attend. There were exemptions for illness, living more than a certain distance (typically one mile) from a school, or certification of having reached the required standard (which varied by board) which were made mandatory across England and Wales by the 1880 Act.\n\nThe Elementary Education Act 1880 insisted on compulsory attendance from 5–10 years. For poorer families, ensuring their children attended school proved difficult, as it was more tempting to send them working if the opportunity to earn an extra income was available. Attendance Officers often visited the homes of children who failed to attend school, which often proved to be ineffective. Children under the age of 13 who were employed were required to have a certificate to show they had reached the \"educational standard\"; employers of these children who weren't able to show this were penalised. An act brought into force thirteen years later went under the name of the Elementary Education (School Attendance) Act 1893, which stated a raised minimum leaving age to 11. Later the same year, the act was also extended for blind and deaf children, who previously had no means of an official education. This act was later amended in 1899 to raise the school leaving age up to 12 years of age.\n\nIn 1900 education was made compulsory between the ages of 5 and 14, with some exemptions. School boards were abolished in 1902 and replaced with local education authorities, which are still in use to the present day.\n\nThe year 1918 saw the introduction of the Education Act 1918, commonly also known as the Fisher Act as it was devised by Herbert Fisher. The act enforced compulsory education from 5–14 years, but also included provision for compulsory part-time education for all 14-to-18-year-olds. There were also plans for expansion in tertiary education, by raising the participation age to 18 though cuts in public spending after World War I made this impractical. This is the first act which starting planning provisions for young people to remain in education until the age of 18. The 1918 act was not implemented until a further act of 1921 was passed.\n\nIn 1944, Rab Butler introduced the Education Act 1944 which amongst other changes, including the introduction of the Tripartite System, included raising the school leaving age to 15. Although the act should have been brought into effect as from September 1939, it was not implemented because of the effects of World War II, but was eventually enforced from April 1947. The comprehensive school system has since replaced the Tripartite System brought in by this act across most of England. This act also recommended compulsory part-time education for all children until the age of 18, but was dropped, in similar fashion to the 1918 Act, to cut spending after World War II.\n\nChanges in government approaches towards education meant that it was no longer regarded adequate for a child to leave education aged 14, as that is the age when they were seen to really understand and appreciate the value of education, as well as being the period when adolescence was at its height. It was beginning to be seen as the worst age for a sudden switch from education to employment, with around 80% of children in 1938 leaving education at this age, many having only had primary-school level education. Although there were concerns about the effects of having less labour from these children, it was hoped that the outcome of a larger quantity of more qualified, skilled workers would eliminate the deficit problem from the loss of unskilled labour.\n\nThis act introduced the 11+ examination to determine if a child should be eligible for a grammar school, secondary modern or technical college, under the Tripartite System, but has since been phased out across the majority of the United Kingdom, with just several boroughs in England and Northern Ireland still using it. League tables published in March 2007 showed grammar schools throughout the country were outperforming comprehensive schools; data published ten years later in 2017 suggested a similar clear division between student attainment in grammar schools compared to comprehensive schools.\n\nChanges in society and approaches towards education, including equal opportunities, has meant that it is now recognised that all children deserve to have the same educational opportunities without singling out those who learn at a slower rate than others, thus every child has the opportunity to gain secondary school level qualifications or similar, regardless of background or intelligence.\n\nIn 1964, preparations began to raise the school leaving age to 16. These were delayed in 1968, and eventually the decision was taken in 1971 that the new upper age limit be enforced from 1 September 1972 onwards. As well as raising the school leaving age in 1972, the year also saw the introduction of the Education (Work Experience) Act, allowing LEAs to organise work experience for the additional final year school students. In some counties around the country, these changes also led to the introduction of middle schools in 1968, where students were kept at primary or junior school for an additional year, meaning that the number of students in secondary schools within these areas remained virtually constant through the change. In others, more radical changes led to middle schools for pupils aged up to 13 opening in smaller secondary school buildings, with other schools accommodating students over 13. As of 2010, there are fewer than 300 middle schools across England, situated in just 22 local education authorities; the number of remaining middle schools has gradually fallen since the mid-1980s.\n\nFor many secondary schools around England and Wales in areas without a Middle School, accommodating for the new 5th year students would be a struggle. A popular solution was to provide those schools with a pre-fabricated building (often referred to as \"ROSLA Buildings\" or \"ROSLA Blocks\") that were in need of additional capacity, providing them with the resources to cope with the new generation of 5th year students. This solution proved popular with many schools across the country, not least due to the low cost involved for materials and construction, but also the speed which these buildings could be erected. Many were supplied by F. Pratten and Co Ltd.\n\nThe ROSLA Buildings were delivered to schools in self assembly packs, being assembled by a team often within days, regardless of weather conditions. Consequently, they were not intended to stand long-term, though some have proven to have stood much longer than was initially planned. Many ROSLA Buildings shared similar exterior attributes such as their design, with the only difference being the separation of rooms within the building. The room separation within the building was decided upon by senior school management, hence many walls are false from being added in after construction.\n\nAlthough the majority of schools around England and Wales have since replaced the ROSLA Building at their site, there are still numerous schools around the country which are still actively using these buildings.\n\nBetween 1976 and 1997, the minimum school leaving arrangements were:\n\nUnder the Education Act 1996, a new single school leaving date was set for 1998 and all subsequent years thereafter. This was set as the last Friday in June in the school year which the child reaches the age of 16.\n\nReports published in November 2006 suggested that Education Secretary Alan Johnson was exploring ways to raise the school leaving age in England to 18, just over 40 years later than the last rise in 1972, pointing to the decline in unskilled jobs and the need for young people to be equipped for modern day employment.\n\nA year later, on 6 November 2007, Prime Minister Gordon Brown unveiled the government's plans in his Queen's Speech. The plans included the duty for parents to assist their children in education or training participation until the date of their 18th birthday, as well as detailing proposed moves to reform the apprenticeship system and to improve achievement for children in care. The Education and Skills Act 2008, when it came into force in the 2013 academic year, initially required participation in some form of education or training until the school year in which the child turned 17, followed by the age being raised to the young person's 18th birthday in 2015. This was referred to as raising the \"participation age\" to distinguish it from the school leaving age which remains at 16. To qualify as participation the young person must be in education or training for the equivalent of one day a week (at a minimum). The local council is responsible for ensuring that a suitable place is available. The Act makes similar powers available to the National Assembly for Wales. A spokesperson for the Welsh Assembly indicated that it would want to encourage more young people to stay in education, but without compulsion, so school leavers there are not required to continue with any education or training.\n\nFigures were published in June 2006 showing that 76.2% of all young people aged 16–18 are already in further education or training, meaning that the rise might only affect around 25% of young people who may have otherwise sought employment immediately upon finishing compulsory education. This did not specifically state that young people would remain in secondary school, but rather by law be required to continue their education full or part-time, whether that be in sixth form, college or work based training.\nAround 80% of 16-year-olds stay in full-time academic or vocational education, or go on a government-financed training course. In a survey of 859 people, 9/10 supported the plans for the age increase.\nReports published by the DfES showed that although there are around 70% of 16 year olds who remain in full-time education, this declines to less than 50% by the time they reach 18, with the majority finding unskilled employment and even fewer going into employment where their training has relevance. There is also a small increase in those who become unemployed by the time they reach 18, which the government hoped to reduce with the act. It is these cases of unemployment which the government believes to be the toughest, whom it classifies as NEET (Not in Education, Employment or Training). In 2006 an additional 7% of 16 year olds fell into this category and the proportion rose to 13% among 18 year olds. In practice, only 1% of young people are classified as NEET during their time aged 16–18, due to churn between training, employment and NEET classification. In 2015 the percentage of 16-18 classified as NEET fell to 7.5%, the lowest figure since 2000.\n\nThe government believed that the changes were needed because of the collapse in unskilled jobs in the economy, which means that young school leavers at 16 years of age are finding it increasingly more difficult to find employment. The number of unskilled jobs available fell from 8 million in the 1960s to 3.5 by 2007, with predictions of further drops to just 600,000 by 2020 due to the increasing demand for skilled labour.\n\nWhilst the government is eager to implement the changes, many oppose the proposal, some on civil liberties grounds. Compulsory school attendance is usually justified by reference to the argument that minors are incapable of making sufficiently reasoned choices. However, the 16-18 age group falls into a grey area, being regarded as effectively adult in a number of contexts. Indeed, in some jurisdictions (e.g. Scotland), individuals are considered to reach full maturity at 16.\n\nThe proposal of using criminal sanctions to enforce attendance under this new system was opposed by MPs from both the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, who believed compulsion and threats were the wrong approach to increasing participation. A spokesperson for the DfES said the proposals were not about \"forcing young people to do something they don't want to\", and that \"we are letting young people down if we allow them to leave education and training without skills at the age of 16.\" However, the Prime Minister's Queen's Speech in November 2007, which discussed the raise in school leaving age, suggested that pupils who failed to comply with new laws are to be expected to face fines or community service, rather than custodial sentencing which had previously been proposed. Local Authorities will also be expected to ensure pupils are participating up to 18 years of age.\n\nThe downward trend in the number of unskilled jobs available throughout the country is continuing. The government believes that the extension of compulsory education until the age of 18 will mean many more young people will leave education in a much better position to find skilled employment. Speaking in March 2007, Chancellor Gordon Brown stated that around 50,000 teenagers would be paid a training allowance to sign up to college-based courses, with estimates on the available number of apprenticeships available to double to around 500,000 by 2020, with 80% being available in England, which will be an increase from the current 250,000 apprenticeships available, offered by 130,000 employers.\n\nA skills commission report released in 2013, backed by Labour MP Barry Sheerman, suggests that young people were being let down by the education system, with particular criticism aimed towards the lack of information, advice and guidance available to 14-19 year olds. The government were hopeful that the changes would have an effect on preventing the increase in crime levels, as figures reported a substantial percentage of young people leaving school were turning to a life of crime, with many being unable to find suitable work due to lack of skills and qualifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2567188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2567188", "title": "Reflective practice", "text": "Reflective practice\n\nReflective practice is the ability to reflect on one's actions so as to engage in a process of continuous learning. According to one definition it involves \"paying critical attention to the practical values and theories which inform everyday actions, by examining practice reflectively and reflexively. This leads to developmental insight\". A key rationale for reflective practice is that experience alone does not necessarily lead to learning; deliberate reflection on experience is essential.\n\nReflective practice can be an important tool in practice-based professional learning settings where people learn from their own professional experiences, rather than from formal learning or knowledge transfer. It may be the most important source of personal professional development and improvement. It is also an important way to bring together theory and practice; through reflection a person is able to see and label forms of thought and theory within the context of his or her work. A person who reflects throughout his or her practice is not just looking back on past actions and events, but is taking a conscious look at emotions, experiences, actions, and responses, and using that information to add to his or her existing knowledge base and reach a higher level of understanding.\n\nDonald Schön's 1983 book \"The Reflective Practitioner\" introduced concepts such as \"reflection-on-action\" and \"reflection-in-action\" which explain how professionals meet the challenges of their work with a kind of improvisation that is improved through practice. However, the concepts underlying reflective practice are much older. Earlier in the 20th century, John Dewey was among the first to write about reflective practice with his exploration of experience, interaction and reflection. Soon thereafter, other researchers such as Kurt Lewin and Jean Piaget were developing relevant theories of human learning and development. Some scholars have claimed to find precursors of reflective practice in ancient texts such as Buddhist teachings and the \"Meditations\" of Stoic philosopher Marcus Aurelius.\n\nCentral to the development of reflective theory was interest in the integration of theory and practice, the cyclic pattern of experience and the conscious application of lessons learned from experience. Since the 1970s, there has been a growing literature and focus around experiential learning and the development and application of reflective practice.\n\nAs adult education professor David Boud and his colleagues explained: \"Reflection is an important human activity in which people recapture their experience, think about it, mull it over and evaluate it. It is this working with experience that is important in learning.\" When a person is experiencing something, he or she may be implicitly learning; however, it can be difficult to put emotions, events, and thoughts into a coherent sequence of events. When a person rethinks or retells events, it is possible to categorize events, emotions, ideas, etc., and to compare the intended purpose of a past action with the results of the action. Stepping back from the action permits critical reflection on a sequence of events.\n\nThe emergence in more recent years of blogging has been seen as another form of reflection on experience in a technological age.\n\nMany models of reflective practice have been created to guide reasoning about action.\n\nTerry Borton's 1970 book \"Reach, Touch, and Teach\" popularized a simple learning cycle inspired by Gestalt therapy composed of three questions which ask the practitioner: \"What\", \"So what\", and \"Now what\"? Through this analysis, a description of a situation is given which then leads into the scrutiny of the situation and the construction of knowledge that has been learnt through the experience. Subsequently, practitioners reflect on ways in which they can personally improve and the consequences of their response to the experience. Borton's model was later adapted by practitioners outside the field of education, such as the field of nursing and the helping professions.\n\nLearning theorist David A. Kolb was highly influenced by the earlier research conducted by John Dewey and Jean Piaget. Kolb's reflective model highlights the concept of experiential learning and is centered on the transformation of information into knowledge. This takes place after a situation has occurred, and entails a practitioner reflecting on the experience, gaining a general understanding of the concepts encountered during the experience, and then testing these general understandings in a new situation. In this way, the knowledge that is formed from a situation is continuously applied and reapplied, building on a practitioner's prior experiences and knowledge.\n\nManagement researchers Chris Argyris and Donald Schön pioneered the idea of \"single-loop learning\" and \"double-loop learning\" in 1978. Their theory was built around the recognition and correction of a perceived fault or error. Single-loop learning is when a practitioner or organisation, even after an error has occurred and a correction is made, continues to rely on current strategies, techniques or policies when a situation again comes to light. Double-loop learning involves the modification of objectives, strategies or policies so that when a similar situation arises a new framing system is employed.\n\nSchön claimed to derive the notions of \"reflection-on-action, reflection-in-action, responding to problematic situations, problem framing, problem solving, and the priority of practical knowledge over abstract theory\" from the writings of John Dewey, although education professor Harvey Shapiro has argued that Dewey's writings offer \"more expansive, more integrated notions of professional growth\" than do Schön's.\n\nSchon advocated 2 types of reflective practice. Firstly, reflection-on-action, which involves reflecting on an experience that you have already had, or an action that you have already taken, and considering what could have been done differently, as well as looking at the positives from that interaction. The other type of reflection Schon notes is reflection-in-action, or reflecting on your actions as you are doing them, and considering issues like best practice throughout the process.\n\nFor Schön, professional growth really begins when a person starts to view things with a critical lens, by doubting his or her actions. Doubt brings about a way of thinking that questions and frames situations as \"problems\". Through careful planning and systematic elimination of other possible problems, doubt is settled, and people are able to affirm their knowledge of the situation. Then people are able to think about possible situations and their outcomes, and deliberate about whether they carried out the right actions.\n\nLearning researcher Graham Gibbs discussed the use of structured debriefing to facilitate the reflection involved in Kolb's experiential learning cycle. Gibbs presents the stages of a full structured debriefing as follows:\n\nGibbs' suggestions are often cited as \"Gibbs' reflective cycle\" or \"Gibbs' model of reflection\", and simplified into the following six distinct stages to assist in structuring reflection on learning experiences:\n\nProfessor of nursing Christopher Johns designed a structured mode of reflection that provides a practitioner with a guide to gain greater understanding of his or her practice. It is designed to be carried out through the act of sharing with a colleague or mentor, which enables the experience to become learnt knowledge at a faster rate than reflection alone.\n\nJohns highlights the importance of experienced knowledge and the ability of a practitioner to access, understand and put into practice information that has been acquired through empirical means. Reflection occurs though \"looking in\" on one's thoughts and emotions and \"looking out\" at the situation experienced. Johns draws on the work of Barbara Carper to expand on the notion of \"looking out\" at a situation. Five patterns of knowing are incorporated into the guided reflection: the aesthetic, personal, ethical, empirical and reflexive aspects of the situation. Johns' model is comprehensive and allows for reflection that touches on many important elements.\n\nAdult education scholar Stephen Brookfield proposed that critically reflective practitioners constantly research their assumptions by seeing practice through four complementary lenses: the lens of their autobiography as learners of reflective practice, the lens of other learners' eyes, the lens of colleagues' experiences, and the lens of theoretical, philosophical and research literature. Reviewing practice through these lenses makes us more aware of the power dynamics that infuse all practice settings. It also helps us detect hegemonic assumptions—assumptions that we think are in our own best interests, but actually work against us in the long run. Brookfield argued that these four lenses will reflect back to us starkly different pictures of who we are and what we do.\n\nReflective practice has been described as an unstructured or semi-structured approach directing learning, and a self-regulated process commonly used in health and teaching professions, though applicable to all professions. Reflective practice is a learning process taught to professionals from a variety of disciplines, with the aim of enhancing abilities to communicate and making informed and balanced decisions. Professional associations such as the American Association of Nurse Practitioners are recognizing the importance of reflective practice and require practitioners to prepare reflective portfolios as a requirement to be licensed, and for yearly quality assurance purposes.\n\nThe concept of reflective practice has found wide application in the field of education, for learners, teachers and those who teach teachers. Hadiya Habib(2017) assert that there is one quality above all that makes a good teacher -the ability to reflect on what, why and how we do things and to adopt and develop our practice within lifelong learning. Reflection is the key to successful learning for teachers and for learners.\n\nStudents can benefit from engaging in reflective practice as it can foster the critical thinking and decision making necessary for continuous learning and improvement. When students are engaged in reflection, they are thinking about how their work meets established criteria; they analyze the effectiveness of their efforts, and plan for improvement. Rolheiser and et al. (2000) assert that \"Reflection is linked to elements that are fundamental to meaningful learning and cognitive development: the development of metacognition – the capacity for students to improve their ability to think about their thinking; the ability to self-evaluate - the capacity for students to judge the quality of their work based on evidence and explicit criteria for the purpose of doing better work; the development of critical thinking, problem-solving, and decision-making; and the enhancement of teacher understanding of the learner.\" (p 31-32)\n\nWhen teachers teach metacognitive skills, it promotes student self-monitoring and self-regulation that can lead to intellectual growth, increase academic achievement, and support transfer of skills so that students are able to use any strategy at any time and for any purpose. Guiding students in the habits of reflection requires teachers to approach their role as that of \"facilitator of meaning-making\" – they organize instruction and classroom practice so that students are the producers, not just the consumers, of knowledge. Rolheiser and colleagues (2000) state that \"When students develop their capacity to understand their own thinking processes, they are better equipped to employ the necessary cognitive skills to complete a task or achieve a goal. Students who have acquired metacognitive skills are better able to compensate for both low ability and insufficient information.\" (p. 34)\n\nThe Ontario Ministry of Education (2007) describes many ways in which educators can help students acquire the skills required for effective reflection and self-assessment, including: modelling and/or intentionally teaching critical thinking skills necessary for reflection and self-assessment practices; addressing students' perceptions of self-assessment; engaging in discussion and dialogue about why self-assessment is important; allowing time to learn self-assessment and reflection skills; providing many opportunities to practice different aspects of the self-assessment and reflection process; and ensuring that parents/guardians understand that self-assessment is only one of a variety of assessment strategies that is utilized for student learning.\n\nThe concept of reflective practice is now widely employed in the field of teacher education and teacher professional development and many programmes of initial teacher education claim to espouse it. In education, a minimalist understanding of reflective practice is that it refers to the process of the educator studying his or her own teaching methods and determining what works best for the students and the consideration of the ethical consequences of classroom procedures on students; a broader understanding would accept that it also involves questioning the organisational, social and political context in which the teaching takes place. Education professor Hope Hartman has described reflective practice in education as teacher metacognition.\n\nThere is broad consensus that teaching effectively requires a reflective approach. However, reflective practice \"is a term that carries diverse meaning\" and about which there is not complete consensus. Teaching and learning are complex processes, and there is not one right approach. Reflecting on different approaches to teaching, and reshaping the understanding of past and current experiences, can lead to improvement in teaching practices. Schön's reflection-in-action can help teachers explicitly incorporate into their decision-making the professional knowledge that they gain from their experience in the classroom.\n\nAs professor of education Barbara Larrivee argues, reflective practice moves teachers from their knowledge base of distinct skills to a stage in their careers where they are able to modify their skills to suit specific contexts and situations, and eventually to invent new strategies. In implementing a process of reflective practice teachers will be able to move themselves, and their schools, beyond existing theories in practice. Larrivee concludes that teachers should \"resist establishing a classroom culture of control and become a reflective practitioner, continuously engaging in a critical reflection, consequently remaining fluid in the dynamic environment of the classroom\".\n\nVideo recordings of classroom activities have been used to help trainee teachers / education interns develop more detailed reflective practice.\n\nAccording to physiotherapists Colin Paterson and Judith Chapman, reflection or learning from experience is key to staying accountable, and maintaining and developing aptitude throughout a teacher's practice. Without reflection, teachers are not able to look objectively at their actions or take into account the emotions, experience, or consequences of actions to improve their practice. It is argued that, through the process of reflection, teachers are held accountable to the standards of practice for teaching, such as those in Ontario: commitment to students and student learning, professional knowledge, professional practice, leadership in learning communities, and ongoing professional learning. Through reflective practice, teachers look back on their practice and reflect on how they have supported students by treating them \"equitably and with respect and are sensitive to factors that influence individual student learning\". By doing this, teachers ask themselves: \"Have I to the best of my abilities supported student learning, and provided all of my students with an entry point into learning?\" Through reflection, and sharing their reflection, teachers show strong leadership because they show that they are willing to learn from their mistakes and improve their practice for everyone affected by it.\n\nFor students to acquire necessary skills in reflection, their teachers need to be able to teach and model reflective practice (see above); similarly, teachers themselves need to have been taught reflective practice during their initial teacher education, and to continue to develop their reflective skills throughout their career.\n\nHowever, Mary Ryan has noted that students are often asked to \"reflect\" without being taught how to do so, or without being taught that different types of reflection are possible; they may not even receive a clear definition or rationale for reflective practice. Many new teachers do not know how to transfer the reflection strategies they learned in college to their classroom teaching.\n\nSome writers have advocated that reflective practice needs to be taught explicitly to student teachers because it is not an intuitive act; it is not enough for teacher educators to provide student teachers with \"opportunities\" to reflect: they must explicitly \"teach reflection and types of reflection\" and \"need explicitly to facilitate the process of reflection and make transparent the metacognitive process it entails\". Larrivee notes that (student) teachers require \"carefully constructed guidance\" and \"multifaceted and strategically constructed interventions\" if they are to reflect effectively on their practice.\n\nRod Lane and colleageues list strategies by which teacher educators can promote a habit of reflective practice in pre-service teachers, such as discussions of a teaching situation, reflective interviews or essays about one's teaching experiences, action research, or journaling or blogging.\n\nNeville Hatton and David Smith, in a brief literature review, conclude that teacher education programmes do use a wide range of strategies with the aim of encouraging students teachers to reflect (e.g. action research, case studies, video-recording or supervised practicum experiences), but that \"there is little research evidence to show that this [aim] is actually being achieved\".\n\nThe implication of all this is that teacher educators must also be highly skilled in reflective practice. Andrea Gelfuso and Danielle Dennis, in a report on a formative experiment with student teachers, suggest that teaching how to reflect requires teacher educators to possess and deploy specific competences. However, Janet Dyment and Timothy O'Connell, in a small-scale study of experienced teacher educators, noted that the teacher educators they studied had received no training in using reflection themselves, and that they in turn did not give such training to their students; all parties were expected to know how to reflect.\n\nMany writers advocate for teacher educators themselves to act as models of reflective practice. This implies that the way that teacher educators teach their students needs to be congruent with the approaches they expect their students to adopt with pupils; teacher educators should not only model the way to teach, but should also explain why they have chosen a particular approach whilst doing so, by reference to theory; this implies that teacher educators need to be aware of their own tacit theories of teaching and able to connect them overtly to public theory. However, some teacher educators do not always \"teach as they preach\"; they base their teaching decisions on \"common sense\" more than on public theory and struggle with modelling reflective practice.\n\nTom Russell, in a reflective article looking back on 35 years as teacher educator, concurs that teacher educators rarely model reflective practice, fail to link reflection clearly and directly to professional learning, and rarely explain what they mean by reflection, with the result that student teachers may complete their initial teacher education with \"a muddled and negative view of what reflection is and how it might contribute to their professional learning\". For Russell, these problems result from the fact that teacher educators have not sufficiently explored how theories of reflective practice relate to their own teaching, and so have not made the necessary \"paradigmatic changes\" which they expect their students to make.\n\nReflective practice is viewed as an important strategy for health professionals who embrace lifelong learning. Due to the ever-changing context of healthcare and the continual growth of medical knowledge, there is a high level of demand on healthcare professionals' expertise. Due to this complex and continually changing environment, healthcare professionals could benefit from a program of reflective practice.\n\nAdrienne Price explained that there are several reasons why a healthcare practitioner would engage in reflective practice: to further understand one's motives, perceptions, attitudes, values, and feelings associated with client care; to provide a fresh outlook to practice situations and to challenge existing thoughts, feelings, and actions; and to explore how the practice situation may be approached differently. In the field of nursing there is concern that actions may run the risk of habitualisation, thus dehumanising patients and their needs. In using reflective practice, nurses are able to plan their actions and consciously monitor the action to ensure it is beneficial to their patient.\n\nThe act of reflection is seen as a way of promoting the development of autonomous, qualified and self-directed professionals, as well as a way of developing more effective healthcare teams. Engaging in reflective practice is associated with improved quality of care, stimulating personal and professional growth and closing the gap between theory and practice. Medical practitioners can combine reflective practice with checklists (when appropriate) to reduce diagnostic error.\n\nActivities to promote reflection are now being incorporated into undergraduate, postgraduate and continuing medical education across a variety of health professions. Professor of medical education Karen Mann and her colleagues found through a 2009 literature review that in practising professionals the process of reflection appears to include a number of different aspects, and practicing professionals vary in their tendency and ability to reflect. They noted that the evidence to support curricular interventions and innovations promoting reflective practice remains largely theoretical.\n\nSamantha Davies identified benefits as well as limitations to reflective practice:\n\nBenefits to reflective practice include:\n\nLimitations to reflective practice include:\n\nThe use of reflective practice in environmental management, combined with system monitoring, is often called \"adaptive management\". There is some criticism that traditional environmental management, which simply focuses on the problem at hand, fails to integrate into the decision making the wider systems within which an environment is situated. While research and science must inform the process of environmental management, it is up to the practitioner to integrate those results within these wider systems. In order to deal with this and to reaffirm the utility of environmental management, Bryant and Wilson propose that a \"more reflective approach is required that seeks to rethink the basic premises of environmental management as a process\". This style of approach has been found to be successful in sustainable development projects where participants appreciated and enjoyed the educational aspect of utilising reflective practice throughout. However, the authors noted the challenges with melding the \"circularity\" of reflective practice theory with the \"doing\" of sustainability.\n\nReflective practice provides a development opportunity for those in leadership positions. Managing a team of people requires a delicate balance between people skills and technical expertise, and success in this type of role does not come easily. Reflective practice provides leaders with an opportunity to critically review what has been successful in the past and where improvement can be made.\n\nReflective learning organizations have invested in coaching programs for their emerging and established leaders. Leaders frequently engage in self-limiting behaviours because of their over-reliance on their preferred ways of reacting and responding. Coaching can help support the establishment of new behaviours, as it encourages reflection, critical thinking and transformative learning. Adults have acquired a body of experience throughout their life, as well as habits of mind that define their world. Coaching programs support the process of questioning and potentially rebuilding these pre-determined habits of mind. The goal is for leaders to maximize their professional potential, and in order to do this, there must be a process of critical reflection on current assumptions.\n\nReflective practice can help any individual to develop personally, and is useful for professions other than those discussed above. It allows professionals to continually update their skills and knowledge and consider new ways to interact with their colleagues. David Somerville and June Keeling suggested eight simple ways that professionals can practice more reflectively:\n\n"}
{"id": "27036625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27036625", "title": "Robots and Avatars", "text": "Robots and Avatars\n\nRobots and Avatars was a programme of events and educational activities which explores how young people will work and play with new representational forms of virtual and physical life in 10–15 years time. It was produced by body>data>space with support from NESTA. between 2009 and 2012.\n\nThe project examined multi-identity evolutions of younger generations within the context of a world in which virtual and physical spaces are increasingly blended. A participatory web and events led programme with connected educational activities took taking place across 2010 and onwards, in the UK and internationally. The project included contributions by a diverse range of experts, professionals and specialists working with robots and avatars including Professor Noel Sharkey (Professor of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics and Professor of Public Engagement University of Sheffield), Pear Urishima (Apple), Ghislaine Boddington from body>data>space and Derek Richards from Hi8us South.\n\nRobots and Avatars launched in November 2009 with a Forum at NESTA, attended by an international group of 80 experts, professionals and young people in London.\n\nBetween June and November 2010 the programme hosted a series of Lunch Debates exploring Artificial Intelligence, Behaviour and Ethics, Health and Wellbeing and the Future Workplace with expert provocateurs and top level thinkers.\n\nThe programme continued throughout 2010-2011 with educational events, an exhibition, a website, vodcasts with key experts and a book/DVD.\n\nRobots and Avatars explored a wide range of themes including:\n\n"}
{"id": "5024451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5024451", "title": "Sally Ride Science", "text": "Sally Ride Science\n\nSally Ride Science at UC San Diego is a nonprofit run by the University of California, San Diego. It was founded as a company in 2001 by Sally Ride, America's first woman in space, along with Tam O'Shaughnessy, Karen Flammer, Terry McEntee, and Alann Lopes to inspire young people in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) and to promote STEM literacy. Sally Ride Science was relaunched at UC San Diego on October 1, 2015. It is based at UC San Diego Extension, and its programs are coordinated jointly by UC San Diego Extension, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and San Diego Supercomputer Center. O'Shaughnessy is executive director and Flammer is director of education for Sally Ride Science at UC San Diego.\n\nSally Ride Science at UC San Diego focuses on professional development for teachers; K-12 STEM + Arts (STEAM) education, including courses, lectures, and camps; and online programs through UCTV. The goal is to help educators build students’ STEM literacy and make connections between what students are learning and the STEM fields that are expected to experience rapid job growth in the coming decades. The nonprofit will create new programs and make use of existing Sally Ride Science programs.\n\nExisting programs include \"Cool Careers in STEM\", which provides professional development for teachers and classroom resources (student books, teacher guides, and a STEM Career Connections Teacher Activity Guide) to awaken students’ interest in STEM topics and careers. Research shows that learning about STEM careers and the diverse people working in these fields inspires students and makes the study of science, technology, engineering, and math more meaningful to them.\n\nAnother major existing program is \"Key Concepts in Science\". This integrated standards-based program provides professional development for educators on how to teach science using the 5E instructional model, along with classroom resources (student books, hands-on investigations, teacher guides, and assessments) that educators can use to build students’ STEM literacy and college and career readiness. The program reflects research showing that teaching fewer science concepts in greater depth gives students a solid foundation to develop STEM literacy.\n\nBefore its acquisition by UC San Diego, Sally Ride Science implemented a variety of STEM-related educational initiatives. The company:\n"}
{"id": "27761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27761", "title": "School choice", "text": "School choice\n\nSchool choice is a term for K–12 public education options in the United States, describing a wide array of programs offering students and their families alternatives to publicly provided schools, to which students are generally assigned by the location of their family residence. In the United States, the most common—both by number of programs and by number of participating students—school choice programs are scholarship tax credit programs, which allow individuals or corporations to receive tax credits toward their state taxes in exchange for donations made to non-profit organizations that grant private school scholarships. In other cases, a similar subsidy may be provided by the state through a school voucher program. Other school choice options include open enrollment laws (which allow students to attend public schools outside the district in which the students live), charter schools, magnet schools, virtual schools, homeschooling, education savings accounts (ESAs), and individual tax credits or deductions for educational expenses.\n\nEconomist and Nobel laureate Milton Friedman proposed in 1955 using free market principles to improve the United States public school system. The practice had been that children were assigned a public school based on where their parents live, which public schools were funded by state and local taxes. Friedman proposed that parents should be able to receive those education funds in the form of vouchers, which would allow them to choose their children's schools, including both public and private, religious and non-religious options. In 1996, Friedman and his wife economist Rose Director Friedman founded the Friedman Foundation for Educational Choice, (now EdChoice). This American education reform organization headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana seeks to advance “school choice for all children” nationwide.\n\nThe first use of school vouchers in the United States came in the form of state tuition grants provided by Virginia's 1956 Stanley Plan, which financed white-only private schools known as segregation academies. Other states followed until the practice was disallowed by \"Griffin v. County School Board of Prince Edward County\" (1964). While \"school choice\" has always implied school improvement, debates have regularly followed about the motivation and implementation.\n\nStates with scholarship tax credit programs grant individuals and/or businesses a credit, whether full or partial, toward their taxes for donations made to scholarship granting organizations (also called school tuition organizations). SGOs/STOs use the donations to create scholarships that are then given to help pay for the cost of tuition for students. These scholarships allow students to attend private schools or out-of-district public schools that would otherwise be prohibitively expensive for many families. These programs currently exist in fourteen states: Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Virginia in the United States.\n\nVouchers give students the opportunity to attend a private school of their choosing, secular or religious. This would be paid for by accessing all or part of the public funding set aside for their children’s education.\n\nCharter schools are independent public schools which are exempt from many of the state and local regulations which govern most public schools. These exemptions grant charter schools some autonomy and flexibility with decision-making, such as teacher union contracts, hiring, and curriculum. In return, charter schools are subject to stricter accountability on spending and academic performance. The majority of states (and the District of Columbia) have charter school laws, though they vary in how charter schools are approved. Minnesota was the first state to have a charter school law and the first charter school in the United States, City Academy High School, opened in St. Paul, Minnesota in 1992. The prevalence of charter schools has increased with the support of the Obama Administration. Under the Administration, the Department of Education has provided funding incentives to states and school districts that increase the number of charter schools.\n\nSomewhere between 22 and 26% of Dayton, Ohio children are in charter schools. This is the highest percentage in the nation. Other hotbeds for charter schools are Kansas City (24%), Washington, D.C. (20-24%), and Arizona. Almost one in four public schools in Arizona are charter schools, comprising about 8% of total enrollment.\n\nCharter schools can also come in the form of cyber charters. Cyber charter schools deliver the majority of their instruction over the internet instead of in a school building. And, like all charter schools, cyber charters are public schools, but they are free from some of the rules and regulations that conventional public schools must follow.\n\nMagnet schools are public schools that often have a specialized function like science, technology, or art. These magnet schools, unlike charter schools, are not open to all children. Much like many private schools, some (but not all) magnet schools require a test to get in. Magnet schools are an example of open enrollment programs. Open enrollment refers to district or statewide programs that allow families to choose public schools other than the ones they are assigned. Intradistrict open enrollment programs allow school choice within a district. Interdistrict open enrollment allows families to choose schools outside the district in other districts.\n\n\"Home education\" or \"home schooling\" is instruction in a child's home, or provided primarily by a parent, or under direct parental control. Informal home education has always taken place, and formal instruction in the home has at times also been very popular. As public education grew in popularity during the 1900s, however, the number of people educated at home using a planned curriculum dropped. In the last 20 years, in contrast, the number of children being formally educated at home has grown tremendously, in particular in the United States. The laws relevant to home education differ throughout the country. In some states the parent simply needs to notify the state that the child will be educated at home. In other states the parents are not free to educate at home unless at least one parent is a certified teacher and yearly progress reports are reviewed by the state. Such laws are not always enforced however. According to the federal government, about 1.1 million children were home educated in 2003.\n\nDistrict of Choice\n\nDistrict of Choice is a program in California created during 1993, allowing any California public school district to enroll students outside district lines. To participate in the program, district governing boards only need to declare themselves a District of Choice and set a quota for how many transfer students to accept to participate in the program. School districts cannot discriminate among students to enroll, but can limit them through an unbiased lottery system. The program was created in response to several parent's concerns over the lack of choice of schools to enroll their children in. Currently 47 school districts and 10,000 students participate in the program, serving 5 percent of school districts and 0.2 percent of students in California.\n\nThis variant of school choice allows the parent to withdraw their child out of the public or charter school, and receive a direct deposit of public funds into a government-authorized savings account. These funds are often distributed in the form of a debit card that can be used to pay for various services, such as private school tuition and fees, online programs, private tutoring, community college costs, higher education services, and other approved learning materials and services. ESA’s also acquire the ability to pay for a combination of public school courses and private services.\n\nCertain states allow parents to claim a tax credit or deduction as a means to provide relief for certain educational expenses. These can include private school tuition, textbooks, school supplies and equipment, tutoring, and transportation. Currently, Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Minnesota, and Wisconsin have such programs.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Tax credits: lowers the total a person owes on taxes\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Tax deduction: reduces a persons total taxable income\n\nOnline learning permits students to work with teachers and their courses over the internet. This can be used in cooperation with, or in place of traditional classroom instruction. The online learning can be also paid for by accessing ESA’s and vouchers.\n\nThis form of tutelage is a student-tailored form of education. This form of instruction can have various combinations. For example, course choice programs, public school courses, and special education therapies can all be integrated into a students curriculum. There are a myriad of possibilities, especially as learning innovations continue to occur.\n\nThe goal of school choice programs is to give parents more control over their child's education and to allow parents to pursue the most appropriate learning environments for children. For example, school choice may enable parents to choose a school that provides religious instruction, stronger discipline, better foundational skills (including reading, writing, mathematics, and science), everyday skills (from handling money to farming), or other desirable foci.\n\nSupporters of voucher models of school choice argue that choice creates competition between schools for students. Schools that fail to attract students can be closed. Advocates of school choice argue that this competition for students (and the dollars that come with them) create a catalyst for schools to create innovative programs, become more responsive to parental demands, and to increase student achievement. Caroline Hoxby suggests that this competition increases the productivity of a school. Hoxby describes a productive school as being one that produces high student achievement for each dollar spent. Others suggest that this competition gives parents more power to influence their child's school in the school marketplace. Parents and students become the consumers and schools must work to attract new students with new programs. Parents also have the ability to punish schools that they judge to be inferior by leaving the 'bad' school for a better, more highly ranked school. Parents look for schools that will advocate for the needs of their child and if the school does not meet the needs required for that child, parents have the choice to find a school that will be more suitable. This freedom to choose puts the consequences of good or bad choosing on the parents instead of the government.\n\nAnother argument in favor of school choice is based on cost-effectiveness. Studies undertaken by the Cato Institute and other libertarian and conservative think tanks conclude that privately run education both costs less and produces superior outcomes compared to public education.\n\nOthers argue that since children from impoverished families almost exclusively attend D or F ranked public schools, school choice programs would give parents the power to opt their children out of poorly-performing schools assigned by zip code and seek better education elsewhere. Supporters say this would level the playing field by broadening opportunities for low-income students—particularly minorities—to attend high-quality schools that would otherwise be accessible only to higher-income families.\n\nThe Organisation Internationale pour le Droit à l'Education et la Liberté d'Enseignement (OIDEL), an international non-profit organization for the development of freedom of education, maintains that the right to education is a fundamental human right which cannot exist without the presence of State benefits and the protection of individual liberties. According to the organization, freedom of education notably implies the freedom for parents to choose a school for their children without discrimination on the basis of finances. To advance freedom of education, OIDEL promotes a greater parity between public and private schooling systems.\n\nTeachers' unions in the United States are very opposed to school choice. School choice measures are criticized as profiteering in an under-regulated environment. Charter authorization organizations have non-profit status; and contract with related for-profit entities with public funding. Some reports indicate that the New Markets Tax Credit allows double returns on charter school related investments. Reports indicate that charters create organizational arms that profit by charging high rent, and that while the facilities are used as schools, there are no property taxes. Other reports indicate bankers, hedge fund types and private equity investors gathered in New York to hear about opportunities at Capital Roundtable's conference on \"private equity investing in for-profit education companies\" which involve the collection of an individual's property taxes. Walton Foundation has also held charter school investment conferences featuring Standard & Poor's, Piper Jaffray, Bank of America, and Wells Capital Management.\n\nPublic school entities are chiefly concerned that these school choice measures are taking funding away from public schools and therefore depleting their already strained resources. Other opponents of certain school choice policies (particularly vouchers) have cited the Establishment Clause and individual state Blaine amendments, which forbid, to one degree or another, the use of direct government aid to religiously affiliated entities. This is of particular concern in the voucher debate because voucher dollars are often spent at parochial schools.\n\nSome school choice measures are criticized by public school entities, organizations opposed to church-state entanglement, and self-identified liberal advocacy groups. Known plaintiffs who have filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of state sponsored school choice laws are as follows: School Boards Associations, Public School Districts, Federations for Teachers, Associations of School Business Officials, Education Associations/Associations of Educators (unions for public school teachers), the American Civil Liberties Union, Freedom From Religion Foundation, and People for the American Way.\n\nThere is evidence that school choice programs reduce housing prices, and that they do so in high-performing districts more than in low-performing districts.\n\nSchool choice systems afford families the opportunity to choose where to enroll their child among all available schools in a district. The policy is an alternative to neighborhood schools, which often assign low-income families to lower-performing schools and high-income families to higher performing, better-funded schools. In theory, school choice should lead to less segregation by race and class than neighborhood school policies by allowing families to select schools outside their neighborhoods. However, a closer look at the reality of school choice presents several ways in which the policy does not provide equal opportunities to all students. A longitudinal interview study showed that families of lower socioeconomic status considered and eventually chose lower-performing schools than their higher-income peers. Low-income families lacked the social networks and access to information to learn which schools were higher-performing, and sometimes a family's own history with school achievement affected their choice for their child. Many of the current school choice models do not offer transportation to out-of-neighborhood schools, which discourages low-income families from selecting schools outside their neighborhoods.\n\nStudies continue to support that choice schools are a contributing factor to racial segregation. A study conducted in 2006 examined the 22 largest school districts in the United States and findings suggested that there is more racial segregation in school districts with choice schools because public schools had less white students. It is important to note that there was a greater racial segregation between white and Hispanic students. This study found that there would be less segregation if students attended their school based on district boundaries . Magnet schools had a goal to help desegregate schools, but studies continue to highlight that school choice tends to be racially-based. For example, white parents were least likely to enroll their students in a school with a large population of African Americans . This highlights the downfall of magnet schools being a choice school system to desegregate communities, because of the choices being made by parents. As more choice schools continue to replace public schools in the district, the problem of racial segregation is still prevalent if educational equity and opportunity remain a goal in the United States school system. \n\nFor the California School District of Choice program, analysis from the California State Assembly demonstrates possible evidence that the program is excluding low-income students and increasing racial segregation. A report from the legislature lists several Districts of Choice accepting Black, Latino, and low-income students at lower percentages than the city or the student's original district demographics. The legislature found that Latino students consist of 66 percent of students enrolling in original districts, while only 32 percent transfer to Districts of Choice. During the program's inception, a budget was provided for transportation, but the budget currently does not exist and some Districts of Choice do not pick up that extra cost. Critics argue that the lack of transportation creates a barrier for low income students to enter the program. Several school districts have sued Districts of Choice over concerns of accepting and excluding specific demographics.\n\nCharter schools are another example of school choice. Parents can opt out of their traditional public school to attend a charter, regardless of school district. Charters are significantly more segregated than their traditional public school counterparts. A descriptive study using three national data sources on schools in the United States examined the enrollment characteristics of charter schools as opposed to traditional public schools. The study found that Black students are over-enrolled in charters nationally, and the same is true for Latino students in metro areas. In a majority of states, at least half of the Latino and Black students in charters are in intensely segregated minority schools (90–100% minority.) Conversely, in diverse parts of the West and the South, charters serve racially isolated white populations. Charters also enroll a higher percent of low-income students than public schools nationally.\n\nThe next question we must answer is why school choice systems and charter schools are more racially segregated. One theory is that because choice systems allow parents to select their own school, any differing priorities between racial groups would cause some schools to be more appealing to black families, others to white families, et cetera. While no racial differences in school preferences have been found through self-report, to truly examine parental motivations, we must also look at behaviors. This idea was examined in a group of parents who had switched their children out of the traditional public school and into a charter. A survey was paired with an analysis of the characteristics of the school that each family left, and the characteristics of the charter school where the family then placed their child. These results showed that regardless of stated preferences, parents chose to place their students in schools where they would have more classmates of their own race, even if this meant placing the child in a school with lower test scores. This effect was the same across White, Black and Latino families. However, this trend was seen only in choosing elementary and middle schools, not at the high school level.\nAlthough it appears that parents are moving to more racially segregated schools, these choices are not necessarily motivated by race. Instead, parents may be influenced by the location of the school. In a similar study, the proximity of the school to the family's home was found to be a significant predictor of school choice. The author suggests, then, that the segregation found in charter schools is not due to a parental bias towards racially homogeneous schools. Instead, segregation in school choice programs is a reflection of the deeply segregated neighborhoods in our country, and the fact that parents want their child's school to be close to home. Another study was conducted in Washington D.C. with 11,000 students in reference to the proximity theory of school choice. This study supported parents’ choice for schools based on school proximity, which is contrary to the belief that they choose schools based on academic scores. When parents choose schools based on what school is closest to them, it fosters racial segregation through economic means due to surrounding schools in a wealthy neighborhood versus people residing in a low- income neighborhood . This racial segregation stems from a systems level as to why more choice schools are being placed in neighborhoods with higher SES (socioeconomic status) and the determinants for these specific choice school placements.\n\nFinally, it is important to consider the ramifications of a system that is significantly more racially segregated than traditional public schools. In an ethnographic study of three California charters serving populations segregated by race and class, the majority Black and Latino schools suffered from fewer financial resources. These schools received less financial support from families, and had to fund services for their students that families from the majority white school paid for on their own, such as school supplies or emotional counseling. Additionally, teachers in the lower-income, minority segregated schools had less training and fewer resources. One result of this was that frustrated teachers were more likely to attribute difficulties to negative student characteristics and the values of the child's family. Black and Latino students have also been shown to have significantly lower achievement gains on standardized testing when in schools with high minority populations, based on a correlational study using No Child Left Behind data.\nThe broad effect of school choice and charter schools is to increase race and class segregation in schools. This isolation creates environments in schools that do not reflect the make-up of the United States, and prevent students from being exposed to peers of different races or cultures. More research is needed to examine how racially and economically segregated schools affect students' attitudes towards other races and classes. It is also important to remember that even some schools with diverse populations do not function as such: many highly \"integrated\" schools are in fact heavily tracked, with disproportionately fewer students of color in advanced tracks. The real work ahead is to devise a system to functionally integrate schools so that students of all races and classes have access to equally successful schools, advanced courses, and preparation for higher education.\n\nThe basic compulsory educational system in Finland is the nine-year comprehensive school (Finnish \"peruskoulu\", Swedish \"grundskola\", \"basic school\"), for which school attendance is mandatory (homeschooling is allowed, but extremely rare). There are no so-called \"gifted\" programs. The more able children are expected to help those who are slower to catch on.\n\nThe French government subsidizes most private primary and secondary schools, including those affiliated with religious denominations, under contracts stipulating that education must follow the same curriculum as public schools and that schools cannot discriminate on grounds of religion or force pupils to attend religion classes.\n\nThis system of \"école libre\" (Free Schooling) is mostly used not for religious reasons, but for practical reasons (private schools may offer more services, such as after-class tutoring) as well as the desire of parents living in disenfranchised areas to send their children away from the local schools, where they perceive that the youth are too prone to delinquency or have too many difficulties keeping up with schooling requirements that the educational content is bound to suffer. The threatened repealing of that status in the 1980s triggered mass street demonstrations in favor of the status. \n\nSweden reformed its school system in 1992. Its system of school choice is one of the freest in the world, allowing students to use public funds for the publicly or privately run school of their choice, including religious and for-profit schools. Fifteen years after the reform, private school enrollment had increased from 1% to 10% of the student population.\n\nIn Chile, there is an extensive voucher system in which the state pays private and municipal schools directly, based on average attendance (90% of the country students utilize such a system). The result has been a steady increase in the number and recruitment of private schools that show consistently better results in standardized testing than municipal schools. The reduction of students in municipal schools has gone from 78% of all students in 1981, to 57% in 1990, and to less than 50% in 2005.\n\nRegarding vouchers in Chile, researchers have found that when controls for the student's background (parental income and education) are introduced, the difference in performance between public and private subsectors is not significant. There is also greater variation within each subsector than between the two systems.\n\nA variety of forms of school choice exist in the United States. It is a highly debatable subject because some people wish to use taxpayer dollars in order to allow low-income students the choice of a private schools by way of vouchers. Research has shown that the students who transfer do worse in math and reading than their public school counterparts; not until an average of four years in the voucher program do the transfer students show to be performing equal to their counterparts in the public education system.\n\nScholarship tax credit programs currently exist in Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Virginia.\n\nArizona has a well-known and fast-growing tax credit program. In the Arizona Individual Private School Tuition Tax Credit Program, in accordance with A.R.S. §43-1089 and §1089.03, individuals can claim up to $1,053 and couples filing joint returns can claim up to $2106 (for 2014, amounts are indexed annually). Nearly 24,000 children received scholarships in the 2011-2012 school year. Since the program has started in 1998, over 77,500 taxpayers have participated in the program, providing over $500 million in scholarship money for children at private schools across the state.\n\nThe Arizona program was challenged in court in \"ACSTO v Winn\" by a group of state taxpayers on the grounds that the tax credit violated the First Amendment because the tuition grants could go to students who attend private schools with religious affiliations. The suit was initially brought against the state until the Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization (ACSTO), one of the largest School Tuition Organizations in the state, voluntarily stepped in to represent the defense with the help of the Alliance Defending Freedom (formerly Alliance Defense Fund). Typically, taxpayers are not allowed to bring suit against the government regarding how taxes are spent because injury would be purely speculative. In addition, insomuch as a donation to a School Tuition Organization is still a charitable act, just like any donation to a charity, there would be no standing unless all charitable deduction programs nationwide were brought under scrutiny. The Court ruled 5-4 to let the tax credit program stand. In April 2011, a Fairleigh Dickinson University PublicMind poll found that a majority of American voters (60%) felt that the tax credits support school choice for parents whereas 26% felt as it the tax credits support religion.\n\nIn Iowa, the Educational Opportunities Act was signed into law in 2006, creating a pool of tax credits for eligible donors to student tuition organizations (STOs). At first, these tax caps were $5 million but in 2007, Governor Chet Culver increased the total amount to $7.5 million. The Iowa Alliance for Choice in Education (Iowa ACE) oversees the STOs and advocates for school choice in Iowa.\n\nGreater Opportunities for Access to Learning (GOAL) is the Georgia program which offers a state income tax credit to donors of scholarships to private schools. Representative David Casas was responsible for passing the Georgia version of the school choice legislation.\n\nVouchers currently exist in Wisconsin, Ohio, Florida, Indiana and, most recently, the District of Columbia and Georgia.\n\nThe largest and oldest Voucher program is in Milwaukee. Started in 1990, and expanded in 1995, it currently allows no more than 15% of the district's public school enrollment to use vouchers. As of 2005 over 14,000 students use vouchers and they are nearing the 15% cap.\n\nSchool vouchers are legally controversial in some states. In 2014 a lawsuit sought to challenge the legality of the Florida voucher program.\n\nIn the U.S., the legal and moral precedents for vouchers may have been set by the G.I. bill, which includes a voucher program for university-level education of veterans. The G.I. bill permits veterans to take their educational benefits at religious schools, an extremely divisive issue when applied to primary and secondary schools.\n\nIn \"Zelman v. Simmons-Harris\", 536 U.S. 639 (2002), the Supreme Court of the United States held that school vouchers could be used to pay for education in sectarian schools without violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. As a result, states are basically free to enact voucher programs that provide funding for any school of the parent's choosing.\n\nThe Supreme Court has not decided, however, whether states can provide vouchers for secular schools only, excluding sectarian schools. Proponents of funding for parochial schools argue that such an exclusion would violate the free exercise clause. However, in \"Locke v. Davey\", 540 U.S. 712 (2004), the Court held that states could exclude majors in \"devotional theology\" from an otherwise generally available college scholarship. The Court has not indicated, however, whether this holding extends to the public school context, and it may well be limited to the context of individuals training to enter the ministry.\n\nThe majority of states (and the District of Columbia) have charter school laws. Minnesota was the first state to have a charter school law and the first charter school in the United States, City Academy, opened in St. Paul, Minnesota in 1992.\n\nDayton, Ohio has between 22–26% of all children in charter schools. This is the highest percentage in the nation. Other hotbeds for charter schools are Kansas City (24%), Washington, D.C. (20-24%) and the State of Arizona. Almost 1 in 4 public schools in Arizona are charter schools, comprising about 8% of total enrollment.\n\nCharter schools can also come in the form of Cyber Charters. Cyber charter schools deliver the majority of their instruction over the internet instead of in a school building. And, like charter schools, they are public schools, but free of many of the rules and regulations that public schools must follow.\n\nMagnet schools are public schools that often have a specialized function like science, technology or art. These magnet schools, unlike charter schools, are not open to all children. Much like many private schools, the students must test into the school.\n\nThe laws relevant to homeschooling differ between US states. In some states the parent simply needs to notify the state that the child will be educated at home. In other states the parents are not free to educate at home unless at least one parent is a certified teacher and yearly progress reports are reviewed by the state. Such laws are not always enforced however. According to the Federal Government, about 1.1 million children were Home Educated in 2003.\n\nThe United States has school choice at the university level. College students can get subsidized tuition by attending \"any\" public college or university within their state of residence. Furthermore, the U.S. federal government provides tuition assistance for both public and private colleges via the G.I. Bill and federally guaranteed student loans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18018389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018389", "title": "Simply Music", "text": "Simply Music\n\nSimply Music is a music education institution licensing teachers at over 700 locations in twelve countries. Australian music educator Neil Moore founded it on the core belief that all humans are naturally musical. Simply Music offers programs for students from birth through old age, with the stated goal that \"students acquire and retain music as a lifelong companion.\" Simply Music patterns its approach after primary language acquisition, where speaking comes first. In this it shares some philosophical ground with other developmental approaches like Kodály, Orff-Schulwerk, and the Suzuki Method.\n\nNeil Moore began constructing the Simply Music method in the late 20th century while teaching piano to a young blind student. Since traditional music-reading would not serve this student, Moore designed a program based on his own childhood musical experiences. Instead of reading music, as a child Moore had naturally visualized patterns within the songs and on the keyboard. He explained these building blocks to this student, who learned to play piano himself and began teaching the songs to his four-year-old sister, who was also blind.\n\nThis spurred Moore to begin testing his ideas more widely, and he found this approach natural and successful for students of all ages and abilities. Other piano teachers began learning from Moore. When he could no longer personally train them all, Moore founded the Simply Music organization and developed a remote certification program that is currently available to teachers in twelve countries, including the U.S., Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nLater, Simply Music expanded to include early childhood music education, and also worked with Karen Nisenson to create Simply Music Gateway, an adaptive piano curriculum for children with special needs.\n\nSimply Music's founding premise is similar to Shin'ichi Suzuki’s claim that any child can learn music. But Simply Music extends the concept, like researchers E. McPherson Gary E. McPherson and Graham F. Welch, who write that it is our \"birthright\" to \"be able to communicate and interact musically with others.\" In the same degree, Simply Music declares musicality essential to human nature. Adherents identify many everyday activities as fundamentally musical because these activities thoughtlessly fall into patterns of rhythm and pitch. As examples they cite speaking, walking, and brushing teeth. Simply Music seeks both to draw on and to nurture this natural ability by distilling musical concepts into simple patterns.\n\nStudents use these patterns to begin playing songs in their first lessons. This method is modeled after primary language acquisition, where learners begin by speaking. Many other music education approaches—including Orff Schulwerk and the Dalcroze, Kodály, and Suzuki methods—engage students physically first and teach notation later. The complete Simply Music program aims to teach music for generalists, who may or may not later choose a specialty such as performing classical music, playing keyboard in a band, or accompanying soloists or theater performers. The program attempts to prepare students with a solid music background that can take them where they choose. The primary goal is for students to keep music in their life, most often for relaxation and enjoyment at home or with family and friends. As such, Simply Music includes a wide variety of musical genres, such as classical, blues, jazz, and popular.\n\nSimply Music does not focus on mastering classical concert performance technique. Instead, Simply Music teachers encourage students to play expressively and comfortably, without tension.\n\nThe Simply Music approach contrasts with many other music learning methods, where the ability to play music depends first on learning to read music. Moore terms these traditional methods \"reading-based \"and his approach \"playing-based\".\n\nThe core playing-based piano pieces are presented in the Foundation Program, a series of 9 levels of 7-10 songs each. The pieces are designed to provide experience with many musical styles and genres, to build students’ physical dexterity at the piano, and to give students hands-on familiarity with fundamental musical concepts.\n\nAlongside the Foundation Program, and often using concepts from the Foundation pieces, students learn arrangement, improvisation, composition, chord-reading, and theory. Teachers are required to present all these programs, as they are considered essential to a well-rounded music education.\n\nSimply Music maintains that their approach—based on learning to recognize patterns inherent in music—is distinct from learning by rote or by ear. Students learn through patterns on the keyboard, in their fingers, and in the music itself. Students learn the physical shape that a melody line or a chord forms in the hand or on the keyboard. For example, a basic triad such as D Major is seen as a triangle shape on the keyboard, with the two white notes forming the base and the black note at the top. Musical patterns include concepts like repeated rhythmic or melodic patterns (or sequences), melodic sentences, musical forms such as ABA, and chord progressions like the 12-bar blues.\n\nExperience with these concepts provides a foundation for learning note-reading during the second year. Simply Music first teaches rhythm notation, followed by pitch reading, and then applies these skills to pieces written in standard music notation. Students learn to read pitches by identifying intervals, rather than individual note-names. This is known as an \"intervallic \"approach. Simply Music also uses what they call \"generative \"learning, meaning that students write music as an integral part of learning to read music.\n\nAs students further expand their musicianship, they move into the Development Program, which applies their musical understanding and note-reading skills to increasingly complex written music. Lessons continue to include arrangement, improvisation, composition, chord-reading, and theory. At this phase, students also explore their own musical interests in more depth.\n\nSimply Music piano may be taught in either shared or private lessons. The early childhood program is taught in small groups.\n\nSimply Music partners with an affiliate young childhood music education program, Lynn Kleiner's Music Rhapsody.\n\nMusic Rhapsody is a music and movement program for infants through age five. Early childhood music education specialist Lynn Kleiner based the program on the Orff Schulwerk philosophy. In keeping with its roots, the program focuses on learning through play and addresses each stage of child development. The program immerses children in music-making through diverse songs, instruments, movement, puppets and visuals. By building a foundation in music and incorporating Simply Music repertoire, it prepares students to transition into the piano program.\n\nAll the Simply Music programs use a variety of multimedia materials to provide multisensory learning. Simply Music Piano and Accordion students use written music as well as other written materials to remember assignments and track their progress. Video recordings distill the main points of every lesson. Audio recordings help students become familiar with the songs, refine style and technique, and develop ensemble skills. Teacher training is also presented through multimedia materials.\n\nEarly childhood Music Rhapsody students use a wide variety of specially designed instruments along with movement materials, puppets, and visuals. The program also provides audio recordings for students and teachers, as well as video support for teachers.\n\nThe Simply Music Piano and Accordion repertoire covers a broad range of styles, including classical, contemporary, jazz, blues, gospel, and other styles from around the world. In addition to the core Foundation pieces, students learn arrangements of each piece, along with accompaniments, teacher-selected written pieces, student-choice songs, and student compositions.\n\nA student’s personal repertoire is called their Playlist. A Playlist is considered essential, partly because a large and varied repertoire helps facilitate lifelong musical engagement. Also, each new piece builds on musical concepts from earlier pieces.\n\nThe Music Rhapsody curriculum centers around children’s music, both traditional and contemporary, and also introduces many styles including classical, jazz, blues, and international music.\n\n"}
{"id": "28654727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28654727", "title": "Wittgenstein's ladder", "text": "Wittgenstein's ladder\n\nA Wittgenstein's ladder is a simplified explanation of a technical or complex subject that is used as a teaching tool, despite being technically wrong.\n\nThe term stems from proposition number 6.54 in Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein's 1921 philosophical work \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", in which he states that although his propositions are at some level incorrect, they can be used like steps on a ladder to help one reach an understanding of higher level concepts.\n\nOther philosophers before Wittgenstein including Schopenhauer and Fritz Mauthner had used a similar metaphor before him. In 1930, Wittgenstein rejected his own \"ladder\" idea, stating:\n"}
{"id": "4552421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4552421", "title": "Zero tolerance (schools)", "text": "Zero tolerance (schools)\n\nA zero-tolerance policy in schools is a strict enforcement of regulations and bans against undesirable behaviors or possession of items. Public criticism against such policies have arisen due to their enforcement and the resulting (sometimes devastating) consequences when the behavior or possession was done in ignorance, by accident, or under extenuating circumstances. For example, a ban against guns resulting in a Rhode Island boy with a gun charm on a key chain being suspended. In schools, common zero-tolerance policies concern possession or use of illicit drugs or weapons. Students, and sometimes staff, parents, and other visitors, who possess a banned item for any reason are always (if the policy is followed) to be punished.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, zero-tolerance policies have been adopted in various schools and other education venues. Zero-tolerance policies in the United States became widespread in 1994, after federal legislation required states to expel any student who brought a firearm to school for one year, or lose all federal funding.\n\nThese policies are promoted as preventing drug abuse and violence in schools. Critics say zero tolerance in schools have resulted in punishments which have been criticised as egregiously unfair against students and teachers, especially in schools with poorly written policies. Consequently, critics describe these policies as zero-logic policies because they treat juveniles the way that adults would be treated — or more harshly, given that children are seldom granted full permission to speak up in their own defense to adults with authority over them. Many people have been critical of zero tolerance policies, claiming that they are overly draconian, provide little if any benefit to anyone, contribute to overcrowding of the criminal justice system, and/or disproportionately target blacks and Latinos.\n\nThere is no credible evidence that zero tolerance reduces violence or drug abuse by students. Furthermore, school suspension and expulsion result in a number of negative outcomes for both schools and students. The American Bar Association finds that the evidence indicates that minority children are the most likely to suffer the negative consequences of zero tolerance policies. Analysis of the suspension rate of students show that black females and other racial minorities are suspended at a greater rate. The American Psychological Association concluded that the available evidence does not support the use of zero tolerance policies as defined and implemented, that there is a clear need to modify such policies, and that the policies create a number of unintended negative consequences, including making schools \"less safe\".\n\nIn 2014, a study of school discipline figures was conducted. It was found that suspensions and expulsions as a result of zero tolerance policies have not reduced school disruptions. The study's author stated that \"zero tolerance approaches to school discipline are not the best way to create a safe climate for learning\". Zero tolerance policies are sometimes viewed as a quick fix solution for student problems. While this seems like a simple action-reaction type of situation, it often leaves out the mitigating circumstances that are often the important details in student incidents. Even civilian judges consider mitigating circumstances before passing judgement or sentencing. If zero tolerance policies were applied in adult courtroom scenarios, they would be fundamentally unjust and unconstitutional due to neglecting the laws involving due process, along with cruel and unusual punishments.\n\nThe label of zero tolerance began with the Gun-Free Schools Act of 1994, when Congress authorized public-school funding subject to the adoption of zero-tolerance policies. Similar policies of intolerance coupled with expulsions for less serious behaviors than bringing a weapon to school had long been a part of private, and particularly religious, schools. The use of zero-tolerance policies in secular, public schools increased dramatically after the Columbine High School massacre, with principals declaring that safety concerns made them want zero tolerance for weapons. These have led to a large number of disproportionate responses to minor, or technical transgressions, many of which have attracted the attention of the international media. These cases include students being suspended or expelled for such offenses as possession of ibuprofen or Midol (both legal, non-prescription drugs commonly used to treat menstrual cramps and headaches) with permission of the students' parents, keeping pocketknives (small utility knife) in cars, and carrying sharp tools outside of a woodshop classroom (where they are often required materials). In Seal v. Morgan, a student was expelled for having a knife in his car on school property, despite his protestations that he was unaware of the knife's presence. In some jurisdictions, zero-tolerance policies have come into conflict with freedom of religion rules already in place allowing students to carry, for example, kirpans.\n\nIn the \"kids for cash\" scandal, judge Mark Ciavarella, who promoted a platform of zero tolerance, received kickbacks for constructing a private prison that housed juvenile offenders, and then proceeded to fill the prison by sentencing children to extended stays in juvenile detention for offenses as minimal as mocking a principal on Myspace, scuffles in hallways, trespassing in a vacant building, and shoplifting DVDs from Wal-Mart. Critics of zero-tolerance policies argue that harsh punishments for minor offenses are normalized. The documentary \"Kids for Cash\" interviews experts on adolescent behavior, who argue that the zero tolerance model has become a dominant approach to policing juvenile offenses after the Columbine shooting.\n\nIn New York City, Carmen Fariña, head of the New York City Department of Education, restricted school suspension by principals in 2015. The Los Angeles Unified school board, responsible for educating 700,000 students, voted in 2013 to ban suspensions for \"willful defiance\", which had mostly been used against students from racial minorities. A year later, the same school district decided to decriminalize school discipline so that minor offenses would be referred to school staff rather than prosecuted -- the previous approach had resulted in black students being six times more likely to be arrested or given a ticket than white students. The district saw suspensions drop by 53%, and graduation rates rise by 12%.\n\nMedia attention has proven embarrassing to school officials, resulting in changes to state laws as well as to local school policies. One school board member gave this reason for changes his district made to their rigid policy: \"We are doing this because we got egg on our face.\"\n\n\nProponents of punishment- and exclusion-based philosophy of school discipline policies claim that such policies are required to create an appropriate environment for learning. This rests on the assumption that strong\nenforcement can act as a psychological deterrent to other potentially disruptive students.\n\nThe policy assumption is that inflexibility is a deterrent because, no matter how or why the rule was broken, the fact that the rule was broken is the basis for the imposition of the penalty. This is intended as a behavior modification strategy: since those at risk know that it may operate unfairly, they may be induced to take even unreasonable steps to avoid breaking the rule. This is a standard policy in rule- and law-based systems around the world on \"offenses\" as minor as traffic violations to major health and safety legislation for the protection of employees and the environment.\n\nDisciplinarian parents view zero-tolerance policies as a tool to fight corruption. Under this argument, if subjective judgment is not allowed, most attempts by the authority person to encourage bribes or other favors in exchange for leniency are clearly visible.\n\nCritics of zero-tolerance policies in schools say they are part of a school-to-prison pipeline that over-polices children with behavioural problems, treating their problems as criminal justice issues rather than educational and behavioural problems. Students that may previously have been given short school suspensions before the implementation of policies are now sent to juvenile courts.\n\nCritics of zero-tolerance policies frequently refer to cases where minor offenses have resulted in severe punishments. Typical examples include the honor-roll student being expelled from school under a \"no weapons\" policy while in possession of nail clippers, or for possessing \"drugs\" like cough drops and dental mouthwash or \"weapons\" like rubber bands.\n\nA related criticism is that zero-tolerance policies make schools feel like a jail or a prison.\nFurthermore zero-tolerance policies have been struck down by U.S. courts and by departments of education.\n\nAnother criticism is that the zero-tolerance policies have actually caused schools to turn a blind eye to bullying, resulting in them refusing to solve individual cases in an attempt to make their image look better. The zero-tolerance policy also punishes both the attacker and the defender in a fight, even when the attacker was the one who started the fight unprovoked.\n\nA particularly dismaying hypothesis about zero tolerance policies is that they may actually discourage some people from reporting criminal and illegal behavior, for fear of losing relationships, and for many other reasons. That is, ironically, zero tolerance policies may be ineffective in the very purpose for which they were originally designed.\n\nAs schools develop responses to online bullying, schools that have overly harsh approaches to zero tolerance policies may increasingly police speech of students in their own time, that would normally be protected by free speech laws.\n\nThe American Bar Association opposes \"zero tolerance policies that mandate either expulsion or referral of students to juvenile or criminal court, without regard to the circumstances or nature of the offense or the students history.\"\n\nCritics of zero tolerance policies also argue that the large numbers of students who are suspended and expelled from school experience negative effects which can prohibit them from finishing high school. Students who experience suspension, expulsion and arrests pay higher psychological and social costs: such as depression, suicidal thoughts, academic failure, and run the risk of being incarcerated as adults. In a study by Forrest et. al., (2000), psychologists identified that a third of youths in juvenile detention centers were diagnosed with depression shortly after being incarcerated. In addition to being diagnosed with depression many youths found themselves having suicidal thoughts (Gnau et. al. 1997).\n\nResearch found that Black, Latino, and White adults with low educational attainment risked a higher propensity of being incarcerated in their lifetime (Pettit & Western 2010). In the same study they found that the incarceration rate in 2008 rose to 37% since the 1980’s. This showed that incarceration rates of people with low levels of education were continuing to rise and that students were not completing their high school requirements.\n\nAccording to kidsdata.org for the year 2012, 21,638 students were suspended and 592 students were expelled from San Diego County schools. A total of 10.1% of students did not complete their high school diploma.\n\nDespite a decrease in juvenile arrest, suspensions, expulsions, and drop out rates, many still argue that these disciplinary policies have helped contribute to students not completing their high school curriculum. Schools are struggling to keep students within the walls of the educational system rather than the walls of a juvenile detention center.\n\nThe Escondido school knives case is a collection of school suspensions, possible expulsions, and protests surrounding knives that were found in the cars of two students at San Pasqual High School in Escondido, California.\n\nBrandon Cappaletti, an 18-year-old student at the school, had been on a fishing trip in early January, 2016. He says he had used the knives to cut line and would have used them to prepare fish. After the fishing trip, he left the knives in his truck. Another 16-year-old student had a pocket knife in his glove compartment.\n\nOn January 27, police dogs were sniffing vehicles in the school's parking lot. Each student had Advil in the truck. In each case, the dogs alerted on the Advil. Cappaletti was called out of class to unlock the truck. The police found the Advil and the knives. In the case of the 16-year-old, the alert also which led to the police finding the pocket knife.\n\nBoth boys were arrested. Cappaletti was later released to his mother. The 16-year-old's case was referred to the California's juvenile diversion program. Both boys have been charged with a misdemeanor for having a knife on school property with a blade longer than two-and-a-half inches. Both were also immediately suspended from classes. A hearing on Feb. 25 will decide whether or not they will be expelled.\n\nCappaletti has already joined the U.S. Marines Corps. If convicted of the misdemeanor, he might not be able to remain. His mother Amy Cappelletti said that “He’s the most patriotic student. He never gets into trouble. These weren’t Crocodile Dundee knives.”\nAt a School Board meeting on February 9, 2016, hundreds of people asked the Board not to expel the two students. Tony Coreley, the high school's football coach said that “There are rules and laws that the district has to follow, but this (situation) is unfortunate.”\n\nSchool District spokeswoman Karyl O’Brien said that the situation was unfortunate, but under California's zero-tolerance policy, there were rules the school had to follow.\n\nOn February 11, 2016, the Superintendent of the Escondido Union School District stated that the students would not be expelled, and that they were expected to be allowed to return to school the following week. As of February 13, the misdemeanor charges remain unresolved.\n\n\n\n"}
