{"id": "56818423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56818423", "title": "1895 Copenhagen Women's Exhibition", "text": "1895 Copenhagen Women's Exhibition\n\nThe Women's Exhibition from the Past and Present () held in Copenhagen in 1895 was an art and culture exhibition for women from the Nordic countries. Inspired by the 1893 World's Fair in Chicago, it was designed to demonstrate how far Nordic women had advanced in the areas of education, employment and art. The first of its kind in Europe, it was considered a great success.\n\nThe Chicago World's Fair in 1893 had impressed Danish visitors with its Woman's Building containing presentations of art and literature. Sophie Oxholm (1848–1935), who had visited the exhibition, was obviously impressed by the exhibition, especially the show of Danish needlework. On her return to Denmark, she immediately brought a number of influential women together with a view to arranging a Nordic women's exhibition in Copenhagen the following year. Despite initial enthusiasm, as a result of budgetary and management problems, it was announced in February 1894 that the exhibition would not be held until 1895.\n\nOxholm, who experienced difficulty in managing the arrangements, gave up her position as head of the coordinating committee in early 1895. She was replaced by Bertha Buch of the Women's Society but it was Emma Gad (1852–1921) who proved to be the most effective member. Appointed deputy chair, Gad managed to complete all the arrangements on time. These included selecting the site of the exhibition which was ultimately shared between the Industrial Association building (\"Industriforeningen\"), which had been built in connection with the 1872 Nordic Exhibition, and the premises of Den Frie Udstilling. It was therefore possible for the exhibition to open on 22 June 1895 in the presence of Queen Louise.\n\nIn addition to exhibits from Denmark, the exhibition contained areas specifically dedicated to the Danish provinces and overseas territories (Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Danish West Indies) as well as to Norway and Sweden. There are records of the 2,415 exhibits covering painting, curiosities (including items associated with celebrated women), arts and crafts, costumes, jewellery (including gold- and silverware), literature (manuscripts, journals and books) and appliances. There were also separate listings of exhibits relating to housekeeping, philanthropy, hygiene, education, household crafts (spinning and weaving, leather, wood, embroidery, silk painting, and whitework), music and art.\n\nFor the Den Frie Udstilling building, there was a separate inventory of 301 artworks, paintings and sculptures, listed by artist.\n\nThe two women who were instrumental in organizing the exhibition were Sophie Oxholm and, above all, Emma Gad.\n\nThe Women's Exhibition was a great success. Not only was it appreciated in Denmark and beyond, it made a substantial profit. Gad had hoped the money could be used for an independent \"Women's Building\" (\"Kvindernes Bygning\") with a meeting room, reading room, restaurant and accommodation for women from the provinces. Work did not begin on the building until 1929. It was completed in 1937.\n\nWorks by the following artists were included in the Women's Exhibition:\n\n"}
{"id": "29021646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29021646", "title": "50 Moganshan Road", "text": "50 Moganshan Road\n\n<DIV ALIGN=\"justify\">\n50 Moganshan Road () or \"M50\" is a contemporary art district in Shanghai, China, that houses a thriving community of more than a hundred artists whose studios are open to the public. It is often compared with New York's SoHo and Beijing's 798 Art Zone. The art quarter has become a popular cultural attraction for local and international visitors alike, and was named among the top ten things to do in Shanghai by \"Time Magazine\".\n\nThe name refers to its actual address in Shanghai, and is often shortened to M50 or Moganshan Road. It is tucked away in an old industrial area along the Suzhou Creek. The art quarter is located in industrial and residential Putuo District, but conveniently close to downtown Jing'an District.\n\n50 Moganshan Road was once the Chunming Slub Mill. The art scene was started in 2000 by local artist Xue Song who was initially attracted by the cheap rent of the disused industrial space. Other artists including Ding Yi, Qu Fengguo, and Wang Xingwei, soon followed. Today the quarter’s former factories and warehouses have been converted into art galleries, artists’ studios, design agencies and other visual art and cultural businesses of various sizes. The land and buildings are still owned by Shangtex, the state-owned textile group that operated the now defunct factory.\n\nM50 hosts over 120 galleries and art studios. Some of Shanghai's best known artists work here, including Zhou Tiehai, Ding Yi, Yelan, Xu Zhen and the media art collective Liu Dao. Galleries include ShanghART, EastLink Gallery, island6, Pantocrator Gallery, and Biz Art.\n\nThe closest Shanghai Metro station in the vicinity of M50 is Jiangning Road Station (on Line 13), followed by Zhongtan Road Station (on Line 3 and Line 4).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177483", "title": "Aestheticism", "text": "Aestheticism\n\nAestheticism (also the Aesthetic Movement) is an intellectual and art movement supporting the emphasis of aesthetic values more than social-political themes for literature, fine art, music and other arts. This meant that art from this particular movement focused more on being beautiful rather than having a deeper meaning — \"art for art's sake\". It was particularly prominent in Europe during the 19th century, supported by notable figures such as Walter Pater and Oscar Wilde, but contemporary critics are also associated with the movement, such as Harold Bloom, who has recently argued against projecting social and political ideology onto literary works, which he believes has been a growing problem in humanities departments over the 20th century. \n\nIn the 19th century, it was related to other movements such as symbolism or decadence represented in France, or decadentismo represented in Italy, and may be considered the British version of the same style.\n\nThe British decadent writers were much influenced by the Oxford professor Walter Pater and his essays published during 1867–68, in which he stated that life had to be lived intensely, with an ideal of beauty. His text \"Studies in the History of the Renaissance\" (1873) was very well regarded by art-oriented young men of the late 19th century. Writers of the Decadent movement used the slogan \"Art for Art's Sake\" (\"L'art pour l'art\"), the origin of which is debated. Some claim that it was invented by the philosopher Victor Cousin, although Angela Leighton in the publication \"On Form: Poetry, Aestheticism and the Legacy of a Word\" (2007) notes that the phrase was used by Benjamin Constant as early as 1804. It is generally accepted to have been promoted by Théophile Gautier in France, who interpreted the phrase to suggest that there was not any real association between art and morality.\nThe artists and writers of Aesthetic style tended to profess that the Arts should provide refined sensuous pleasure, rather than convey moral or sentimental messages. As a consequence, they did not accept John Ruskin, Matthew Arnold, and George MacDonald's conception of art as something moral or useful, \"Art for truth's sake\". Instead, they believed that Art did not have any didactic purpose; it only needed to be beautiful. The Aesthetes developed a cult of beauty, which they considered the basic factor of art. Life should copy Art, they asserted. They considered nature as crude and lacking in design when compared to art. The main characteristics of the style were: suggestion rather than statement, sensuality, great use of symbols, and synaesthetic/Ideasthetic effects—that is, correspondence between words, colours and music. Music was used to establish mood.\n\nPredecessors of the Aesthetics included John Keats and Percy Bysshe Shelley, and some of the Pre-Raphaelites who themselves were a legacy of the Romantic spirit. There are a few significant continuities between the Pre-Raphaelite philosophy and that of the Aesthetes: Dedication to the idea of ‘Art for Art’s Sake’; admiration of, and constant striving for, beauty; escapism through visual and literary arts; craftsmanship that is both careful and self-conscious; mutual interest in merging the arts of various media. This final idea is promoted in the poem \"L’Art\" by Théophile Gautier, who compared the poet to the sculptor and painter. Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Edward Burne-Jones are most strongly associated with Aestheticism. However, their approach to Aestheticism did not share the creed of ‘Art for Art’s Sake’ but rather “a spirited reassertion of those principles of colour, beauty, love, and cleanness that the drab, agitated, discouraging world of the mid-nineteenth century needed so much.” This reassertion of beauty in a drab world also connects to Pre-Raphaelite escapism in art and poetry.\n\nIn Britain the best representatives were Oscar Wilde and Algernon Charles Swinburne, both influenced by the French Symbolists, and James McNeill Whistler and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. The style and these poets were satirised by Gilbert and Sullivan's comic opera \"Patience\" and other works, such as F. C. Burnand's drama \"The Colonel\", and in comic magazines such as \"Punch,\" particularly in works by George Du Maurier.\n\nCompton Mackenzie's novel \"Sinister Street\" makes use of the type as a phase through which the protagonist passes as he is influenced by older, decadent individuals. The novels of Evelyn Waugh, who was a young participant of aesthete society at Oxford, describe the aesthetes mostly satirically, but also as a former participant. Some names associated with this assemblage are Robert Byron, Evelyn Waugh, Harold Acton, Nancy Mitford, A.E. Housman and Anthony Powell.\n\nArtists associated with the Aesthetic style include Simeon Solomon, James McNeill Whistler, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and Aubrey Beardsley. Although the work of Edward Burne-Jones was exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery which promoted the movement, it also contains narrative and conveys moral or sentimental messages hence it falls outside the given definition.\n\nThe primary element of Decorative Art is utility. The maxim \"art for art's sake\", identifying art or beauty as the primary element in other branches of the Aesthetic Movement, especially fine art, cannot apply in this context. Decorative art must first have utility, but may also be beautiful. Decorative art is dissociated from fine art.\n\nImportant elements of the Aesthetic Movement have been identified as Reform and Eastern Art. The Government Schools of Design were founded from 1837 onwards in order to improve the design of British goods. Following the Great Exhibition of 1851 efforts were intensified and Oriental objects purchased for the schools teaching collections. Owen Jones, architect and Orientalist was requested to set out key principles of design and these became not only the basis of the schools teaching but also the propositions which preface \"The Grammar of Ornament\" (1856), which is still regarded as the finest systematic study or practical sourcebook of historic world ornament.\n\nJones identified the need for a new and modern style that would meet the requirements of the modern world, rather than the continual re-cycling of historic styles, but saw no reason to reject the lessons of the past. Christopher Dresser, a student and later Professor at the school worked with Owen Jones on \"The Grammar of Ornament\", as well as on the 1863 decoration of The Oriental Courts (Chinese, Japanese, and Indian) at the South Kensington Museum, advanced the search for a new style with his two publications \"The Art of Decorative Design\" 1862, and \"Principles of Design\" 1873.\n\nProduction of Aesthetic style furniture was limited to approximately the late 19th century. Aesthetic style furniture is characterized by several common themes:\n\nEbonized furniture means that the wood is painted or stained to a black ebony finish. The furniture is sometimes completely ebony-colored. More often however, there is gilding added to the carved surfaces of the feathers or stylized flowers that adorn the furniture.\n\nAs aesthetic movement decor was similar to the corresponding writing style in that it was about sensuality and nature, nature themes often appear on the furniture. A typical aesthetic feature is the gilded carved flower, or the stylized peacock feather. Colored paintings of birds or flowers are often seen. Non-ebonized aesthetic movement furniture may have realistic-looking three-dimensional-like renditions of birds or flowers carved into the wood.\n\nContrasting with the ebonized-gilt furniture is use of blue and white for porcelain and china. Similar themes of peacock feathers and nature would be used in blue and white tones on dinnerware and other crockery. The blue and white design was also popular on square porcelain tiles. It is reported that Oscar Wilde used aesthetic decorations during his youth. This aspect of the movement was also satirised by \"Punch\" magazine and in \"Patience\".\n\nIn 1882 Oscar Wilde visited Canada, where he toured the town of Woodstock, Ontario and gave a lecture on May 29 titled \"The House Beautiful\". This particular lecture featured the early Aesthetic art movement, also known as the \"Ornamental Aesthetic\" art style, where local flora and fauna were celebrated as beautiful and textured, layered ceilings were popular. An example of this can be seen in Annandale National Historic Site, located in Tillsonburg, Ontario, Canada. The house was built in 1880 and decorated by Mary Ann Tillson, who happened to attend Oscar Wilde's lecture in Woodstock, and was influenced by it. Since the Aesthetic art movement was only prevalent from about 1880 until about 1890, there are not many surviving examples of this particular stylem but one such example is 18 Stafford Terrace, London, which provides an insight into how the middle classes interpreted the principles of Aesthetics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20359562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20359562", "title": "Agbogho Mmuo", "text": "Agbogho Mmuo\n\nAgbogho Mmuo, or Maiden Spirits are annual performances held during the dry season in the Nri-Awka area in the northern part of the Igbos' traditional territory. Performed only by men wearing masks, the masquerades imitate the character of adolescent girls, exaggerating the girls' beauty and movements. The performance is always accompanied by musicians who sing and play tributes to both real and spirit maidens.\n\nThe performances showcase an ideal image of an Igbo maiden. This ideal is made up by the smallness of a young girl’s features and the whiteness of her complexion, which is an indication that the mask is a spirit. This whiteness is created using a chalk substance used for ritually marking the body in both West Africa and the African Diaspora. The chalky substance is also used in uli design, created and exhibited on the skin of Igbo women. Most maiden spirit mask are decorated with representations of hair combs, and other objects, modeled after late 19th-century ceremonial hairstyles. These hairstyles include elaborate coiffures and crests which intend to add beauty to the mask.\n\nThis art style is featured in the book Purple Hibiscus written by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.\n"}
{"id": "17741443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17741443", "title": "Applied aesthetics", "text": "Applied aesthetics\n\nApplied aesthetics is the application of the branch of philosophy of aesthetics to cultural constructs.\n\nAlthough structural integrity, cost, the nature of building materials, and the functional utility of the building contribute heavily to the design process, architects can still apply aesthetic considerations to buildings and related architectural structures. Common aesthetic design principles include ornamentation, edge delineation, texture, flow, solemnity, symmetry, color, granularity, the interaction of sunlight and shadows, transcendence, and harmony.\n\nInterior designers, being less constrained by structural concerns, have a wider variety of applications to appeal to aesthetics. They may employ color, color harmony, wallpaper, ornamentation, furnishings, fabrics, textures, lighting, various floor treatments, as well as adhere to aesthetic concepts such as feng shui.\n\nA new art form struggling for acceptance is digital art, a by-product of computer programming that raises new questions about what truly constitutes art. Although paralleling many of the aesthetics in traditional media, digital art can additionally draw upon the aesthetic qualities of cross-media tactile relationships; interactivity; autonomous generativity; complexity and interdependence of relationships; suspense; and playfulness.\n\nArtists working in this type of art are often forced to justify their use of a computer rather than a traditional medium, leading to, like the debate over Warhol's \"Brillo Pad Boxes\", a question of what constitutes art.\n\nThe criticisms of digital art are many. For example, graphics programs allow perfect shading to be achieved with little to no effort. In other types of programs, there is a sense that because of the variety of tools, filters, distortions, etc., that an artist has a veritable image factory at their disposal. The various criticisms ultimately come down to the issue of \"what effort is the artist putting into their work?\"\n\nThe 3d art community frequently references that while the programs they utilize render and shade the objects, their efforts are more akin to the sculptor or architect, presenting an aesthetically arranged, lighted, and textured scene. The users of the other programs such as Photoshop or Gimp point out that while they may have many tools at their disposal, the art itself must be that much more detailed and imaginative to stand out. In both cases there is the challenge of overcoming the barriers of limited technology and the lack of direct contact with one's medium.\n\nEducators are also interested in how aesthetic designs influence the ways that students think and learn. Some historical figures like John Dewey have approached education through aesthetics. More recently, Elliot Eisner and jan jagodzinski have reopened the debate. Other researchers with postmodern or poststructural influences have done the same, these include Cleo H. Cherryholmes and Michel Foucault. Aesthetics in education has been linked to pragmatism as well as other areas of curriculum development and implementation.\n\nSee \"Understanding Curriculum,\" Chapter 11, Understanding Curriculum as Aesthetic Text, by William F. Pinar, William M. Reynolds, Patrick Slattery and Peter Taubman (1995) for more information.\n\nFashion designers use a variety of techniques to allow people to express the truth about their unconscious minds by way of their clothing. To create wearable personality designers use fabric, cut, colour, scale, references to the past, texture, color harmony, distressing, transparency, insignia, accessories, beading and embroidery.\nIt is also used to find the average size of things, to make a product suitable for a high number of customers.\n\nFilm combines many diverse disciplines, each of which may have their own rules of aesthetics. The aesthetics of cinematography are closely related to still photography, but the movement of the subject(s), or the camera and the intensities, colors, and placement of the lighting are highly important. Sound recording, editing, and mixing are other, highly important areas of film, often closely related with the musical score. As in Theatre, art direction, in the design of the sets and shooting locations also applies, as well as costume design and makeup. All of these disciplines are closely inter-twined and must be brought together by the aesthetic sensibilities of the director.\n\nMontage, or editing is probably the one discipline unique to film, video, and television. The timing, rhythm and progression of shots form the ultimate composition of the film. This procedure is one of the most critical element of post production, and incorporates sound editing and mixing, as well as the design and execution of digital special effects.\n\nIn the case of a video installation, the method of presentation becomes critical. The work may be screened on a simple monitor, projected on a wall or other surface, or incorporated into a larger sculptural installation. A video installation may also involve sound, with similar considerations to be made based on speaker design and placement, volume, and tone.\n\nAlthough food is a basic and frequently experienced commodity, careful attention to the aesthetic possibilities of foodstuffs can turn eating into gastronomy. Chefs inspire our aesthetic enjoyment through the visual sense using colour and arrangement; they inspire our senses of taste and smell using spices, diversity/contrast, anticipation, seduction, and decoration/garnishes. In regard to drinking water, there are formal criteria for aesthetic value including odour, colour, total dissolved solids and clarity. There are numerical standards in the U.S. for aesthetic acceptability of these parameters.\n\nNote, however, a use of a word translated to \"culinary\" in Adorno's aesthetics. Adorno distinguishes between technically accurate and \"beautiful\" musical interpretation, and an interpretation higher which brings out the \"truth\" in the musical text: interpretations more rehearsed, with more time for rehearsal, but which might sound strange to audiences pandered-to by popular conductors (perhaps in the way Glenn Gould enstranges the music of Beethoven).\n\nUnfortunately for the ordinary reader of Adorno, this isn't something technical such as \"original instruments\". It is instead the work of art that doesn't pander to what the audience \"wants\"...its whims.\n\nThis is linked to a Marxist interpretation which instead of treating the audience as an all-powerful \"customer\" adopts a teacherly or even priestly stance \"above\" the mere audience, something only the most \"snobbish\" of French chefs would dare, proposing to teach it to like Higher Things.\n\nThere are rarefied forms of *haute* cuisine; but note that common sense usually has a horselaugh about precious Yuppies eating designer food which it withholds about concert-goers listening to Berg; your man in the street merely thinks the latter crowd to be odd jobs, and doesn't resent them, meaning that ethical judgements play a role in aesthetic judgements that specialists in ethics, and specialists in aesthetics, systematically disregard...but which artists such as Tolstoy regarded as central.\n\nBased on Adorno's theory of the (merely) culinary as not being \"art\", this would seem to mean that it is a joke, for an Adornoite (if such a person exists meaningfully), to treat cooking as an art form or eating as art appreciation.\n\nMonty Python would often reverberate with this sort of arcana in a strange way: in the Mr. Creosote passage of The Meaning of Life, an enormously fat man is persuaded by the fawning waiter to have one more sweet whereupon Mr. Creosote throws up all over the dining room. Note that the scene has more claims to be art, despite being nauseating, than designer food.\n\nThis MAY be an unconscious comment on any theory of art that blindly equates \"fine dining\" and a visit to the picture galleries, a sort of tourist equation in which picture galleries are overrun in fact by post-prandial Mr. Creosotes. Even the ordinary man in the street would say that the starving artist visiting the gallery has a \"better\" apprehension of the higher, more inner, more elusive aura of the art work than Mr. Creosote, which means that for some authors, including Adorno, there is a nexus between ethics (which nearly tracks aesthetics polyphonically, where we use \"good\" and \"bad\" in ethics to characterise people and their deeds, and in aesthetics to judge what to buy).\n\nThe possibility of a rejection of the culinary in art starts with Kant's theory of the sublime but does not end there; post Holocaust (with its Nazis playing Bach: with Adorno's questions about poetry after Auschwitz) the culinary, and whether the German officer enjoying a \"fine\" meal has much of anything to do with art, become important aesthetic questions.\n\nA Marxist theory of art would probably conclude that the chef cannot be an artist, lacking autonomy and beholden to the customer, Mr. Creosote, in all regards.\n\nThere is a developed theory of the aesthetics of jokes and humor, including a mathematical and logical analysis.\n\nIndustrial Design: Designers need many aesthetic qualities to improve the marketability of manufactured products: smoothness, shininess/reflectivity, texture, pattern, curviness, color, simplicity, usability, velocity, symmetry, naturalness, and modernism.\nThe staff of the Design Aesthetics section focuses on design, appearance and the way people perceive products. Design aesthetics is interested in the appearance of products; the explanation and meaning of this appearance is studied mainly in terms of social and cultural factors. The distinctive focus of the section is research and education in the field of sensory modalities in relation to product design. These fields of attention generate design baggage that enables engineers to design products, systems, and services, and match them to the correct field of use.\n\nAesthetics in information technology has focused upon the study of human-computer interaction and creating user-friendly devices and software applications. Software itself has aesthetic dimensions (\"software aesthetics\"), as do information-technology-mediated processes and experiences such as computer video games and virtual reality simulations. Digital culture is a distinct aesthetic to judge the appeal of digital environments such as Web browsers, websites, and icons, as well as visual and aural art produced exclusively with digital technologies. The notion of cyberspace has sometimes been linked to the concept of the sublime.\n\nAesthetics in information technology do also apply to the act of designing software itself. Numerous programmers profess to experiencing a dimension of elegance in the functionality and structuring of software at the source code level. For example, a short, powerful expression that clearly expresses the intent of the code can be considered \"beautiful\" to the poor programmer charged with maintaining said code. This contrasts with code that is (as code all too often is) short, cryptic, unclear, and unnecessarily \"clever\". In-line documentation, while not strictly code, can be considered something a programmer would need to be good at in order to write beautiful code. Correctly done, documentation can accentuate the effect of beautiful code, when it is clear, concise, explains the intent of the programmer, and expands the understanding that one can gain by simply looking at the code. Comments that are redundant (only explain what the code already explains), cryptic, and overly long or short can detract from beautiful code. Aesthetics in programming can also have a practical level: Under the right conditions, elegant code can run faster and more efficiently, and (most importantly) be less prone to errors.\n\nCritics of this would say that the need to justify \"good design\" by reference to \"cost savings\" means that \"good design\" isn't \"art\" insofar as art is autonomous, and many aestheticians would have to say that art emerges in applications only in excess of cost savings. In information technology, theorists of \"user friendliness\" have to justify their \"user friendly\" applications and often disregard basic statistics when most users like a system, but a significant minority hate it.\n\nThat is, they may discard the standard deviation of their data in order to sell a good design for the best price, and this has nothing to do with art insofar as art is a useful signifier (if you cost-justify everything you are a businessman and not an artist).\n\nA folk phenomenon among real programmers is in fact their frequent hatred of practice described in books as best practice and good design. A Marxist theory of industrial \"art\" would ascribe this to alienation, in which subaltern programmers never produce code they own in any meaningful sense, with the problem that the same sort of alienation, soldiering, and bloody-mindedness appeared, it seems, in Soviet computing shops.\n\nThe most sophisticated writings on the topic of aesthetics are to be found in the late Edsger Wybe Dijkstra's corpus of papers and notes on computing: in Dijkstra, the art is real, but Ying with respect to the Yang of applications; Dijkstra seemed to have refused any analysis of programming as other than applied mathematics and, strange to say, never pursued what Adorno (the midcentury theoretician of whom Dijkstra was apparently unaware) called a purely culinary elegance...despite the protests of others that his work was \"hard to digest\", in Adorno's words not very culinary.\n\nDijkstra's beauty refused the notion of accessibility as do many \"artistic\" works ancient and modern: it was hard as is the Grosse Fuge, Beethoven's syncopated and neo-primitive late movement. In fact, no aesthetician makes \"user friendliness\" canonical and necessary in a work of art, strange to say in an era when supposedly the masses rule through the market; for most art theorists, it is nice if the canaille can enjoy some pretty rondo of Mozart and whistle it on the street, but would deny that this property must be shared by the Masonic prelude and fugue or the Requiem mass.\n\nThis makes strange any claim that a programmer making his work \"user friendly\" to all comers is some sort of artist by virtue of that. For Dijsktra, truth was primary, and beauty the automatic result.\n\nLandscape designers draw upon design elements such as axis, line, landform, horizontal and vertical planes, texture, and scale to create aesthetic variation within the landscape. They may additionally make use of aesthetic elements such as pools or fountains of water, plants, seasonal variance, stonework, fragrance, exterior lighting, statues, and lawns.\n\nIn poetry, short stories, novels and non-fiction, authors use a variety of techniques to appeal to our aesthetic values. Depending on the type of writing an author may employ rhythm, illustrations, structure, time shifting, juxtaposition, dualism, imagery, fantasy, suspense, analysis, humor/cynicism, and thinking aloud.\n\nAesthetics in cartography relates to the visual experience of map reading and can take two forms: responses to the map itself as an aesthetic object (e.g., through detail, colour, and form) and also the subject of the map symbolised, often the landscape (e.g., a particular expression of terrain which forms an imagined visual experience of the aesthetic).\n\nCartographers make aesthetic judgments when designing maps to ensure that the content forms a clear expression of the theme(s). Antique maps are perhaps especially revered due to their aesthetic value, which may seem to be derived from their styles of ornamentation. As such, aesthetics are often wrongly considered to be a by-product of design. If it is taken that aesthetic judgments are produced within a certain social context, they are fundamental to the cartographer's symbolisation and as such are integral to the function of maps.\n\nAs opposed to Industrial Design, which focuses on the aesthetic qualities of consumer products (see below), the use of aesthetics in marketing concerns itself with the \"trade dress\" of a product, such as its branding, its commercial representation, or the reputation of its producer. Marketing professionals may tickle the consumer's aesthetic appreciation of sassyness, sophistication, color-harmony, stylishness, catchy jingles, slogans, craftsmanship, soothingness, attentiveness, authenticity, or the related perceived experiences associated with product consumption.\n\nMarketing consists of intriguing the human mind to think in a direction where it would not have done so previously - or not without outside input. Human curiosity, self gain or mental adjustment is what drives marketing development itself.\n\nThe aesthetics of mathematics are often compared with music and poetry. Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős expressed his views on the indescribable beauty of mathematics when he said \"Why are numbers beautiful? It's like asking why is Beethoven's Ninth Symphony beautiful.\" Math appeals to the \"senses\" of logic, order, novelty, elegance, and discovery. Some concepts in math with specific aesthetic application include sacred ratios in geometry, the intuitiveness of axioms, the complexity and intrigue of fractals, the solidness and regularity of polyhedra, and the serendipity of relating theorems across disciplines. There is a developed aesthetic and theory of humor in mathematical humor.\n\nSome of the aesthetic elements expressed in music include lyricism, harmony, hypnotism, emotiveness, temporal dynamics, volume dynamics, resonance, playfulness, color, subtlety, elatedness, depth, and mood (see musical development). Aesthetics in music are often believed to be highly sensitive to their context: what sounds good in modern rock music might sound terrible in the context of the early baroque age.\n\nCognitive science has also considered aesthetics, with the advent of neuroesthetics, pioneered by Semir Zeki, which seeks to explain the prominence of great art as an embodiment of biological principles of the brain, namely that great works of art capture the essence of things just as vision and the brain capture the essentials of the world from the ever-changing stream of sensory input. \"See also\" Vogelkop bowerbird.\n\nPerforming arts appeal to our aesthetics of storytelling, grace, balance, class, timing, strength, shock, humor, costume, irony, beauty, drama, suspense, and sensuality. Whereas live stage performance is usually constrained by the physical reality at hand, film performance can further add the aesthetic elements of large-scale action, fantasy, and a complex interwoven musical score. Performance art often consciously mixes the aesthetics of several forms. Role-playing games are sometimes seen as a performing art with an aesthetic structure of their own, called RPG theory.\n\nAesthetic considerations within the visual arts are usually associated with the sense of vision. A painting or sculpture, however, is also perceived spatially by recognized associations and context, and even to some extent by the senses of smell, hearing, and touch. The form of the work can be subject to an aesthetic as much as the content.\n\nIn painting, the aesthetic convention that we see a three-dimensional representation rather than a two-dimensional canvas is so well understood that most people do not realize that they are making an aesthetic interpretation. This notion is the basis of abstract impressionism.\n\nIn the United States during the postwar period, the \"push-pull\" theories of Hans Hofmann, positing a relation between color and perceived depth, strongly influenced a generation of prominent abstract painters, many of whom studied under Hofmann and were generally associated with abstract expressionism. Hofmann's general attitude toward abstraction as virtually a moral imperative for the serious painter was also extremely influential.\n\nSome aesthetic effects available in visual arts include variation, juxtaposition, repetition, field effects, symmetry/asymmetry, perceived mass, subliminal structure, linear dynamics, tension and repose, pattern, contrast, perspective, 3 dimensionality, movement, rhythm, unity/Gestalt, matrixiality and proportion.\n\nOver half of mankind lives in cities; although it represents a lofty goal, planning and achieving urban aesthetics (beautification) involves a good deal of historical luck, happenstance, and indirect gestalt. Nevertheless, aesthetically pleasing cities share certain traits: ethnic and cultural variety, numerous microclimates that promote a diversity of vegetation, sufficient public transportation, Public art and freedom of expression in the community in the forms of sculpture, graffiti and street art, a range of build-out (or zoning) that creates both densely and sparsely populated areas, scenic neighboring geography (oceans or mountains), public spaces and events such as parks and parades, musical variety through local radio or street musicians, and enforcement of laws that abate noise, crime, and pollution.\n\nRecent research suggests that the visual aesthetics of computer interface is a strong determinant of users’ satisfaction and pleasure. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses found that users’ perceptions consist of different main dimensions. Lavie and Tractinsky found two main dimension which they termed “classical aesthetics” and “expressive aesthetics”. \nWhile both dimensions of perceived aesthetic are drawn from a pool of aesthetic judgments, they are clearly distinguishable from each other. \nIn a recent study Moshagen and Thielsch found four core dimensions of website aesthetics: \n\nSimplicity and diversity have repeatedly been treated as formal parameters of aesthetic objects throughout the history of empirical aesthetics. Colors are a very critical property of aesthetic objects. Craftsmanship addresses the skillful and coherent integration of the relevant design dimensions. While simplicity is highly correlated to classical aesthetics as mentioned by Lavie and Tractinsky, the other three factors could be treated as deeper differentiation of expressive aesthetics.\nBest practices for aesthetic Website Design\n• Create visual clues based on groupings; related items or links are grouped together while unrelated items are separated.\n• Use headings and subheadings to allow visual scanning of content.\n• Use headings, subheadings, font sizes, bold fonts and italic fonts in proportion to the importance of the item.\n• Align elements on a page so that they are all visually connected; size all elements on the page to create balance and unity; nothing should look out of place unless you have a specific reason for the effect.\n• Choose a font style that supports the site atmosphere and stick to it; limit styles to 2 at the most.\n• Use images and photos for visual appeal and to communicate ideas.\n• Use one set of design elements across your website.\n\nWebsite Design Aesthetics and Credibility \nWebsite design influences user’s perception of site credibility. One of the factors that influences whether users stay or go on a web page is the page aesthetics. Another reason may involve a user's judgment about the site's credibility. Findings indicate that when the same content is presented using different levels of aesthetic treatment, the content with a higher aesthetic treatment was judged as having higher credibility. We call this the amelioration effect of visual design and aesthetics on content credibility. Holmes suggests that this effect is operational within the first few seconds in which a user views a web page. Given the same content, a higher aesthetic treatment will increase perceived credibility.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10637082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10637082", "title": "Arts District (Honolulu)", "text": "Arts District (Honolulu)\n\nThe Arts District is a neighborhood in Honolulu located west of downtown Honolulu's Hawaii Capital Historic District and on the eastern edge of Chinatown. It spans just over 12 blocks, bounded by Bethel and Smith Streets and Nimitz Highway and Beretania Street.\n\nIt is home to cultural institutions, performing arts venues (including the historic Hawaii Theatre), galleries, and arts events. The Merchant Street Historic District is just to the south.\n"}
{"id": "1983854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1983854", "title": "Assemblage (art)", "text": "Assemblage (art)\n\nAssemblage is an artistic form or medium usually created on a defined substrate that consists of three-dimensional elements projecting out of or from the substrate. It is similar to collage, a two-dimensional medium. It is part of the visual arts, and it typically uses found objects, but is not limited to these materials.\n\nThe origin of the art form dates to the cubist constructions of Pablo Picasso c. 1912–1914. The origin of the word (in its artistic sense) can be traced back to the early 1950s, when Jean Dubuffet created a series of collages of butterfly wings, which he titled \"assemblages d'empreintes\". However, both Marcel Duchamp, Pablo Picasso and others had been working with found objects for many years prior to Dubuffet. Russian artist Vladimir Tatlin created his \"counter-reliefs\" in the mid 1910s. Alongside Tatlin, the earliest woman artist to try her hand at assemblage was Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven, the Dada Baroness. In Paris in the 1920s Alexander Calder, Jose De Creeft, Picasso and others began making fully 3-dimensional works from metal scraps, found metal objects and wire. In the U.S., one of the earliest and most prolific assemblage artists was Louise Nevelson, who began creating her sculptures from found pieces of wood in the late 1930s.\n\nThe painter Armando Reverón is one of the first to use this technique when using disposable materials such as bamboo, wires, wires or kraft paper. In the thirties he made a skeleton with wings of mucilage, adopting this style years before other artists. Later, Reverón made instruments and set pieces such as a telephone, a sofa, a sewing machine, a piano and even music books with their scores.\n\nIn 1961, the exhibition \"The Art of Assemblage\" was featured at the New York Museum of Modern Art. The exhibition showcased the work of early 20th-century European artists such as Braque, Dubuffet, Marcel Duchamp, Picasso, and Kurt Schwitters alongside Americans Man Ray, Joseph Cornell, Robert Mallary and Robert Rauschenberg, and also included less well known American West Coast assemblage artists such as George Herms, Bruce Conner and Edward Kienholz. William C Seitz, the curator of the exhibition, described assemblages as being made up of preformed natural or manufactured materials, objects, or fragments not intended as art materials. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16639868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16639868", "title": "Attractiveness", "text": "Attractiveness\n\nAttractiveness or attraction is a quality that causes an interest, desire in, or gravitation to something or someone.\n\"Attraction\" may also refer to the object of the attraction itself, as in \"tourist attraction\".\n\nVisual attractiveness or visual appeal is attraction produced primarily by visual stimuli.\n\nPhysical attractiveness is the perception of the physical traits of an individual human person as pleasing or beautiful. It can include various implications, such as sexual attractiveness, cuteness, similarity and physique.\n\nPhysical attractiveness can also include the attraction of smell. Pheromones secreted by animals and humans alike can attract others, and this is viewed as being attracted to smell. Human sex pheromones may play a role in human attraction, although it is unclear how well humans can actually pick up on the pheromones of another. \n\nJudgment of attractiveness of physical traits is partly universal to all human cultures, partly dependent on culture or society or time period, partly biological, and partly subjective and individual.\n\nAccording to a study determining the golden ratio for facial beauty, the most attractive face is one with average distances between facial features, and an average length and width of the face itself.. Facial attractiveness, or beauty, can also be determined by symmetry. If a face is asymmetrical, this can indicate unhealthy genetic information. Therefore, if a face is symmetrical (see Facial symmetry), healthy genetic information is implied. People will judge potential mates based off the physical expression of the genetic health, which is their apparent attractiveness. This supports the good genes theory, which indicates that attractiveness is seen as a way to ensure that offspring will have the healthiest genes and therefore the best chance of survival. Certain trains that indicate good genes (such as clear skin or facial symmetry) are seen as desirable when choosing a partner.\n\nAmong animals, females often are \"choosy\" about who they pick for a mate. They will look for characteristics in their potential mates that ensure their offspring will have healthy genetic material. Therefore, they will be attracted to certain traits or behaviors of their potential mates. Attraction among animals is based mostly on what will give the females the best chance of having the most and healthiest offspring that will likely survive to adulthood because of the traits they will inherit from the male. Females will look for signs of health in the males, such as large and fancy adornments, bright colors, or other features that the male will only have if he is in good health. .\n\nEye candy is a slang term for superficial attractiveness. In a 2017 \"Boston Globe\" article about the potential for cheerleading at the Olympics, eye candy was used to describe cheerleaders as \"entertainment popularized by professional sports in the United States.\" The term has also been used in professional sports in the United States referring to female athletes.\n\n"}
{"id": "39303294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39303294", "title": "Baghdad School", "text": "Baghdad School\n\nThe Baghdad School was a relatively short-lived yet influential school of Islamic art developed during the late 12th century in the capital Baghdad of the ruling Abbasid Caliphate. The movement had largely died out by the early 14th century, five decades following the invasion of the Mongols in 1258 and the downfall of the Abbasids' rule, and would eventually be replaced by stylistic movements from the Mongol tradition. The Baghdad School is particularly noted for its distinctive approach to manuscript illustration. The faces depicted in illustrations were individualized and expressive, with the scenes often highlighting realistic features of everyday life from the period. This stylistic movement used strong, bright colors, and employed a balanced sense of design and a decorative quality, with illustrations often lacking traditional frames and appearing between lines of text on manuscript pages.\n\nThe Baghdad School of art is noted for its manuscript artwork. The school consisted of calligraphers, illustrators, transcribers and translators, who collaborated to produce illuminated manuscripts derived from non-Arabic sources. The characteristic Baghdad School artistic style, which features sprightly characters bearing highly expressive faces and hand gestures (rather than stereotypical people), reached its peak in the first half of the 13th-century, although some examples can be identified at earlier periods. Illustrations in this style represent a skilful blend of Byzantine, Persian and Arab features. \n\nVery few illuminated copies of the Q'ran from this period have survived, but a number of secular manuscripts are still extant. These manuscripts are primarily scientific treatises or social commentaries. \n\nThe descriptor, \"Baghdad School\", was coined by the French Orientalist, Eustache De Lorey, in 1938, when he curated an exhibition of illustrations from \"Maqamat Badi' az-Zaman al-Hamadhani\" for the Bibliothèque nationale de France. Some art historians and curators used the term, \"Mesopotamian School,\" while other scholars have suggested that the term should be replaced with something broader, such as the Arab School of Miniatures, because its exponents were not just confined to Baghdad and Iraq.\n\nThe Greek materia medica, in particular herbals and bestiaries, which described the characteristics and medicinal uses of various plants and animals found in the Mediterranean world, were among the books transcribed. Several Arabic translations of Dioscorides' work, \"De Materia Medica\" have been discovered. Dioscorides' treatise was considered especially important, and remains one of the best examples of manuscript translation and illustration produced by the Baghdad School. Dioscorides was a renowned Greek physician, herbalist, and pharmacist serving the Roman Empire and its armies during the first century CE, whose work gained influence throughout the medieval Islamic world.\n\nOf these, a manuscript known as the \"Mashhad Manuscript\", originally believed to be 13th-century work, has been reassessed and now dated to between 1152 and 1176, providing one of the earliest examples of illustrations in the style of the Baghdad School. Another early example of these translations is the translation and work probably by Abdallah ibn al-Fadl. The illustrations were considered especially important, and it remains one of the best examples of manuscript translation and illustration produced by the Baghdad School. Dioscorides was a renowned Greek physician, herbalist, and pharmacist serving the Roman Empire and its armies during the first century CE, whose work gained influence throughout the medieval Islamic world. \n\nAmong the illustrated manuscript leaves of the 13th-century Dioscorides' \"Materia Medica\" is the page entitled, “Physician Preparing an Elixir,\" also referred to by The Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History as “Preparation of Medicine from Honey.” It is dated 1224 CE and was found in Iraq or Northern Jazira, possibly Baghdad. The page depicts an illustration of a bearded physician with a colorful blue headscarf and red clothing seated on an ornamental stool. He is mixing a yellow pot with a ladle while overlooking a yellow cauldron hanging from a red tripod above a wide blue container. His other hand is raised up towards his mouth. A large blue jug lies to the left of the tripod. Two overhanging trees on either side of the scene bear leaves and two different types of what appear to be colorful fruit or flowers—red on the left and yellow on the right. The ground below the scene is covered with green grass, however there is no background depicted in the illustration thus reducing the sense of depth. The style of illustration depicted on this manuscript leaf is thus an excellent example of the Baghdad School: the colors are bright and distinctive, the objects depicted in the scene have a balanced, symmetrical design with the trees framing the illustration, and finally, the man’s face appears to be in a state of deep, expressive contemplation. The scene itself has a realistic and personalized quality to it, depicting a physician in a natural setting as he prepares a medicinal mixture containing honey for his patients, and yet also has ornamental characteristics with its design and choice of colors—another distinctive feature of the Baghdad School.\n\nIllustrations and text from the 13th-century Arabic translation of \"De Materia Medica\nThe Abbasid artist, Yahya Al-Wasiti, who lived in Baghdad in the late Abassid era (12th to 13th-centuries), was one of the pre-eminent exponents of the Baghdad school. In 1236-37, he is known to have transcribed and illustrated the book, \"Maqamat\" (also known as the \"Assemblies\" or the \"Sessions\"), a series of anecdotes of social satire written by Al-Hariri of Basra. The narrative concerns the travels of a middle-aged man as he uses his charm and eloquence to swindle his way across the Arabic world.\n\nIllustrations by Yahya Al-Wasiti from al-Hariri's \"Maqamat\" \nYet other examples of work in the style of the Baghdad School include the illustrations in \"Kalila wa Dimna\" (Fables of Bidpai), (1222); a collection of fables by the Hindu, Bidpai translated into Arabic , and \"Rasa'il al-Ikhwan al-Safa\" (The Epistles of the Sincere Brethren) (1287); an example of an illuminated manuscript produced after the Mongol invasion.\n\nIn the 20th-century, al-Waiti's illustrations and the Baghdad School served as an inspiration for The Baghdad Modern Art Group. Founded in the 1950s by artists, Jawad Saleem and Shakir Hassan Al Said, members of the group believed that the Mongol invasion of the 13th-century represented a \"break in the chain of pictorial Iraqi art\" and wanted to reassert a national identity and build a distinctive Iraqi identity which referenced heritage and tradition. As the leader of the group, Saleem promoted the idea of \"istilham al-turath\" – \"seeking inspiration from tradition\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1548731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548731", "title": "Barbara Kruger", "text": "Barbara Kruger\n\nBarbara Kruger (born January 26, 1945) is an American conceptual artist and collagist. Most of her work consists of black-and-white photographs, overlaid with declarative captions, stated in white-on-red Futura Bold Oblique or Helvetica Ultra Condensed text. The phrases in her works often include pronouns such as \"you\", \"your\", \"I\", \"we\", and \"they\", addressing cultural constructions of power, identity, and sexuality. Kruger currently lives and works in New York and Los Angeles.\n\nKruger was born a child into a lower-middle-class family in Newark, New Jersey. Her father worked as a chemical technician for Shell Oil and her mother was a legal secretary. She graduated from Weequahic High School. She attended Syracuse University, but left after one year due to the death of her father. After spending a year at Syracuse University, in 1965, she went on to pursue a semester at Parson's school of Design in New York. Over the next ten years, Kruger established herself whilst pursuing graphic design for magazines, freelance picture editing, as well as designing book jackets. By the later 1960s, Kruger gained interest in poetry, and began attending poetry readings and writings. Kruger studied art and design with Diane Arbus and Marvin Israel at Parsons School of Design in New York. Kruger soon obtained a design job at Condé Nast Publications. There after, Kruger was awarded the head designer for that following year. She initially worked as a designer at \"Mademoiselle\" and later moved on to work part-time as a picture editor at House and Garden, Aperture, and other publications. She also wrote film, television, and music columns for \"Artforum\" and \"Real Life Magazine\" at the suggestion of her friend Ingrid Sischy.\n\nKruger's earliest works date back to 1969. These works were large wall hangings made out of different materials such as yarn, beads, sequins, feathers and ribbons. These pieces represented the feminist recuperation of craft during this period. Kruger crocheted, sewed and painted bright-hued and erotically suggestive objects, some of which were included by curator Marcia Tucker in the 1973 Whitney Biennial. They were inspired by Magdalena Abakanowicz's show at the Museum of Modern Art. Although some of these works were included in the Whitney Biennial, Kruger became detached and unsatisfied with her working output. In 1976 she took a break from making what had become more abstract works, feeling that her work had become meaningless and mindless. She then moved to Berkeley, California where she taught at the University of California and became inspired by the writings of Walter Benjamin and Roland Barthes. In 1977 she returned to artmaking, working with her own architectural photographs and publishing an artist's book, \"Picture/Readings\", in 1979. She was inspired to photograph architecture from her family \"looking at family homes [they] could never afford.\"\n\nAt the beginning of her art career, she was intimidated to enter New York galleries due to the art scene which was an atmosphere that, to her, did not welcome \"particularly independent, non-masochistic women.\" However, she received early support for her projects from groups such as the Public Art Fund that encouraged her to continue art making. She switched to her modern practice of collage in the early 80's.\n\nAddressing issues of language and sign, Kruger has often been grouped with such feminist postmodern artists as Jenny Holzer, Sherrie Levine, Martha Rosler, and Cindy Sherman. Like Holzer and Sherman, in particular, she uses the techniques of mass communication and advertising to explore gender and identity. Kruger is considered to be part of the Pictures Generation.\n\nMuch of Kruger's work pairs found photographs with pithy and assertive text that challenges the viewer. Her method includes developing her ideas on a computer, later transferring the results (often billboard-sized) into images. Examples of her instantly recognizable slogans read \"I shop therefore I am,\" and \"Your body is a battleground,\" appearing in her trademark white letters against a red background. Much of her text calls attention to ideas such as feminism, consumerism, and individual autonomy and desire, frequently appropriating images from mainstream magazines and using her bold phrases to frame them in a new context.\n\nKruger has said that \"I work with pictures and words because they have the ability to determine who we are and who we aren't.\" A larger category that threads through her work is the appropriation and alteration of existing images. In describing her use of appropriation, Kruger states: \n\nPictures and words seem to become the rallying points for certain assumptions. There are assumptions of truth and falsity and I guess the narratives of falsity are called fictions. I replicate certain words and watch them stray from or coincide with the notions of fact and fiction.\n\nHer poster for the 1989 Women's March on Washington in support of legal abortion included a woman's face bisected into positive and negative photographic reproductions, accompanied by the text \"Your body is a battleground.\" A year later, Kruger used this slogan in a billboard commissioned by the Wexner Center for the Arts. Twelve hours later, a group opposed to abortion responded to Kruger's work by replacing the adjacent billboard with an image depicting an eight-week-old fetus.\n\nKruger's early monochrome pre-digital works, known as 'paste ups', reveal the influence of the artist's experience as a magazine editorial designer during her early career. These small scale works, the largest of which is 11 x 13 inches (28 x 33 cm), are composed of altered found images, and texts either culled from the media or invented by the artist. A negative of each work was then produced and used to make enlarged versions of these initial 'paste ups'. Between 1978 and 1979, she completed \"Picture/Readings,\" simple photographs of modest houses alternating with panels of words. From 1992 on, Kruger designed several magazine covers, such as \"Ms.\", \"Esquire\", \"Newsweek\", and \"The New Republic\". Her signature font style of Futura Bold type is likely inspired from the \"Big Idea\" or \"Creative Revolution\" advertising style of the 1960s that she was exposed to during her experience at \"Mademoiselle.\"\n\nIn 1990, Kruger scandalized the Japanese American community of Little Tokyo, Los Angeles, with her proposal to paint the Pledge of Allegiance, bordered by provocative questions, on the side of a warehouse in the heart of the historic downtown neighborhood. Kruger had been commissioned by MOCA to paint a mural for \"A Forest of Signs: Art in the Crisis of Representation,\" a 1989 exhibition that also included works by Barbara Bloom, Jenny Holzer, Jeff Koons, Sherrie Levine, and Richard Prince. But before the mural went up, Kruger herself and curator Ann Goldstein presented it at various community meetings over the time period of 18 months. Only after protests did the artist offer to eliminate the pledge from her mural proposal, while still retaining a series of questions painted in the colors and format of the American flag: \"Who is bought and sold? Who is beyond the law? Who is free to choose? Who follows orders? Who salutes longest? Who prays loudest? Who dies first? Who laughs last?\". A full year after the exhibition closed, Kruger's reconfigured mural finally went up for a two-year run.\n\nIn 1994, Kruger's \"L'empathie peut changer le monde\" (\"Empathy can change the world\") was installed on a train station platform in Strasbourg, France. One year later, with architects Henry Smith-Miller and Laurie Hawkinson and landscape architect Nicholas Quennell, she designed the 200-foot-long (60 m) sculptural letters \"Picture This\" for a stage and outdoor amphitheater at the North Carolina Museum of Art, Raleigh. Between 1998 and 2008, she created permanent installations for the Fisher College of Business, the Broad Contemporary Art Museum at LACMA, the Moderna Museet, Stockholm, and the Price Center at the University of California, San Diego. For a site-specific piece that she produced at the Parrish Art Museum in 1998, Kruger placed across the upper range of the museum's Romanesque facade stark red letters that read, \"You belong here\"; below, on columns separating three arched entry portals, stacked letters spelled \"Money\" and \"Taste.\" As part of the Venice Biennale in 2005, Kruger installed a digitally printed vinyl mural across the entire facade of the Italian pavilion, thereby dividing it into three parts—green at the left, red at the right, white in between. In English and Italian, the words \"money\" and \"power\" climbed the portico's columns; the left wall said, \"Pretend things are going as planned,\" while \"God is on my side; he told me so\" fills the right. In 2012, her installation \"Belief+Doubt\", which covers 6,700 square feet (620 m²) of surface area and was printed onto wallpaper-like sheets in the artist's signature colors of red, black and white, was installed at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, Kruger has created large-scale immersive video and audio installations. Enveloping the viewer with the seductions of direct address, the work continues her questioning of power, control, affection and contempt: still images now move and speak and spatialize their commentary. In 1997, Kruger produced a series of fiberglass sculptures of compromised celebrities, including John F. and Robert Kennedy hoisting Marilyn Monroe on their shoulders. For a concurrent show that same year in New York, she had city buses wrapped with quotations from figures such as Malcolm X, Courtney Love, and H.L. Mencken. For her first retrospective, at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, she created 15 billboards and countless wild postings, executed and installed in both English and Spanish. For a public awareness campaign to promote arts instruction in the Los Angeles Unified School District, Kruger covered a bus with phrases like \"Give your brain as much attention as you do your hair and you'll be a thousand times better off\"; \"from here to there\"; \"Don't be a jerk\"; and \"You want it. You buy it. You forget it.\" In 2016, Kruger created a work protesting the election of Donald Trump for the cover of New York Magazine and participated in a January 20, 2017 inauguration boycott.\n\nKruger has taught at the Independent Study Program at the Whitney Museum; California Institute of the Arts, Valencia; University of California, Berkeley; Chicago; and UCSD for five years before joining the faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles. In 1995–96, she was artist in residence at the Wexner Center for the Arts, where she created Public Service Announcements addressing issues of domestic violence. In 2000, she was the Wiegand Foundation Artist in Residence at Scripps College, Claremont. She has written about television, film and culture for \"Artforum\", \"Esquire\", \"The New York Times\", and \"The Village Voice\".\n\nKruger was involved with a group of artists from her graduating classes from CalArts in the 1970s, including Ross Bleckner and David Salle, listing them as her \"first peer group.\" She considered Diane Arbus to be her \"first female role model ... [that] didn't wash the floor six times a day.\" She also was connected with Julian Schnabel, Marilyn Lerner, Sherrie Levine, Cindy Sherman, Jim Welling, Nancy Dwyer, Louise Lawler, Sarah Charlesworth, Laurie Simmons, Carol Squiers, Judith Barry, Jenny Holzer, Richard Prince, Becky Johnston, and Lynne Tillman. She was also involved in a group called Artists Meeting for Cultural Change.\n\nIn 1979, Barbara Kruger exhibited her first works combining appropriated photographs and fragments of superimposed text at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, in Long Island City, Queens. Her first institutional show was staged in London, when Iwona Blazwick decided to exhibit her work at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in 1983. In 1999, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles mounted the first retrospective exhibition to provide a comprehensive overview of Kruger's career since 1978, which travelled to the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York in 2000. Kruger has since been the subject of many one-person exhibitions, including shows organized by the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London (1983); the Musée d'art contemporain de Montréal (1985); Serpentine Gallery in London (1994); Palazzo delle Papesse Centro Arte Contemporanea in Siena (2002); Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego (2005); and Moderna Museet in Stockholm (2008). In 2009, Kruger was included in the seminal show \"The Pictures Generation, 1974–1984\" at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Kruger has also participated in the Whitney Biennial (1983, 1985, and 1987) and Documenta 7 and 8 (1982 and 1987). She represented the United States at the Venice Biennale in 1982 and again participated in 2005, when she received the Leone d'Oro for lifetime achievement.\n\nIn 2007, Kruger was one of the many artists to be a part of South Korea's Incheon Women Artists' Biennale in Seoul. This marked South Korea's first women's biennial. That same year, she designed \"Consider This ...\", an exhibition at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. In September 2009, Kruger's \"Between Being Born and Dying\", a major installation commissioned by the Lever House Art Collection, opened at the New York City architectural landmark Lever House. In 2012, as a member of the board of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (MOCA), Kruger volunteered to be the lead funder of the museum's scholarly exhibit \"Ends of the Earth: Land Art to 1974\" and to create a new work on vinyl to sell with proceeds going entirely toward the show's $1 million budget. An exhibition of new and recent work from Barbara Kruger was hosted by Modern Art Oxford in 2014.\n\nKruger's words and pictures have been displayed in both galleries and public spaces, as well as framed and unframed photographs, posters, postcards, T-shirts, electronic signboards, façade banners, and billboards.\n\nThe Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles awarded Kruger the MOCA Award to Distinguished Women in the Arts in 2001. In 2005, she was included in The Experience of Art at the Venice Biennale and was the recipient of the Leone d'Oro for lifetime achievement. At the 10th anniversary Gala in the Garden at the Hammer Museum in 2012, Kruger was honored by TV presenter Rachel Maddow. In 2012, Kruger joined John Baldessari and Catherine Opie in leaving the Museum of Contemporary Art's board in protest, but later returned in support of the museum's new director, Philippe Vergne, in 2014.\n\nKruger's first dealer was Gagosian Gallery, with which she did two shows in Los Angeles in the early 1980s. In 1986, she was the first woman to join the prominent contemporary art gallery of Mary Boone and has had nine solo shows there since. Kruger is also represented by Rhona Hoffman Gallery, Chicago; and Sprüth Magers Berlin London and L&M Arts in Los Angeles. In late 2011, her 1985 photo of a ventriloquist's dummy, \"Untitled (When I Hear the Word Culture I Take Out My Checkbook),\" was sold at Christie's for a record $902,500.\n\nSupreme, a skateboard and apparel brand established in 1994, have been accused of taking their logo, the white word \"Supreme\" on a red box, from Kruger's signature style. James Jebbia, founder of Supreme, has admitted that the logo was taken from Barbara Kruger's work. Barbara herself had not commented on this issue until a recent lawsuit between Supreme and Leah McSweeney, founder of Married to the Mob (MTTM), a women's street clothing brand. MTTM used the Supreme logo to make a \"Supreme Bitch\" logo that was printed on T-shirts and hats. In response, Kruger said, \"What a ridiculous clusterfuck of totally uncool jokers. I make my work about this kind of sadly foolish farce. I'm waiting for all of them to sue me for copyright infringement.\" Eventually the lawsuits were dropped on agreement that McSweeney could continue to use the words \"Supreme Bitch\" if it was \"not in the way Barbara Kruger does.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18619209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18619209", "title": "Bloody Mary (folklore)", "text": "Bloody Mary (folklore)\n\nBloody Mary is a folklore legend consisting of a ghost, phantom, or spirit conjured to reveal the future. She is said to appear when her name is chanted repeatedly in a mirror. The Bloody Mary apparition may be benign or malevolent, depending on historic variations of the legend. Bloody Mary appearances are mostly \"witnessed\" in group participation play.\n\nHistorically, the ritual encouraged young women to walk up a flight of stairs backward holding a candle and a hand mirror, in a darkened house. As they gazed into the mirror, they were supposed to be able to catch a view of their future husband's face. There was, however, a chance that they would see a skull (or the face of the Grim Reaper) instead, indicating that they were going to die before they would have the chance to marry.\n\nIn the ritual of today, Bloody Mary allegedly appears to individuals or groups who ritualistically invoke her name in an act of catoptromancy. This is done by repeatedly chanting her name into a mirror placed in a dimly-lit or candle-lit room. In some traditions the name must be repeated thirteen times (or some other specified number of times). The Bloody Mary apparition allegedly appears as a corpse, witch or ghost, can be friendly or evil, and is sometimes \"seen\" covered in blood. The lore surrounding the ritual states that participants may endure the apparition screaming at them, cursing them, strangling them, stealing their soul, drinking their blood, or scratching their eyes out. Some variations of the ritual call Bloody Mary by a different name—\"Hell Mary\" and \"Mary Worth\" are popular examples. The modern legend of Hanako-san in Japan strongly parallels the Bloody Mary mythology.\n\nThe modern addition of taunting Bloody Mary regarding her baby indicates the legendary figure's conflation with the historic figure Queen Mary I, also known as \"Bloody Mary\", whose life was marked by a number of miscarriages or false pregnancies and is remembered for her violent religious reforms.\n\nStaring into a mirror in a dimly-lit room for a prolonged period can cause one to hallucinate. Facial features may appear to \"melt\", distort, disappear, and rotate, while other hallucinatory elements, such as animal or strange faces, may appear. Giovanni Caputo of the University of Urbino, writes that this phenomenon, which he calls the \"strange-face illusion\", is believed to be a consequence of a \"dissociative identity effect\", which causes the brain's facial-recognition system to misfire in a currently unidentified way. Other possible explanations for the phenomenon include illusions attributed, at least partially, to the perceptual effects of \"Troxler's fading\", and possibly self-hypnosis.\n\nThe legend of Bloody Mary has served as inspiration for a number of movies, television shows, and video games dealing with the supernatural.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32997464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32997464", "title": "Bongsan Art Fair", "text": "Bongsan Art Fair\n\nBongsan Art Fair is a festival in Daegu, South Korea.\nThe festival, which is held in mid-October, is also the county's only art festival. The Bongsan Art Festival is held simultaneously at 16 art galleries within Bongsan Culture Street and offers a wide range of genres(Oriental paintings, Western paintings, sculpture, crafts, calligraphy works, and installations) for more than 30 artists.\n\nThe festival also offers a wide range of attractions, including a celebration performance, a lecture meeting, and a contact event with a writer. \n\n"}
{"id": "2370625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2370625", "title": "Bristol board", "text": "Bristol board\n\nBristol board (also referred to as Bristol paper or Super white paper) is an uncoated, machine-finished paperboard. It is named after the city of Bristol in the southwest of England as that is where it was first produced. Common sizes include and its bulk thickness is or higher and A4, A3, A2 and A1. Bristol board may be rated by the number of plies it contains or, in Europe, by its grammage of 220 to 250 g/m. It is normally white, but is also made in different colours.\n\nBristol paper is used for printing documents, brochures, promotional materials and envelopes. It is often used for water color painting. It is also used for paperback book or catalog covers, file folders, tags, and tickets. Another use is for scale models; some students use this kind of paper for the walls in their scale models. One-ply Bristol is thin enough to be translucent, and two and three ply bristol are the most popular thicknesses. \n\nBristol board is commonly used for technical drawing, illustration projects, comic book art, and other two-dimensional art forms. It provides two working surfaces, front and back. This quality separates it from illustration board, which has only a front working surface. \n\nThe surface texture is either plate or vellum. \"Plate\" finish is as smooth as glass, and is very good for pen and ink. \"Vellum\" (or \"kid\") finish is a medium texture more appropriate to friction-based media, such as crayon, chalks, or charcoal. A third finish, \"engravers\" or \"wedding\", may be used for formal engraved wedding invitations.\n"}
{"id": "37239367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37239367", "title": "Broad Avenue", "text": "Broad Avenue\n\nBroad Avenue is a street and arts district in Memphis, Tennessee, known for its transformation from a collection of vacant storefronts to a vibrant arts district in less than a decade.\n\nBroad Avenue was originally the main street of Binghampton, a small railroad town chartered in 1895. In 1919, the city was annexed by Memphis, and Broad Avenue gradually fell into disrepair. In the mid-2000s, various efforts were organized to bring the street back into use. From 2007 to 2012, the street became a vibrant arts district as local businesses began to occupy the then-vacant storefronts. For example, in 2010 a two-day \"demonstration\" was arranged in which the still vacant storefronts along Broad were temporarily filled with local vendors and stores in order to show what the street had the potential to become.\n\nIn May 2011, French artist Guillaume Alby painted a large 1,800-square-foot geometrically styled mural on the 2500 block of Broad Avenue. A series of other art projects followed. These included another mural on a warehouse wall facing the street and the lighting-up of the iconic watertower which identifies Broad Avenue, among many others.\n\nIt is also home to a bi-annual art walk, in which local artists display their wares along the street. The event is accompanied by free music and food from local restaurants and bakeries.\n\nBroad Avenue is currently the home of the Memphis Greenline (cycling path) headquarters, and was used as an early demonstration of proposed bike lanes for the city of Memphis. The demonstration, which proved to be a success (resulting in the permanent addition of bike lanes) was arranged by Livable Memphis. In June 2011, it was proposed as a connector for cyclists between Overton Park and Shelby Farms Park, two key locations in Memphis.\n\n"}
{"id": "3708604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3708604", "title": "Cheriyal scroll painting", "text": "Cheriyal scroll painting\n\nCheriyal Scroll Painting is a stylized version of Nakashi art, rich in the local motifs peculiar to the Telangana. They are at present made only in Hyderabad, Telangana, India. The scrolls are painted in a narrative format, much like a film roll or a comic strip, depicting stories from Indian mythology, and intimately tied to the shorter stories from the Puranas and Epics. Earlier, these paintings were prevalent across Andhra, as also various other parts of the country, albeit flavoured with their distinct styles and other local peculiarities dictated by the local customs and traditions. In the same way, Cheriyal scrolls must have been popular across Telangana in earlier times, though with the advent of television, cinemas and computers it has been fenced into its last outpost, the Cheriyal town.\n\nScroll paintings have a rich history and play an important role in the Asian artistic tradition. In China, scroll paintings were part of the sophisticated traditions of the nobility and the courts. In India however, the scroll painting was the prerogative of the itinerant bard and the village artist, in essence a folk tradition of the villages.\n\nIn India, each region and village developed its own scroll painting traditions, marked by characteristic content, form and technique depending on the local ethos, patronage and socio-economic conditions. Rajasthan is known for its \"Pabuji ki Pad\", \"Devenarayana katha\" as also stories from the legend of \"Dhola and Maru\". Goa evolved the \"Dasavathara\", as Maharashtra did \"Pinguli\" and the \"Chitra Katha\" traditions. Maharashtra and Gujarat are also known for a sophisticated scroll painting tradition called the \"Prasasti Patra\". Orissa and Bengal are famous for their \"Patachitra\" traditions.\n\nWhile the above-mentioned traditions could have significantly influenced the Cheriyal scroll paintings and artists, the Cheriyal paintings were and continue to be a distinctly local invention, peculiar to the Telangana region, drawing mainly on local traditions. It can safely be said that the local temple art traditions and the Kalamkari tradition across Telangana in particular, and the graphic art traditions of the Deccan and South India in general were the major influences that shaped and guided the art of scroll paintings. However, it should also be remembered that the sphere of activity, subject and artistic idiom of every scroll painting including that of Cheriyal is peculiar and confined to the village or habitment.\n\nTo quote from A. L. Dallaiccola's South Indian Paintings- A catalogue of the British Museum collection - \"Although in the past the majority of Indian people might have been illiterate, they were not uneducated. They were taught the principles ruling their religious and social life through the recitation of stories drawn from the epics, the puranas and other religious texts... In the past, the retelling of these stories provided the education of the unlettered, and the discourses were accompanied by visual aids: scrolls, painted cloth hangings, sets of paintings, and wooden boxes with folding, concertina-like doors painted with scenes from the 'career' of a deity, such as the portable shrine from Tirupati that is now in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford... The earliest known reference to the picture showmen is found in Patanjali's \"Mahabhashya\" (2nd century BC). Commenting on the passage on the historic present in Panini's grammar, the \"Ashtadhyayi\" (c. 5th century BC), Patanjali takes as an example some picture showmen who are discussing the killing of Kamsa at the hands of Krishna... There is also a specific mention of a picture showing Kamsa being dragged by the hair and beaten by Krishna. Numerous references to picture showmen and painted scrolls occur in literary sources. The scrolls showing the torments of hell, \"yamapattaka\", seem to have been particularly popular.\"\n\nThe Mandhets were the itinerant bards and performers of Andhra Pradesh while the Nakashis were the artists. The Nakashis of Telangana also made dolls, much like the Kinnal dolls of Karnataka, in addition to the painted scrolls. These scrolls were a very important part of the sociological and cultural setting of Telangana. As these paintings are now confined to Cheriyal village, they are called Cheriyal scrolls. In earlier times, the scrolls were a colourful backdrop to the equally interesting oral traditions of the common people, - the village hajjam-barber, toddy tapper, dhobhi-washerman, chamar-leatherworker, fisherman, weaver and farmer: (\"Madiga, Goud, Mudiraju, Malas, Padmashali, Chakala and Mangali\") the seven working and marginalised castes and communities of the village. The scrolls set out the adventures and exploits of local folk heroes who performed on the fringes of the epics, Puranas, etc. of the Hindu 'Greater Tradition'. Each community had its peculiarities and its favourite heroes and heroines as also selection of stories from local Mythologies. It was also customary to sacrifice a goat after the recitation of the story from the scroll in some communities.\n\nAt present, Cheriyal painting work is continuing by\nthe families of D. Vaikuntam, D.Nageshar, D.Venkataramana,\nD.Pavan Kumar.\nDhanalokota Vaikuntam started learning work\nfrom his father Venkataramiah and elder brother Chandraiah at\nthe age of 12. He studied intermediate and at present he is\nliving at Hyderabad. He got married with vanaja at the age of\n20. After the marriage with Vaikuntam, vanaja also started\ndoing Cherial painting. He trained to his children Sarika,\nRakesh and Vinay Kumar. He received many awards and\ncertificates for his excellency in Cherial painting.\n\nToday the long stories from the local mythologies have been cut short, as the traditional patrons for the long scrolls no longer exist. The artists have been forced to adapt and nowadays they paint smaller versions of the scrolls, depicting a single episode or character from the traditional stories. These are amenable to framing and can be hung on walls in modern homes. Further, the colours are no longer prepared in the traditional manner. While earlier, they used natural white extracted from sea shells, black from lampsoot and yellow from turmeric. However, the traditional art continues to linger and survive and even has been a source of inspiration to contemporary artists like Laxman Aelay of Kadirengudam village of Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe traditional art form became an inseparable part of the profession of the story-telling, balladeer community known as \"Kaki Padagollu\". They displayed the scrolls and accompanied by music and dance went from village to village narrating and singing their ballads based from their rich folklore which was rooted in the Puranas and Indian Epics, enlivening many a lazy village evening.\n\nIn a typical recitation, the storyteller-balladeer would wander from village to village in a team of usually five people, with two to narrate the story while the others would provide a simple but hectic musical accompaniment with the harmonium, tabala and castanets. The stage would also be a simple affair (many times even to the extent of being a rough and ready fixture), erected on four poles with a horizontal bar on which the scrolls could be displayed.\n\nThe scroll would flow like a film roll. It was generally about \nthree feet in width and went up to 40 – 45 feet in length, depending upon the story. The traditional scrolls are normally in vertical format, illustrating stories in a series of horizontal panels. A floral border in the middle separates the two panels, while the linear narrative is demonstrated by holding in both hands or suspending it from a tree or a building and continually rolling it. Like large sized comic strips, each panel of the scroll depicted one part of the story. Hence, a scroll would easily have around 50 panels. As the bard would narrate the story, the panel depicting that particular part of the story would be displayed. The choice of episodes and iconography of each deity was painted, keeping in mind the caste for which the scroll was made.\n\nBy virtue of its distinct traditional style and characteristics Cheriyal Paintings were recently given a Geographical Indications (GI) tag. There are very few artists remaining who continue to paint using this unique technique. A recent innovation has been the painting of single pictures (as opposed to a continuous scroll) meant for wall decorations.\n\nThe making of the canvas is a very elaborate procedure. The Khadi cotton is treated with a mixture of starch (from rice), suddha matti (white mud), a paste of boiled tamarind seeds and gum water thrice. It has to be ensured that every coating is thoroughly dried before the next one is applied.\nOnce the canvas is ready, the artists sketch the outline directly onto the canvas using a brush. The outlines are very well defined and sharply reflecting the quality and experience of the craftsman.\nThe colors are made by the artists from natural sources. Brushes are made with hair of squirrels tied to a stick.\nDolls and masks are made of wood, saw dust and tamarind paste. Masks are made even with coconut shells.\n\nCheriyal Paintings can be easily recognised by the following peculiarities and unique characteristics:\n\n• Painted in vivid hues, mostly primary colors, with a predominance of red in the background, the paintings are characterised by the unbridled imagination of the local artisans who were not constrained by the academic rigour that characterised the more classical Tanjore painting and Mysore painting. For example, the artist hardly bothers about perspective in Cheriyal paintings and sets out the narrative by placing the relevant figures in appropriate order and position in the relevant background. The iconography of even the major deities like Shiva, Vishnu, etc. has a strong local idiom.\n\n•The subjects of these scroll paintings are easy to relate to – as the themes and stories are familiar – drawn from ancient literary, mythological and folk traditions. The common themes are from the Krishna Leela, Ramayana, Mahabharata, Shiva Puranam, Markandeya Puranam interspersed with the ballads and folk-stories of communities like Gauda, Madiga and so on.\n\n• The main narrative is spiced up with scenes from simple rural life - Women doing chores in the kitchen, men working in the paddy fields or boozing away in merry abandon, festival scenes, etc. are endearingly depicted.\n\n• The costumes and settings in which the figures are depicted are typical and reflect the culture of Andhra, where these paintings originated.\n\n• Within the narrow panels, proportion is created by depicting trees, or a building, a pillar with drawn curtains, etc. However more often than not, the proportion of individual characters is determined by their relative importance in that particular scene, with the most important character being the largest and most detailed and the lesser characters being smaller and less detailed.\n\nCheriyal scroll painting received Intellectual Property Rights Protection or Geographical Indication (GI) status in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26246590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26246590", "title": "Color symbolism", "text": "Color symbolism\n\nColor symbolism in art and anthropology refers to the use of color as a symbol in various cultures. There is great diversity in the use of colors and their associations between cultures and even within the same culture in different time periods. The same color may have very different associations within the same culture at any time. Diversity in color symbolism occurs because color meanings and symbolism occur on an individual, cultural and universal basis. Color symbolism is also context-dependent and influenced by changes over time. Symbolic representations of religious concepts or articles may include a specific color with which the concept or object is associated. There is evidence to suggest that colors have been used for this purpose as early as 90,000 BC.\n\nRed is often associated with love, passion, and lust. It is frequently used in relation to Valentine's Day. It can also be used to signify danger or warning. For instance, it is used for stop signs and fire engines. In China, red is often used to symbolize good luck or happiness, and is used for many holidays or weddings.\n\nBlue is the color of the ocean and the sky; it often symbolizes serenity, stability, or inspiration. It can be a calming color, and symbolize reliability. In the Catholic Church, the Virgin Mary is most often depicted wearing blue, to symbolize her divinity. Blue is widely used for baby boys' clothes or bedrooms, although the reason blue is so strongly associated with boys is debated.\n\nYellow is a color often associated with sunshine or joy. It is sometimes used in association with cowardice or fear, i.e, the phrase \"yellow-bellied\". Children tend to like this color, and it is used to market products to children; it is also used for school buses and taxi cabs since it is such a bright, noticeable color.\n\nGreen is most often used to represent nature, healing, or fertility, since it's such a dominant color in nature. It can be a very relaxing color but is also used in the US to symbolize money, greed, or jealousy. Saying that someone is \"green\" means they're inexperienced or new.\n\nBlack, in Western culture, is considered a negative color and usually symbolizes death, grief, or evil. People often wear black for mourning, although this practice isn't as wide-spread as it was in the past.\n\nWhite most often symbolizes perfection, faith, innocence, softness, and cleanliness. Brides often wear white dresses to symbolize virginity or purity.\n\nPink is associated with softness, femininity, sweetness, and love. However, it was formerly used as a masculine color, frequently used for baby boys; it wasn't until the early 20th century that the gender roles of pink and blue were reversed.\n\nColor plays an important role in setting expectations for a product and communicating its key characteristics. Color is the second most important element that allows consumers to identify brand packaging.\n\nMarketers for products with an international market navigate the color symbolism variances between cultures with targeted advertising. The car manufacturer, Volkswagen ran a commercial in Italy with a black sheep in the middle of a larger flock symbolizing those who owned a VW Golf as someone unique and self-assured among a crowd of others who were not. In several cultures around the world, a black sheep represents an outcast and is seen as something undesirable. In Italy, a black sheep represents confidence and independence. There are many additional variances in color symbolism between cultures. Cold is symbolized by blue in East Asia, the USA, and Sweden while warmth is symbolized by yellow in the USA and by blue in The Netherlands. Sometimes the meanings of colors are in stark opposition across geographic boundaries, requiring products marketed to specific demographics to account for those changes across different markets. For instance, feminity is symbolized by blue in The Netherlands and pink in the USA., whereas masculinity is symbolized by blue in Sweden and the USA, and red in the UK and France. In some instances color symbolism in marketing is constructed. For companies whose products are defined by the name of their color their sales are susceptible to the symbolism and association of that name. In one example, a company selling a paint color named “off white” more than doubled its sales by renaming the same color as “ancient silk.”\n\nColor symbolism has morphed over time. Between the 5th and 17th centuries color was largely related to in a religious context. Blue was symbolic of heaven and white of purity. Today, purity is still symbolized by white in Australia and the USA but by blue in other countries like India. Similarly, the church influenced the perception of colors like crimson and purple. Largely because the dyes for these colors could only be sourced from precious pigments, religious figures like Madonna, Cardinals, and the Virgin were seen in scarlet and purple. Today, purple symbolizes evil and infidelity in Japan, but the same is symbolized by blue in East Asia and by yellow in France. Additionally, the sacred color of Hindu and Buddhist monks is orange. The Renaissance was also a time in which black and purple were colors of mourning. Today, Mourning or death is symbolized by white in East Asia, black in the USA, and blue in Iran, while happiness is symbolized by white in Australia and NZ, and yellow in China.\n\nThere is a general disagreement over whether reactions to color and their symbolism are a result of cultural conditioning or of instinct. Several studies concluded that color is part of the social learning process because of the significant symbolism within the culture. High quality, trustworthiness and dependability are symbolized by blue in the USA, Japan, Korea and green and yellow in China - as well as purple in China, South Korea and Japan. Because of these variances, critical cues vary across cultures. Warning signs are coded differently as danger is symbolized by green in Malaysia, and red in the USA and Mexico. The same color of green symbolizes envy in Belgium and the USA, but envy is symbolized by yellow in Germany and Russia, and purple in Mexico. Even the colors that denote powerful emotions vary. Love is symbolized by green in Japan, red and purple in China, Korea, Japan and the USA. Unluckiness is symbolized by red in Chad, Nigeria and Germany. Luckiness is symbolized by red in China, Denmark and Argentina. The traditional bridal color is red in China and white in the USA. Ambition and desire are symbolized by red in India.\n\nColor has different meanings in different countries.  We can specifically look at the Arabic culture and take it into consideration. We can start with the color white. In the Arabic culture, white is thought of as the color that is symbolic for nature.  Since it related with nature, it has a meaning that is one of positivity. It also relates with that of being clean and pure.  White is a color that is commonly worn during prayers and with that, it symbolizes purity. White’s positive connotation carries out into other aspects.  It is also used as a symbol for positivity in the future. White is also used to symbolize the end of war. You will also see women adorn white at their weddings as a sign of positivity.  Since doves are white, they share the symbolic meaning that comes with the color.  This in turn causes them to be associated with positivity of good news. \n\nWhen you look at the color Black in Arabic culture you can find that it is related to funerals and death. Women will often wear black to funerals in order to show that they are sad for those who have passed.  Also relating to death, black is associated with hell. Black is also used to symbolize dark.  Hell is thought to be a dark black place associating black as negative.  Black in general is looked at as having negative connotations around it. For example, the symbolism of a black heart refers to someone who is unkind.  \n\nGreen is a color that is commonly found in Islam.  It is a color found in nature and with this, it is associated with and represents goodness. Green is a color that has an overall positive meaning.   The color green also has to do with truthfulness, again going with positivity.  If you look at phrases, the symbolic meanings are generally positive.  If you look at the phrase green hand, it relates to being generous which is a positive thing. \n\nRed has an overall positive association with it. Often you will find that red is a color associated with roses and blood.  The color red has to do with love and passion.  In sayings you can find it to have either a negative or positive meaning such as the term red eye relates with anger.  The Arabic culture also associates this color with death.\n\nBlue is related with positivity when discussing it with nature, otherwise it can be related with negative connotations. When used in the phrase blue eyes, it refers to jealousy. A blue body relates with death and therefore is associated with negativity.\n\nYellow is another color that is also associated with nature and the sun.  Again, since it is a color related with nature, it takes on the symbolic meaning of positivity.  Gold is also categorized under here and is also takes on a positive meaning.  Generally, when used in phrases, the color yellow has to do with negativity.  For example, a yellow smile means to be mean. \n\nColor symbolism is displayed in many ways. One of the most common ways we see color symbolism displayed in through our emotions. In this article Color-emotions associations: Past experience and personal preference it takes a look at how we connect colors with our emotions and how it depends on a person’s preference and or their past experiences. \n\n"}
{"id": "16480472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16480472", "title": "Cumulative tale", "text": "Cumulative tale\n\nIn a cumulative tale, sometimes also called a chain tale, action or dialogue repeats and builds up in some way as the tale progresses. With only the sparest of plots, these tales often depend upon repetition and rhythm for their effect, and can require a skilled storyteller to negotiate their tongue-twisting repetitions in performance. The climax is sometimes abrupt and sobering as in \"The Gingerbread Man.\" The device often takes the form of a cumulative song or nursery rhyme. Many cumulative tales feature a series of animals or forces of nature each more powerful than the last.\n\nCumulative tales have a long pedigree. In an early Jewish Midrash, considered to date from the sixth century AD, Abraham is brought before King Nimrod, who commands him to worship fire. Abraham replies that it would be more reasonable to worship water, which can quench fire and is therefore more powerful. When this premise is granted, he points out that the clouds, as sustainers of water, are more worthy of worship, and then that the wind that disperses them is more powerful still. Finally he confronts Nimrod with the observation that \"man can stand up against the wind or shield himself behind the walls of his house\" (Genesis Rabba xxxviii).\n\nThere is a similar tale, The Mouse Turned into a Maid, in the Panchatantra, in which the mouse-maid is successively introduced to the sun, the cloud, the wind and the mountain. She prefers each in turn as stronger than the last, but finally a mouse is found to be stronger than even the mountain, and so she marries the mouse. Stories of this type, such as the Japanese The Husband of the Rat's Daughter, are widely diffused.\n\nIn the Aarne-Thompson classification system, types 2000-2100 are all cumulative tales, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50072300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50072300", "title": "Dancing England", "text": "Dancing England\n\nDancing England was a series of showcase traditional dance concerts held at the Derby Assembly Rooms from 1979 to 1987. They were devised and curated by Phil Heaton and John Shaw, members of the Black Cap Sword Dancers, and two very notable characters on the Nottingham and Derby folk and dance scene of the 1970s. Dancing England was set up to showcase the best of traditional dance in the UK, along with unique and/or interesting folk customs to celebrate the UK's wide cultural heritage.\n\nIn 1979 Phil and John of Black Cap decided to hold a 'Feast' and invite the best dancers from across the UK as their guests, and so the idea of Dancing England was born.\n\nThe event was held in the evening and consisted of a series of performances by dance teams across all the styles of UK traditional dance; Cotswold Morris, Rapper sword, Longsword, North West, step clog dancing, Border, Molly, and much more. There were also performances by mummers and Pace Eggers, musicians and from some of the more idiosyncratic traditional teams; notably The Britannia Coconut Dancers, Abbotts Bromley Horn Dancers and the Whittlesey Straw Bear. There were stalls selling music, ephemera and crafts, films, workshops and talks. The event was refreshed with plenty of real ale, and finished with a ceilidh late at night.\n\n\nAfter Dancing England came to an end in 1987, there was a brief reprise in 1993 at the same venue for the Daughter of Dancing England event. This only ran for one year, and both Dancing England and Daughter of same were sadly missed.\n\nDancing England featured a rapper sword competition in the afternoon prior to the evening concert, in homage to the Newcastle Tournament of Music and Art which was held in the city from just after the Great War until the 1950s. Following the sad demise of Dancing England in 1987, the competition continued under the name of DERT and now travels around the country being hosted by a different rapper sword team every year.\n\n2019 - Nottingham Playhouse; Saturday 26th January 2019\n\n2017 - Sheffield City Hall; Saturday 18 February 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "635612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635612", "title": "Dumbo, Brooklyn", "text": "Dumbo, Brooklyn\n\nDumbo (or DUMBO, short for Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass) is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. The area known as DUMBO used to be known as Gairville. It encompasses two sections: one located between the Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges, which connect Brooklyn to Manhattan across the East River, and another that continues east from the Manhattan Bridge to the Vinegar Hill area. The neighborhood is bounded by Brooklyn Bridge Park to the north, the Brooklyn Bridge to the west, Brooklyn Heights to the south and Vinegar Hill to the east. Dumbo is part of Brooklyn Community Board 2.\n\nThe area was originally a ferry landing, characterized by 19th- and early 20th-century industrial and warehouse buildings, Belgian block streets, and its location on the East River by the imposing anchorage of the Manhattan Bridge. The entirety of Dumbo was bought by developer David Walentas and his company Two Trees Management in the late 20th century, and remade into an upscale residential and commercial community—first becoming a haven for art galleries, and currently a center for technology startups.\n\nThe large community of tech startups earned DUMBO the nickname of \"the center of the Brooklyn Tech Triangle\". In that time, Dumbo had become Brooklyn's most expensive neighborhood, as well as New York City's fourth-richest community overall; this is owing in part to its large concentration of technology startups, its close proximity to Manhattan, and its large number of former industrial buildings that have been converted into spacious luxury residential lofts. The neighborhood is the corporate headquarters for e-commerce retailer Etsy and home furnishing stores company West Elm.\n\nThe name is an acronym of \"Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass\". Several other New York City neighborhoods are known by portmanteaus, including Tribeca, SoHo, NoHo, NoMad, and Nolita in Manhattan, and BoCoCa in Brooklyn.\n\nThe area has been known variously as Rapailie, Olympia, and Walentasville. The \"Olympia\" name came from Comfort and Joshua Sands, who bought the land in 1787 and were planning to develop the land as a summer place for New Yorkers. Through the 18th and 19th centuries, the area now known as Dumbo was considered part of Vinegar Hill.\n\nIn the 1890s, the western portion of the neighborhood was known as Fulton Landing, after the ferry stop that connected it to Manhattan before the Brooklyn Bridge opened. At that time, it was primarily a manufacturing district, with warehouses and factories that made machinery, paper boxes and Brillo soap pads. The area has been known variously as Rapailie, Olympia, and Walentasville. The cardboard box was invented in the Robert Gair building on Washington Street by Robert Gair, a Scottish emigrant; because of Gair's fame, the area was known as Gairsville for a long time. The Gair building is now home to Etsy.>\n\nThe Jay Street Connecting Railroad ran through Dumbo's waterfront from circa 1904–1906 through 1957. It ran from rail yards beneath the Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges to buildings near the waterfront in Dumbo and Vinegar Hill. At the height of operations, it had spurs into several buildings, a car float bridge on Bridge Street, and a yard with capacity of 120 cars. The tracks were abandoned in 1959, though the railroad's tracks are still visible on streets in Dumbo.\n\nWith the deindustrialization of New York City, Dumbo began to become primarily residential; artists and other young homesteaders seeking relatively large and inexpensive loft apartment spaces for studios and homes began moving there in the late 1970s. The acronym \"Dumbo\" arose in 1978, when new residents coined it in the belief such an unattractive name would help deter developers.\n\nNear the end of the 20th century, as property became more and more expensive in Manhattan, Dumbo became increasingly gentrified. Even so, the acronym 'Dumbo' was largely unknown as late as 1997, and the area itself was very inclusive, serving mainly as an enclave for artists located along the East River and under the Manhattan Bridge. At this stage there were still many air conditioner repair shops, auto shops, and \"seedy back alleys and wharves\"; and, because the neighborhood was still gentrifying from its industrial past, it lacked even a bookstore, coffee shop, or laundromat. The efforts of Joy Glidden, the Founding Director of the Dumbo Arts Center (DAC) and co-founder of the Dumbo Art Under the Bridge Festival, achieved successful development in Dumbo, which is now a model for similar waterfront developments around the world. Glidden stated of Dumbo's gentrification, \"It may be one of the last of what could be considered a true arts community in New York.\" \n\nThe DUMBO Historic District, a historic industrial complex and national historic district in Dumbo, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2000. It consists of 95 contributing buildings; the manufacturing concerns located in this district included Benjamin Moore & Co. (paint), Arbuckle Brothers (coffee and sugar), J.W. Masury & Son (paint), Robert Gair (paper boxes), E.W. Bliss (machinery), and Brillo (soap pads). The district includes the earliest large-scale reinforced concrete factory buildings in America. On December 18, 2007, the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission voted unanimously to designate Dumbo as the city's 90th historic district. The Dumbo historic district consists of properties bound by John Street to the north, York Street to the south, Main Street to the west, and Bridge Street to the east.\n\nThe area has emerged as one of New York City's premier arts districts, with a cluster of for-profit art galleries such as the Klompching Gallery, and such not-for-profit institutions as the St. Ann's Warehouse and the A.I.R. Gallery.\n\nChef Jacques Torres opened a chocolate factory in Dumbo in December 2000. Other culinary businesses in the area include Grimaldi's, the Brooklyn Ice Cream Factory, and The River Café, all clustered in Fulton Landing, also home to Bargemusic, a floating venue for classical music.\n\nInvitations for the 2009 presidential inauguration of U.S. President Barack Obama were printed by Dumbo printer Precise Continental.\n\nThe first public space in the neighborhood was Fulton Ferry, followed by Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park. The first six acres of Brooklyn Bridge Park, a joint state/city venture under development, were opened in March 2010.\n\nThe building at 200 Water Street, which the Brillo Manufacturing Co. once occupied, is being renovated as a high-end condo building.\n\nDumbo has New York City's highest concentration of technology firms by neighborhood. Dumbo is home to 25 percent of New York City-based tech firms. Within a 10-block radius are 500 tech and creative firms that employ over 10,000 people. It also contains the corporate headquarters for e-commerce retailer Etsy and home furnishing stores company West Elm.\nThe City of New York, in conjunction with New York University, installed an incubator in Dumbo to support development of tech start-ups. Dumbo's average office rent of $25 per square foot makes it more attractive to start-ups than Manhattan, where rents averaged $40 per square foot in 2013. The area has been compared to the Silicon Roundabout area in Shoreditch, East London, as well as to Manhattan's Silicon Alley.\n\nNew York City Subway stations are located at York Street () on the IND Sixth Avenue Line, and High Street () on the IND Eighth Avenue Line. New York City Bus service is provided by the .\n\nRamps and staircases connect the Brooklyn Bridge and Manhattan Bridge walkways to Dumbo.\n\nIn June 2011, NY Waterway started service to points along the East River. On May 1, 2017, that route became part of the NYC Ferry's East River route, which runs between Pier 11/Wall Street in Manhattan's Financial District and the East 34th Street Ferry Landing in Murray Hill, Manhattan, with five intermediate stops in Brooklyn and Queens. One of the East River Ferry's stops is at Fulton Ferry in Dumbo.\n\nThe neighborhood contains the Farragut Houses, a group of ten towers managed by the New York City Housing Authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "43824631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43824631", "title": "Family folklore", "text": "Family folklore\n\nFamily folklore is the branch of folkloristics concerned with the study and use of folklore and traditional culture transmitted within a family group. This includes items of material culture, crafts produced by family members or memorabilia saved as reminders or remainders of significant family events. It also includes family photos and photo albums in paper and electronic format, along with bundles of other pages held for posterity: certificates, letters, journals, notes and shopping lists. Family stories and sayings, originally recounting actual events, are told and retold until the historical facts give way to a distilled expression of common identity. Family customs are performed, modified, forgotten, created or resurrected with alarming frequency; each time with the goal of defining and solidifying the perception of this family as unique, distinct and different from other families.\n\nFamily folklore has long been included in the documentation of the folklore of regional, ethnic, religious or occupational groups. It is only since the 1970s that this lore has also been investigated as a defining element of the family group itself. Heralded by a call from Mody Boatright to document the \"family saga\" in 1958, folklorists responded with published accounts of stories and traditions passed down in their own families. L. Karen Baldwin’s unpublished dissertation (1975) laid further theoretical groundwork for family folklore \"… not only is the family a folk group, it is the first folk group anyone belongs to.\"\n\nThe field has since blossomed, broadening to include an ever expanding understanding of family. The conventional extended family, consisting of a heterosexual married couple with children and grandparents now incorporates gay partners, unmarried committed relationships and children adopted or born through non-traditional methods and procedures. The family traditions themselves are transformed to meet the needs and expectations of these new members and new relationships. \n\nThe study of family folklore is distinct from family genealogy or family history. Instead of focusing on historical dates, locations and verifiable events, its unique stories, customs and handicrafts identify the family as a distinct social group. At the same time, the family lore passed along has been molded and transformed to relay a sense of family identity and set of values both within and without the family group. The family lore defines the family story. \nFor an individual family, folklore is its creative expression of a common past. As raw experiences are transformed into family stories, expression, and photos, they are codified in forms which can easily be recalled, retold, and enjoyed. Their drama and beauty are heightened, and the family’s past becomes accessible as it is reshaped according to its needs and desires. … Its stories, photographs, and traditions are personalized and often creative distillations of experience, worked and reworked over time. \n\nA new baby is born or a child is adopted into an established family group, which contains a microcosm of social alignments found in many larger groups: the vertical relationship between grandparents and grandchildren, the horizontal relationship between siblings and cousins of a generation or age group, clusters of girls or boys and skill-based family alliances. The child grows up in this family, sees and learns the family lore as it is performed throughout the seasons and the life cycle. Not only is the family the first folk group of the child, it is \"the group in which important primary folkloric socialization takes place and individual aesthetic preference patterns for folkloric exchange are set.\"\n\nThe dynamics of family folklore remain unsettled not only through the addition of newborns and adoptions, but more particularly by the regular incorporation of new adult family members through each marriage or committed relationship. In the formation of each new family node, a unique subset and combination of the customs and traditions of both families is incorporated into a new story, both modifying and enriching the current family lore. \n\nAs part of the ongoing national discussion of \"family\" and what it means, family folklore redefines itself as well. Along with the classic family \"father-mother-child(ren)\", it expands to include single-parent families, blended families, communes, gay and lesbian families. The indicator for family now includes any group which self-identifies as a family based on intimacy, shared space and shared history. Any collection of adults and children in a committed relationship which sees itself as \"us\", unique and separate from other families, will develop and transmit stories and customs which are unique. Non-traditional families frequently strive to re-establish and re-enact traditional family customs and lore. This becomes a demonstration both to themselves and to outsiders that they are indeed a family of \"tradition\".\n\nThe transmission of individual stories and customs within a family depends for the most part upon the personality, character, and lifestyle of individual family members. It is not normally passed along as part of a defined family role. As a family reshapes itself around each birth, death, marriage and other life events, individual members elect to pick up items of family lore to own and perform. This might be learning a skill, telling a story (or story cycle) or baking a traditional pie for the Thanksgiving table. The transmission of individual items can picked up by several different family members, for example when several grown siblings use a family recipe or tradition in their own households. This type of transmission through multiple individuals was first described in an article by Dégh and Vázsonyi as \"multi-conduit transmission\". By choosing to own a piece of the family lore, a family member signifies that this tradition embodies beliefs and values to which he adheres. By successfully transmitting it further within the family, these beliefs and values come to define the family. \n\nThere are multiple spheres within the family and household which are \"traditionally\" defined as in the purview of one gender or the other, making an intersection with gender studies manifest. The transmission of the folklore in these areas will run through either the male or the female lines. An obvious area of gender-related transmission is seen in the kitchen, where food preparation and mealtime customs and forms are generally performed by the women. They are then transmitted from mother to daughter in the course of everyday meal preparation. A variant of this is seen when a man in the family has taken over the preparation of a special meal or special recipe. One common example of this practice is described by Thomas Adler in the article \"Making Pancakes on Sunday: The Male Cook in Family Tradition\". Many families have some variation of this tradition: the BBQ ribs, grilled hamburgers, or deep-fat fried turkey prepared as a single specialty by the non-cook in the family.\n\nA different gender-related variation in folklore transmission is seen in storytelling. The same story will be shaped and told differently by a man and a woman, even though they were both present at the original event. For an event occurring during the apple harvest, a woman’s narration might include details of the apple butter recipe they were cooking up at the time. In contrast, the man's narration gives only enough detail to \"make a point worth telling\". This gender-based variance has been studied by both Baldwin and Margaret Yocum within individual family groups. They found \"… women's telling to be more collaborative, interruptible, and filled with information and genealogy; men's telling, by contrast, is often uninterrupted and more competitive.\"\n\nWithin families, there is also a notable tendency toward traditional deference where one family member becomes the designated performer for a specific custom or tradition, even though it is known to everyone within the family group. So it happens that when the \"last basketmaker\" dies, another member will step up to become \"the last basketmaker\". No one else performs this tradition as long as the designated tradition bearer is available, acknowledging this individual as the (current) keeper of this tradition. Only when this person is no longer available will the tradition be picked up by someone else to carry forward. \"Traditional deference\" can be found in many folk groups, but is particularly evident within the family group.\n\nIf the family lore which is picked up and transmitted represents the chosen familial beliefs and values, then family stories, documents and photographs which do not support and enhance these values become problematic. For the most part news clipping on arrests, photographs of the uncle who deserted the family, stories of a sister who cheated, or dishonorable discharge papers will not be saved. That is not the family story this family wants to preserve. \n\nFamily traditions are also lost or modified in response to difficult events within the family. This is obvious when one of the tradition bearers has died. If no one else steps up to own that tradition, a hole is left in the celebration and this tradition is lost. In a divorce there is also frequently the loss of a parent no longer available to play his or her role in the established traditions. In response to this event, one family decided to change the traditions. The customary tall Christmas tree decorated by the (missing) tall father was traded in for a short tree which the children could decorate. Ornaments were discarded and new ones purchased. The toy train was no longer set up. These became the new traditions for the Christmas celebration, modified to support and tell the new family story. \n\nAnother reason family folklore might be suppressed or lost is when the references are too painful at the present time or to the present generation. When Catherine Noren found photo albums and other old family portraits in her grandmother’s attic, she unwittingly unearthed an entire family history of a prosperous German-Jewish family before the Holocaust. It became her task, one generation removed, to explore and record the family history in a book containing photos, diaries and memories of her family history. It is only because these albums and portraits had not been discarded along with the narrative that Noren came to know her family story.\n\nIt is only since the 1970s that family folklore has been investigated as a defining element of the family group itself. As part of this investigation, the Smithsonian Folklife Festival in Washington, D.C. set up a tent for several years to collect the family lore of visitors to the Festival. The goal was to establish an archive of family folklore as part of the Smithsonian collections. Using the taped interviews collected, representative pieces have been published in the book \"A Celebration of American Family Folklore: Tales and Traditions from the Smithsonian Collection\". Despite its lack of performance data, this collection provides a solid overview of the wide range of family folklore forms. \n\nA family story initially recounts an actual historical event concerning named family members. Seasoned with time and re-telling, the story gets revised and honed to express specific values and character traits valued in the family. Instead of historical accuracies, the narration becomes a medium to re-state and re-enforce shared values of the family group. These stories generally take the form of an anecdote and follow the pattern of many common traditional tales. A favorite family story involves how the parents met, or how they decided on the one true partner among several. In one family, if the story is to be believed, the prospective bride had to untie all the knots in the string to demonstrate her care and diligence. Another family tells how the young couple got stuck at the top of a Ferris wheel when he proposed, and she had to either say yes or jump. Given time and repetition, the anecdotes serve to shape the family story as a whole, populating it with real individuals and historical events made personal. In their transmission, these stories serve to codify the norms of behavior within the family.\n\nThe setting for telling family stories becomes part of the tradition. It can include the family occasions where stories are told, the location and prompt for the storytelling, the family members who initiate the session as well as the designated raconteurs and custodians of the stories. Each of these elements needs to be documented along with the stories themselves as an integral part of the storytelling tradition within this family. In one family following the holiday meal, the men would retire to the study and the women would move into the kitchen. At some point in the cleanup, usually after the best dishes had been washed and put away, the mother would bring out a bottle of schnapps to help complete the work. This became the trigger for family stories and jokes, the laughter from the kitchen frequently bringing the men to join in the storytelling.\n\nAnother type of verbal lore common within family groups is the unique family expression or saying. A saying can be created at any time; it starts as a one-time utterance of a family member to capture a single moment. Through repetition, this then becomes a shorthand reference to both the original and the current situation. In one family, the saying \"… good worker, very strong\" signifies that the speaker wants to come along, and would in fact be a value-add to the planned undertaking. This expression originally referenced a first move of the family, a move that current family members took no part in. Even so, the saying has become code words for all family members, used to communicate encrypted commentary on the present as well as re-enforce and strengthen the family’s shared experience and history.\n\nPapers stacked, bundled or boxed: news clippings, photographs, letters, scrawled notes, journals, receipts. These pages of family artifacts take many forms, and have become a significant part of family archival materials. Frequently jumbled together in cardboard boxes, they commonly pose a problem as to their value-add to the family story. The boxes are passed along until they are either thrown out in a move, destroyed in a fire, or find an owner within the family, someone with the interest and time to house and evaluate them. \n\nThe largest collection of papers is frequently the photographs, either kept in a drawer or labeled and organized into albums. Singly each photo documents only a single moment; taken together they comprise an important visual history of the family. Either way, they serve as triggers for more extensive memories, stories and events in the life of this family. They are brought out at gatherings and used to commemorate lifetime events such as a wedding or funeral. \n\nNoteworthy is the consistency in which American families of all ethnic backgrounds tend to have photographs of the same milestones. Naked babies on carpets or in the wading pool, the first day of school, the birthday cake surrounded by family and guests, generational portraits gathered around the new baby can be found in many family albums. This pictorial repetition by American families of all backgrounds and traditions documents the universality of family photography as an important custom. \n\nAs with storytelling, the occasion for photo-taking becomes a family tradition in and of itself. Year after year, the same pictures are snapped; documenting a family which is growing and changing, adding and subtracting members, detailing a new location. The camera can be as much a part of the celebration as the birthday cake or the menorah. \n\nThe ubiquity of cameras and on-line photos since the rise of cellphone cameras and personal websites is actively changing the tradition of family photos and photo albums. The availability of video recordings and teleconferencing allows for a daily log of family growth and minutiae to be saved and transmitted to family near and far, in real time. Grandparents can get a daily or weekly update on children's growth or milestone events. Family members can video-conference with each other, making geographic distance much less significant in family relations. A new family custom, using the technology of today, is to put together a slideshow or video documenting the story leading up to the current celebration. At this time a folklorist can only speculate on evolving customs of family photography. \n\nSome families have also amassed over decades a collection of letters and other papers written by or about family members. One family, in sorting through boxes of papers, discovered all diplomas for family members from 2nd grade Sunday School up through doctoral degrees. Other family documents include the family Bible, military enlistment or discharge papers and Certificates of Baptism. While certificates authenticate the dates and events in the family history, letters and journals are particularly revealing as to the character and thoughts of individual family members. \n\nSimilar to photographs, letters and journal entries document a single day in the life of a family member. Once these papers have been saved, it falls to members of the following generations to evaluate them. Are they to be preserved as part of the family story or discarded as inconsequential or even damaging to the family? For the most part unfavorable documents are discarded; that is not the family story this family wants to save.\n\nThe introduction of emails, IMs and other electronic messaging means that paper documents of family history are no longer regularly generated. Seldom is electronic communication printed out for the family files. The 19th and 20th centuries, providing access both to widespread literacy and to resources to create and preserve paper documents might mean that these forms of family history and lore are themselves becoming history.\n\nEach family has its own traditions, played out year after year, event after event. These traditions are frequently so engrained that the recognition of them as unique to this family only occurs when compared to other families. This is also an area of family folklore that is most exposed to change or modification. With each additional marriage or committed relationship, a new member from a different family gets added, an individual who does not recognize the family customs as \"traditional\". These new members bring their own traditions which need to be reconciled, perhaps added or even substituted into the current performance. Not only through marriage, but births and deaths also add a fluid dynamic to the family traditions. When the first grandchild is born, everyone moves into a new role, Mom becomes Grandmom, Brother becomes Uncle, and the family Benjamin loses his position to the new baby. These factors lead to a dynamic development of new and renewed family traditions. \n\nOne major and understudied area of family traditions is found in foodways, which includes everything involved in the procurement, preparation, serving and eating of daily meals at home. Most of us go home each evening for dinner, wake up for breakfast and pack up a lunch or snack pack to take with us for the day. All the assumptions about how this occurs, who does what when arise only when the established process (i.e. family custom) hits a snag: we've run out of milk or someone ate the last of the cookies. Maybe Dad is off on a trip and can't make the Sunday morning pancakes. Each of these food customs is understood and accepted by the group as a whole, and followed as a matter of course with little or no discussion. \n\nIt is also customary that family mealtimes differ: breakfast food differs from supper and snacks, weekends frequently vary from the weekday diet. In one busy family a scoop of ice cream on the breakfast cereal turned the meal into an easy, fun supper. There might also be a traditional Sunday Dinner to be prepared and staged weekly with an expanded family group gathered around the table. \n\nHolidays and \"life event\" celebrations, from birthdays to wakes include multiple family customs, either superimposed upon the more broadly defined societal celebrations, or substituting for them. This is seen most obviously in traditions found in the preparation and \"performance\" of a holiday meal. Each family has their own unique traditions, from special dishes prepared only for this dinner, to a single individual who prepares and presents this single dish, to the individual assigned to carve the bird. It is unnecessary to mention examples of this; each North American reader is mentally reviewing the Thanksgiving traditions unique to his own family. This list of special holiday traditions in the family expands easily from the dining table to the family wake-up calls to the distribution of presents under the Christmas tree or Hanukah lights. Each of these, along with countless other details, distinguish this family as a unique social unit. \n\nAnother significant family tradition is that of naming customs. When a new baby is born, incorporating family names into the name for the new baby, or conversely not using family names for the next generation, can become problematic. What rules should be followed? Many ethnic groups have their own naming customs, variations of which might be found within the separate family groups of the parents. There are also differing ethnic customs of who has the authority to pick the name for the baby. When published lists of currently popular names along with expectations of individual family members are added to this mix, it can become a challenge to craft a name which pleases everyone. \n\nAll possessions are considered pieces of material culture - objects with which members of a culture customarily surround themselves. However, only handicrafts produced by family members and memorabilia passed along through generations are of interest in family folklore. \n\nMemorabilia are singular objects which are passed down through the family with the stories and memories about events or individuals attached to them. In one family a doll, given once as a Christmas present, continued to be brought out each year to celebrate Christmas and have her picture taken with the (changing) family. For her hundredth birthday, a birthday cake for the doll was included in the Christmas celebration. Like the doll, almost any object imbued with family stories and memories can become a family heirloom. As such, it holds in the family a value often unrelated to its monetary value. As the stories and memories enveloping the object are slowly lost, the object itself becomes a simple hand-me-down, usually in poor condition and ready to be discarded.\n\nHandicrafts are objects which have been \"homemade\", crafted individually using simple tools by one or more family members. The production skills for these artisanal crafts are generally transmitted within the family; the items might include weaving, welding, pottery, woodworking, quilting, basketry, cooking. They can be used functionally or as decoration in the home. Over time these handicrafts becomes a skill nurtured within the family, as well as a point of family identification for outsiders. The family cultivates both the production knowledge and the objects themselves. \n\nOne aspect of these objects, both family memorabilia and handicrafts, is that they are for the most part one-of-a-kind. Many family members can tell the story of the Christmas doll, or have the family photographs, but only one family branch can actually possess the doll. For handicrafts, a craftsman could decide to create a quilt or a rocking chair for each child in a family. But this just postpones the decision of ownership of the item to the following generation. \n\nEach of these material objects carries along with its stories or memories the ability for family members to experience simultaneity in the home. \"…by gathering around ourselves treasured objects from different times of our lives and our histories, we experience different eras at the same moment and in some way bring the totality of the past to bear upon the present.\" The family history and identity is preserved and transmitted, both for the family member who walks past the bowl sitting on the counter, and the outsider who asks about the origin of the unique item. \"The artifacts that family members make, use, or display can be an unseen backdrop to the duties and demands of family life. Alternatively, they might be carefully crafted statements about the values and expectations of family tradition bearers.\" The candy bowl on the coffee table or the silver tea service set out in the dining room speak of an elegance of hospitality which is customary in this family. \n\n1967 marked the first Smithsonian Folklife Festival, set up on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. to exhibit and demonstrate crafts and customs of diverse ethnic, regional and occupational groups. Originally including only displays from the United States, it later expanded to include traditions and customs from around the world. Each exhibit at the festival endeavors to move beyond the items of tangible culture, the arts and objects we can touch, feel and put in a glass case. Each unique performance or display at the Folklife Festival articulates the goal of the Smithsonian Institution to spread its reach beyond material objects to artifacts of intangible cultural heritage. Festival exhibits such as \"The Changing Soundscape in Indian Country\" (1992), \"American Social Dance\" (1993), \"Mississippi Delta\" (1997), \"Asian Pacific Americans: Local Lives, Global Ties\" (2010) are just a few of the exhibits included since the Festival began. Any of these cultural intangibles, including traditions of performance, ritual, music, dance, traditional knowledge, storytelling or oral transmission, is considered for inclusion at the festival. Its intention is to \"legitimize and celebrate individual Americans and their traditions\". Open to the public at no cost, the festival is devised to enable each visitor to find at least one exhibit which relates to his background, narrates a segment of his story.\nIn 1974 a new tent was added to the Festival. Instead of displaying or performing recognized traditions, its goal was to collect items of family folklore from visitors. This tent was unique at the festival in asking visitors to be active contributors to the folklife on display instead of merely receptive spectators. A sign at the tent was hopeful: \"Family Folklore – Will You Share Yours With Us?\" Card tables with checkered table clothes were set up, tape recorders and folklore interviewers on hand to prompt, listen and record family lore which visitors might share. Not only should each visitor see himself somewhere in the exhibits, but he should also recognize and record parts of his own story as a unique and valued artifact of cultural heritage. \n\nDuring the four years that the tent was included at the festival, it gradually cluttered with objects, memorabilia and photos just like any family home. Taking the taped interviews as a baseline, the stories and customs collected in the tent were used to establish an archive of family folklore as part of the Smithsonian collections. Representative pieces were then published in the book \"A Celebration of American Family Folklore: Tales and Traditions from the Smithsonian Collection\". This collection continues to be supported by the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage and the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. \n\nSince this first Smithsonian Folklife Festival, many regional festivals have been established in all parts of the country. These include the Northwest Folklife Festival, the New England Folk Festival and the Philadelphia Folk Festival to name just a few. Each of these is supported by various institutions of public folklore, with the goal of displaying traditions of regional, ethnic and occupational folk groups. None of them however has duplicated the Smithsonian Folklore tent intended to collect original family folklore.\n\nOral history and oral tradition first became recognized as legitimate forms of historical and cultural research in the 1960s and early 1970s. Pioneers in this field used newly developed inexpensive tape-recorders to record oral histories. A Pulitzer Prize was awarded to Studs Terkel in 1985 for his book \"\"The Good War\": An Oral History of World War II\" and a special Pulitzer Prize was awarded to Alex Haley in 1977 for \"Roots: The Saga of an American Family\". With these awards, the importance of oral histories and traditions as a bona fide tool of historical and cultural research was cemented.\n\nHistorical and folklore research using oral interviews has gone mainstream, with multiple organizations dedicated to its collection. One of the best known organizations is StoryCorps, founded in 2003 and modeled on the WPA Federal Writers Project. Its expressed mission is to \"record, preserve, and share stories of Americans from all backgrounds and beliefs\". Special projects reach out to targeted populations to fulfill StoryCorps' commitment to record a diverse array of voices. The only requirement for the 2-person interview is that the 2 participants \"care about each other\", for instance family members. The participants are given a recording of the interview to take with them and add to the family archive. \n\nStoryCorps is just one of many organizations with a goal of recording and preserving interviews of oral history and tradition. Other organizations abound, such as City Lore of New York City and the Oral History Society of London. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31908016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31908016", "title": "Fictive art", "text": "Fictive art\n\nFictive art is a practice that involves the production of objects, events, and entities designed to support the plausibility of a central narrative. Fictive art projects disguise their fictional essence by incorporating materials that stand as evidence for narrative factuality and thus are designed to deceive the viewer as to their ontological status. Very often, these materials take a form that carries presumptive cultural authority, such as 'historical' photographs or 'scientific' data. The key tension in fictive art projects stems from the impossibility of 'making real' a fiction, no matter how many or what kinds of objects are produced as evidence. Since fictive art projects are designed to pass at least temporarily as 'real', fictive artists may draw opprobrium as hoaxers, pranksters, forgers, or con artists when their projects are revealed as fictional.\n\nThe term fictive art was originated by the artists Antoinette LaFarge and Lise Patt, in the title of a panel at the College Art Association Conference of 2004. It is allied to the terms superfiction and parafiction but, unlike both, does not construct the central activity as a departure from (super, para) fiction. Instead, it argues for the primacy of the visual art components, emphasizing the role they play in establishing, extending, and enabling the central narrative. A number of exhibitions in recent years have included examples of fictive art as part of broad explorations of the relationship between media, illusion, and deception; examples include \"More Real? Art in the Age of Truthiness\" at SITE Santa Fe (2012) and \"Faking It\" at the Museum of Modern Art, New York (2012).\n\nFictive art has antecedents going back several centuries; for example, the 'Rowley' creations of Thomas Chatterton, the 'Formosan' inventions of George Psalmanazar, or the Cottingley fairy photographs. With the rise of mass media in the second half of the 20th century, the practice of fictive art has expanded; it now includes such familiar forms as mockumentaries. Notable practitioners and projects include David Wilson (The Museum of Jurassic Technology), Nicholas Kahn and Richard Selesnick (The Circular River), Beauvais Lyons (The Hokes Archives), Joan Fontcuberta (Sputnik), Eve Andree Laramee (Yves Fissiault), and Jim Shaw (O-ism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "486086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486086", "title": "Grotesque", "text": "Grotesque\n\nSince at least the 18th century (in French, German and English), grotesque (or grottoesque) has come to be used as a general adjective for the strange, mysterious, magnificent, fantastic, hideous, ugly, incongruous, unpleasant, or disgusting, and thus is often used to describe weird shapes and distorted forms such as Halloween masks. In art, performance, and literature, however, \"grotesque\" may also refer to something that simultaneously invokes in an audience a feeling of uncomfortable bizarreness as well as sympathetic pity. More specifically, the grotesque forms on Gothic buildings, when not used as drain-spouts, should not be called gargoyles, but rather referred to simply as grotesques, or chimeras.\n\nThe word was originally a noun (1560s), from Italian grottesco (through Middle French), literally \"of a cave\", from Italian \"grotta\" (see grotto), an extravagant style of Ancient Roman decorative art rediscovered and then copied in Rome at the end of the 15th century. The word first was used of paintings found on the walls of basements of Roman ruins that were called at that time \"Le Grotte\" (The Grottoes) due to their appearance. These \"caves\" were in fact rooms and corridors of the Domus Aurea, the unfinished palace complex started by Nero after the Great Fire of Rome in CE 64, which had become overgrown and buried, until they were broken into again, mostly from above. Spreading from Italian to the other European languages, the term was long used largely interchangeably with arabesque and moresque for types of decorative patterns using curving foliage elements.\n\nRémi Astruc has argued that although there is an immense variety of motifs and figures, the three main tropes of the grotesque are doubleness, hybridity and metamorphosis. Beyond the current understanding of the grotesque as an aesthetic category, he demonstrated how the grotesque functions as a fundamental existential experience. Moreover, Astruc identifies the grotesque as a crucial, and potentially universal, anthropological device that societies have used to conceptualize alterity and change. \n\nIn art, grotesques are ornamental arrangements of arabesques with interlaced garlands and small and fantastic human and animal figures, usually set out in a symmetrical pattern around some form of architectural framework, though this may be very flimsy. Such designs were fashionable in ancient Rome, as fresco wall decoration, floor mosaics, etc., and were decried by Vitruvius (c. 30 BC), who in dismissing them as meaningless and illogical, offered the description: \"reeds are substituted for columns, fluted appendages with curly leaves and volutes take the place of pediments, candelabra support representations of shrines, and on top of their roofs grow slender stalks and volutes with human figures senselessly seated upon them.\"\n\nWhen Nero's palace in Rome, the Domus Aurea, was inadvertently rediscovered in the late 15th century, buried in fifteen hundred years of fill, the first breakthrough was from above, so that those keen to see the rooms had to be lowered down into them on ropes, completing their resemblance to caves, or grottoes in Italian. The Roman wall decorations in fresco and delicate stucco were a revelation.\n\nThe first appearance of the word \"grottesche\" appears in a contract of 1502 for the Piccolomini Library attached to the duomo of Siena. They were introduced by Raphael Sanzio and his team of decorative painters, who developed \"grottesche\" into a complete system of ornament in the Loggias that are part of the series of Raphael's Rooms in the Vatican Palace, Rome. \"The decorations astonished and charmed a generation of artists that was familiar with the grammar of the classical orders but had not guessed till then that in their private houses the Romans had often disregarded those rules and had adopted instead a more fanciful and informal style that was all lightness, elegance and grace.\" In these grotesque decorations a tablet or candelabrum might provide a focus; frames were extended into scrolls that formed part of the surrounding designs as a kind of scaffold, as Peter Ward-Jackson noted. Light scrolling grotesques could be ordered by confining them within the framing of a pilaster to give them more structure. Giovanni da Udine took up the theme of grotesques in decorating the Villa Madama, the most influential of the new Roman villas.\n\nIn the 16th century, such artistic license and irrationality was controversial matter. Francisco de Holanda puts a defense in the mouth of Michelangelo in his third dialogue of \"Da Pintura Antiga\", 1548:\n\"this insatiable desire of man sometimes prefers to an ordinary building, with its pillars and doors, one falsely constructed in grotesque style, with pillars formed of children growing out of stalks of flowers, with architraves and cornices of branches of myrtle and doorways of reeds and other things, all seeming impossible and contrary to reason, yet it may be really great work if it is performed by a skillful artist.\"\n\nThe delight of Mannerist artists and their patrons in arcane iconographic programs available only to the erudite could be embodied in schemes of \"grottesche\", Andrea Alciato's \"Emblemata\" (1522) offered ready-made iconographic shorthand for vignettes. More familiar material for grotesques could be drawn from Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\".\n\nThe Vatican loggias, a loggia corridor space in the Apostolic Palace open to the elements on one side, were decorated around 1519 by Raphaels's large team of artists, with Giovanni da Udine the main hand involved. Because of the relative unimportance of the space, and a desire to copy the Domus Aurea style, no large paintings were used, and the surfaces were mostly covered with grotesque designs on a white background, with paintings imitating sculptures in niches, and small figurative subjects in a revival of Ancient Roman style. This large array provided a repertoire of elements that were the basis for later artists across Europe.\n\nIn Michelangelo's Medici Chapel Giovanni da Udine composed during 1532-33 \"most beautiful sprays of foliage, rosettes and other ornaments in stucco and gold\" in the coffers and \"sprays of foliage, birds, masks and figures\", with a result that did not please Pope Clement VII Medici, however, nor Giorgio Vasari, who whitewashed the grottesche decor in 1556. Counter Reformation writers on the arts, notably Cardinal Gabriele Paleotti, bishop of Bologna, turned upon \"grottesche\" with a righteous vengeance.\n\nVasari, echoing Vitruvius, described the style as follows:\"Grotesques are a type of extremely licentious and absurd painting done by the ancients ... without any logic, so that a weight is attached to a thin thread which could not support it, a horse is given legs made of leaves, a man has crane's legs, with countless other impossible absurdities; and the bizarrer the painter's imagination, the higher he was rated\".\n\nVasari recorded that Francesco Ubertini, called \"Bacchiacca\", delighted in inventing \"grotteschi\", and (about 1545) painted for Duke Cosimo de' Medici a \"studiolo\" in a mezzanine at the Palazzo Vecchio \"full of animals and rare plants\". Other 16th-century writers on \"grottesche\" included Daniele Barbaro, Pirro Ligorio and Gian Paolo Lomazzo.\n\nIn the meantime, through the medium of engravings the grotesque mode of surface ornament passed into the European artistic repertory of the 16th century, from Spain to Poland. A classic suite was that attributed to Enea Vico, published in 1540-41 under an evocative explanatory title, \"Leviores et extemporaneae picturae quas grotteschas vulgo vocant\", \"Light and extemporaneous pictures that are vulgarly called grotesques\". Later Mannerist versions, especially in engraving, tended to lose that initial lightness and be much more densely filled than the airy well-spaced style used by the Romans and Raphael.\n\nSoon \"grottesche\" appeared in marquetry (fine woodwork), in maiolica produced above all at Urbino from the late 1520s, then in book illustration and in other decorative uses. At Fontainebleau Rosso Fiorentino and his team enriched the vocabulary of grotesques by combining them with the decorative form of strapwork, the portrayal of leather straps in plaster or wood moldings, which forms an element in grotesques.\n\nIn the 17th and 18th centuries the grotesque encompasses a wide field of teratology (science of monsters) and artistic experimentation. The monstrous, for instance, often occurs as the notion of \"play\". The sportiveness of the grotesque category can be seen in the notion of the preternatural category of the \"lusus naturae\", in natural history writings and in cabinets of curiosities. The last vestiges of romance, such as the marvellous also provide opportunities for the presentation of the grotesque in, for instance, operatic spectacle. The mixed form of the novel was commonly described as grotesque - see for instance Fielding's \"comic epic poem in prose\". (\"Joseph Andrews\" and \"Tom Jones\")\n\nGrotesque ornament received a further impetus from new discoveries of original Roman frescoes and stucchi at Pompeii and the other buried sites round Mount Vesuvius from the middle of the century. It continued in use, becoming increasingly heavy, in the Empire Style and then in the Victorian period, when designs often became as densely packed as in 16th-century engravings, and the elegance and fancy of the style tended to be lost.\n\nArtists began to give the tiny faces of the figures in grotesque decorations strange caricatured expressions, in a direct continuation of the medieval traditions of the drolleries in the border decorations or initials in illuminated manuscripts. From this the term began to be applied to larger caricatures, such as those of Leonardo da Vinci, and the modern sense began to develop. It is first recorded in English in 1646 from Sir Thomas Browne:\"In nature there are no grotesques\". By extension backwards in time, the term became also used for the medieval originals, and in modern terminology medieval drolleries, half-human thumbnail vignettes drawn in the margins, and carved figures on buildings (that are not also waterspouts, and so gargoyles) are also called \"grotesques\".\n\nA boom in the production of works of art in the grotesque genre characterized the period 1920–1933 of German art. In contemporary illustration art, the \"grotesque\" figures, in the ordinary conversational sense, commonly appear in the genre \"grotesque art\", also known as fantastic art.\n\nOne of the first uses of the term grotesque to denote a literary genre is in Montaigne's \"Essays\". The Grotesque is often linked with satire and tragicomedy. It is an effective artistic means to convey grief and pain to the audience, and for this has been labeled by Thomas Mann as the \"genuine antibourgeois style\".\n\nSome of the earliest written texts describe grotesque happenings and monstrous creatures. The literature of Myth has been a rich source of monsters; from the one-eyed Cyclops (to cite one example) from Hesiod's \"Theogony\" to Homer's Polyphemus in the \"Odyssey\". Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" is another rich source for grotesque transformations and hybrid creatures of myth. Horace's \"Art of Poetry\" also provides a formal introduction classical values and to the dangers of grotesque or mixed form. Indeed, the departure from classical models of order, reason, harmony, balance and form opens up the risk of entry into grotesque worlds. Accordingly, British literature abounds with native grotesquerie, from the strange worlds of Spenser's allegory in \"The Faerie Queene\", to the tragi-comic modes of 16th-century drama. (Grotesque comic elements can be found in major works such as \"King Lear\".)\n\nLiterary works of \"mixed\" genre are occasionally termed grotesque, as are \"low\" or non-literary genres such as pantomime and farce. Gothic writings often have grotesque components in terms of character, style and location. In other cases, the environment described may be grotesque - whether urban (Charles Dickens), or the literature of the American south which has sometimes been termed \"Southern Gothic\". Sometimes the grotesque in literature has been explored in terms of social and cultural formations such as the carnival(-esque) in François Rabelais and Mikhail Bakhtin. Terry Castle has written on the relationship between metamorphosis, literary writings and masquerade.\n\nAnother major source of the grotesque is in satirical writings of the 18th century. Jonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\" provides a variety of approaches to grotesque representation. In poetry, the works of Alexander Pope provide many examples of the grotesque.\n\nIn fiction, characters are usually considered grotesque if they induce both empathy and disgust. (A character who inspires disgust alone is simply a villain or a monster.) Obvious examples would include the physically deformed and the mentally deficient, but people with cringe-worthy social traits are also included. The reader becomes piqued by the grotesque's positive side, and continues reading to see if the character can conquer their darker side. In Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\", the figure of Caliban has inspired more nuanced reactions than simple scorn and disgust. Also, in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\", the character of Gollum may be considered to have both disgusting and empathetic qualities, which fit him into the grotesque template.\n\nVictor Hugo's \"Hunchback of Notre Dame\" is one of the most celebrated grotesques in literature. Dr. Frankenstein's monster can also be considered a grotesque, as well as the title character, Erik in \"The Phantom of the Opera\" and the Beast in Beauty and the Beast. Other instances of the romantic grotesque are also to be found in Edgar Allan Poe, E.T.A. Hoffmann, in \"Sturm und Drang\" literature or in Sterne's \"Tristram Shandy\". The romantic grotesque is far more terrible and sombre than the medieval grotesque, which celebrated laughter and fertility. It is at this point that a grotesque creature such as Frankenstein's monster (in Mary Shelley's novel published in 1818) begins to be presented more sympathetically as the outsider who is the victim of society. But the novel also makes the issue of sympathy problematic in an unkind society. This means that society becomes the generator of the grotesque, by a process of alienation. In fact, the grotesque monster in \"Frankenstein\" tends to be described as 'the creature.'\n\nThe grotesque received a new shape with \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" by Lewis Carroll, when a girl meets fantastic grotesque figures in her fantasy world. Carroll manages to make the figures seem less frightful and fit for children's literature, but still utterly strange. Another comic grotesque writer who played on the relationship between sense and nonsense was Edward Lear. Humorous, or festive nonsense of this kind has its roots in the seventeenth century traditions of fustian, bombastic and satirical writing.\n\nDuring the nineteenth-century category of grotesque body was increasingly displaced by the notion of congenital deformity or medical anomaly. Building on this context, the grotesque begins to be understood more in terms as deformity and disability, especially after the First World War, 1914-18. In these terms, the art historian Leah Dickerman has argued that 'The sight of horrendously shattered bodies of veterans returned to the home front became commonplace. The accompanying growth in the prosthetic industry struck contemporaries as creating a race of half-mechanical men and became an important theme in dadaist work.' The poetry of Wilfred Owen displays a poetic and realistic sense of the grotesque horror of war and the human cost of brutal conflict. Poems such as 'Spring Offensive' and 'Greater Love' combined images of beauty with shocking brutality and violence in order to produce a sense of the grotesque clash of opposites. In a similar fashion, Ernst Friedrich (1894–1967), founder of the Berlin Peace Museum, an anarchist and a pacifist, was the author of \"War Against War\" (1924) which used grotesque photographs of mutilated victims of the First World War in order to campaign for peace.\n\nSouthern Gothic is a genre frequently identified with grotesques and William Faulkner is often cited as the ringmaster. Flannery O'Connor wrote, \"Whenever I'm asked why Southern writers particularly have a penchant for writing about freaks, I say it is because we are still able to recognize one\" (\"Some Aspects of the Grotesque in Southern Fiction\", 1960). In O'Connor's often-anthologized short-story \"A Good Man Is Hard to Find\", the Misfit, a serial killer, is clearly a maimed soul, utterly callous to human life but driven to seek the truth. The less obvious grotesque is the polite, doting grandmother who is unaware of her own astonishing selfishness. Another oft-cited example of the grotesque from O'Connor's work is her short-story entitled \"A Temple Of The Holy Ghost\". The American novelist, Raymond Kennedy is another author associated with the literary tradition of the grotesque.\n\nContemporary writers of literary grotesque fiction include Ian McEwan, Katherine Dunn, Alasdair Gray, Angela Carter, Jeanette Winterson, Umberto Eco, Patrick McGrath, Natsuo Kirino, Paul Tremblay, Matt Bell, Chuck Palahniuk, Brian Evenson, Caleb J. Ross (who writes domestic grotesque fiction), Richard Thomas and many authors who write in the bizarro genre of fiction. In 1929, G.L Van Roosbroeck wrote a book called \"GROTESQUES\" (illustrations by J. Matulka) published by The Williamsport Printing and Binding Co., Williamsport, PA. It is a collection of 6 stories and 3 fables for the children of tomorrow.\n\nOther contemporary writers who have explored the grotesque in pop-culture are John Docker, in the context of postmodernism; Cintra Wilson, who analyzes celebrity; and Francis Sanzaro, who discusses its relation to childbirth and obscenity.\n\nThe term Theatre of the Grotesque refers to an anti-naturalistic school of Italian dramatists, writing in the 1910s and 1920s, who are often seen as precursors of the Theatre of the Absurd.\nCharacterized by ironic and macabre themes of daily life in the world war 1 era. Theatre of the grotesque was named after the play 'The Mask and the Face' by Luigi Chiarelli, which was described as ' a grotesque in three acts'.\n\nFriedrich Dürrenmatt is a major author of contemporary grotesque comedy plays.\n\nIn architecture the term \"grotesque\" means a carved stone figure.\n\nGrotesques are often confused with gargoyles, but the distinction is that gargoyles are figures that contain a water spout through the mouth, while grotesques do not. Without a water spout, this type of sculpture is also known as a chimera when it depicts fantastical creatures. In the Middle Ages, the term \"babewyn\" was used to refer to both gargoyles and grotesques. This word is derived from the Italian word \"babbuino\", which means \"baboon\".\n\nThe word \"Grotesque\", or \"Grotesk\" in German, is also frequently used as a synonym for sans-serif in typography. At other times, it is used (along with \"Neo-Grotesque\", \"Humanist\", \"Lineal\", and \"Geometric\") to describe a particular style or subset of sans-serif typefaces. The origin of this association can be traced back to English typefounder William Thorowgood, who first introduced the term \"grotesque\" and in 1835 produced \"7-line pica grotesque\"—the first sans-serif typeface containing actual lowercase letters. An alternate etymology is possibly based on the original reaction of other typographers to such a strikingly featureless typeface.\n\nPopular Grotesque typefaces include Franklin Gothic, News Gothic, Haettenschweiler and Lucida Sans (although the latter lacks the spurred \"G\"), whereas popular Neo-Grotesque typefaces include Arial, Helvetica and Verdana.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24764198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24764198", "title": "Haynies Corner Arts District", "text": "Haynies Corner Arts District\n\nThe Haynie's Corner Arts District is a small area in Evansville's south-central side, adjacent to Downtown Evansville. Centered on Haynie's Corner, a small square, the district is resided mainly by artists and is one of the only areas in the city where residential showrooms are allowed.\n\nThe district is home to an art festival show with painters, sculptors, craftsmen, artisans, and musicians. It also hosts the Midwest Dragon Boat Racing Festival.\n"}
{"id": "1764568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1764568", "title": "Here be dragons", "text": "Here be dragons\n\n\"Here be dragons\" means dangerous or unexplored territories, in imitation of a medieval practice of putting illustrations of dragons, sea-monsters and other mythological creatures on uncharted areas of maps.\n\nAlthough several early maps, such as the \"Theatrum Orbis Terrarum\", have illustrations of mythological creatures for decoration, the phrase itself is an anachronism. There are just two known historical uses of this phrase in the Latin form \"HC SVNT DRACONES\" (i.e. \"hic sunt dracones,\" 'here are dragons'). One is on the Hunt–Lenox Globe (c. 1503–07), on which the term appeared around the east coast of Asia. This might be related to the Komodo dragons on the Indonesian islands, tales of which were quite common throughout East Asia. The other appearance of the term is on a globe engraved on two conjoined halves of ostrich eggs, dated to 1504. Earlier maps contain a variety of references to mythical and real creatures, but the Lenox Globe and the egg globe are the only known surviving maps to bear this phrase. Furthermore, the two maps may be closely linked: an investigation of the egg globe performed by collector Stefaan Missinne concluded that the Hunt–Lenox Globe is in fact a cast of it.\n\"'Here be dragons,' [is] a very interesting sentence,\" said Thomas Sander, editor of the \"Portolan\", the journal of the Washington Map Society. \"In early maps, you would see images of sea monsters; it was a way to say there's bad stuff out there.\"\n\nThe classical phrase used by ancient Roman and Medieval cartographers was \"HIC SVNT LEONES\" (literally, \"here are lions\") when denoting unknown territories on maps.\n\nDragons appear on a few other historical maps:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9454692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9454692", "title": "Horses in art", "text": "Horses in art\n\nHorses have appeared in works of art throughout history, frequently as depictions of the horse in battle. The horse appears less frequently in modern art partly because the horse is no longer significant either as a mode of transportation or as an implement of war. Most modern representations are of famous contemporary horses, artwork associated with horse racing, or artwork associated with the historic cowboy or Native American tradition of the American west. In the United Kingdom depictions of fox hunting and nostalgic rural scenes involving horses continue to be made.\n\nHorses often appear in artworks singly, as a mount for an important person, or in teams, hitched to a variety of horse-drawn vehicles.\n\nThe horse appeared in prehistoric cave paintings such as those in Lascaux, estimated to be 16,000 years old.\n\nPrehistoric hill figures have been carved in the shape of the horse, specifically the Uffington White Horse, an example of the tradition of horse carvings upon hill-sides, which having existed for thousands of years continues into the current age.\n\nThe Upper Palaeolithic Vogelherd figurines discovered in Germany, miniature sculptures made of mammoth ivory attributed to paleo-humans of the Aurignacian culture that are among the world’s oldest-known works of figurative art, include a figure of a horse.\n\nThe equine image was common in ancient Egyptian and Grecian art, more refined images displaying greater knowledge of equine anatomy appeared in Classical Greece and in later Roman work. \nHorse-drawn chariots were commonly depicted in ancient works, for example on the Standard of Ur circa 2500BC. The Horses of Saint Mark are the sole surviving example from Classical Antiquity of a monumental statue of the Quadriga.\n\nThe horse was less prevalent in early Christian and Byzantine art, overwhelmed by the dominance of religious themes.\n\nThe Renaissance period starting in the 14th century brought a resurgence of the horse in art. Painters of this period who portrayed the horse included Paolo Uccello, Benozzo Gozzoli, Leonardo da Vinci, Albrecht Dürer, Raphael, Andrea Mantegna and Titian. In 1482 the Duke of Milan Ludovico il Moro, commissioned Leonardo da Vinci to create the largest equestrian statue in the world, a monument to the duke's father Francesco, however \"Leonardo's horse\" was never completed, (until it was replicated in the late 20th century).\n\nIn the Baroque era the tradition of equine portraiture was established, with artists such as Peter Paul Rubens, Anthony van Dyck and Diego Velázquez portraying regal subjects atop their mounts. Equine sporting art also became established in this era as the tradition of horse racing emerged under Tudor patronage.\n\nGeorge Stubbs born in 1724 became so associated with his equestrian subjects that he was known as \"the horse painter\". A childhood interest in anatomy was applied to the horse he spent eighteen months dissecting equine carcasses and had an engraver produce book plates of his studies. These anatomical drawings aided later artists.\n\nThe mid 18th century saw the emergence of Romanticism, French artists Théodore Géricault and Eugène Delacroix were proponents of this movement and both portrayed the horse in many of their works.\n\nEquine sporting art was popular in the 19th century, notable artists of the period being Benjamin Marshall, James Ward, Henry Thomas Alken, James Pollard, John Frederick Herring Sr. and Heywood Hardy. Horse racing gradually became more established in France and Impressionist painter Edgar Degas painted many early racing scenes. Degas was one of the first horse painters to use photographic references. Eadweard Muybridge's photographic studies of animal motion had a huge influence on equine art as they allowed artists greater understanding of the horses gaits.\n\nRosa Bonheur became famous primarily for two chief works: \"Ploughing in the Nivernais\" (in French: \"Le labourage nivernais, le sombrage\"), and, \"The Horse Fair\" (in French: \"Le marché aux chevaux\") (which was exhibited at the Salon of 1853 (finished in 1855) and is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York City. Bonheur is widely considered to have been the most famous female painter of the nineteenth century.\n\nIsidore Bonheur, the younger brother of Rosa Bonheur, is known as one of the 19th century's most distinguished French animalier sculptors. He modeled his sculptures to catch movement or posture characteristic of the particular species. Isidore Bonheur achieved this most successfully with his sculptures of horses, usually depicted as relaxed rather than spirited, and which are among his most renowned works.\n\nSir Alfred Munnings was an acclaimed painter working in England during the 20th century, he was elected president of the Royal Academy in 1944. He specialised in equine subjects, including horse racing, portraiture and studies of gypsies and rural life.\n\nMilitary art often depicts the horse in battle and provides some of the earliest examples of the horse in art, with cavalry, horse-drawn chariots and horse archers all appearing on ancient artifacts.\n\nIn the medieval period cavalry battles and knights on horseback were portrayed by artists including Paolo Uccello and Albrecht Dürer. Uccello's tryptic The Battle of San Romano shows various stages of a battle. Dürer's engraving of \"Knight, Death and the Devil\", 1513 shows a military subject combined with allegorical theme.\n\nSir Alfred Munnings was appointed as a war artist during World War I, he painted both the Canadian Cavalry Brigade and the Canadian Forestry Corps stationed in France. He considered his experiences with the Canadian units to have been among the most rewarding events of his life.\n\nElizabeth Thompson, known as Lady Butler, was famed for her military art, especially \"Scotland Forever\" featuring a dramatic charge by the Royal Scots Greys.\n\nThoroughbred racing was an inspiration for Romantic and Impressionist artists of the 19th century. Théodore Géricault painted The Derby in 1821 during his stay in England. The Impressionist era coincided with the development of racing in France, Manet, Degas and Toulouse-Lautrec all acquired a lasting fascination with racing. Manet showing the excitement and action of the race and Degas concentrating more on the moments before the start. Degas was intensely interested in Muybridge's photographs of the horse in motion, he copied them in chalk and pencil and used them for reference in his later work.\n\nGenerations of artists before Muybridge had portrayed the horse in a 'rocking horse' gallop with the horse portrayed with both front legs extended forward and both hind legs extended rearwards. Much more realistic representations were possible after the event of photography and Muybridge's work but that did not necessarily lead to the impression of movement in the artwork. Luard writing in 1921 compares the running action of an animal with the run and rhythm of an air in music, but the instantaneous moment recorded by a photograph as a detached chord with little meaning or context.\n\nGeorge Stubbs and Alfred Munnings have both left a vast body of work involving the racehorse.\n\nIn the 20th century, much of the artwork by John Skeaping involved the racing scene, including life-size bronzes of Hyperion and Brigadier Gerard and watercolours of race course action.\n\nArtwork associated with the historic cowboy or Native American tradition of the American west naturally includes many equine subjects. include Frederic Remington and C.M. Russell who are known for their paintings of equine subjects. Remington was one of the first American artists to illustrate the true gait of the horse in motion (along with Thomas Eakins), as validated by the famous sequential photographs of Eadweard Muybridge.\nRemington also captured equine drama in his bronze sculptures, his first, Bronco Buster (Williams College Museum of Art), was a critical and commercial success.\n\nInspired by El Greco's, \"Saint Martin and the Beggar\", c. 1597–1600, Art Institute of Chicago Pablo Picasso introduced horses into his work in 1905-06 notably \"Boy Leading a Horse\", Museum of Modern Art. Franz Marc and others including Susan Rothenberg and Deborah Butterfield beginning in the 1970s used horses as motifs in their paintings and sculpture throughout the 20th century. For a large and complex 20th century war painting in which a horse is the central dramatic figure, see Guernica by Pablo Picasso. While Impressionist painter Edgar Degas was particularly famous for his paintings of dancers, Degas was also known for his paintings of horses and horse racing.\n\nHunting scenes have been a common subject matter for equestrian painters. Specialists in fox hunting subjects include Cecil Aldin and Lionel Edwards.\n\nLucy Kemp-Welch was well known for her depiction of wild and working horses in the landscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "24989989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24989989", "title": "Interdisciplinary arts", "text": "Interdisciplinary arts\n\nInterdisciplinary Arts is an academic department in the School of Media Arts at Columbia College Chicago. As one of the earliest interdisciplinary arts programs in the United States, it has been an incubator for new approaches towards art making that has shaped the development of arts professionals for over thirty-three years. Guided by the principle that interdisciplinarity \"is a defining characteristic of contemporary art practice\" and \"a necessary prerequisite for those artists who will shape the future of creative practice\", the artists who work in the Interdisciplinary Arts department investigate new terrain.\n\nExamining concepts, forms and techniques from across the fine, performing and media arts, students work with a diverse array of unique and experimental approaches that interrogate artist books, installations, gesture and movement, sound art, durational performance, interactive media, video, performance media, papermaking, letterpress, etching and offset printing, electronically controlled artworks, online artwork, performance in artificial spaces, democratic multiples, written, spoken and performed text, dramatic forms, DIY/DIT collaborative strategies and relational art forms.\n\nInterdisciplinary Arts was formulated in Chicago Il, 1976, by Suzanne Cohan-Lange, Jean Unsworth, and Rebecca Ruben. Originally accepted by the Chicago Consortium of Colleges as a program taught across several universities, in 1981, it was established as a department with a permanent home at Columbia College Chicago. At that time, the Interdisciplinary Arts MA program was formalized within the context of the department. Since then, two MFA degrees were added: the Interdisciplinary Book & Paper Arts MFA, launched in 1994; and the Interdisciplinary Arts & Media MFA, launched in 2002. The founding of the Interdisciplinary Arts program is preceded by the undergraduate program in the Studio for Interrelated Media program founded by Harris Barron in 1969 at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design in Boston.\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Arts MA is for art teachers who want to expand their repertoire of techniques, as well as assist practicing artists in expanding their practice to include new media. It is immersed in the five traditional art media that make up the heart of the program: visual art, movement, sound, writing, and drama.\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Book & Paper Arts MFA program enables students to participate in the contemporary art world by encouraging them to consider book and paper as a site for interdisciplinary practice. It promotes the understanding of hand papermaking and the book arts as artistic media with applications in cultural discourse, community building, and collaborative practice.\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Arts & Media MFA fosters an innovative dialog between the fine, performing and media arts. It is a graduate program for traditional and performing artists who want to incorporate media into their artistic practice and for media artists who want to expand into areas such as performance, installation, interactive, and relational art forms.\n\nIn the 916 S. Wabash building are housed the departmental offices, faculty offices, conference room, lecture hall, two smart classrooms, large computer lab, three installation labs and the media equipment center. Additionally, the Center for Book and Paper Arts is part of the Interdisciplinary Arts department. The Center for Book and Paper Arts occupies the entire second floor of the historic Ludington Building at 1104 South Wabash and includes a papermaking studio, a letterpress facility, a bookbindery, a gallery, a smart classroom, a multi-purpose space for performance and lectures, a computer laboratory, a critique room, studio space for artists, a resource room, and offices for the staff. Also at 1104 South Wabash are studio spaces for the MFA students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21514028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21514028", "title": "Irony", "text": "Irony\n\nIrony (), in its broadest sense, is a rhetorical device, literary technique, or event in which what appears, on the surface, to be the case, differs radically from what is actually the case. \n\nIrony can be categorized into different types, including: \"verbal irony\", \"dramatic irony\", and \"situational irony\". Verbal, dramatic, and situational irony are often used for emphasis in the assertion of a truth. The ironic form of simile, used in sarcasm, and some forms of litotes can emphasize one's meaning by the deliberate use of language which states the opposite of the truth, denies the contrary of the truth, or drastically and obviously understates a factual connection. Other forms, as identified by historian Connop Thirlwall, include dialectic and practical irony.\n\nHenry Watson Fowler, in \"The King's English\", says, \"any definition of irony—though hundreds might be given, and very few of them would be accepted—must include this, that the surface meaning and the underlying meaning of what is said are not the same.\" Also, Eric Partridge, in \"Usage and Abusage\", writes that \"Irony consists in stating the contrary of what is meant.\"\n\nThe use of irony may require the concept of a \"double audience\". Fowler's \"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\" says:\nIrony is a form of utterance that postulates a double audience, consisting of one party that hearing shall hear & shall not understand, & another party that, when more is meant than meets the ear, is aware both of that more & of the outsiders' incomprehension.\n\nThe term is sometimes used as a synonym for \"incongruous\" and applied to \"every trivial oddity\" in situations where there is no double audience. An example of such usage is:\nSullivan, whose real interest was, ironically, serious music, which he composed with varying degrees of success, achieved fame for his comic opera scores rather than for his more earnest efforts.\n\nThe \"American Heritage Dictionary\" secondary meaning for \"irony\": \"incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs\". This sense, however, is not synonymous with \"incongruous\" but merely a definition of dramatic or situational irony. It is often included in definitions of irony \"not only\" that incongruity is present \"but also\" that the incongruity must reveal some aspect of human vanity or folly. Thus the majority of \"American Heritage Dictionary\"'s usage panel found it unacceptable to use the word \"ironic\" to describe mere unfortunate coincidences or surprising disappointments that \"suggest no particular lessons about human vanity or folly.\"\n\nOn this aspect, \"The Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\") has also:\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\":\nAccording to Richard Whately:\nThe word came into English as a figure of speech in the 16th century as similar to the French \"ironie\". It derives from the Latin \"ironia\" and ultimately from the Greek \"εἰρωνεία\" eirōneía, meaning \"dissimulation, ignorance purposely affected\".\n\n\"The New Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics\" distinguishes between the following types of irony:\n\nAccording to \"A glossary of literary terms\" by Abrams and Hartman,Verbal irony is a statement in which the meaning that a speaker employs is sharply different from the meaning that is ostensibly expressed. An ironic statement usually involves the explicit expression of one attitude or evaluation, but with indications in the overall speech-situation that the speaker intends a very different, and often opposite, attitude or evaluation.\nVerbal irony is distinguished from situational irony and dramatic irony in that it is produced \"intentionally\" by speakers. For instance, if a man exclaims, \"I'm not upset!\" but reveals an upset emotional state through his voice while truly trying to claim he's not upset, it would not be verbal irony by virtue of its verbal manifestation (it would, however, be situational irony). But if the same speaker said the same words and intended to communicate that he was upset by claiming he was not, the utterance would be verbal irony. This distinction illustrates an important aspect of verbal irony—speakers communicate implied propositions that are intentionally contradictory to the propositions contained in the words themselves. There are, however, examples of verbal irony that do not rely on saying the opposite of what one means, and there are cases where all the traditional criteria of irony exist and the utterance is not ironic.\n\nIn a clear example from literature, in Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\", Mark Antony's speech after the assassination of Caesar appears to praise the assassins, particularly Brutus (\"But Brutus says he was ambitious; / And Brutus is an honourable man\"), while actually condemning them. \"We're left in no doubt as to who's ambitious and who's honourable. The literal truth of what's written clashes with the perceived truth of what's meant to revealing effect, which is irony in a nutshell\".\nIronic similes are a form of verbal irony where a speaker intends to communicate the opposite of what they mean. For instance, the following explicit similes begin with the deceptive formation of a statement that means \"A\" but that eventually conveys the meaning \"not A\":\n\nThe irony is recognizable in each case only by using knowledge of the source concepts (e.g., that mud is opaque, that root canal surgery is painful) to detect an incongruity.\n\nA fair amount of confusion has surrounded the issue of the relationship between verbal irony and sarcasm.\n\nFowler's \"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\" states: Sarcasm does not necessarily involve irony and irony has often no touch of sarcasm. This suggests that the two concepts are linked but may be considered separately. \"The Oxford English Dictionary\"'s entry for sarcasm does not mention irony, but the irony entry includes:\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" has \"Non-literary irony is often called sarcasm\"; while the \"Webster's Dictionary\" entry is:\nPartridge in \"Usage and Abusage\" would separate the two forms of speech completely: \nIrony must not be confused with sarcasm, which is direct: sarcasm means precisely what it says, but in a sharp, caustic, ... manner. \n\nThe psychologist Martin, in \"The Psychology of Humour\", is quite clear that irony is where \"the literal meaning is opposite to the intended\" and sarcasm is \"aggressive humor that pokes fun\". He has the following examples: for irony he uses the statement \"What a nice day\" when it is raining. For sarcasm, he cites Winston Churchill, who is supposed to have said, when told by Bessie Braddock that he was drunk, \"But I shall be sober in the morning, and you will still be ugly\", as being sarcastic, while not saying the opposite of what is intended.\n\nPsychology researchers Lee and Katz (1998) have addressed the issue directly. They found that ridicule is an important aspect of sarcasm, but not of verbal irony in general. By this account, sarcasm is a particular kind of personal criticism levelled against a person or group of persons that incorporates verbal irony. For example, a woman reports to her friend that rather than going to a medical doctor to treat her cancer, she has decided to see a spiritual healer instead. In response her friend says sarcastically, \"Oh, brilliant, what an ingenious idea, that's really going to cure you.\" The friend could have also replied with any number of ironic expressions that should not be labeled as sarcasm exactly, but still have many shared elements with sarcasm.\n\nMost instances of verbal irony are labeled by research subjects as sarcastic, suggesting that the term \"sarcasm\" is more widely used than its technical definition suggests it should be (Bryant & Fox Tree, 2002; Gibbs, 2000). Some psycholinguistic theorists (e.g., Gibbs, 2000) suggest that sarcasm (\"Great idea!\", \"I hear they do fine work.\"), hyperbole (\"That's the best idea I have heard in years!\"), understatement (\"Sure, what the hell, it's only cancer...\"), rhetorical questions (\"What, does your spirit have cancer?\"), double entendre (\"I'll bet if you do that, you'll be communing with spirits in no time...\") and jocularity (\"Get them to fix your bad back while you're at it.\") should all be considered forms of verbal irony. The differences between these rhetorical devices (tropes) can be quite subtle and relate to typical emotional reactions of listeners, and the rhetorical goals of the speakers. Regardless of the various ways theorists categorize figurative language types, people in conversation who are attempting to interpret speaker intentions and discourse goals do not generally identify, by name, the kinds of tropes used (Leggitt & Gibbs, 2000).\n\nEchoic allusion is the main component involved in conveying verbally ironic meaning. It is best described as a speech act by which the speaker simultaneously represents a thought, belief or idea, and implicitly attributes this idea to someone else who is wrong or deluded. In this way, the speaker intentionally dissociates themselves from the idea and conveys their tacit dissent, thereby providing a different meaning to their utterance. In some cases, the speaker can provide stronger dissociation from the represented thought by also implying derision toward the idea or outwardly making fun of the person or people they attribute it to.\n\nEchoic allusion, like other forms of verbal irony, relies on semantically disambiguating cues to be interpreted correctly. These cues often come in the form of paralinguistic markers such as prosody, tone, or pitch, as well as nonverbal cues like hand gesture, facial expression and eye gaze.\n\nAn example of echoic allusion and its disambiguating paralinguistic markers is as follows:\nFrom simple semantic analysis, Person 2 appears to believe Person 1. However, if this conversation is given the context of Person 2 walking in on Person 1 about to eat some cake, and Person 2 speaking their sentence in a significantly decreased rate of speech and lowered tone, the interpretation of \"I just must have been mistaken\" changes. Instead of being taken as Person 2 believing Person 1, the utterance calls to mind someone who would believe Person 1, while also conveying Person 2's implication that said individual would be considered gullible. From this, Person 2 negates the possible interpretation that they believe Person 1.\n\nDramatic irony exploits the device of giving the spectator an item of information that at least one of the characters in the narrative is unaware of (at least consciously), thus placing the spectator a step ahead of at least one of the characters. Connop Thirlwall in his 1833 article \"On the Irony of Sophocles\" originally highlighted the role of irony in drama. \"The Oxford English Dictionary\" defines dramatic irony as:\nAccording to Stanton, dramatic irony has three stages—installation, exploitation, and resolution (often also called preparation, suspension, and resolution)\n—producing dramatic conflict in what one character relies or appears to rely upon, the \"contrary\" of which is known by observers (especially the audience; sometimes to other characters within the drama) to be true. In summary, it means that the reader/watcher/listener knows something that one or more of the characters in the piece is not aware of.\n\nFor example:\n\nTragic irony is a special category of dramatic irony. In tragic irony, the words and actions of the characters contradict the real situation, which the spectators fully realize. \"The Oxford English Dictionary\" defines this as:\nAncient Greek drama was especially characterized by tragic irony because the audiences were so familiar with the legends that most of the plays dramatized. Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\" provides a classic example of tragic irony at its fullest. Colebrook writes:\n\nFurther, Oedipus vows to find the murderer and curses him for the plague that he has caused, not knowing that the murderer he has cursed and vowed to find is himself. The audience knows that Oedipus himself is the murderer that he is seeking; Oedipus, Creon, and Jocasta do not.\n\nIrony has some of its foundation in the onlooker's perception of paradox that arises from insoluble problems. For example, in the William Shakespeare play \"Romeo and Juliet\", when Romeo finds Juliet in a drugged, deathlike sleep, he assumes her to be dead. The audience knows that Juliet has faked her death, yet Romeo believes she is truly dead, and commits suicide. Upon awakening to find her dead lover beside her, Juliet stabs herself with a dagger thus killing herself, too.\n\nSituational irony is a relatively modern use of the term, and describes a sharp discrepancy between the expected result and actual results in a certain situation.\nLars Elleström writes:\"Situational irony\" ... is most broadly defined as a situation where the outcome is incongruous with what was expected, but it is also more generally understood as a situation that includes contradictions or sharp contrasts. \n\nFor example:\n\nThe expression cosmic irony or \"irony of fate\" stems from the notion that the gods (or the Fates) are amusing themselves by toying with the minds of mortals with deliberate ironic intent. Closely connected with situational irony, it arises from sharp contrasts between reality and human ideals, or between human intentions and actual results. The resulting situation is poignantly contrary to what was expected or intended.\n\nAccording to Sudhir Dixit, \"Cosmic irony is a term that is usually associated with [Thomas] Hardy. ... There is a strong feeling of a hostile deus ex machina in Hardy's novels.\" In \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\" \"there are several instances of this type of irony.\" One example follows:\n\n\"Justice\" was done, and the President of the Immortals (in Æschylean phrase) had ended his sport with Tess.\n\nWhen history is seen through modern eyes, there often appear sharp contrasts between the way historical figures see their world's future and what actually transpires. For example, during the 1920s \"The New York Times\" repeatedly scorned crossword puzzles. In 1924, it lamented \"the sinful waste in the utterly futile finding of words the letters of which will fit into a prearranged pattern.\" In 1925 it said \"the question of whether the puzzles are beneficial or harmful is in no urgent need of an answer. The craze evidently is dying out fast.\" Today, no U.S. newspaper is more closely identified with the crossword than \"The New York Times.\"\n\nIn a more tragic example of historical irony, what people now refer to as the \"First World War\" was called by H. G. Wells \"the war that will end war\", which soon became \"the war to end war\" and \"the war to end all wars\", and this became a widespread truism, almost a cliché. Historical irony is therefore a subset of cosmic irony, but one in which the element of time is bound to play a role. Another example could be that of the Vietnam War, where in the 1960s the US attempted to stop the Viet Cong (Viet Minh) taking over South Vietnam. However, it is an often ignored fact that, in 1941, the US originally supported the Viet Minh in its fight against Japanese occupation.\n\nIn the introduction to \"The Irony of American History\", Andrew Bacevich writes:\nGunpowder was, according to prevailing academic consensus, discovered in the 9th century by Chinese alchemists searching for an elixir of immortality.\n\nHistorical irony also includes inventors killed by their own creations, such as William Bullock – unless, due to the nature of the invention, the risk of death was always known and accepted, as in the case of Otto Lilienthal, who was killed by flying a glider of his own devising.\n\nIn certain kinds of situational or historical irony, a factual truth is highlighted by some person's complete ignorance of it or his belief in its opposite. However, this state of affairs does not occur by human design. In some religious contexts, such situations have been seen as the deliberate work of divine providence to emphasize truths and to taunt humans for not being aware of them when they could easily have been enlightened (this is similar to human use of irony). Such ironies are often more evident, or more striking, when viewed retrospectively in the light of later developments which make the truth of past situations obvious to all.\n\nOther prominent examples of outcomes now seen as poignantly contrary to expectation include:\n\n\nIrony is often used in literature to produce a comic effect. This may also be combined with satire. For instance, an author may facetiously state something as a well-known fact and then demonstrate through the narrative that the fact is untrue.\n\nJane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\" begins with the proposition \"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.\" In fact, it soon becomes clear that Austen means the opposite: women (or their mothers) are always in search of, and desperately on the lookout for, a rich single man to make a husband. The irony deepens as the story promotes this romance and ends in a double marriage proposal. \"Austen's comic irony emerges out of the disjunction between Elizabeth's overconfidence (or pride) in her perceptions of Darcy and the narrator's indications that her views are in fact partial and prejudicial.\"\n\n\"\"The Third Man\" is a film that features any number of eccentricities, each of which contributes to the film's perspective of comic irony as well as its overall cinematic self-consciousness.\"\n\nWriting about performances of Shakespeare's \"Othello\" in apartheid South Africa, Robert Gordon suggests: \"Could it be that black people in the audience ... may have viewed as a comic irony his audacity and naïvety in thinking he could pass for white.\"\n\nRomantic irony is \"an attitude of detached scepticism adopted by an author towards his or her work, typically manifesting in literary self-consciousness and self-reflection\". This conception of irony originated with the German Romantic writer and critic Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel.\n\nJoseph Dane writes \"From a twentieth-century perspective, the most crucial area in the history of irony is that described by the term romantic irony.\" He discusses the difficulty of defining romantic irony: \"But what is romantic irony? A universal type of irony? The irony used by romantics? or an irony envisioned by the romantics and romanticists?\" He also describes the arguments for and against its use.\n\nReferring to earlier self-conscious works such as Don Quixote and Tristram Shandy, Douglas Muecke points particularly to Peter Weiss's 1964 play, \"Marat/Sade\". This work is a play within a play set in a lunatic asylum, in which it is difficult to tell whether the players are speaking only to other players or also directly to the audience. When The Herald says, \"The regrettable incident you've just seen was unavoidable indeed foreseen by our playwright\", there is confusion as to who is being addressed, the \"audience\" on the stage or the audience in the theatre. Also, since the play within the play is performed by the inmates of a lunatic asylum, the theatre audience cannot tell whether the paranoia displayed before them is that of the players, or the people they are portraying. Muecke notes that, \"in America, Romantic irony has had a bad press\", while \"in England ... [it] is almost unknown.\"\n\nHowever, in a book entitled \"English Romantic Irony\", Anne Mellor writes, referring to Byron, Keats, Carlyle, Coleridge, and Lewis Carroll:\nSimilarly, metafiction is: \"Fiction in which the author self-consciously alludes to the artificiality or literariness of a work by parodying or departing from novelistic conventions (esp. naturalism) and narrative techniques.\" It is a type of fiction that self-consciously addresses the devices of fiction, thereby exposing the fictional illusion.\n\nGesa Giesing writes that \"the most common form of metafiction is particularly frequent in Romantic literature. The phenomenon is then referred to as Romantic Irony.\" Giesing notes that \"There has obviously been an increased interest in metafiction again after World War II.\"\n\nFor examples, Patricia Waugh quotes from several works at the top of her chapter headed \"What is metafiction?\". These include:\n\n\"The thing is this./ That of all the several ways of beginning a book ... I am confident my own way of doing it is best\" - \"Tristram Shandy\"\n\n\"Since I've started this story, I've gotten boils ...\" - \"The death of the novel and other stories\" by Ronald Sukenick\n\nAdditionally, \"The Cambridge Introduction to Postmodern Fiction\" refers to John Fowles's \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\":\nFor the first twelve chapters ... the reader has been able to immerse him or herself in the story, enjoying the kind of 'suspension of disbelief ' required of realist novels ... what follows is a remarkable act of metafictional 'frame-breaking'. Chapter 13 notoriously begins:\n\nI do not know. This story I am telling is all imagination. These characters I create never existed outside my own mind. ... if this is a novel, it cannot be a novel in the modern sense.\n\nSocratic irony is \"the dissimulation of ignorance practised by Socrates as a means of confuting an adversary\". Socrates would pretend to be ignorant of the topic under discussion, to draw out the inherent nonsense in the arguments of his interlocutors. \"The Chambers Dictionary\" defines it as \"a means by which a questioner pretends to know less than a respondent, when actually he knows more\".\n\nZoe Williams of \"The Guardian\" wrote: \"The technique [of Socratic irony], demonstrated in the Platonic dialogues, was to pretend ignorance and, more sneakily, to feign credence in your opponent's power of thought, in order to tie him in knots.\"\n\nA more modern example of Socratic irony can be seen on the American crime fiction television series, \"Columbo\". The character Lt. Columbo is seemingly naïve and incompetent. His untidy appearance adds to this fumbling illusion. As a result, he is underestimated by the suspects in murder cases he is investigating. With their guard down and their false sense of confidence, Lt. Columbo is able to solve the cases, leaving the murderers feeling duped and outwitted.\n\nDanish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard, and others, see irony, such as that used by Socrates, as a disruptive force with the power to undo texts and readers alike. The phrase itself is taken from Hegel's \"Lectures on Aesthetics\", and is applied by Kierkegaard to the irony of Socrates. This tradition includes 19th-century German critic and novelist Friedrich Schlegel (\"On Incomprehensibility\"), Charles Baudelaire, Stendhal, and the 20th century deconstructionist Paul de Man (\"The Concept of Irony\"). In Kierkegaard's words, from On the Concept of Irony with Continual Reference to Socrates:\n[Socratic] irony [is] the infinite absolute negativity. It is negativity, because it only negates; it is infinite, because it does not negate this or that phenomenon; it is absolute, because that by virtue of which it negates is a higher something that still is not. The irony established nothing, because that which is to be established lies behind it...\n\nWhere much of philosophy attempts to reconcile opposites into a larger positive project, Kierkegaard and others insist that irony—whether expressed in complex games of authorship or simple litotes—must, in Kierkegaard's words, \"swallow its own stomach\". Irony entails endless reflection and violent reversals, and ensures incomprehensibility at the moment it compels speech. Similarly, among other literary critics, writer David Foster Wallace viewed the pervasiveness of ironic and other postmodern tropes as the cause of \"great despair and stasis in U.S. culture, and that for aspiring fictionists [ironies] pose terrifically vexing problems.\"\n\nThe '90s saw an expansion of the definition of irony from \"saying what one doesn't mean\" into a \"general stance of detachment from life in general\", this detachment serving as a shield against the awkwardness of everyday life. Humor from that era (most notably, \"Seinfeld\") relies on the audience watching the show with some detachment from the show's typical signature awkward situations.\n\nThe generation of people in the United States who grew up in the 90s, Millennials, are seen as having this same sort of detachment from serious or awkward situations in life, as well. Hipsters are thought to use irony as a shield against those same serious or genuine confrontations.\n\nSome speakers of English complain that the words \"irony\" and \"ironic\" are often misused, though the more general casual usage of a contradiction between circumstance and expectation originates in the 1640s.\n\nDan Shaughnessy wrote:\nWe were always kidding about the use of irony. I maintained that it was best never to use the word because it was too often substituted for coincidence. (Alanis Morissette's song \"Isn't it Ironic?\" cites multiple examples of things that are patently not ironic.)\n\nTim Conley cites the following:\n\"Philip Howard assembled a list of seven implied meanings for the word \"ironically\", as it opens a sentence:\n\nNo agreed-upon method for indicating irony in written text exists, though many ideas have been suggested. For instance, an irony punctuation mark was proposed in the 1580s, when Henry Denham introduced a rhetorical question mark or percontation point, which resembles a reversed question mark. This mark was also advocated by the French poet Marcel Bernhardt at the end of the 19th century, to indicate irony or sarcasm. French writer Hervé Bazin suggested another \"pointe d'ironie\": the Greek letter \"psi\" with a dot below it, while Tom Driberg recommended that ironic statements should be printed in italics that lean the other way from conventional italics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6933854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6933854", "title": "Kalidas Samman", "text": "Kalidas Samman\n\nThe Kalidas Samman () is a prestigious arts award presented annually by the government of Madhya Pradesh in India. The award is named after Kālidāsa, a renowned Classical Sanskrit writer of ancient India. The Kalidas Samman was first awarded in 1980. It was initially conferred in alternate years in the fields of Classical Music, Classical Dance, Theatre and Plastic Arts. From 1986-87 onwards, the awards were presented in all four fields every year. The award is presented for outstanding achievement in one of the four categories.\n\n, Dance and Drama).\n\nThe recipients of the Kalidas Samman include:\n\nBansi Kaul}. ( 2017 october ram gopal bajaj former director of NSD)\nlekshmi vishwanathan 2017-18\n\n2018 - Anjali Ila menon\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "38181580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38181580", "title": "List of fictional colors", "text": "List of fictional colors\n\nThis is a list of fictional colors which were invented for a work of fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5118841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5118841", "title": "List of occult terms", "text": "List of occult terms\n\nThe occult (from the Latin word \"occultus\" \"clandestine, hidden, secret\") is \"knowledge of the hidden\". In common English usage, \"occult\" refers to \"knowledge of the paranormal\", as opposed to \"knowledge of the measurable\", usually referred to as science. The term is sometimes taken to mean knowledge that \"is meant only for certain people\" or that \"must be kept hidden\", but for most practicing occultists it is simply the study of a deeper spiritual reality that extends beyond pure reason and the physical sciences. The terms \"esoteric\" and \"arcane\" can also be used to describe the occult, in addition to their meanings unrelated to the supernatural.\n\nIt also describes a number of magical organizations or orders, the teachings and practices taught by them, and to a large body of current and historical literature and spiritual philosophy related to this subject.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192128", "title": "Naïve art", "text": "Naïve art\n\nNaïve art is any form of visual art that is created by a person who lacks the formal education and training that a professional artist undergoes (in anatomy, art history, technique, perspective, ways of seeing). When this aesthetic is emulated by a trained artist, the result is sometimes called \"primitivism\", \"pseudo-naïve art\", or \"faux naïve art\". Unlike folk art, naïve art does not necessarily evince a distinct cultural context or tradition. Naïve art is recognized, and often imitated, for its childlike simplicity and frankness. Paintings of this kind typically have a flat rendering style with a rudimentary expression of perspective. \n\nOne particularly influential painter of \"naïve art\" was Henri Rousseau (1844–1910), a French Post-Impressionist who was discovered by Pablo Picasso.\n\nNaïve art is often seen as outsider art that is by someone without formal (or little) training or degree. While this was true before the twentieth century, there are now academies for naïve art. Naïve art is now a fully recognized art genre, represented in art galleries worldwide.\n\nThe characteristics of naïve art are an awkward relationship to the formal qualities of painting, especially not respecting the three rules of the perspective (such as defined by the \"Progressive Painters of the Renaissance\"):\nThe results are:\nSimplicity rather than subtlety are all supposed markers of naïve art. It has, however, become such a popular and recognizable style that many examples could be called \"pseudo-naïve\".\n\nWhereas naïve art ideally describes the work of an artist who did not receive formal education in an art school or academy, for example Henri Rousseau or Alfred Wallis, 'pseudo naïve' or 'faux naïve' art describes the work of an artist working in a more imitative or self-conscious mode and whose work can be seen as more imitative than original.\n\nStrict naïvety is unlikely to be found in contemporary artists, given the expansion of Autodidactism as a form of education in modern times. Naïve categorizations are not always welcome by living artists, but this is likely to change as dignifying signals are known. Museums devoted to naïve art now exist in Kecskemét, Hungary; Riga, Latvia; Jaen, Spain; Rio de Janeiro, Brasil; Vicq France and Paris. Examples of English-speaking living artists who acknowledge their naïve style are: Gary Bunt, Lyle Carbajal, Jonathan Kis-Lev, Gabe Langholtz, Gigi Mills, Barbara Olsen, Paine Proffitt, and Alain Thomas.\n\n\"Primitive art\" is another term often applied to art by those without formal training, but is historically more often applied to work from certain cultures that have been judged socially or technologically \"primitive\" by Western academia, such as Native American, subsaharan African or Pacific Island art (see Tribal art). This is distinguished from the self-conscious, \"primitive\" inspired movement primitivism. Another term related to (but not completely synonymous with) naïve art is folk art.\n\nThere also exist the terms \"naïvism\" and \"primitivism\" which are usually applied to professional painters working in the style of naïve art (like Paul Gauguin, Mikhail Larionov, Paul Klee).\n\nNobody knows exactly when the first naive artists appeared on the scene, as from the very first manifestations of art right up to the days of the \"Modern Classic\", naive artists quite unconsciously bequeathed us unmistakable signs of their creative activity. At all events, naive art can be regarded as having occupied an \"official\" position in the annals of twentieth-century art since - at the very latest - the publication of the \"Der Blaue Reiter\", an almanac in 1912. Wassily Kandinsky and Franz Marc, who brought out the almanac, presented 6 reproductions of paintings by \"le Douanier' Rousseau (Henri Rousseau)\", comparing them with other pictorial examples. However, most experts agree that the year that naive art was \"discovered\" was 1885, when the painter Paul Signac became aware of the talents of Henri Rousseau and set about organizing exhibitions of his work in a number of prestigious galleries.\n\nThe Earth Group (\"Grupa Zemlja\") were Croatian artists, architects and intellectuals active in Zagreb from 1929 to 1935. The group was Marxist in orientation and was partly modelled on \"Neue Sachlichkeit\", leading to more stylized forms, and the emergence of Naive painting. The group included the painters Krsto Hegedušić, Edo Kovačević, Omer Mujadžić, Kamilo Ružička, Ivan Tabaković, and Oton Postružnik, the sculptors Antun Augustinčić, Frano Kršinić, and the architect Drago Ibler. The Earth group searched for answers to social issues. Their program emphasised the importance of independent creative expression, and opposed the uncritical copying of foreign styles. Rather than producing art for art's sake, they felt it ought to reflect the reality of life and the needs of the modern community. Activities at the group's exhibitions were increasingly provocative to the government of the day, and in 1935 the group was banned.\n\nA term applied to Croatian naive painters working in or around the village of Hlebine, near the Hungarian border, from about 1930. At this time, according to the World Encyclopedia of Naive Art (1984), the village amounted to little more than ‘a few muddy winding streets and one-storey houses’, but it produced such a remarkable crop of artists that it became virtually synonymous with Yugoslav naive painting.\n\nHlebine is a small picturesque municipality in the North of Croatia that in 1920s became a setting against which a group of self-taught peasants began to develop a unique and somewhat revolutionary style of painting. This was instigated by leading intellectuals of the time such as the poet Antun Gustav Matoš and the biggest name in Croatian literature, Miroslav Krleža, who called for an individual national artistic style that would be independent from Western influences. These ideas were picked up by a celebrated artist from Hlebine – Krsto Hegedušić and he went on to found the Hlebine School of Art in 1930 in search of national “rural artistic expression”.\n\nIvan Generalić was the first master of the Hlebine School, and the first to develop a distinctive personal style, achieving a high standard in his art.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the next generation of Hlebine painters tended to focus more on stylized depictions of country life taken from imagination. Generalić continued to be the dominant figure, and encouraged younger artists, including his son Josip Generalić.\n\nThe Hlebine school became a worldwide phenomenon with the 1952 Venice Biennale and exhibitions in Brazil and Brussels.\n\nSome of the best known naive artists are Dragan Gaži, Ivan Generalić, Josip Generalić, Krsto Hegedušić, Mijo Kovačić, Ivan Lacković-Croata, Franjo Mraz, Ivan Večenaj and Mirko Virius.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21699369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21699369", "title": "Neo-minimalism", "text": "Neo-minimalism\n\nNeo-minimalism is an amorphous art movement of the late 20th and early 21st centuries. It has alternatively been called \"neo-geometric\" or \"neo-geo\" art. Other terms include: Neo-Conceptualism, Neo-Futurism, Neo-Op, Neo-Pop, New Abstraction, Poptometry, Post-Abstractionism, Simulationism, and Smart Art.\n\nThe aspects of \"postmodern art\" that have been described as neo-minimalism (and related terms) involve a general \"reevaluation of earlier art forms.\" As its various titles indicate, the movement draws on earlier mid-to-late-20th century developments in Minimalist art, Abstract Expressionism and its offshoots, plus Pop Art, Op Art, and other threads of artistic development.\n\nContemporary artists who have been linked to the term, or who have been included in shows employing it, include Peter Halley, Philip Taaffe, Lorenzo Belenguer, Ashley Bickerton, David Burdeny, Paul Kuhn, Eve Leader, Peter Schuyff, Christopher Willard and Tim Zuck. The steel sculptures of Richard Serra have been described as \"austere neo-Minimalism...\"\n\nBeyond painting, sculpture and other \"museum art,\" the term has been applied to architecture, design, and music. In architecture, indeed, neo-minimalism has been identified as a part of \"the new orthodoxy...\"\n\n\"After the bacchanal of post-modernism, the time has again come for neo-minimalism, neo-ascetism, neo-denial and sublime poverty.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23129465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23129465", "title": "Nuagisme", "text": "Nuagisme\n\nNuagisme (literally \"cloudism\") is a French art-critical term that was advanced in the 1950s by art critic Julien Alvard (1916-1974). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47357419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47357419", "title": "People's Prize", "text": "People's Prize\n\nThe People's Prize () is a North Korean arts and sciences award. It is awarded by the People's Prize Awarding Commission, which is working directly under the Cabinet of North Korea. The prize can be granted to works of art or people. People's Prize has been an important award in the field of North Korean cinema.\n\nThe works and people that have received the People's Prize cover such varied fields as literature, gymnastics, Korean revolutionary opera, acupuncture and sculpture. The People's Prize has been received by people abroad.\n\nThe People's Prize was instituted on 8 September 1958.\n\nThe first North Korean feature film \"My Hometown\" (1949) was directed by Kang Hongshik. It was the first of a film series to be awarded People's Prize. Kim Il-sung praised many of People's Prize winning movies from 1960s and 1970s of supplying an exhaustive answer to the issue of people's \"\". The Workers' Party gives the award to those North Korean films and film-makers seen as fulfilling the role of an \"excellent textbook\" for the workers party.\n\nSome of the works, which did not become recognized as \"Immortal classics\", did earn People's Prize meant only for the best productions. One such production is a three-part film \"Five Guerilla Brothers\" (1968) directed by Choe Ik-gyu, and overseen by Kim Jong-il himself. Other films overseen by Kim to win the People's Prize were \"A Flowering Village\" and \"A Family of Workers\" (1971). In the case of the \"A Family of Workers\", Kim Jong-il was reportedly not satisfied with the application of the seed theory. However, some of Kim Jong-il's movies, such as \"Sea of Blood\" (1968) and \"Flower girl\" (1972), became \"Immortal classics\".\n\nIn 1965 the Chongryon established Chosun University's teaching staff in Japan received the prize.\n\nMany of the works to obtain People's Prize are still highly regarded in North Korea. \"Reminiscences of the Anti-Japanese Guerillas\" is regarded as classic of literature of the Workers' Party, and was awarded People's Prize in 2012. It is still used in daily ideological study sessions at workplaces, and many of the memoirs have later been made into movies.\n\nPeople's Prize winner Kim Song-gun's major work \"Waves of the Sea Kumgang\" was used as a background for a group photo with Kim Jong-il and Bill Clinton during Clinton's visit to North Korea in 2009. Kim Song-gun received the award for his painting \"Waves of the Sea Kumgang\" in 1999.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19483366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19483366", "title": "Physical art", "text": "Physical art\n\nPhysical art, as contrasted with conceptual art, refers to art that concretely exists in physical reality, in space and time. Its ontological status is that it is a physical object. The art is concretely realized but may be abstract in nature. For example, a painting, sculpture, or performance exists in the physical world. This is contrasted to conceptual art, some but not all kinds of performance art, computer software, or objects of mathematical beauty, such as a mathematical proof, which do not exist in the mental world or in physical world, but have other ontological status, such as in Plato's world of ideals. Here, the art, may be \"realized\" in the physical world, such as a mathematical proof written on a chalkboard, but refer to objects that exists in the mind as concepts, not physical objects. A music performance is physical, while the composition, like computer software, is not.\n"}
{"id": "40476642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40476642", "title": "Poet as legislator", "text": "Poet as legislator\n\nThe theme of poet as legislator reached its grandiose peak in the Romantic era, epitomised in the view of the lonely, alienated poet as 'unacknowledged legislator' to the whole world.\n\nHowever the concept had a long prehistory in Western culture, with classical figures like Orpheus or Solon being appealed to as precedents for the poet's civilising role.\n\nPlato's opposition to poets in his ideal Republic was predicated on the contemporary existence of Homeric expounders who claimed that \"a man ought to regulate the tenour of his whole life by this poet's directions\". Plato only allowed the already censured poet to guide the young, to be an acknowledged legislator at the price of total external control.\n\nLess threatened by the poetic role, the Romans by contrast saw poetry, with Horace, as primarily pleasing, and only secondarily as instructive.\n\nBuilding the view of the fifteenth century Florentine Neoplatonists on the poet as seer, however, Sir Philip Sidney developed a more powerful concept of the poet as overtopping the philosopher, historian and lawyer to stand out as \"the monarch...of all sciences.\n\nSuch a viewpoint was more or less institutionalised in Augustan literature, Johnson's Rasselas maintaining for example that the poet \"must write as the interpreter of nature and the legislator of mankind\" – a fully public, even patriotic role moreover\n\nBy contrast the Romantic view of the poet as \"unackowledged\" legislator emerges at the turm of the century in the writing of William Godwin, with his anarchic view of the poet as \"the legislator of generations and the moral instructor of the world\".\n\nIt received its most memorable formulation however in Percy Bysshe Shelley's 1820 \"A Defence of Poetry\". Shelley maintained that, through their powers of imaginative understanding, 'Poets' (in the widest sense, of ancient Greece) were able to identify and formulate emerging socio-cultural trends; and were as a result \"the hierophants of an unapprehended inspiration...the unacknowledged legislators of the world\".\n\nThe grand claims of the Romantics began to give way in the twentieth century to a more ironic stance – Yeats speaking for his calling in general when he wrote \"We have no gift to set a statesman right\".\n\nWhat remained of the Shelley claim was to be further diminished by Postmodernism's distrust for grand narratives, if not perhaps destroyed entirely.\n"}
{"id": "19878266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19878266", "title": "Poison dress", "text": "Poison dress\n\nThe tale known as \"The Poison Dress\", or \"Embalmed Alive\" features a dress that has in some way been poisoned. This is a recurring theme throughout legends and folk tales of various cultures, including Ancient Greece, Mughal India, and the United States. Although lacking evidence suggesting that some American urban legends are directly linked to the classical tales, they share several common motifs.\n\nThe poison dress motif is similar to the Shirt of Flame. In Greek mythology, when Jason left the sorceress Medea to marry Glauce, King Creon's daughter, Medea took her revenge by sending Glauce a poison dress and a golden coronet, also dipped in poison. This resulted in the death of the princess and, subsequently, the king, when he tried to save her.\n\nThe Shirt of Nessus is smeared with the poisoned blood of the centaur Nessus, which was given to Hercules by Hercules' wife, Deianira. Deianira had been tricked by Nessus and made to believe that the blood would ensure Hercules's faithfulness. According to Sophocles' tragedy \"The Women of Trachis\", Hercules began to perspire when he put on the shirt, which soon clung to his flesh, corroding it. He eventually threw himself onto a pyre on Mount Oeta in extreme agony and burned to death.\n\nNumerous tales of poison khilats (robes of honour) have been recorded in historical, folkloric, and medical texts of British Indianists. Gifts of clothing were common in major life-cycle rituals in pre-industrial India, and these stories revolve around fears of betrayal, inspired by ancient custom of giving khilats to friends and enemies as demonstrations of a social relationship or a political alliance. \n\nIn 1870, Norman Chevers, M.D., a Surgeon-Major to the Bengal Medical Service, authored \"Manual of Medical Jurisprudence for India\", describing unusual crimes involving poisons native to India. The book included three cases of poison khilat death, attributing the cause of one of the deaths to lethal vesicants impregnating the fabric of the robe and entering the victim's sweat pores.\n\nThe theme of the poison dress appears in several American urban legends, which were recorded in folklore collections and journal articles in the 1940s and 1950s. Folklorist Stith Thompson noted the classical prototype in these stories, \"Shirt of Nessus\", and assigned Motif D1402.5, \"Magic shirt burns wearer up\". Jan Harold Brunvand provides the summary of one of the stories:\nFolklorist Ernest Baughman speculated that the story might have been used as adverse publicity to discredit a well-known store, since several variants of the story specifically mention the name of the store at which the dress was supposedly purchased. The legend continued to be told long after its initial popularity, with \"embalming fluid\" sometimes replacing the formaldehyde mentioned in the earlier version. This urban legend was dramatized in the episode \",\" from the crime-scene drama, \"\".\n\nAlso contributing to the poison-dress theme is the prevalence of smallpox-contaminated blankets, which were given to native Americans. Well documented examples include the tainted blankets gifted to Indians at Fort Pitt in 1763.\n"}
{"id": "2169442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169442", "title": "Primitivism", "text": "Primitivism\n\nPrimitivism is a mode of aesthetic idealization that either emulates or aspires to recreate \"primitive\" experience. In Western art, primitivism typically has borrowed from non-Western or prehistoric people perceived to be \"primitive\", such as Paul Gauguin's inclusion of Tahitian motifs in paintings and ceramics. Borrowings from primitive art has been important to the development of modern art. Primitivism has often been critiqued for reproducing the racist stereotypes about non-European peoples used by Europeans to justify colonial conquest.\n\nThe term \"primitivism\" is often applied to other professional painters working in the style of naïve or folk art like Henri Rousseau, Mikhail Larionov, Paul Klee and others.\n\nPrimitivism is a utopian idea that is distinctive for its reverse teleology. The utopian end toward which primitivists aspire usually lies in a notional \"state of nature\" in which their ancestors existed (chronological primitivism), or in the supposed natural condition of the peoples that live beyond \"civilization\" (cultural primitivism).\n\nThe desire of the \"civilized\" to be restored to a \"state of nature\" is as longstanding as civilization itself. In antiquity the superiority of \"primitive\" life principally found expression in the so-called Myth of the Golden Age, depicted in the genre of European poetry and visual art known as the Pastoral. Primitivist idealism between gained new impetus with the onset of industrialization and the European encounter with hitherto unknown peoples after the colonization of the Americas, the Pacific and other parts of what would become the modern imperial system.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, the idealization of indigenous peoples were chiefly used as a rhetorical device to criticize aspects of European society. In the realm of aesthetics, however, the eccentric Italian philosopher, historian and jurist Giambattista Vico (1688–1744) was the first to argue that primitive peoples were closer to the sources of poetry and artistic inspiration than \"civilized\" or modern man. Vico was writing in the context of the celebrated contemporary debate, known as the great Quarrel of the Ancients and the Moderns. This included debates over the merits of the poetry of Homer and the Bible as against modern vernacular literature.\n\nIn the 18th century, the German scholar Friedrich August Wolf identified the distinctive character of oral literature and located Homer and the Bible as examples of folk or oral tradition (\"Prolegomena to Homer\", 1795). Vico and Wolf's ideas were developed further in the beginning of the 19th century by Herder. Nevertheless, although influential in literature, such arguments were known to a relatively small number of educated people and their impact was limited or non-existent in the sphere of visual arts.\n\nThe 19th century saw for the first time the emergence of historicism, or the ability to judge different eras by their own context and criteria. A result of this, new schools of visual art arose that aspired to hitherto unprecedented levels of historical fidelity in setting and costumes. Neoclassicism in visual art and architecture was one result. Another such \"historicist\" movement in art was the Nazarene movement in Germany, which took inspiration from the so-called Italian \"primitive\" school of devotional paintings (i.e., before the age of Raphael and the discovery of oil painting).\n\nWhere conventional academic painting (after Raphael) used dark glazes, highly selective, idealized forms, and rigorous suppression of details, the Nazarenes used clear outlines, bright colors, and paid meticulous attention to detail. This German school had its English counterpart in the Pre-Raphaelites, who were primarily inspired by the critical writings of John Ruskin, who admired the painters before Raphael (such as Botticelli) and who also recommended painting outdoors, hitherto unheard of.\n\nTwo developments shook the world of visual art in the mid-19th century. The first was the invention of the photographic camera, which arguably spurred the development of Realism in art. The second was a discovery in the world of mathematics of non-Euclidean geometry, which overthrew the 2000-year-old seeming absolutes of Euclidean geometry and threw into question conventional Renaissance perspective by suggesting the possible existence of multiple dimensional worlds and perspectives in which things might look very different.\n\nThe discovery of possible new dimensions had the opposite effect of photography and worked to counteract realism. Artists, mathematicians, and intellectuals now realized that there were other ways of seeing things beyond what they had been taught in Beaux Arts Schools of Academic painting, which prescribed a rigid curriculum based on the copying of idealized classical forms and held up Renaissance perspective painting as the culmination of civilization and knowledge. Beaux Arts academies held than non-Western peoples had had no art or only inferior art.\n\nIn rebellion against this dogmatic approach, Western artists began to try to depict realities that might exist in a world beyond the limitations of the three dimensional world of conventional representation mediated by classical sculpture. They looked to Japanese and Chinese art, which they regarded as learned and sophisticated and did not employ Renaissance one-point perspective. Non-euclidean perspective and tribal art fascinated Western artists who saw in them the still-enchanted portrayal of the spirit world. They also looked to the art of untrained painters and to children's art, which they believed depicted interior emotional realities that had been ignored in conventional, cook-book-style academic painting.\n\nTribal and other non-European art also appealed to those who were unhappy with the repressive aspects of European culture, as pastoral art had done for millennia. Imitations of tribal or archaic art also fall into the category of nineteenth-century \"historicism\", as these imitations strive to reproduce this art in an authentic manner. Actual examples of tribal, archaic, and folk art were prized by both creative artists and collectors.\n\nThe painting of Paul Gauguin and Pablo Picasso and the music of Igor Stravinsky are frequently cited as the most prominent examples of primitivism in art. Stravinsky's \"The Rite of Spring\", is \"primitivist\" in so far as its programmatic subject is a pagan rite: a human sacrifice in pre-Christian Russia. It employs harsh dissonance and loud, repetitive rhythms to depict \"Dionysian\" modernism, i.e., abandonment of inhibition (restraint standing for civilization). Nevertheless, Stravinsky was a master of learned classical tradition and worked within its bounds. In his later work he adopted a more \"Apollonian\" neoclassicism, to use Nietzsche's terminology, although in his use of serialism he still rejects 19th-century convention. In modern visual art, Picasso's work is also understood as rejecting Beaux Arts artistic expectations and expressing primal impulses, whether he worked in a cubist, neo-classical, or tribal-art-influenced vein.\n\nPrimitivism gained a new impetus from anxieties about technological innovation but above all from the \"Age of Discovery\", which introduced the West to previously unknown peoples and opened the doors to colonialism. As the European Enlightenment. With the decline of feudalism, philosophers started questioning many fixed medieval assumptions about human nature, the position of humans in society, and the strictures of Christianity, and especially Catholicism. They began questioning the nature of humanity and its origins through a discussion of the natural man, which had intrigued theologians since the European encounter with the New World.\n\nFrom the 18th century, Western thinkers and artists continued to engage in the retrospective tradition, that is \"the conscious search in history for a more deeply expressive, permanent human nature and cultural structure in contrast to the nascent modern realities\". Their search led them to parts of the world that they believed constituted alternatives to modern civilization.\n\nThe invention of the steamboat and other innovations in global transportation in the 19th century brought the indigenous cultures of the European colonies and their artifacts into metropolitan centres of empire. Many western-trained artists and connoisseurs were fascinated by these objects, attributing their features and styles to \"primitive\" forms of expression; especially the perceived absence of linear perspective, simple outlines, the presence of symbolic signs such as the hieroglyph, emotive distortions of the figure, and the perceived energetic rhythms resulting from the use of repetitive ornamental pattern. According to recent cultural critics, it was primarily the cultures of Africa and the Oceanic islands that provided artists an answer to what these critics call their \"white, Western, and preponderantly male quest\" for the \"elusive ideal\" of the primitive, \"whose very condition of desirability resides in some form of distance and difference.\" These energizing stylistic attributes, present in the visual arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Indians of the Americas, could also be found in the archaic and peasant art of Europe and Asia, as well.\n\nPainter Paul Gauguin sought to escape European civilization and technology, taking up residence in the French colony of Tahiti and adopted a stripped-back lifestyle which he felt to be more natural than was possible in Europe.\n\nGauguin's search for the primitive was manifestly a desire for sexual freedom, and this is reflected in such paintings as \"The Spirit of the Dead Keeps Watch\" (1892), \"Parau na te Varua ino\" (1892), \"Anna the Javanerin\" (1893), \"Te Tamari No Atua\" (1896), and \"Cruel Tales\" (1902), among others. Gauguin's view of Tahiti as an earthly Arcadia of free love, gentle climate, and naked nymphs is quite similar, if not identical, to that of the classical pastoral of academic art, which has shaped Western perceptions of rural life for millennia. One of his Tahitian paintings is called \"Tahitian Pastoral\" and another \"Where Do We Come From\". In this way Gauguin extended the academic pastoral tradition of Beaux Arts schools which had hitherto been based solely on idealized European figures copied from Ancient Greek sculpture to include non-European models.\n\nGauguin also believed he was celebrating Tahitian society and defending the Tahitians against European colonialism. Feminist postcolonial critics, however, decry the fact that Gauguin took adolescent mistresses, one of them as young as thirteen. They remind us that like many European men of his time and later, Gauguin saw freedom, especially sexual freedom, strictly from the male colonizer's point of view. Using Gauguin as an example of what is \"wrong\" with primitivism, these critics conclude that, in their view, elements of primitivism include the \"dense interweave of racial and sexual fantasies and power both colonial and patriarchal\". To these critics, primitivism such as Gauguin's demonstrates fantasies about racial and sexual difference in \"an effort to essentialize notions of primitiveness\" with \"Otherness\". Thus, they contend, primitivism becomes a process analogous to Exoticism and Orientalism, as critqued by Edward Said, in which European imperialism and monolithic and degrading views of the \"East\" by the \"West\" defined colonized peoples and their cultures.\n\nIn 1905-06, a small group of artists began to study art from Sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania, in part because of the compelling works of Paul Gauguin that were gaining visibility in Paris. Gauguin's powerful posthumous retrospective exhibitions at the Salon d'Automne in Paris in 1903 and an even larger one in 1906 exerted a strong influence. Artists including Maurice de Vlaminck, André Derain, Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso grew increasingly intrigued and inspired by the select objects they encountered. \n\nPablo Picasso, in particular, explored Iberian sculpture, African sculpture, African traditional masks, and other historical works including the Mannerist paintings of El Greco, resulting in his masterpiece \"Les Demoiselles D'Avignon\" and, eventually, the invention of Cubism.\n\nThe generalizing term \"primitivism\" tends to obscure the distinct contributions to modern art from these various visual traditions.\n\nAlthough primitivism in art is usually regarded as a Western phenomenon, the structure of primitivist idealism can be found in the work of non-Western and especially anticolonial artists. The desire to recover a notional and idealized past in which humans had been at one with nature is here connected to a critique of the impact of Western modernity on colonized societies. These artists often critique Western stereotypes about \"primitive\" colonized peoples at the same time as they yearn to recover pre-colonial modes of experience. Anticolonialism fuses with primitivism's reverse teleology to produce art that is distinct from the primitivism of Western artists which usually reinforces rather than critiques colonial stereotypes.\n\nThe work of artists connected with the Négritude movement in particular demonstrates this tendency. \"Négritude\" was a movement of neo-African idealism and political agitation that was begun by francophone intellectuals and artists on both sides of the Atlantic in the 1930s, and which spread across Africa and the African diaspora in subsequent years. They self-consciously idealized pre-colonial Africa, something that took many forms. This typically consisted in rejecting overweening European rationalism and the associated ravages of colonialism while positing pre-colonial African societies as having had a more communal and organic basis. The work of the Cuban artist Wifredo Lam is particularly notable among the visual artists of negritude. Lam met Pablo Picasso and the European surrealists while living in Paris in the 1930s. When he returned to Cuba in 1941, Lam was emboldened to create images in which humans, animals, and nature combined in lush and dynamic tableaux. In his iconic work of 1943, \"The Jungle\", Lam's characteristic polymorphism recreates a fantastical jungle scene with African motifs between stalks of cane. It vividly captures the way in which negritude's neo-African idealism is connected to a history of plantation slavery centred on the production of sugar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555539", "title": "Production designer", "text": "Production designer\n\nIn film and television, a production designer (PD) is the person responsible for the overall visual look of the production. Production designers have a key creative role in the creation of motion pictures and television. Working directly with the director, cinematographer, and producer, they must select the settings and style to visually tell the story. The term \"production designer\" was coined by William Cameron Menzies while he was working on the film \"Gone with the Wind\". Previously (and often subsequently) the people with the same responsibilities were called \"art directors\". It is sometimes also described as \"scenic design\" or \"set design\".\n\nIn the United States and British Columbia, production designers are represented by the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees local 800, the Art Directors Guild. The production design credit must be requested by the producer, prior to completion of photography, and submitted to the Art Directors Guild Board of Directors for the credit approval. \nIn the rest of Canada, production designers are represented by the Director's Guild of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4613465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4613465", "title": "Punk visual art", "text": "Punk visual art\n\nPunk visual art is artwork associated with the punk subculture. It often graces punk rock album covers, flyers for punk concerts, punk zines and punk websites. It is also sometimes showcased in art galleries and exhibition spaces.\n\nThe main aesthetic of punk visual art seems to be to either shock, create a sense of empathy or revulsion, make a grand point with an acidic or sarcastic wit. One characteristic associated with punk art is the usage of letters cut out from newspapers and magazines, a device previously associated with kidnap and ransom notes. A prominent example of that style is the cover of the Sex Pistols' \"Never Mind the Bollocks\" album designed by Jamie Reid. Images and figures are also sometimes cut and pasted from magazines and newspapers to create a collage.\n\nLos Angeles artist Mark Vallen has said:\n\nPunk had a unique and complex aesthetic. It was steeped in shock value and revered what was considered ugly. The whole look of punk was designed to disturb and disrupt the happy complacency of the wider society. Outside of punk's torn and safety pinned anti-fashion statements, this impulse to outrage was never more apparent than on punk album covers.\n\nIn New York City in the mid-1970s, there was much overlap between the punk music and art scenes. In 1978, many of the visual artists who were regulars at CBGB and other punk-related music venues participated in a large punk art exhibition in Washington, DC. Among those featured were John Holmstrom and Legs McNeil of the fanzine \"Punk\",; Alan Vega (a.k.a. Alan Suicide), whose electronic junk sculpture predated his role in the band Suicide; photographers Marcia Resnick and Jimmy De Sana; tattoo artist Ruth Marten; filmmaker Amos Poe; and artists Tom Otterness and Beth and Scott B, who were associated with \"X Magazine\".\n\nAlso in 1978 in New York City, a related, one-night punk art show featuring films, performances and slide shows included works by Robert Mapplethorpe and Diego Cortez. Other early punk art exhibits included the \"Times Square Show\" (1980) and \"New York New Wave\" at PS 1 (1981). Punk art found an ongoing home on the New York's lower east side with the establishment of ABC No Rio Gallery in 1980. The punk aesthetic was a dominant strand from 1982 to 1986 in the art galleries of the city's East Village.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2077282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077282", "title": "Purism", "text": "Purism\n\nPurism, referring to the arts, was a movement that took place between 1918 and 1925 that influenced French painting and architecture. Purism was led by Amédée Ozenfant and Charles Edouard Jeanneret (Le Corbusier). Ozenfant and Le Corbusier created a variation of the Cubist movement and called it Purism: where objects are represented as elementary forms devoid of detail. The main concepts were presented in their book \"Après le Cubisme\" (After Cubism) published in 1918.\n\nLe Corbusier and Ozenfant were the creators of Purism. Fernand Léger was a principle associate. Purism was an attempt to restore regularity in a war-torn France post World War I. Unlike what they saw as 'decorative' fragmentation of objects in Cubism, Purism proposed a style of painting where elements were represented as robust simplified forms with minimal detail, while embracing technology and the machine.\n\nPurism culminated in Le Corbusier’s \"Pavillon de l'Esprit Nouveau\" (Pavilion of the New Spirit), constructed for the International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts in 1925. This included the work of Cubists Juan Gris and Jacques Lipchitz. Following this exhibition the relationship between Le Corbusier and Ozenfant declined.\n\nOzenfant and Le Corbusier contributed extensively to an art magazine called \"L'Esprit Nouveau\" from 1920 to 1925 serving as a platform for propaganda towards their Purist movement.\n\nThe Purist Manifesto lays out the rules Ozenfant and Le Corbusier created to govern the Purist movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7524684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7524684", "title": "Showpiece", "text": "Showpiece\n\nA showpiece is:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5134465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134465", "title": "Social practice", "text": "Social practice\n\nSocial practice is a theory within psychology that seeks to determine the link between practice and context within social situations. Emphasized as a commitment to change, social practice occurs in two forms: activity and inquiry. Most often applied within the context of human development, social practice involves knowledge production and the theorization and analysis of both institutional and intervention practices.\n\nThrough research, Sylvia Scribner sought to understand and create a decent life for all people regardless of geographical position, race, gender, and social class. Using anthropological field research and psychological experimentation, Scribner tried to dig deeper into human mental functioning and its creation through social practice in different societal and cultural settings. She therefore aimed to enact social reform and community development through an ethical orientation that accounts for the interaction of historical and societal conditions of different institutional settings with human social and mental functioning and development.\n\nSocial practice involves engagement with communities of interest by creating a practitioner-community relationship wherein there remains a focus on the skills, knowledge, and understanding of people in their private, family, community, and working lives. In this approach to social practice, activity is used for social change without the agenda of research. Activity theory suggests the use of a system of participants that work toward an object or goal that brings about some form of change or transformation in the community.\n\nWithin research, social practice aims to integrate the individual with his or her surrounding environment while assessing how context and culture relate to common actions and practices of the individual. Just as social practice is an activity itself, inquiry focuses on how social activity occurs and identifies its main causes and outcomes. It has been argued that research be developed as a specific theory of social practice through which research purposes are defined not by philosophical paradigms but by researchers' commitments to specific forms of social action.\n\nIn education, social practice refers to the use of adult-child interaction for observation in order to propose intentions and gauge the reactions of others. Under social practice, literacy is seen as a key dimension of community regeneration and a part of the wider lifelong learning agenda. In particular, literacy is considered to be an area of instruction for the introduction of social practice through social language and social identity. According to social practice in education, literacy and numeracy are complex capabilities rather than a simple set of basic skills. Furthermore, adult learners are more likely to develop and retain knowledge, skills, and understanding if they see them as relevant to their own problems and challenges. Social practice perspectives focus on local literacies and how literacy practices are affected by settings and groups interacting around print.\n\nAs literature is repeatedly studied in education and critiqued in discourse, many believe that it should be a field of social practice as it evokes emotion and discussion of social interactions and social conditions. Those that believe literature may be construed as a form of social practice believe that literature and society are essentially related to each other. As such, they attempt to define specific sociological practices of literature and share expressions of literature as works comprising text, institution, and individual. Overall, literature becomes a realm of social exchange through fiction, poetry, politics, and history.\n\nSocial practice is also considered a medium for making art. Social practice art came about in response to increasing pressure within art education to work collaboratively through social and participatory formats from artists' desires and art viewers' increasing media sophistication. \"Social practice art\" is a term for artwork that uses social engagement as a primary medium, and is also referred to by a range of different names: socially engaged art, community art, new-genre public art, participatory art, interventionist art, and collaborative art.\n\nArtists working in the medium of social practice develop projects by inviting collaboration with individuals, communities, institutions, or a combination of these, creating participatory art that exists both within and outside of the traditional gallery and museum system. Artists working in social practice art co-create their work with a specific audience or propose critical interventions within existing social systems that inspire debate or catalyze social exchange. Social practice art work focuses on the interaction between the audience, social systems, and the artist through topics such as aesthetics, ethics, collaboration, persona, media strategies, and social activism. The social interaction component inspires, drives, or, in some instances, completes the project. Although projects may incorporate traditional studio media, they are realized in a variety of visual or social forms (depending on variable contexts and participant demographics) such as performance, social activism, or mobilizing communities towards a common goal.\n"}
{"id": "43866742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43866742", "title": "Social practice (art)", "text": "Social practice (art)\n\nSocial practice is an art medium focusing on engagement through human interaction and social discourse. Since people and their relationships form the medium of such works – rather than a particular process of production – social engagement is not only a part of a work’s organization, execution, or continuation, but also an aesthetic in itself: of interaction and development. Socially engaged art aims to create social and/or political change through collaboration with individuals, communities, and institutions in the creation of participatory art. The discipline values the process of a work over any finished product or object. \n\nArtists working in social practice co-create their work with a specific audience or propose critical interventions within existing social systems to inspire debate or catalyze social exchange. The large overlap between social practice and pedagogy demonstrates the need for art education to embrace collaborative practice. Social practice work focuses on the interaction between the audience, social systems, and the artist through aesthetics, ethics, collaboration, methodology, antagonism, media strategies, and social activism. The social interaction component inspires, drives, or, in some instances, completes the project. Although projects may incorporate traditional studio media, they are realized in a variety of visual or social forms (depending on variable contexts and participant demographics) such as performance, social activism, or mobilizing communities towards a common goal. The diversity of approaches pose specific challenges for documenting social practice work, as the aesthetic of human interaction changes rapidly and involves many people simultaneously. Consequently, images frequently fail to do justice to the engagement and interactions that take place during a project.\n\nUntil 2005, the term \"social practice\" was used in a branch of social theory considering human relationships to each other and to the larger society as \"practices\". The term \"art and social practice\" was institutionalized in 2005 with the creation of the Social Practice MFA concentration at the California College of the Arts, followed by other institutions of higher education offering similar degrees. Social practice art as a medium has been referenced in the \"New York Times\", \"Artforum\", \"ArtNews,\" and \"Art Practical.\" As an emerging field, social practice can encompass a variety of terms: public practice, socially engaged art, community art, new-genre public art, participatory art, interventionist art, collaborative art, relational art and dialogical aesthetics.\n\nSocially engaged art differs from its art historical ancestors in that it is not a specific movement or style, but rather a way of defining a new social order. Thousands of existing social practice projects across the world have taken vastly different approaches to their combination of publics, methodologies, aesthetics, and environments, yet these projects all share an aesthetic of human interaction and development. The end products of such works are not commodities, but rather processes for constructive social change. Some foundational characteristics of socially engaged art remain consistently relevant to a diverse range of works. For an artist or producer to create a successful social practice work, they must consider the unique context in which they are working, and identify specific characteristics of the community and environment. They must also balance aesthetic and methodology in their work, align the timeline of a project with its purpose: a quick-impact ephemeral work, or the regularity of a longitudinal work. \n\nSocial practice artists and producers aim to affect their community and environment in a real (rather than symbolic) way that enables social and political change. Each project is tailored to the community and environment in which it will take place. In social practice the identification of the public, or audience, precedes the project's development. It is impossible to create a project founded upon engagement and collaboration without first making assumptions as to who will be involved. \"Who\" the artist or producer wishes to engage and \"where\" they wish to engage are therefore core characteristics of socially engaged art. \n\nEnvironment could be described on two primary levels: the broader community, city, or region; and the immediate space being occupied – a street, museum, studio, or other area. To understand the context in which they are working, artists and producers must develop relationships with individuals, organizations and institutions that intersect many different parts of their community and environment. One theorist makes the comparison between socially engaged art projects to exotic fruit, stating that both “usually travel poorly when “exported” to other locations to be replicated.” The community and environment are therefore not merely external influencers on a specific project – they are inherent characteristics.\n\nFor much of art history, a work's aesthetic has been upheld as the primary measure of its quality. The 20 century broadened the public understanding of art to consider concept and process alongside aesthetic, and by the new millennium the tables had turned to emphasize process over product: one of the defining characteristics of socially engaged art. Process is determined by method; thus social practice producers and artists are often more concerned with the methodology rather than the aesthetic of their work. Many argue that social practice has created a new aesthetic of its own: an aesthetic of human interaction and development that is based not on spectatorship but on participation. This aesthetic captures the diverse methods employed by socially engaged art and encompasses not only traditional methods of painting, photography, architecture, and performance; but also nontraditional forms borrowed from other disciplines, such as festivals, conferences, schools, and protests. \n\nAesthetics are typically hierarchical, highly subjective, and greatly determined by external influencers, such as the imagery of a given culture, or the relationship between appearance and market value. To escape these external influencers, aesthetics can also be defined in terms of “aesthesis,” an autonomous realm of experience and judgment that cannot be reduced to logic, reason or morality but is of great importance to humankind. Aesthetics have the capacity to critique our beliefs and values by restructuring our perception of the world. Their application can achieve one of the core aims of socially engaged art: the definition of a new social order characterized by engagement and participation.\n\nMethodology in socially engaged art refers to the set of practices used throughout the process and production of a project. The method is no longer a means to an end, but an end within itself: the experience of creation and experimentation is a central element of social practice. While aesthetics reframe ideas and beliefs outside of the disciplines in which we have accepted them, methodology takes the frameworks of those disciplines to produce new aesthetics. Socially engaged art has embraced conferences, urban regeneration projects, pedagogical projects, and protests, which are all frameworks borrowed from other disciplines.\n\nWhile aesthetics and methodology can have conflicting interests, there are important reasons why artists and producers should seek to integrate the two. Methodology will engage the public, but aesthetics will play a large role in determining how a project is interpreted.\nWhile aesthetics and methodology can have conflicting interests, there are important reasons why artists and producers should seek to integrate the two. Ultimately, the two can work together to enhance each other: the aesthetic value of a project can increase its social function, while the method can heighten the aesthetic experience through public engagement.\n\nThe method and aesthetic adopted in social practice work is greatly influenced by intended timeline. Length determines the type of social and/or political change the artist aims to achieve, the types of dialogue created, and the ways in which an individual can engage with a work. The length of a project is also extremely situational. Some projects aim to have an immediate impact, while others prefer to build relationships that foster change over an extended period.\n\nEphemeral projects are typically characterized by temporary gatherings and occupation of space. They create situations in which social interactions are momentary and not expected to become long-lasting. The immediate impact of ephemeral works often means they take place around a particular issue or concept. Protests, festivals, conferences, or pop-up performances have all been used as mediums for ephemeral social practice work.\n\nLongitudinal projects are those built upon regular and reoccurring social interactions and dialogue, organized with the intention to be sustained over a longer period. They typically occupy the same space, and are characterized by deeper partnerships and relationships that are gradually built over the course of the work’s existence. As a result, many long-term social practice projects include a pedagogical element in their work. Classes, urban regeneration work, schools, or institutional partnerships are all examples of longitudinal projects.\n\nMuch social practice has taken place in the gap between the public and cultural institutions, which has been identified and acted upon as a new site for artistic intervention. However institutions, such as museums, foundations, non-profit organizations, and universities all play a significant role in supporting and amplifying social practice work. Many institutions constitute an extension of the public sphere, regardless of whether they are public or private in their ownership and operation. Partnerships between socially engaged art and contemporary institutions have thus widened the public sphere, and provided mutual benefits to the institution, the community, those engaged in the project, and the producers.\n\nIn the traditional art world, market value and a work's collectability are deeply intertwined. This has posed a challenge to socially engaged artists seeking museum and gallery support, since many works go against the capitalist market to challenge traditional collecting practices. As a result, many socially engaged artists and producers must look elsewhere for support. The expansion of the art world in the 21 century has seen the emergence of alternative supports, such as non-profit organizations and the ever-growing biennale network. Other partners include art fairs, or commissions and residencies associated with universities, foundations, and urban regeneration. Artists and producers have also formed their own means of support, as artist-run exhibition spaces, journals and blogs demonstrate.\n\nUniversities often partner with producers, artists and theorists of socially engaged art. These relationships offer mutual benefits for both academic institutions and artists. Universities offer artists employment security, the support and validation often required for establishing grant-based and corporate partnerships, and access to a high interdisciplinary environment that not only accepts, but encourages, experimentation. Artists in turn provide knowledge, skills and research to support individuals and broader programs within the university. As producers and scholars, they generate both new theory and new practice for the field of socially engaged art.\n\nExhibitions of social practice art often include multiple artists or art collectives, and rather than exhibiting art objects, the artist’s participatory role in their work as well as their collaboration with the public becomes the exhibition. Several conferences are held nationally and internationally to bring together artists and academics involved in the field. They have featured installation, performance art, film, dance, art talks, forums, and gallery exhibitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28852965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28852965", "title": "The Young Friends Society of African Diasporan Institutions", "text": "The Young Friends Society of African Diasporan Institutions\n\nThe Young Friends Society of African Diasporan Institutions (YFS) exists to support, serve and promote African Diasporan cultural, historical, economic, educational, and community-based institutions through fundraising, event planning, educational and social programming. YFS also serves as a vehicle to promote networking opportunities and leadership development among its members to further strengthen the communities where these institutions are located. YFS is composed of individuals in their twenties, thirties and forties.\n\nAfrican Diasporan Institutions are cultural, historic, educational, and economic institutions and organizations that are located in cities around the world that have large populations of people African descent. These institutions include but are not limited to museums, historical societies, theatre companies, dance companies, libraries and archives and performing arts groups.\n\nYFS began as an auxiliary group at the African American Museum of Philadelphia (AAMP). While working as the educational coordinator at AAMP, Shantrelle P. Lewis witnessed a lack of young adult visitors. Following in the tradition of other arts and cultural organizations, Lewis developed a plan to attract a younger demographic that could inject a new energy into the museum. YFS held its inaugural event, Soul Simpatico, in October 2005, and within a year it had brought in 100 new members to AAMP.\n\nAs the organization grew, it became apparent that similar institutions in Philadelphia needed innovative ways to engage young adults looking for alternatives to the conventional nightlife scene of clubs and bars. In January 2007, YFS incorporated as a Pennsylvania non-profit organization and secured 501(c)3 status by June of the same year. Over the next two years, YFS partnered with various cultural organizations in Philadelphia, grew its membership base and held several successful events. YFS also started chapters in New Orleans and New York City, with plans to expand domestically and internationally.\n\n1) Institution Building: YFS will help to ensure the survival and growth of important institutions. Through the development of a young core of members, supporters and sponsors, YFS will assist in sustaining African Diasporan Institutions for future generations. Each YFS chapter will invite up to 7 institutions in its geographic area to become a partner institution. These institutions will receive direct support and benefits as a partner institution of the Young Friends Society.\n\n2) Cross-cultural association: Over the next decade, YFS will establish chapters in major cities around the African Diaspora. This will serve as a link between the various people and cultures that exist within the African World. It serves to educate people about the similarities and variations of people of African descent. Chapters will be established in the U.S., Caribbean, South America, Europe and the Continent of Africa.\n\n3) Individual Support: YFS serves as a major catalyst for leadership development and interaction amongst like-minded individuals who are passionate about achieving their own unique potential and developing a global society. Unlike other networking forums that tend to serve individuals from a narrow demographic, YFS will bridge positive young people from diverse socio-economic, political, cultural, intellectual and religious backgrounds to support culture. In the process, it will also provide support for its members and their respective endeavors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13878013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13878013", "title": "Verisimilitude (fiction)", "text": "Verisimilitude (fiction)\n\nVerisimilitude is the \"lifelikeness\" or believability of a work of fiction. The word comes from meaning truth and \"similis\" meaning similar. Language philosopher Steve Neale distinguishes between two types: cultural verisimilitude, meaning plausibility of the fictional work within the cultural and/or historical context of the real world, outside of the work; and generic verisimilitude, meaning plausibility of a fictional work within the bounds of its own genre (so that, for example, characters regularly singing about their feelings is a believable action within the fictional universe of a musical).\n\nVerisimilitude has its roots in both the Platonic and Aristotelian dramatic theory of mimesis, the imitation or representation of nature. For a piece of art to hold significance or persuasion for an audience, according to Plato and Aristotle, it must have grounding in reality.\n\nThis idea laid the foundation for the evolution of mimesis into verisimilitude in the Middle Ages particularly in Italian heroic poetry. During this time more attention was invested in pinning down fiction with theory. This shift manifested itself in increased focus on unity in heroic poetry. No matter how fictionalized the language of a poem might be, through verisimilitude, poets had the ability to present their works in a way that could still be believed in the real world. Verisimilitude at this time also became connected to another Aristotelian dramatic principle, decorum: the realistic union of style and subject. Poetic language of characters in a work of fiction as a result had to be appropriate in terms of the age, gender or race of the character.\n\nThis classical notion of verisimilitude focused on the role of the reader in his/her engagement in the fictional work of art. The goal of the novel therefore, as it became a more popular form of verisimilitude, was to instruct and offer a pleasurable experience to the reader. The novel had to facilitate the reader's willingness to suspend his/her disbelief, a phrase used originally by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Verisimilitude became the means to accomplish this mindset. To promote the willing suspension of disbelief, a fictional text needed to have credibility. Anything physically possible in the worldview of the reader or humanity's experience was defined as credible. Through verisimilitude then, the reader was able to glean truth even in fiction because it would reflect realistic aspects of human life.\n\nThe idea that credibility, and in turn verisimilitude, rested on the reader's sense of the world encountered opposition because of the dilemma it created: every reader and every person does not have the same knowledge of the world. This kind of theory suggests that the novel consisted of distinct parts. The way novelists avoided this dilemma initially was by adding a preface to the work of fiction stating its credibility or by including more references to known history within the text of the fiction. \n\nAs more criticism on the novel surfaced, the inclusion of a preface or a scattering of some historical references was not enough to engage the reader. French theorist Pierre Nicolas Desmolets' notion that the author should obscure the fiction or art of the novel to avoid destroying illusion: the made up attributes of the text. The novel before was perceived as a work of distinct parts. Now the novel was not thought of in terms of separate parts, but rather as a work as a whole. The novel was a total illusion of life within itself. It was a closed fictional world that could establish its own rules and laws. Verisimilitude then became deeply rooted in structure. The focus of credibility did not rest solely on the external world of the reader; the novel's credibility then could be seen in terms of the novel's own internal logic. \n\nThe focus of verisimilitude was no longer concerned with the reader. The focus shifted to the novel itself. Verisimilitude was a technical problem to resolve within the context of the novel's fictional world. Detail centered on the creation of a logical cause web in the text that then could reinforce the overarching structural logic of the plot.\n\nDuring the rise of the postmodern novel, some critics suggested that truth or significance lies beyond verisimilitude and that only by complete non-discursive freedom to encounter a novel could meaning truly be discovered. Verisimilitude, they argued, was not the first aspect of the text a reader experiences. The reader instead first tries to observe if the novel works as an intelligible narrative. The lens of verisimilitude is applied only after the reader establishes if the novel makes sense or not.\n\nThe reader can understand the novel as art but not necessarily as a cultural construction. The novel should challenge the construction of reality. In this sense, it was possible for art to precede reality. Reality had to catch up to the text rather than text staying present to reality. A boundary existed establishing that text does not belong to a current time or situation. In the postmodern context, verisimilitude was less of a concern for the novelist according to some critics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2780760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2780760", "title": "Verism", "text": "Verism\n\nVerism is the artistic preference of contemporary everyday subject matter instead of the heroic or legendary in art and literature; it is a form of realism. The word comes from Latin \"verus\" (true).\n\nVerism first appeared as the artistic preference of the Roman people during the late Roman Republic (147–30 BC) and was often used for Republican portraits or for the head of “pseudo-athlete” sculptures. Verism, often described as \"warts and all,\" shows the imperfections of the subject, such as warts, wrinkles, and furrows. It should be clearly noted that the term veristic in no way implies that these portraits are more \"real.\" Rather, they too can be highly exaggerated or idealised, but within a different visual idiom, one which favours wrinkles, furrows, and signs of age as indicators of gravity and authority. Age during the Late Republic was very highly valued and was synonymous with power, since one of the only ways to hold power in Roman society was to be part of the Senate. Yet to be in the Senate, a Roman patrician had to be at least forty-two years of age, which in ancient times was considered a mature stage of life.It is debated among scholars and art historians whether these veristic portraits were truly blunt records of actual features or exaggerated features designed to make a statement about a person’s personality. It is widely held in academia that in the ancient world physiognomy revealed the character of a person; thus, the personality characteristics seen in veristic busts could be taken to express certain virtues very much admired during the Republic. However,scholars can never know for certain the accuracy of portrait renditions made long before their own era.\n\nAs stated in the section above, verism first appeared during the Late Republic. The subjects of veristic portraiture were almost exclusively men, and these men were usually of advanced age, for generally it was elders who held power in the Republic. However, women are also seen in veristic portraiture, though to a lesser extent, and they too were almost always depicted as elderly. A key example of this is a marble head found at Palombara, Spain. Carved between 40 BCE and 30 BCE, during the decade of the civil war that followed Julius Caesar’s assassination, the woman’s face shows her advanced age. The artist carved the woman with sunken cheeks and pouches under her eyes to illustrate her age, much like male veristic portraiture of the time.\n\nVerism, while the height of fashion during the Late Republican era, quickly fell into obscurity when Augustus and the rest of the Julio-Claudian dynasty (44 BC-68 AD) came to power. During this imperial reign, Greek Classical sculpture that featured \"eternal youth\" was favored over verism. It wasn’t until after the suicide of Nero in 68 AD that verism was revived.During the Year of the Four Emperors (68-69 AD) that resulted from Nero’s suicide, when Galba, Vitellius, and Otho all grappled for the throne, verism made a resurgence, as seen in obverse portraits of Galba on bronze coins or marble busts of Vitellius. When Vespasian and his sons came to the throne the Flavian dynasty harnessed verism as a source of propaganda. Scholars believe that Vespasian used the shift from the Classical style to that of veristic portraiture to send a visual propagandistic message distinguishing him from the previous emperor. Vespasian’s portraits showed him as an older, serious, and unpretentious man who was in every respect the anti-Nero: a career military officer concerned not for his own pleasure but for the welfare of the Roman people, the security of the Empire, and the solvency of the treasury. Like the Romans from the Late Republic, Vespasian used veristic busts to underscore traditional values as a way to indicate to the Roman people a connection to the Republic. With this reminder of the Late Republic, many Roman citizens were likely put at ease, knowing Vespasian was truly not like the previous emperor Nero, who represented everything the Republic abhorred. Yet after the Flavian period verism again faded into obscurity.\nVeristic portraits of the late Republic hold a special fascination for classical art historians. Romans had inherited the use of sculpted marble heads from the Greeks but they did not inherit the veristic style from them. To scholars verism is uniquely Roman. Scholars have put forth multiple theories as to what or who were the precursors to Republican portraiture. Yet what is important to note is that there is not one single accepted theory of the origin of verism. The question of veristic style remains to this day essentially open and unresolved. Each theory, while plausible in its own way, will require further research and adequate consideration among scholars.\n\nScholars believe the ancient Italic peoples had an inclination to veristic representation leading to influence on later Roman art. From a central Italian provenance in ancient times tribes from this area used Terracotta and Bronze to make a somewhat realistic portrayal of the human head. Yet the ‘Italic’ heads, as they are called, are not seriously considered to be a favorable or strong theory held among scholars as being forerunners to the Republican portraits. Scholars note that none of the realistic looking specimens can be shown to be earlier than the arrival of the new wave of Greek influence, rather than vice versa.\n\nScholars debate whether the heads of reclining figures on Etruscan cinerary urns are the forebears to Republican portraiture. In Etruscan culture it was traditional and very common in Etruscan art to provide a naturalistic look to figures. Many cinerary urns are realistic looking or at least have harshly treated faces. Scholars debate whether the realistic-looking style of head of these figures were a native creation which influenced the Romans, or whether the Romans influenced Etruria. The issues relating to chronological time casts doubts as to the accuracy of the theory.\n\nScholars consider the ancient Roman custom of making wax portraits, known as funerary or Death mask, of their ancestors as a convincing source for the veristic style. H. Drerup, a man of academia, argues that death masks molded straight from the face were early in use at Rome and exerted a ‘direct influence’ on Republican portraits. Yet research has cast doubt on this theory. None of the funerary masks date before the 1st century AD. Evidence suggests the ancestral funerary masks merely kept pace with contemporary portraits in the round. Chronology seems to be an issue with supporting the theory.\n\nScholars debate whether Egyptian influence started Roman verism. A group of portraits in hard Egyptian stone from the Roman Ptolemaic Kingdom show a harsh realism that is similarly seen in Republican portraits. Scholars believe the Egyptian portraits began to be made before the Republican portraits and strongly influenced the Romans into establishing the veristic style when Egyptian priests and cults came into contact with Italy and Greece. Although this theory like the others has merit, lack of concrete dating of this certain Egyptian style makes scholars doubt the creditability. Suggested stylistic dates often fluctuate by two or three centuries leaving scholars with no solid evidence for when the style of harshly realistic Egyptian portraiture begun. Historians also note Romans did not have extensive military or commercial contact with Egypt before 30 BCE, which was after the Late Republic when verism was being used on portraiture. Scholars conclude that it is unlikely that Egyptian portraits influenced the Republican style.\n\nAnother theory presented to scholars in classical academia suggests that verism came about from Greek reactions to the conquering Romans. The theory goes that Romans in the Republic privately cherished the Hellenistic culture yet still held onto Republic values. This interest leaked similar portrayals seen in the more realistic Hellenistic royal portraits of the Pontic and Bactarian kings of the first half of the 2nd century BC, such as the slight turn of their heads and upward glance of the eyes, into Roman veristic busts. As Rome conquered Greece the empire saw an influx of talented Greek artists who were commissioned by the Romans to create their portraits that portrayed both the Hellenistic look and Republic values. It should be noted that Greek artists notoriously portrayed foreigners in an unfavorable light as a result of Greek attitudes of superiority. For the Romans the Greeks found them not only to be foreigners, yet to be increasingly pompous and unlikeable oppressors. Greek artists were little concerned to put the sitter’s case favorably and portrayed Romans with an unsympathetic likeness. As a result, the Greek artist would maintain the Hellenistic ‘pathos formula’ – turn of the head and neck, eyes looking upward – but the Greek sculptor, rather than adapt the Roman’s features to a Hellenistic ruler ideal, had concentrated on bringing out an air of caricature to the face leading to what scholars call veristic portraiture.\n\nSome scholars refute this theory as being the cause of verism. Scholars doubt that Romans would not have been angered by the caricature like portrayal given to them by the Greeks. Many question why the Romans did not punish the Greeks for this obvious slight. Yet scholars who are in favor of this theory state that the Romans simply didn’t care for this over realistic portrayal. The Republic values of that time favored the straightforward and honest Roman citizen who did not need the deceits of art, but instead should be portrayed as they were, without artifice, for this would best bring out their Republican values. As a result, some art historians, like R. R. R. Smith, believe verism originated from the negative Greek attitudes, if not somewhat unconscious attitudes, the artists felt towards these particular foreign clients, which was allowed to work itself into the Roman portraits because the artists had been freed from the usual obligation to flatter and idealized the sitter and instead allowed to sculpt without artifice.\n\n"}
{"id": "31142766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31142766", "title": "Victimless Leather", "text": "Victimless Leather\n\nVictimless Leather – a prototype of a stitch-less jacket, grown from cell cultures into a layer of tissue supported by a coat shaped polymer layer.\n\nThis is a sub-project of the Tissue Culture & Art Project where the artists are growing a leather jacket without killing any animals. Growing the victimless leather problematizes the concept of garment by making it semi-living. This artistic grown garment is intended to confront people with the moral implications of wearing parts of dead animals for protective and aesthetic reasons and confronts notions of relationships with manipulated living systems.\n\nThe SymbioticA website explains what it is, \"an artistic laboratory dedicated to the research, learning, critique and hands-on engagement with the life sciences.\". The artists work with tissue, constructing and growing complex organisms that can live outside the body, making the new objects semi-living. Their projects are meant to question life, identity and the relationship between humans and other living beings and environments. They are also interested in the ethics around partial life and the possibilities around this type of technology in the future.\n\nThese are some of the sub-projects that are also part of the TC&A project, in addition to Victimless Leather:\n\nNoArk – NoArk is a collection of cells and tissue from many different organisms, growing together inside a \"vessel\", a reference to Noah's Ark. The project website states that NoArk is \"a tangible as well as symbolic ‘craft’ for observing and understanding a biology that combines the familiar with the other\".\nWorry Dolls – Seven modern versions of the Guatemalan Worry doll were hand-crafted of degradable polymers and surgical sutures and seeded with skin, muscle and bone tissue. The tissue was then allowed to grow inside a bioreactor, replacing the polymers as it degrades, thus creating seven semi-living dolls. \nDisembodied Cuisine – Along with Victimless Leather, this is part of the \"Victimless Utopia\". The idea for this project was to take cells from a frog and grow them into something possible to eat, displaying it next to the still living frog the food came from. This problemetizes the whole meat industry – how we kill animals to eat them. Growing tissue outside of the body of the animal is a way to \"make\" meat while the animal stays healthy and living.\nExtra Ear – ¼ Scale – Using human tissue, a quarter-scale replica of artist Stelarc's ear was grown. The project wanted to confront the cultural perceptions of life now that we are able to manipulate living systems, and also discuss the notions of the wholeness of the body. \nThe Pig Wings Project – This project bases its ideas on xenotransplantation and genetically modifying pigs so their organs can be transplanted to humans. The artists used tissue engineering and stem cell technologies to grow pig bone tissue, forming three different sets of wings. One set shaped as bat wings (\"evil\"), one as bird wings (\"good\") and one as pterosaurs wings (\"neutral\").\n\nAn aim for the \"Victimless Leather\" project is to explore and provoke scientific truths, using conceptual art projects to encourage better understanding of cultural ideas around scientific knowledge. The project website point out how clothing has always been used to protect the fragile skin of humans, but lately have evolved into a fabricated object used as a tool to show one's identity. Based on this, clothing can be explored as a tangible example of the relationship between humans and others, and how humans treat others. As the artists put it: \"This particular project will deconstruct our cultural meaning of clothes as a second skin by materialising it and displaying it as an art object.\"\n\nThe intention to grow artificial leather without killing an animal is meant as a contribution to a cultural discussion between art, science and society. Making this jacket presents a possibility of wearing leather that is not part of a dead animal. The projects are presented in Workshops and exhibitions throughout the world to address ethical questions related to bioscience and technology. The artists want the project to be seen in this cultural context, not a commercial one. Their intention is not to create a consumer product, but to offer a starting point for the cultural discussion points mentioned above. As with most of the TC&A projects the artists are concerned with the relationship between humans and other living systems, both natural and scientific made or manipulated.\n\nThe artists wanted to make a leather-like material using living tissue, and ended up making it in the shape of a stitchless jacket. The artists based the jacket on a biodegradable polymer, coated it with 3T3 mouse cells to form connective tissue and topped it up with human bone cells in order to create a stronger skin layer.\n\nTo create the victimless leather, the team needed an artificial environment where semi-living entities are grown, so it is grown inside a bioreactor that acts as a surrogate body. The bioreactor used in this project was custom made, based on an organ perfusion pump designed by Alexis Carrel and Charles Lindbergh. It has an automatic dripping system which feeds the cells. The artists assumed that when the polymer degraded, an integrated jacket would appear. The resulting jacket was tiny, about 2 inches high and 1,4 inches wide and would just fit a mouse.\n\nTo idealize the \"victimless\" of the jacket, immortalized cell lines or cells that divide and multiply forever once they are removed from an animal or human host forming a renewable resource, have been used in the project. The 3T3 mouse cells all come from a mouse who lived in the 1970s.\n\nThe research and development of “Victimless Leather” has been conducted in SymbioticA: the Art and Science Collaborative Research Laboratory, School of Anatomy and Human Biology at the University of Western Australia and in consultation with Professor Arunasalam Dharmarajan from the School of Anatomy and Human Biology as well as Verigen, a Perth-based company that specializes in tissue engineered cartilage for clinical applications. Western Australia state made the investment in the project through ArtsWa in Association with the Lotteries Commission.\n\nFrom a list of selected TC&A exhibitions.\n\nThe victimless leather was featured in the exhibition “Design and the Elastic Mind” at The Museum of Modern Art in New York City, United States. February 24 – May 12, 2008 The project was scheduled to grow continuously until May 12 when the exhibition ended. There were some problems though, when the leather started expanding too quickly, clogging tubes inside the bioreactor. The exhibition leader therefore decided to unplug the project before the end of the exhibition – in a way, killing it.\n\nBecause the artificial leather is made semi-living, the project might be seen as speculative and provocative to some people – questioning whether it is better to kill semi-living beings rather than living beings. \"One of the most common and somewhat surprising comments we heard was that people were disturbed by our ethics of using living cells to grow living fabric, while the use of leather obtained from animals seems to be accepted without any concern for the well-being of the animals from which the skin has been removed.\" artist Ionat Zurr uttered after showing the jacket to the public on \"The Space Between\" exhibition in Australia.\n\nOron Catts was born in Helsinki, Finland in 1967, and is currently residing in Perth, Australia where he has been employed at the University of Western Australia since 1996. He works as an artistic director of SymbioticA, which he is also co-founder of. He is founder of the Tissue Culture & Art Project. From 2000–2001 he was a Research Fellow at the Tissue Engineering and Organ Fabrication Laboratory at Harvard Medical School. He has also worked with numerous other bio-medical laboratories in several different countries.\n\nIonat Zurr was born in London, UK in 1970, and is currently residing in Perth, Australia. Since 1996 she has been employed at the University of Western Australia, where she also did her PhD titled \"Growing Semi-Living Art\" under the Faculty of Architecture, Landscape and Visual Arts . Zurr specialises in video production and biological and digital imaging. She works as an assistant professor and academic coordinator at SymbioticA and is co-founder of the Tissue Culture & Art Project. From 2000–2001 she was a research fellow at the Tissue Engineering and Organ Fabrication Laboratory at Harvard Medical School.\n\nThe project also focuses on human consumption, highlighting that there are victims on every level of it, and that the boundaries between harm and benefit often are blurred. The French actress Brigitte Bardot strongly opposed hunting of animals for vanity and the commercial purpose of the skin. From an indigenous point of view, the context must be seen different. An Inuit hunts the seal and uses the whole body of the animal as a basic resource for his survival.\n\nSimilar to ethics like this, is the interest for artificial meat production due to reactions against the livestock sector because of health and environmental problems. A 2006 UN Food and Agriculture Organization FAO report pointed out the livestock sector as one of the most significant contributors to the most serious environmental problems like soil degradation and water pollution. And because of methane, it spews out more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "32176550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32176550", "title": "We'Moon", "text": "We'Moon\n\nWe'Moon: Gaia Rhythms for Womyn is an astrological and lunar calendar datebook, featuring art and writing submitted by, for and about women. \"Wemoon\" means \"women,\" \"we of the moon\" (for other alternative political spellings, see Womyn). The datebook was founded in 1981 and is published annually in Oregon, USA, by Mother Tongue Ink (d.b.a. We’Moon Company). \"We'Moon\" is a publication focused on “helping women make their daily lives sacred and align themselves with Earth and Moon rhythms.” \n\n\"We'Moon\" was inspired by the women’s liberation and emerging people's movements of the 1960s and 1970s, and came to fruition in the 1980s as a vehicle for the creative expression of women's empowerment and earth-based spirituality. The idea of a special calendar for women—based on lunar, solar and astrological cycles—originated at Kvindelandet, an international women’s land in Denmark where 50–60 lesbians from different countries lived together in the late 1970s. The first \"We'Moon\" was self-published in France in 1981 under the name of Mother Tongue Ink, as a pocket-sized astrological moon calendar diary, handwritten in five languages. The first five editions were pocket-sized, homemade, and continually evolving in format, design and technology, changing languages every year. During these years, the datebook was created by groups of volunteers in various locations in Europe. \n\n\"We'Moon '87\" was the first edition created in the U.S., where production has remained. Mother Tongue Ink, d.b.a. We’Moon Company, was incorporated in 1995. In 2009, Mother Tongue Ink published a children’s book, \"The Last Wild Witch\", by Starhawk, illustrated by Lindy Kehoe. \"In the Spirit of We’Moon – Celebrating 30 years – An Anthology of We’Moon Art and Writing\", was released in 2011. \"In the Spirit of We'Moon\" is \"an anthology of writing and art originally published in the annual publication \"We'Moon\", with commentary and other new material.\" \n\n\"We'Moon\" sends out an annual Call for Contributions to women internationally, and publishes approximately 250 pieces of original art and writing in each year’s datebook. \"We'Moon\"’s thematic focus includes feminism, goddess and earth-based spirituality, world community, environmentalism, peace and justice. The datebook includes articles by astrologers Gretchen Lawlor, Heather Roan Robbins, Susan Levitt and Sandra Pastorius. Lunar phase and astrological aspect data are listed for each date. \n\nOver the years, \"We'Moon\" has published work by thousands of contributing women, including writings by Joanna Macy, Starhawk, Susan Weed, Winona LaDuke, Carolyn Gage, Myshkin, Vicki Noble, Donna Henes, Alice Walker, and founding editor Musawa, and art by Monica Sjoo, Tee Corinne, Meinrad Craighead, Toni Truesdale, Betty LaDuke, Sandra Stanton, Leah Dorion, Max Dashu, Sudie Rakusin and Hrana Janto. \n\n"}
