{"id": "31137615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31137615", "title": "Andrea Elizabeth Michaels", "text": "Andrea Elizabeth Michaels\n\nAndrea Elizabeth Michaels (née Gerson; born December 14, 1943) is an American meeting and event producer, author and speaker. As founder of an international event production company, Extraordinary Events, Michaels and her company produce large corporate events. She is an original member of the special events industry Hall of Fame and the author of a business biography, and is featured in three anthologies.\n\nAndrea Michaels was born in the Arbe concentration camp (today Rab, Croatia, on the northern shore of the Adriatic Sea) to Lelja Kauders (b. Zagreb, Yugoslavia, August 25, 1923 – d. Los Angeles California, May 30, 2009). Michaels and her mother, along with her mother's Jewish parents, Paul (Palvo) Kauders and Elza Ackerman Kauders, escaped in a small boat across the Adriatic to Italy. Michaels lived in Italy to the age of four with her grandparents until her mother, who had married an American pilot, sent for her to come live in America. The marriage ended, and after Michaels arrived in America, her mother married Peter Gerson, who adopted Andrea and moved the family from Silverlake, California, to Hollywood. When Michaels was ten, the family moved to Burbank, California.\n\nAn only child Michaels graduated from Burbank High School in 1961. Michaels attended the University of California at Berkeley in 1961 and 1962, transferring to the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) before marrying Bob Spritz on February 1, 1964. The marriage lasted ten years, and they had a son, Jon (b. July 24, 1970). After her divorce from Spritz, she changed her last name as well as that of her son's to \"Michaels.\" Michaels returned to UCLA in 1970 and earned a degree, with honors, in Psychology.\n\nInstead of pursuing a career in Psychology, Michaels began working with the Ron Rubin Orchestras in 1973. During that time, she became interested in the event planning business when there was no formalized industry. She produced her first event in 1978—-a bicentennial celebration for Marsh McClellan Insurance Company. By 1982, the company had been restructured and renamed Michaels, Rubin and Associates. Michaels and Rubin dissolved their relationship in December 1988, and on that same day, Extraordinary Events was launched. At that time, Michaels began to bring to the corporate world the spectaculars that had been produced on football fields, Disneyland and in entertainment venues by the late Tommy Walker and the late Robert (Bob) Jani.\n\nExtraordinary Events has specialized in planning and producing corporate events globally including Europe, Asia, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Africa, Australia and New Zealand. In 2006, \"Special Events\" magazine listed Extraordinary Events as one of the \"Top 50 Event Planning Companies.\" The Los Angeles Business Journal named it Number 28 on its list of the \"Fastest Growing Private Companies\" in 2006, jumping from Number 80 in 2005 and then to Number 48 in 2005 and then to Number 48 in 2007.\n\nMichaels and her company began to incorporate charitable activities into its events with the rebuilding of an elementary school in Leona Vicario, Mexico, with client CEMEX, a concrete manufacturer, in 2005. The \"Los Angeles Business Journal\" and \"Financial and Insurance Meetings \" magazine covered the event.\n\nMichaels and Extraordinary Events have won the following awards:\n\nIn addition to her business biography, \"Reflections of a Successful Wallflower—Lessons in Business; Lessons in Life\", Michaels contributed and was featured in three business anthologies in 2010. They are: \"Stepping Stones to Success\", featuring Deepak Chopra, Jack Canfield, Andrea Michaels and Dr. Denis Waitley; \"Yes You Can! Reaching Your Potential While Achieving Greatness\", featuring Dr. Warren Bennis, Andrea Michaels and Jim Rohn and \"Bushido Business —The Fine Art of the Modern Professional\" with Tom Hopkins, Brian Tracy, Andrea Michaels and Stephen M. R. Covey.\n\nMichaels has authored several magazine articles. Two of the most recent ones were published in \"WE Magazine for Women\" and are entitled \"Growing a Business with Creative Thinking\", Part 1 and Part 2. Michaels is a regular contributor to \"Special Events\" magazine writing about her experiences speaking internationally. Michaels was also highlighted in Anaheim University's CEO Video Interview Series.\n\nMichaels has been the subject of numerous newspaper and magazine articles. A few include \"Smart Business,\" \"Antelope Valley Proz,\" \"Special Events\" magazine, \"Los Angeles Times,\" \"MICE Exchange,\" \"Southern California Meetings & Events,\" The \"Los Angeles Business Journal,\" \"Antelope Valley Proz,\" \"Special Events\" magazine, \"Los Angeles Times,\" \"MICE Exchange,\" \"Southern California Meetings & Events,\" The \"Los Angeles Business Journal,\" \"ExhibitorOnline,\" \"Event Solutions,\" \"All Business/Successful Meetings,\" and \"Meetings & Conventions.\"\n\nIn 2007, Michaels developed a mentor program to offer an in-the-field special event education and international exchange program to assist event newcomers. Michaels is currently a faculty member at California State University, Long Beach College of Continuing and Professional Education and teaches event management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43176195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43176195", "title": "Asia Tour", "text": "Asia Tour\n\nThe Asia Tour was planned to be the eleventh concert tour by Canadian singer Celine Dion. The tour was organized to support the English language album \"Loved Me Back to Life\", and was scheduled to take place in October and November 2014. It would have marked Dion's first concerts in Asia since the Taking Chances World Tour in 2008. While Japan and the Philippines were the only confirmed stops of the tour, it has been revealed that the singer was planned to be performing dates in several Asian countries for the very first time.\n\nThe tour was organized to support the English language album \"Loved Me Back to Life\", and was scheduled to take place in October and November 2014. Japan and the Philippines were officially announced. However, there were unofficial dates and venues for Taiwan, China, South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand but because of the cancellation the ticket were never put on sale. In total, 14 concerts were supposed to take place.\n\nCeline's concerts in Tokyo and Osaka sold out immediately after tickets went on sale.\n\nOn 13 August 2014, Dion has announced that the tour has been cancelled due to ongoing illness and family issues.\n\nAccording to a statement released by the singer:\n\nIn the official announcement for the Japan and Philippine tour, it was revealed that the impersonator Véronic DiCaire had been invited to join Celine as the opening act for these shows.\n\nThe official setlist had yet to be announced, although in an exclusive video message to her Japanese fans, Dion promised a new show featuring songs from her latest English album, \"Loved Me Back to Life\", as well as fan favorites from the past. Celine was also rehearsing one song in Japanese and one in Mandarin for the tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "19167840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19167840", "title": "Chronology of the universe", "text": "Chronology of the universe\n\nThe chronology of the universe describes the history and future of the universe according to Big Bang cosmology. The earliest stages of the universe's existence are estimated as taking place 13.8 billion years ago, with an uncertainty of around 21 million years at the 68% confidence level.\n\nFor the purposes of this summary, it is convenient to divide the chronology of the universe since it originated, into five parts. It is generally considered meaningless or unclear whether time existed before this chronology:\n\nEarliest stages of chronology shown below (before neutrino decoupling) are an active area of research and based on ideas which are still speculative and subject to modification as scientific knowledge improves.\n\n\"Time\" column is based on extrapolation of observed metric expansion of space back in the past. For the earliest stages of chronology this extrapolation may be invalid. To give one example, eternal inflation theories propose that inflation lasts forever throughout most of the universe, making the notion of \"N seconds since Big Bang\" ill-defined.\n\nThe radiation temperature refers to the cosmic background radiation and is given by 2.725·(1+\"z\"), where \"z\" is the redshift.\n\nThe Planck epoch is an era in traditional (non-inflationary) Big Bang cosmology immediately after the event which began our known universe. During this epoch, the temperature and average energies within the universe were so inconceivably high compared to any temperature we can observe today, that everyday subatomic particles could not form, and even the four fundamental forces that shape our universe—electromagnetism, gravitation, weak nuclear interaction, and strong nuclear interaction—were combined and formed one fundamental force. Little is understood about physics at this temperature; different hypotheses propose different scenarios. Traditional big bang cosmology predicts a gravitational singularity before this time, but this theory relies on the theory of general relativity, which is thought to break down for this epoch due to quantum effects.\n\nIn inflationary models of cosmology, times before the end of inflation (roughly 10 second after the Big Bang) do not follow the same timeline as in traditional big bang cosmology. Models that aim to describe the universe and physics during the Planck epoch are generally speculative and fall under the umbrella of \"New Physics\". Examples include the Hartle–Hawking initial state, string landscape, string gas cosmology, and the ekpyrotic universe.\n\nAs the universe expanded and cooled, it crossed transition temperatures at which forces separated from each other. These phase transitions can be visualised as similar to condensation and freezing phase transitions of ordinary matter. At certain temperatures/energies, water molecules change their behaviour and structure, and they will behave completely differently. Like steam turning to water, the fields which define our universe's fundamental forces and particles also completely change their behaviors and structures when the temperature/energy falls below a certain point. This is not apparent in everyday life, because it only happens at much, much, higher temperatures than we usually see in our present universe.\n\nThese phase transitions are believed to be caused by a phenomenon of quantum fields called \"symmetry breaking\".\n\nIn everyday terms, as the universe cools, it becomes possible for the quantum fields that create the forces and particles around us, to settle at lower energy levels and with higher levels of stability. In doing so, they completely shift how they interact. Forces and interactions arise due to these fields, so the universe can behave very differently above and below a phase transition. For example, in a later epoch, a side effect of one phase transition is that suddenly, many particles that had no mass at all acquire a mass (they begin to interact with the Higgs boson), and a single force begins to manifest as two separate forces.\n\nThe grand unification epoch began with a phase transitions of this kind, when gravitation separated from the universal combined gauge force. This caused two forces to now exist: gravity, and an electrostrong interaction. There is no hard evidence yet, that such a combined force existed, but many physicists believe it did. The physics of this electrostrong interaction would be described by a so-called grand unified theory (GUT).\n\nThe grand unification epoch ended with a second phase transition, as the electrostrong interaction in turn separated, and began to manifest as two separate interactions, called the strong and electroweak interactions.\n\nDepending on how epochs are defined, and the model being followed, the electroweak epoch may be considered to start before or after the inflationary epoch. In some models it is described as including the inflationary epoch. In other models, the electroweak epoch is said to begin after the inflationary epoch ended, at roughly 10 seconds.\n\nAccording to traditional big bang cosmology, the electroweak epoch began 10 seconds after the Big Bang, when the temperature of the universe was low enough (10 K) for the Electronuclear Force to begin to manifest as two separate interactions, called the strong and the electroweak interactions. (The electroweak interaction will also separate later, dividing into the electromagnetic and weak interactions). The exact point where electrostrong symmetry was broken is not certain, because of the very high energies of this event.\n\nAt this point, the very early universe suddenly and very rapidly expanded to at least 10 times its previous volume (and possibly much more). This is equivalent to a linear increase of at least 10 times in every spatial dimension – equivalent to an object 1 nanometer (10 m, about half the width of a molecule of DNA) in length, expanding to one approximately 10.6 light years (about 62 trillion miles) long in a tiny fraction of a second. This change is known as inflation.\n\nAlthough light and objects within spacetime cannot travel faster than the speed of light, in this case it was the metric governing the size and geometry of spacetime itself that changed in scale. Changes to the metric are not limited by the speed of light.\n\nIn some models, it is thought to have been triggered by the separation of the strong and electroweak interactions which ended the grand unification epoch. One of the theoretical products of this phase transition was a scalar field called the inflaton field. As this field settled into its lowest energy state throughout the universe, it generated an enormous repulsive force that led to a rapid expansion of space itself. Inflation explains several observed properties of the current universe that are otherwise difficult to account for, including explaining how today's universe has ended up so exceedingly homogeneous (similar) on a very large scale, even though it was highly disordered in its earliest stages.\n\nIt is not known exactly when the inflationary epoch ended, but it is thought to have been between 10 and 10 seconds after the Big Bang. The rapid expansion of space meant that elementary particles remaining from the grand unification epoch were now distributed very thinly across the universe. However, the huge potential energy of the inflation field was released at the end of the inflationary epoch, as the inflaton field decayed into other particles, known as \"reheating\". This heating effect led to the universe being repopulated with a dense, hot mixture of quarks, anti-quarks and gluons. In other models, reheating is often considered to mark the start of the electroweak epoch, and some theories, such as warm inflation, avoid a reheating phase entirely.\n\nIn non-traditional versions of Big Bang theory (known as \"inflationary\" models), inflation ended at a temperature corresponding to roughly 10 second after the Big Bang, but this does \"not\" imply that the inflationary era lasted less than 10 second. To explain the observed homogeneity of the universe, the duration in these models must be longer than 10 second. Therefore, in inflationary cosmology, the earliest meaningful time \"after the Big Bang\" is the time of the \"end\" of inflation. \n\nAfter inflation ended, the universe continued to expand, but at a very slow rate. The slow expansion began to speed up after several billion years, believed to be due to dark energy, and is still expanding today.\n\nOn March 17, 2014, astrophysicists of the BICEP2 collaboration announced the detection of inflationary gravitational waves in the B-mode power spectrum which was interpreted as clear experimental evidence for the theory of inflation. However, on June 19, 2014, lowered confidence in confirming the cosmic inflation findings was reported and finally, on February 2, 2015, a joint analysis of data from BICEP2/Keck and Planck satellite concluded that the statistical \"significance [of the data] is too low to be interpreted as a detection of primordial B-modes\" and can be attributed mainly to polarized dust in the Milky Way.\n\nAs the universe's temperature continued to fall below a certain very high energy level, a third symmetry breaking occurs. So far as we currently know, it was the final symmetry breaking event in the formation of our universe. It is believed that below some energies unknown yet, the Higgs field spontaneously acquires a vacuum expectation value. When this happens, it breaks electroweak gauge symmetry. This has two related effects:\n\n\nAfter electroweak symmetry breaking, the fundamental interactions we know of – gravitation, electromagnetism, the strong interaction and the weak interaction – have all taken their present forms, and fundamental particles have mass, but the temperature of the universe is still too high to allow the formation of many fundamental particles we now see in the universe.\n\nIf supersymmetry is a property of our universe, then it must be broken at an energy that is no lower than 1 TeV, the electroweak scale. The masses of particles and their superpartners would then no longer be equal. This very high energy could explain why no superpartners of known particles have ever been observed.\n\nAfter cosmic inflation ends, the universe is filled with a hot quark–gluon plasma, the remains of reheating. From this point onwards the physics of the early universe is much better understood, and the energies involved in the Quark epoch are directly amenable to experiment.\n\nThe quark epoch began approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang. This was the period in the evolution of the early universe immediately after electroweak symmetry breaking, when the fundamental interactions of gravitation, electromagnetism, the strong interaction and the weak interaction had taken their present forms, but the temperature of the universe was still too high to allow quarks to bind together to form hadrons.\n\nDuring the quark epoch the universe was filled with a dense, hot quark–gluon plasma, containing quarks, leptons and their antiparticles. Collisions between particles were too energetic to allow quarks to combine into mesons or baryons.\n\nThe quark epoch ended when the universe was about 10 seconds old, when the average energy of particle interactions had fallen below the binding energy of hadrons.\n\n\"Perhaps by 10 seconds.\"\n\nBaryons are subatomic particles such as protons and neutrons, that are composed of three quarks. It would be expected that both baryons, and particles known as antibaryons would have formed in equal numbers. However, this does not seem to be what happened – as far as we know, the universe was left with far more baryons than antibaryons. In fact, almost no antibaryons are observed in nature. It is not clear how this came about. Any explanation for this phenomenon must allow the Sakharov conditions related to baryogenesis to have been satisfied at some time after the end of cosmological inflation. Current particle physics suggests asymmetries under which these conditions would be met, but these asymmetries appear to be too small to account for the observed baryon-antibaryon asymmetry of the universe.\n\nThe quark–gluon plasma that composes the universe cools until hadrons, including baryons such as protons and neutrons, can form.\nInitially, hadron/anti-hadron pairs could form, so matter and anti-matter were in thermal equilibrium. However, as the temperature of the universe continued to fall, new hadron/anti-hadron pairs were no longer produced, and most of the newly formed hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilated each other, giving rise to pairs of high-energy photons. A comparatively small residue of hadrons remained at about 1 second of cosmic time, when this epoch ended. \n\nTheory predicts that about 1 neutron remained for every 7 protons. We believe this to be correct because, at a later stage, all the neutrons and some of the protons fused, leaving hydrogen, a hydrogen isotope called deuterium, helium and other elements, which we can measure. A 1:7 ratio of hadrons at the end of this epoch would indeed produce the observed element ratios in the early as well as current universe.\n\nAt approximately 1 second after the Big Bang neutrinos decouple and begin traveling freely through space. As neutrinos rarely interact with matter, these neutrinos still exist today, analogous to the much later cosmic microwave background emitted during recombination, around 377,000 years after the Big Bang. The neutrinos from this event have a very low energy, around 10 times smaller than is possible with present-day direct detection. Even high energy neutrinos are notoriously difficult to detect, so this cosmic neutrino background (CNB) may not be directly observed in detail for many years, if at all.\n\nHowever, Big Bang cosmology makes many predictions about the CNB, and there is very strong indirect evidence that the cosmic neutrino background exists, both from Big Bang nucleosynthesis predictions of the helium abundance, and from anisotropies in the cosmic microwave background. One of these predictions is that neutrinos will have left a subtle imprint on the cosmic microwave background (CMB). It is well known that the CMB has irregularities. Some of the CMB fluctuations were roughly regularly spaced, because of the effect of baryonic acoustic oscillations. In theory, the decoupled neutrinos should have had a very slight effect on the phase of the various CMB fluctuations.\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that such shifts had been detected in the CMB. Moreover, the fluctuations corresponded to neutrinos of almost exactly the temperature predicted by Big Bang theory ( compared to a prediction of 1.95K), and exactly three types of neutrino, the same number of neutrino flavours currently predicted by the Standard Model.\n\nPrimordial black holes are a hypothetical type of black hole proposed in 1966, that may have formed during the so-called \"radiation dominated era\", due to the high densities and inhomogeneous conditions within the first second of cosmic time. Random fluctuations could lead to some regions becoming dense enough to undergo gravitational collapse, forming black holes. Current understandings and theories place tight limits on the abundance and mass of these objects.\n\nTypically, primordial black hole formation requires density contrasts (regional variations in the Universe's density) of around formula_1 (10%), where formula_2 is the average density of the Universe. Several mechanisms could produce dense regions meeting this criterion during the early universe, including reheating, cosmological phase transitions and (in so-called \"hybrid inflation models\") axion inflation. Since primordial black holes didn't form from stellar gravitational collapse, their masses can be far below stellar mass (~2×10 g). Stephen Hawking calculated in 1971 that primordial black holes could weigh as little as 10 g. But they can have any size, so they could also be large, and may have contributed to the formation of galaxies.\n\nThe majority of hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilate each other at the end of the hadron epoch, leaving leptons (such as the electron, muons and certain neutrinos) and anti-leptons, dominating the mass of the universe. \n\nThe lepton epoch follows a similar path to the earlier hadron epoch. Initially leptons and anti-leptons are produced in pairs. About 10 seconds after the Big Bang the temperature of the universe falls to the point at which new lepton/anti-lepton pairs are no longer created and most remaining leptons and anti-leptons quickly annihilate each other, giving rise to pairs of high energy photons, and leaving a small residue of non-annihilated leptons.\n\nAfter most leptons and anti-leptons are annihilated at the end of the lepton epoch, most of the mass-energy in the universe is left in the form of photons. (Much of the rest of its mass-energy is in the form of neutrinos and other relativistic particles). Therefore the energy of the universe, and its overall behavior, is dominated by its photons. These photons continue to interact frequently with charged protons, electrons and (eventually) nuclei. They continue to do so for about the next 377,000 years.\n\nBetween about 2 and 20 minutes after the Big Bang, the temperature and pressure of the universe allow nuclear fusion to occur, giving rise to nuclei of a few light elements beyond hydrogen (\"Big Bang nucleosynthesis\"). About 25% of the protons, and all the neutrons fuse to form deuterium, a hydrogen isotope, and most of the deuterium quickly fuses to form helium-4. \n\nAtomic nuclei will easily unbind (break apart) above a certain temperature, related to their binding energy. From about 2 minutes, the falling temperature means that deuterium no longer unbinds, and is stable, and starting from about 3 minutes, helium and other elements formed by the fusion of deuterium also no longer unbind and are stable.\n\nThe short duration and falling temperature means that only the simplest and fastest fusion processes can occur. Only tiny amounts of nuclei beyond helium are formed, because nucleosynthesis of heavier elements is difficult and requires thousands of years even in stars. Small amounts of tritium (another hydrogen isotope) and beryllium-7 and -8 are formed, but these are unstable and are quickly lost again. A small amount of deuterium is left unfused because of the very short duration.\n\nTherefore, the only stable nuclides created by the end of Big Bang nucleosynthesis are protium (single proton/hydrogen nucleus), deuterium, helium-3, helium-4, and lithium-7. By mass, the resulting matter is about 75% hydrogen nuclei, 25% helium nuclei, and perhaps 10 by mass of Lithium-7. The next most common stable isotopes produced are lithium-6, beryllium-9, boron-11, carbon, nitrogen and oxygen (\"CNO\"), but these have predicted abundances of between 5 and 30 parts in 10 by mass, making them essentially undetectable and negligible.\n\nThe amounts of each light element in the early universe can be estimated from old galaxies, and is strong evidence for the Big Bang. For example, the Big Bang should produce about 1 neutron for every 7 protons, allowing for 25% of all nucleons to be fused into helium-4 (2 protons and 2 neutrons out of every 16 nucleons), and this is the amount we find today, and far more than can be easily explained by other processes. Similarly, deuterium fuses extremely easily; any alternative explanation must also explain how conditions existed for deuterium to form, but also left some of that deuterium unfused and not immediately fused again into helium. Any alternative must also explain the proportions of the various light elements and their isotopes. A few isotopes, such as lithium-7, were found to be present in amounts that differed from theory, but over time, these differences have been resolved by better observations.\n\nUntil now, the universe's large scale dynamics and behavior have been determined mainly by radiation – meaning, those constituents that move relativistically (at or near the speed of light), such as photons and neutrinos. As the universe cools, from around 47,000 years (z=3600), the universe's large scale behavior becomes dominated by matter instead. This occurs because the energy density of matter begins to exceed both the energy density of radiation and the vacuum energy density. Around or shortly after this time, the densities of non-relativistic matter (atomic nuclei) and relativistic radiation (photons) become equal, the Jeans length, which determines the smallest structures that can form (due to competition between gravitational attraction and pressure effects), begins to fall and perturbations, instead of being wiped out by free-streaming radiation, can begin to grow in amplitude.\n\nAccording to the Lambda-CDM model, by this stage, the matter in the universe is around 84.5% cold dark matter and 15.5% \"ordinary\" matter. (However the total matter in the universe is only 31.7%, much smaller than the 68.3% of dark energy). There is overwhelming evidence that dark matter exists and dominates our universe, but since the exact nature of dark matter is still not understood, Big Bang theory does not presently cover any stages in its formation.\n\nFrom this point on, and for several billion years to come, the presence of dark matter accelerates the formation of structure in our universe. In the early universe, dark matter gradually gathers in huge filaments under the effects of gravity. This amplifies the tiny inhomogeneities (irregularities) in the density of the universe which was left by cosmic inflation. Over time, slightly denser regions become denser and slightly rarefied (emptier) regions become more rarefied. Ordinary matter eventually gathers together faster than it would otherwise do, because of the presence of these concentrations of dark matter.\n\nAbout 377,000 years after the Big Bang, two connected events occurred: recombination and photon decoupling. Recombination describes the ionized particles combining to form the first neutral atoms, and decoupling refers to the photons released (\"decoupled\") as the newly formed atoms settle into more stable energy states.\n\nJust before recombination, the baryonic matter in the universe was at a temperature where it formed a hot ionized plasma. Most of the photons in the universe interacted with electrons and protons, and could not travel significant distances without interacting with ionized particles. As a result, the universe was opaque or \"foggy\". Although there was light, it was not possible to see, nor can we observe that light through telescopes.\n\nAt around 377,000 years, the universe has cooled to a point where free electrons can combine with the hydrogen and helium nuclei to form neutral atoms. This process is relatively fast (and faster for the helium than for the hydrogen), and is known as recombination. The name is slightly inaccurate and is given for historical reasons: in fact the electrons and atomic nuclei were combining for the first time.\n\nDirectly combining in a low energy state (ground state) is less efficient, so these hydrogen atoms generally form with the electrons still in a high energy state, and once combined, the electrons quickly release energy in the form of one or more photons as they transition to a low energy state. This release of photons is known as photon decoupling. Some of these decoupled photons are captured by other hydrogen atoms, the remainder remain free. By the end of recombination, most of the protons in the universe have formed neutral atoms. This change from charged to neutral particles means that the mean free path photons can travel before capture in effect becomes infinite, so any decoupled photons that have not been captured can travel freely over long distances (see Thomson scattering). The universe has become transparent to visible light, radio waves and other electromagnetic radiation for the first time in its history.\nThe photons released by these newly formed hydrogen atoms initially had a temperature/energy of around ~ 4000 K. This would have been visible to the eye as a pale yellow/orange tinted, or \"soft\", white color. Over billions of years since decoupling, as the universe has expanded, the photons have been red-shifted from visible light to radio waves (microwave radiation corresponding to a temperature of about 2.7 K). Red shifting describes the photons acquiring longer wavelengths and lower frequencies as the universe expanded over billions of years, so that they gradually changed from visible light to radio waves. These same photons can still be detected as radio waves today. They form the cosmic microwave background (\"CMB\"), and they provide crucial evidence of the early universe and how it developed.\n\nAround the same time as recombination, existing pressure waves within the electron-baryon plasma – known as baryon acoustic oscillations – became embedded in the distribution of matter as it condensed, giving rise to a very slight preference in distribution of large-scale objects. Therefore, the cosmic microwave background is a picture of the universe at the end of this epoch including the tiny fluctuations generated during inflation (see diagram), and the spread of objects such as galaxies in the universe is an indication of the scale and size of the universe as it developed over time.\n\nAfter recombination and decoupling, the universe was transparent and had cooled enough to allow light to travel long distances, but there were no light-producing structures such as stars and galaxies. Stars and galaxies are formed when dense regions of gas form due to the action of gravity, and this takes a long time within a near-uniform density of gas and on the scale required, so it is estimated that stars did not exist for perhaps hundreds of millions of years after recombination.\n\nThis period, known as the Dark Ages, began around 377,000 years after the Big Bang. During the Dark Ages, the temperature of the universe cooled from some 4000 K down to about 60 K, and only two sources of photons existed: the photons released during recombination/decoupling (as neutral hydrogen atoms formed), which we can still detect today as the cosmic microwave background (CMB), and photons occasionally released by neutral hydrogen atoms, known as the 21 cm spin line of neutral hydrogen. The hydrogen spin line is in the microwave range of frequencies, and within 3 million years, the CMB photons had redshifted out of visible light to infrared; from that time until the first stars, there were no visible light photons. Other than perhaps some rare statistical anomalies, the universe was truly dark.\n\nThe October 2010 discovery of UDFy-38135539, the first observed galaxy to have existed during the following reionization epoch, gives us a window into these times. The galaxy earliest in this period observed and thus also the most distant galaxy ever observed is currently on the record of Leiden University's Richard J. Bouwens and Garth D. Illingsworth from UC Observatories/Lick Observatory. They found the galaxy UDFj-39546284 to be at a time some 480 million years after the Big Bang or about halfway through the Cosmic Dark Ages at a distance of about 13.2 billion light-years. More recently, the UDFy-38135539, EGSY8p7 and GN-z11 galaxies were found to be around 380–550 million years after the Big Bang and at a distance of around 13.4 billion light-years. There is also currently an observational effort underway to detect the faint 21 cm spin line radiation, as it is in principle an even more powerful tool than the cosmic microwave background for studying the early universe.\n\nStructures may have begun to emerge from around 150 million years, and stars and early galaxies gradually emerged from around 400 to 700 million years. As they emerged, the Dark Ages gradually ended. Because this process was gradual, the Dark Ages only fully ended around 1 billion (1000 million) years, as the universe took its present appearance.\n\nFor about 6.6 million years, between about 10 to 17 million years after the Big Bang (redshift 137–100), the background temperature was between 373 K and 273 K, a temperature compatible with liquid water and common biological chemical reactions. Loeb (2014) speculated that primitive life might in principle have appeared during this window, which he called \"the Habitable Epoch of the Early Universe\". Loeb argues that carbon-based life might have evolved in a hypothetical pocket of the early universe that was dense enough both to generate at least one massive star that subsequently releases carbon in a supernova, and that was also dense enough to generate a planet. (Such dense pockets, if they existed, would have been extremely rare.) Life would also have required a heat differential, rather than just uniform background radiation; this could be provided by naturally-occurring geothermal energy. Such life would likely have remained primitive; it is highly unlikely that intelligent life would have had sufficient time to evolve before the hypothetical oceans freeze over at the end of the habitable epoch.\n\nThe matter in the universe is around 84.5% cold dark matter and 15.5% \"ordinary\" matter. Since the start of the matter-dominated era, the dark matter has gradually been gathering in huge spread out (diffuse) filaments under the effects of gravity. Ordinary matter eventually gathers together faster than it would otherwise do, because of the presence of these concentrations of dark matter. It is also slightly more dense at regular distances due to early baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO) which became embedded into the distribution of matter when photons decoupled. Unlike dark matter, ordinary matter can lose energy by many routes, which means that as it collapses, it can lose the energy which would otherwise hold it apart, and collapse more quickly, and into denser forms. Ordinary matter gathers where dark matter is denser, and in those places it collapses into clouds of mainly hydrogen gas. The first stars and galaxies form from these clouds. Where numerous galaxies have formed, galaxy clusters and superclusters will eventually arise. Large voids with few stars will develop between them, marking where dark matter became less common.\n\nStructure formation in the big bang model proceeds hierarchically, due to gravitational collapse, with smaller structures forming before larger ones. The earliest structures to form are the first stars (known as population III stars), dwarf galaxies, and quasars (which are thought to be bright, early active galaxies containing a supermassive black hole surrounded by a inward-spiralling accretion disk of gas). Before this epoch, the evolution of the universe could be understood through linear cosmological perturbation theory: that is, all structures could be understood as small deviations from a perfect homogeneous universe. This is computationally relatively easy to study. At this point non-linear structures begin to form, and the computational problem becomes much more difficult, involving, for example, \"N\"-body simulations with billions of particles. The Bolshoi Cosmological Simulation is a high precision simulation of this era.\n\nThese Population III stars are also responsible for turning the few light elements that were formed in the Big Bang (hydrogen, helium and small amounts of lithium) into many heavier elements. They can be huge as well as perhaps small – and non-metallic (no elements except hydrogen and helium). The larger stars have very short lifetimes compared to most Main Sequence stars we see today, so they commonly finish burning their hydrogen fuel and explode as supernovae after mere millions of years, seeding the universe with heavier elements over repeated generations. They mark the start of the Stelliferous (starry) era.\n\nAs yet, no Population III stars have been found, so our understanding of them is based on computational models of their formation and evolution. Fortunately, observations of the Cosmic Microwave Background radiation can be used to date when star formation began in earnest. Analysis of such observations made by the European Space Agency's Planck telescope in 2016 concluded that the first generation of stars formed 700 million years after the Big Bang.\n\nQuasars provides some additional evidence of early structure formation. Their light shows evidence of elements such as carbon, magnesium, iron and oxygen. This is evidence that by the time quasars formed, a massive phase of star formation had already taken place, including sufficient generations of population III stars to give rise to these elements.\n\nAs the first stars, dwarf galaxies and quasars gradually form, the intense radiation they emit reionizes much of the surrounding universe; splitting the neutral hydrogen atoms back into a plasma of free electrons and protons for the first time since recombination and decoupling.\n\nReionization is evidenced from observations of quasars. Quasars are a form of active galaxy, and the most luminous objects observed in the universe. Electrons in neutral hydrogen have a specific patterns of absorbing photons, related to electron energy levels and called the Lyman series. Ionized hydrogen does not have electron energy levels of this kind. Therefore, light travelling through ionized hydrogen and neutral hydrogen shows different absorption lines. In addition, the light will have travelled for billions of years to reach us, so any absorption by neutral hydrogen will have been redshifted by varied amounts, rather than by one specific amount, indicating when it happened. These features make it possible to study the state of ionization at many different times in the past. They show that reionization began as \"bubbles\" of ionized hydrogen which became larger over time. They also show that the absorption was due to the general state of the universe (the intergalactic medium) and not due to passing through galaxies or other dense areas. Reionization might have started as early as \"z\"=16 (250 million years of cosmic time) and was complete by around \"z\"=9 or 10 (500 million years). The epoch of reionization probably ended by around \"z\"=5 or 6 (1 billion years) as the era of Population III stars and quasars – and their intense radiation – came to an end, and the ionized hydrogen gradually reverted to neutral atoms.\n\nThese observations have narrowed down the period of time during which reionization took place, but the source of the photons that caused reionization is still not completely certain. To ionize neutral hydrogen, an energy larger than 13.6 eV is required, which corresponds to ultraviolet photons with a wavelength of 91.2 nm or shorter, implying that the sources must have produced significant amount of ultraviolet and higher energy. Protons and electrons will recombine if energy is not continuously provided to keep them apart, which also sets limits on how numerous the sources were and their longevity. With these constraints, it is expected that quasars and first generation stars and galaxies were the main sources of energy. The current leading candidates from most to least significant are currently believed to be population III stars (the earliest stars) (possibly 70%), dwarf galaxies (very early small high-energy galaxies) (possibly 30%), and a contribution from quasars (a class of active galactic nuclei).\n\nHowever, by this time, matter had become far more spread out due to the ongoing expansion of the universe. Although the neutral hydrogen atoms were again ionized, the plasma was much more thin and diffuse, and photons were much less likely to be scattered. Despite being reionized, the universe remained largely transparent during reionization. As the universe continued to cool and expand, reionization gradually ended.\n\nMatter continues to draw together under the influence of gravity, to form galaxies. The stars from this time period, known as Population II stars, are formed early on in this process, with more recent Population I stars formed later. Gravitational attraction also gradually pulls galaxies towards each other to form groups, clusters and superclusters. The Hubble Ultra Deep Field observatory has identified a number of small galaxies merging to form larger ones, at 800 million years of cosmic time (13 billion years ago) (this age estimate is now believed to be slightly overstated).\n\nJohannes Schedler's project has identified a quasar CFHQS 1641+3755 at 12.7 billion light-years away, when the universe was just 7% of its present age. On July 11, 2007, using the 10-metre Keck II telescope on Mauna Kea, Richard Ellis of the California Institute of Technology at Pasadena and his team found six star forming galaxies about 13.2 billion light years away and therefore created when the universe was only 500 million years old. Only about 10 of these extremely early objects are currently known. More recent observations have shown these ages to be shorter than previously indicated. The most distant galaxy observed as of October 2016, GN-z11, has been reported to be 32 billion light years away, a vast distance made possible through space-time expansion (redshift z=11.1; comoving distance of 32 billion light-years; lookback time of 13.4 billion years).\n\nThe universe has appeared much the same as it does now, for many billions of years. It will continue to look similar for many more billions of years into the future.\n\nBased upon the emerging science of nucleocosmochronology, the Galactic thin disk of the Milky Way is estimated to have been formed 8.8 ± 1.7 billion years ago.\n\nFrom about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, the universe's large-scale behavior is believed to have gradually changed for the third time in its history. Its behavior had originally been dominated by radiation (relativistic constituents such as photons and neutrinos) for the first 47,000 years, and since about 377,000 years of cosmic time, its behavior had been dominated by matter. During its matter-dominated era, the expansion of the universe had begun to slow down, as gravity reigned in the initial outward expansion. But from about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, observations show that that the expansion of the universe slowly stops decelerating, and gradually begins to accelerate again, instead. \n\nWhile the precise cause is not known, the observation is accepted as correct by the cosmologist community. By far the most accepted understanding is that this is due to an unknown form of energy which has been given the name \"dark energy\". \"Dark\" in this context means that it is not directly observed, but can currently only be studied by examining the effect it has on the universe. Research is ongoing to understand this dark energy. Dark energy is now believed to be the single largest component of the universe, as it constitutes about 68.3% of the entire mass-energy of the physical universe.\n\nDark energy is believed to act like a cosmological constant - a scalar field that exists throughout space. Unlike gravity, the effects of such a field do not diminish (or only diminish slowly) as the universe grows. While matter and gravity have a greater effect initially, their effect quickly diminishes as the universe continues to expand. Objects in the universe, which are initially seen to be moving apart as the universe expands, continue to move apart, but their outward motion gradually slows down. This slowing effect becomes smaller as the universe becomes more spread out. Eventually, the outward and repulsive effect of dark energy begins to dominate over the inward pull of gravity. Instead of slowing down and perhaps beginning to move inward under the influence of gravity, from about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, the expansion of space starts to slowly accelerate \"outward\" at a gradually \"increasing\" rate.\n\nThe universe has existed for around 13.8 billion years, and we believe that we understand it well enough to predict its large-scale development for many billions of years into the future – perhaps as much as 100 billion years of cosmic time (about 86 billion years from now). Beyond that, we need to better understand the universe to make any accurate predictions. Therefore, the universe could follow a variety of different paths beyond this time.\n\nThere are several competing scenarios for the possible long-term evolution of the universe. Which of them will happen, if any, depends on the precise values of physical constants such as the cosmological constant, the possibility of proton decay, the energy of the vacuum (meaning, the energy of \"empty\" space itself), and the natural laws beyond the Standard Model.\nIf the expansion of the universe continues and it stays in its present form, eventually all but the nearest galaxies will be carried away from us by the expansion of space at such a velocity that our observable universe will be limited to our own gravitationally bound local galactic cluster. In the very long term (after many trillions – thousands of billions – of years, cosmic time), the Stelliferous Era will end, as stars cease to be born and even the longest-lived stars gradually die. Beyond this, all objects in the universe will cool and (with the possible exception of protons) gradually decompose back to their constituent particles and then into subatomic particles and very low level photons and other fundamental particles, by a variety of possible processes. But this will take a duration of time that is almost inconceivable to most people, compared to which the entire 13.8 billion years of the universe would be a tiny instant in time.\n\nUltimately, in the extreme future, the following scenarios have been proposed for the ultimate fate of the universe.\n\nIn this kind of extreme timescale, extremely rare quantum phenomena may also occur that are extremely unlikely to be seen on a timescale smaller than trillions of years. These may also lead to unpredictable changes to the state of the universe which would not be likely to be significant on any smaller timescale. For example, on a timescale of millions of trillions of years, black holes might appear to evaporate almost instantly, uncommon quantum tunneling phenomena would appear to be common, and quantum (or other) phenomena so unlikely that they might occur just once in a trillion years may occur many times.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154755", "title": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events", "text": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events\n\nDates of Epoch-Making Events is an entry in The Nuttall Encyclopaedia for its listing of the most important turning points in history, particularly western history. The work's list illustrates western culture's turning points and James Wood's views from the early 20th century. The events are listed as in the original listing, with modern footnotes.\n\nThe events chosen, with few errors, are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52454436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52454436", "title": "Devendrar Jayanti", "text": "Devendrar Jayanti\n\nDevendrar Jayanthi is a festival celebrated annually on 11 September. It is organised by various political parties, community organisations and civil societies in Southern Tamil Nadu to commemorate the memory of Immanuvel Devendrar, a freedom fighter and Indian National Congress leader who took part in the Quit India movement during the British Raj era. He worked in the Indian Army in independent India and later he fought for the rights of depressed class people of Southern Tamil Nadu, particularly for upliftment of Pallar caste. He was a close associate of chief minister K. Kamaraj.\n\nImmanuel Devendrar was a member of the Indian National Congress and a close associate of its leader, K. Kamaraj. At that time, Congress was supported by influential communities of southern Tamil Nadu, such as the Pallars and Nadars, and opposed by the Forward Block, which was itself favoured by the Maravar community. The two sides clashed during elections. Violence erupted notably in the districts of Ramanathapuram and Madurai which claimed over 40 lives. Devendrar was killed at this time and the anniversary of his death is today celebrated by various political parties and community organisations and civil societies as Devendrar Jayanthi.\n\nDevendrar Jayanti is among the celebrations sometimes criticised as being designed mainly as expressions of caste pride and political power, which sometimes turn into inter-caste violence. The critics claim that political parties used them as a form of vote bank politics.\n\nThese critics are rebutted by people who say that every caste has its own leader and the people are celebrating the memories of their leaders. Despite of these arguments every year the government is struggling to maintain the law and order during these celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "25177307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25177307", "title": "Diminished value", "text": "Diminished value\n\nDiminished value, Diminution in Value, or commonly referred to as \"DV\" are the terms generally used to describe the economic loss in a property's value as a result of having been damaged. Diminished Value (DV) is often associated with vehicles that have been damaged, however, it is applicable to other property of value including collectibles such as jewelry, artwork, etc. For the purposes herein, reference will involve the loss in value of a damaged automobile where the term is often applied.\n\nUnlike \"depreciation\", which is an anticipated and predictable loss in value over time, ‘Inherent Diminished Value’ is a loss in value due to a specific, sudden and unexpected negative occurrence. Diminished value of an automobile following an accident may occur in one of three ways (or a combination thereof):\n\n(1) repair-related diminished value;\n\n(2) Immediate diminished value; and\n\n(3) inherent diminished value.\n\nRepair-related diminished value is the loss of value due to the inability to perfectly repair the vehicle, so it is worth less after repairs than it was before the wreck. Immediate Diminished Value – The difference in resale value of a vehicle immediately before damage has occurred and immediately after damage has occurred (prior to repair). As courts are rarely the chosen venue for recovery of property damage, the standard of \"Immediate Diminished Value\" is rarely employed in resolving Property Damage claims. This also refers to a loss of value caused by the insurer's direct involvement in the claim adjustment in which the insurer exerts control over the repairs and repairs are incomplete, insufficiently performed, or otherwise restore the vehicle to less than the standard condition.\n\nInherent Diminished Value - Assumes optimal repair quality has been achieved and is defined as the amount by which the resale value of a repaired vehicle has been reduced simply because the subject vehicle now has a significant damage history. This is the most widely recognized and accepted form of Diminished Value. It is also the basis upon which any supplemental form of Diminished Value would be added. A common \"Supplemental\" form of Diminished Value is \"Repair Related Diminished Value\".\n\nUsually, a frame or structurally damaged vehicle cannot be re-sold as a \"certified pre-owned vehicle.\"\n\nThe true measure of a damaged vehicle's inherent loss in value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. The standard rule as to establishing a value on late model vehicles would be: 20-25% behind book (Black Book, KBB, NADA) and utilize actual sales results, and not on advertised prices.\n\nWhile some may claim Diminished Value (DV) is subjective and based upon perception or speculation, the old adage \"perception becomes reality' applies and as such Diminution in Value is real simply because, for the most part, no reasonable and prudent person is willing to pay the same price for a vehicle with a history of damage as they would for one never having been damaged. Retailers often offer discounts for scratches and dents on appliances, electronics and dented canned goods; it is, therefore, reasonable that the value of a damaged motor vehicle will suffer a lessening in value.\n\nAdditional factors may be taken into consideration in evaluating the loss in value of a damaged and repaired vehicle and may include, but not be limited to: the vehicle itself (i.e. rare collectible, originality, market desirability etc.), the vehicle’s pre-loss condition, severity of the sustained damages (i.e. frame damage, flood, fire etc.), the subject vehicle’s history (i.e. one owner, prior damage/repair, death of occupants etc.), quality and thoroughness of the performed repairs, (i.e. quality of parts, materials, workmanship, etc.) and additional value considerations including, but not limited to values associated with pre-owned certification programs.etc.\n\nAuto insurance companies may not readily recognize or offer to pay for diminished value. Each state may have differing opinions of DV. Example; The state of Georgia allows the insured party (the first-party Policyholder) to make a claim for their remaining economic loss for DV from their own insurance company while the neighboring state of Florida does not. Most states, however, allow the victim of another's negligence (third-party) to make a DV claim from the at-fault party.\n\nThe length of time to collect Diminished Value will vary depending upon each state's statute of limitations for first party (contractual) claims and third-party (restatement of tort) claims.\n\nA diminished value appraisal evaluates the difference in value of a motor vehicle after a collision repair. Reports are usually compiled by an Auto Appraisal Expert experienced in the field of DV and who may provide expert testimony for Appraisals, Arbitration, Mediation or Litigation in a court of law. This Assessment report is used when filing or disputing a diminished value claim against another party and/or an insurance company. The report measures a damaged vehicle’s inherent loss in value. The diminished value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. In most cases even if the repair was done expertly, the value of the automobile will still be considerably less after a loss. When consumers find that a vehicle has been in an accident, most consumers will never pay the same price for a repaired vehicle as compared to one with no loss history.\n\nSome reports include an assessment of the damage done to a motor vehicle, the quality of the performed repair, the market value of the vehicle before and after the accident. There are no set rules for measuring diminished value, and since every vehicle loses value differently, a one size fits all formula would be fundamentally inaccurate.\n\nRecognition of concept of diminished value varies from country to country \n\nSome states' statutes acknowledge diminished value and provide the ability for consumers to collect first party claims of DV from their own insurance companies under their own policies. Most states allow the consumer to collect third party claims from the at-fault driver's insurance company. Some states recognize liability for third party claims but not first party claims.\n\nIn Georgia, vehicle owners can collect DV against their own policy.\n\nDiminished value is part of the Florida Standard Civil Jury Instructions. Diminished value case law in Florida is based primarily on two cases.\n\nThe ability to receive diminished value financial compensation from an at-fault driver for their negligence was decided by the Florida Supreme Court in the Siegle vs. Progressive Consumer's Insurance Company case. After Siegle insurance companies are able to exclude responsibility for the payment of diminished value to the vehicle that they insure through the language in the policy.\nThe Florida Third District Court of Appeal, upheld that the correct measure of damages is the cost of repair plus any reduction in the value of the vehicle. The Court also directed that proving the reduction in value is the burden of the Plaintiff bringing the claim.\n\nDiminished value is provided in Louisiana Revised Statute 9:2800.17. The vehicle owner must prove by a preponderance of evidence that the fair market value would be less than its value before the vehicle was damaged.\n\nOn July 15, 2014, a policyholder in Washington state filed a proposed class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of Pierce County seeking diminished value insurance benefits under their automobile insurance policies. The insurance company filed a notice to remove the lawsuit to federal district court on August 20, 2014. The case is titled \"Johnston v. United Services Automobile Ass'n\".\n\nThe ability to recover damages for accelerated depreciation varies from Province to Province.\n\nIn British Columbia, law recognizes this loss as a recoverable damage and quantify the claim based on the diminished value at the time the collision occurs.\n\nThe Rules addressing the admissibility of depreciation reports in court vary by jurisdiction. For example, in British Columbia, Canada, the BC Supreme Court requires such reports to comply with Rule 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "8137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8137", "title": "Disaster", "text": "Disaster\n\nA disaster is a serious disruption, occurring over a relatively short time, of the functioning of a community or a society involving widespread human, material, economic or environmental loss and impacts, which exceeds the ability of the affected community or society to cope using its own resources.\n\nIn contemporary academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk. These risks are the product of a combination of both hazards and vulnerability. Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become disasters, as in the case of uninhabited regions.\n\nDeveloping countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by hazards occur in developing countries, and losses due to natural hazards are 20 times greater (as a percentage of GDP) in developing countries than in industrialized countries.\n\nThe word \"disaster\" is derived from Middle French \"désastre\" and that from Old Italian \"disastro\", which in turn comes from the Ancient Greek pejorative prefix δυσ-, (\"dus-\") \"bad\" and ἀστήρ (\"aster\"), \"star\". The root of the word \"disaster\" (\"bad star\" in Greek) comes from an astrological sense of a calamity blamed on the position of planets.\n\nResearchers have been studying disasters for more than a century, and for more than forty years disaster research. The studies reflect a common opinion when they argue that all disasters can be seen as being human-made, their reasoning being that human actions before the strike of the hazard can prevent it developing into a disaster. All disasters are hence the result of human failure to introduce appropriate emergency management measures. Hazards are routinely divided into natural or human-made, although complex disasters, where there is no single root cause, are more common in developing countries. A specific disaster may spawn a secondary disaster that increases the impact. A classic example is an earthquake that causes a tsunami, resulting in coastal flooding.\n\nA natural disaster is a natural process or phenomenon that may cause loss of life, injury or other health impacts, property damage, loss of livelihoods and services, social and economic disruption, or environmental damage.\n\nVarious phenomena like earthquakes, landslides, volcanic eruptions, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, tsunamis, and cyclones are all natural hazards that kill thousands of people and destroy billions of dollars of habitat and property each year. However, the rapid growth of the world's population and its increased concentration often in hazardous environments has escalated both the frequency and severity of disasters. With the tropical climate and unstable landforms, coupled with deforestation, unplanned growth proliferation, non-engineered constructions make the disaster-prone areas more vulnerable. Developing countries suffer more or less chronically from natural disasters due to ineffective communication combined with insufficient budgetary allocation for disaster prevention and management. Asia tops the list of casualties caused by natural hazards.\n\nHuman-instigated disasters are the consequence of technological hazards. Examples include stampedes, fires, transport accidents, industrial accidents, oil spills and nuclear explosions/radiation. War and deliberate attacks may also be put in this category. As with natural hazards, man-made hazards are events that have not happened—for instance, terrorism. Man-made disasters are examples of specific cases where man-made hazards have become reality in an event.\n\n"}
{"id": "18515583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18515583", "title": "Event management software", "text": "Event management software\n\nEvent management software is the generic term for a wide range of software products that are used in the management of professional and academic conferences, trade exhibitions, conventions and smaller events such as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) meetings.\n\nThe most common event management applications are:\n"}
{"id": "33049538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33049538", "title": "Fame Kills: Starring Kanye West and Lady Gaga", "text": "Fame Kills: Starring Kanye West and Lady Gaga\n\nFame Kills: Starring Kanye West and Lady Gaga was a planned co-headlining concert tour by American rapper Kanye West and singer Lady Gaga. For the tour, which would have supported West's fourth album \"808s & Heartbreak\" (2008) and Gaga's \"The Fame Monster\" EP (2009), the pair conceived a production that would unite their different musical audiences. The tour was scheduled to run from November 2009 to January 2010, but was canceled after public controversy regarding West's interruption of Taylor Swift's Best Female Video speech at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. Shortly after the cancellation, Gaga embarked on her own tour, The Monster Ball Tour, while West took a break from his career.\n\nIn June 2009, West announced on \"The View\" he would be touring with Gaga, but she would not perform as an opening act. \"She's talented and so incredible that she's not an opening act\", he said. \"We're doing it together, with no opening act.\" In August, Gaga expressed her belief that the tour would be \"one of the most groundbreaking moments in touring history.\" Before the singer agreed to collaborate with West, she demanded that the tour would remain accessible to her gay fans. \"I'm gay\", she recalled telling West in an interview with \"Out\" magazine, \"my music is gay. My show is gay. And I love that it's gay. And I love my gay fans and they're all going to be coming to our show. And it's going to \"remain\" gay.\"\n\nThe tour's stage was designed by Gaga and West as a traverse; \"Instead of being on just one end of the arena, the stage traverses the entire arena\", Gaga noted. \"It's not really in-the-round; it's more of a runway.\" The concept of the tour was to feature the performers on opposite ends of the stage, with Gaga's end representing \"home and humble beginnings\" and West's end representing \"the fame\", with the two fighting for each other's positions throughout the show. West would perform his singles, Gaga would perform hers, and then the duo would perform several duets.\n\nGaga said she enjoyed designing Fame Kills with West, calling themselves \"creative kindreds.\" She explained that they did not plan to tour for themselves, but rather for \"everybody else\"; the goal of the tour would have been to bring two different groups of fans and music enthusiasts together. \"I make pop music and Kanye's fans love pop music because he has changed what hip-hop means\", she said. \"For me, the tour is more about just bringing people together and having a big dance party. The show is a celebration of creativity, art, fashion and choreography.\" She also noted that West showed her a lot during the creative planning of the show, such as one instance where Gaga wanted to put side panels on the stage that would have obstructed the view for some fans. \"He was like, 'I'm not selling a ticket to a fan who can't see the show,' and he's right\", she said.\n\nA promotional video for the tour was released in September 2009. West posted the video on his blog accompanied by the text, \"What happened to all the rock stars? The fame killed them!\" The 30-second clip features slow-motion footage of a topless Gaga being carried by a man presumed to be West. Daniel Kreps from \"Rolling Stone\" described it as \"soft 70s porn\", while adding that he had \"no idea what [the text in the video] has to do with the 30-second clip, but we're sure it'll start to make more sense as more promos roll out as we approach the tour's launch.\"\n\nFollowing singer Taylor Swift's win for the music video \"You Belong with Me\" at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards for Best Female Video, West stormed the stage, grabbed Swift's microphone, and declared that singer Beyoncé deserved the award for her \"Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)\" video. He declared, \"Yo, Taylor, I'm really happy for you, and I'm going to let you finish, but Beyoncé had one of the best videos of all time.\" West was profusely criticized from celebrities and fans alike over the incident. Following the interruption, the status of Fame Kills was rumored to be in question. A representative from a US urban radio station commented: \"I think this could potentially affect his upcoming tour with Lady Gaga. This isn't an urban tour — urban audiences can be a bit more forgiving than mainstream audiences are. I can see him going on stage and people booing him. It's unfortunate.\" Less than a week after the ticket sales began, the tour was canceled but no reason was given.\n\nVarious rumors circulated as to why the tour was canceled. It was suspected that it was canceled due to poor ticket sales, feuding between Gaga and West's management teams, and Gaga's desire to play in smaller venues. Gaga's choreographer, Laurieann Gibson, said the tour was terminated due to \"creative differences\" between the singers. Gaga claimed that the cancellation was a mutual decision, and added that she would soon embark on her own headlining tour, The Monster Ball Tour in the coming weeks, while West would be taking a break. In 2016, West claimed that Gaga had been solely responsible for canceling the tour following the MTV incident.\n\nGaga was scheduled to begin The Monster Ball Tour in March 2010, but following the cancellation of Fame Kills, The Monster Ball Tour began in November 2009. Gaga said that while she was inspired by what she and West had planned to do with the Fame Kills tour, she decided not to use any of the ideas and concepts they created together, citing integrity.\n\nAll tour dates were canceled.\n\n"}
{"id": "1216583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216583", "title": "Farewell speech", "text": "Farewell speech\n\nA farewell speech or farewell address is a speech given by an individual leaving a position or place. They are often used by public figures such as politicians as a to the preceding career, or as statements delivered by persons relating to reasons for their leaving. The term is often used as a euphemism for \"retirement speech\", though it is broader in that it may include geographical or even biological conclusion. In the Classics, a term for a dignified and poetic farewell speech is \"apobaterion\" (ἀποβατήριον), standing opposed to the \"epibaterion\", the corresponding speech made upon arrival.\n\nMany U.S. presidential speeches have been given the moniker \"farewell address\" since George Washington's address in 1796. Some notable examples:\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "53794727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53794727", "title": "George Gigicos", "text": "George Gigicos\n\nGeorge Gigicos is an American campaign consultant who specializes in advance representation for Republican politicians. He served as White House Scheduling and Advance Director from the beginning of Donald Trump's presidency until July 31, 2017.\n\nGigicos is of Greek descent and has ancestry from Kalamata. He studied at Birmingham–Southern College in Alabama, graduating in 1990. Gigicos worked in advance planning for the United States Department of the Treasury under President George H. W. Bush and later worked as an event planner at the Orange County Convention Center in Florida. He founded a communications firm known as the Telion Corporation in 1999, and also worked for the Republican campaigns of George W. Bush, John McCain, and Mitt Romney. \n\nIn December 2016, \"Politico\" reported that Gigicos was one of Trump's campaign staffers being considered for a staff role in the Trump administration. The site reported that Gigicos was likely to be appointed as the director of White House advance. Trump appointed him as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Advance on January 5, 2017. He served in the Trump Administration until July 31, 2017. \n"}
{"id": "4640237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4640237", "title": "Global Night Commute", "text": "Global Night Commute\n\nGlobal Night Commute was a worldwide event organized by the makers of the film \"Invisible Children\" through the organization Invisible Children, Inc. It took place on April 29, 2006. Youths from around the world walked to city centers and spent the night in parks to show support for Ugandan children who walk every night into city centers attempting to avoid capture by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA).\n\nThese children, between the ages of 3 and 17, from Acholiland in Northern Uganda, are referred to as \"night commuters\". They walk up to 20 km (12 mi) from internally displaced person camps to larger towns, notably Gulu, in search of safety from the LRA.\n\nThe Global Night Commute was similar to other initiatives raising awareness about the plight of the children in Acholiland like the Gulu Walk that took place in over 40 cities internationally in October 2005; however, the Global Night Commute took place on a much larger scale. Over 58,000 people signed up to participate in the event, but over 80,000 attended in total; it took place in 130 cities in seven countries.\n\nThe goal of the event was to raise awareness and ultimately end Africa's longest running conflict by facilitating a change in the policies of the United States government. The slogan for the event is \"On April 29th, we gathered. To make a difference. To end a war.\"\n\n\n\nEvent photographs\n\nPress\n"}
{"id": "53352269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53352269", "title": "Global Running Day", "text": "Global Running Day\n\nGlobal Running Day is a day that celebrates the sport of running. It is held annually on the first Wednesday of June. Participants of all ages and abilities pledge to take part in some type of running activity by submitting their names through the Global Running Day website. Global Running Day 2018 is scheduled for June 6.\n\nGlobal Running Day was formerly known as National Running Day and began in the United States. The first event was in 2009.\n\nThe inaugural Global Running Day was held on June 1, 2016. More than 2.5 million people from 177 countries pledged to run more than 9.2 million miles. New York City Mayor, Bill de Blasio, declared June 1, 2016 to be Global Running Day in the City of New York. 2014 Boston Marathon winner Meb Keflezighi led a group run from the Boston Run Base, and the Atlanta Track Club organized a “run around the clock” event, where at least one person from the Atlanta metro area would be running every hour of Global Running Day.\n\nThe Million Kid Run is the youth division of Global Running Day and aims to have one million kids around the world participate in Global Running Day. Its focus is on making fitness fun, and inspiring kids to embrace running as a way to remain healthy and fit. In 2016, 672,030 youths took part.\n\nMore than 100 organizations support Global Running Day and the Million Kid Run, including the Abbott World Marathon Majors, Atlanta Track Club, Boston Athletic Association, Competitor Group, Houston Marathon Foundation, International Association of Athletics Federations, Athletics for a Better World program, New York Road Runners, Running USA, USA Track & Field, and more\n"}
{"id": "32038976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32038976", "title": "Global Wind Day", "text": "Global Wind Day\n\nGlobal Wind Day is a worldwide event that occurs annually on 15 June. It is organised by EWEA (European Wind Energy Association) and GWEC (Global Wind Energy Council).\nIn association with EWEA and GWEC, national wind energy associations and companies involved in wind energy production organise events in many countries around the world. In 2011, there were events organised in 30 countries, on 4 continents. Events included visits to onshore and offshore wind farms, information campaigns, demonstration turbines being set up in cities, wind workshops and a wind parade. Many events happened on Global Wind Day (15 June) itself, but there were also events on the days and weeks before and afterwards. In 2012 there were 250 events around the globe and a very popular photo competition. \n\nThe inaugural year of Wind Day (it did not become Global Wind Day until 2009) was organised by EWEA. The main idea was to coordinate events organised by national wind energy associations and companies active in the wind energy field. Wind Day in 2007 reached 18 countries in Europe, with a participation of around 35,000 people.\n\nWind Day 2008 reached 20 European countries and attracted 100,000 people.\n\nThis was the first year that EWEA joined forces with GWEC and extended the reach from European wind energy associations and companies to coordinate Wind Day events across the globe (and changing the name to Global Wind Day). In 2009 there were 300 events in 35 countries, reaching 1 million people.\n\nIn 2009 in Portugal the Wind Day was celebrated with an event called Wind Parade. It was organised in the city of Cascais just in front of the ocean. This project aimed to promote renewable energy good practices and in particular Wind Energy. It was supported by the City Council and conceived by Energia Lateral and implied the installation of 7 skstream micro wind turbines in a very visible place by the sea in June–July 9. One of the purposes was to involve children in the event and they were invited for a contest to decorate/paint small dummy wind turbines. Over 50 applications were submitted by 30 schools. The winner decorated a dummy wind turbine with Don Quixote elements comparing his fight against the windmills but in this case the wind mills being allies of Don Quixote in an epic effort to improve the environment.\n\nIn this year, 220 events took place in 30 countries, including the display of a 29.5 metre (96.7 ft) wind turbine blade in Brussels, Belgium, next to the main building of the European Commission and European Council. More than 1 million people were reached by Global Wind Day communications around the world.\n\nIn Brussels, Belgium, the home of EWEA and GWEC, a wind parade in Place de Luxembourg educated people working in the EU area on the benefits and importance of wind energy.\n\nGlobal Wind Day events happened in 30 countries around the world in 2011. Some examples include:\nIn France there were 15 events, ranging from wind farm inauguration to a jobs-in-the-wind-industry question and answer session. \nIn Austria, journalists leapt from the top of a turbine and abseiled to the ground. \nIn Japan there were 10 events, involving field trips to wind farms, experimental wind energy facilities and making wind turbines from a kit. \nIn Australia, an open day at a wind farm was available, with a community evening to finish off the day. \nIn Mexico, a public street fair featured a drawing competition for kids and a display of wind energy history.\n\nGlobal Wind Day partners organised 250 events around the globe in 2012, from wind farm open days to workshops, from\nphoto exhibition to regattas, from kite-flying to charity runs. For the first time, this included events in\nMexico, Chile, Israel, South Korea and South Africa.\nGlobal Wind Day 2012 gained the support of 18 GWD Ambassadors,who were joined by the Danish Presidency of the EU and the United Nations. Kandeh K. Yumkella, the Director-General of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and the leader of Secretary General Ban Ki-moon’s Sustainable Energy for All initiative said, ‘We need to double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030. This can be achieved with significant contribution from wind energy, both grid connected andfor small-scale decentralised systems. The ‘Global Wind Day’ on 15 June, does play a central role in contributing to the UNSG’s Sustainable Energy For All initiative through galvanising the much needed support for the wind energy industry from political leaders around the globe’.\nThe ‘Wind in Mind’ photo competition saw 2,300 photos from over 40 countries submitted.\n\nFor 2018, WindEurope and GWEC launched a global photo competition to capture the power of wind in the run up to Global Wind Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "5887342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5887342", "title": "Golden Checkerboard", "text": "Golden Checkerboard\n\nGolden Checkerboard (1965) is a book by Ed Ainsworth. Its subject matter concerns the mid-20th century economic conditions of the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians of Palm Springs, California, and the history of the 99-year lease law which enabled them to commercially develop tribal owned lands. It focuses on Indio Superior Court Judge Hilton McCabe, who is described as \"The Little White Father of the Indians of Palm Springs\", and recalls the steps taken by McCabe to set up conservatorships and leases that would give the tribe investment opportunities and economic self-sufficiency. The title of the book refers to the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians' reservation checkerboard pattern, originating from land grants to the Southern Pacific Railroad as an incentive to build rail lines through the region, when President Ulysses S. Grant signed an Executive Order granting \"San Bernardino Base and Meridian, Township 4 South, Range 4 East, Section 14\" to the Agua Caliente Indians.\n\nSection 14, which included the warm springs at the center of Palm Springs, and other sections surrounding Palm Springs, were \"owned\" by the Indians, but held \"in trust\" by the federal government; the Indians charged fees for bathing in the springs and picnicking in the canyon. In 1917, Congress passed the Allotment Act (39 Stat. 969, 976) which directed the Secretary of the Interior to divide and distribute the Indian land; Harry E. Wadsworth was appointed as the allotting agent. In 1927, the Secretary instructed Wadsworth to make a new schedule of allotments, which he did for the 24 members of the Band who made written applications. (In fact the allotments were not carried out; Band member Lee Arenas sued the federal government to have the allotments made legal and won his case in the United States Supreme Court.) In December 1944, Secretary of the Interior Oscar Chapman, acting on the advice of Commissioner of Indian Affairs John Collier, disapproved the allotting schedule set up by Wadsworth 17 years earlier.\n\nIn January 1953, Douglas McKay became Secretary of the Interior. Thereafter McKay asked industrialist Floyd B. Odlum (former president of Atlas Corp. and husband of Jacqueline Cochran) to investigate the affairs of the Agua Caliente Indians. The report by Odlum's committee was completed in April 1955 and put into final form in April 1956. Among other things, Odlum's report determined: that the Band consisted of 83 persons, the majority of whom were minors; the value of the Indian land, allotted and unallotted, totaled as much as $12,000,000; and the value of the land could increase with proper development. Odlum also discussed the legal problems related to unequal allotments, taxes on non-productive real estate, the inability to lease land because of a 5-year limit, and conflicting claims of the allottees. The report recommended that the Indian land be placed in a private corporation or trusteeship rather than existing wardship. Odlum's recommendations were not implemented because newly elected Congressman Dalip Singh Saund, who ran against Cochran in a bitter election campaign, blocked proposed legislation. In the meantime, Congress passed Public Law No. 255 in August 1955, which allowed for leases of 50 years.\n\nIn 1959, a landmark decision by the Secretary of the Interior equalized allotted Indian lands, thereby setting the stage for development of Indian lands within the city of Palm Springs. This same legislation, however, recognizing the potential value of Indian lands within the boundaries of a world-famous resort, also called for the appointment of conservators and guardians to \"protect\" Indians and their estates from \"artful and designing persons\" who might otherwise cheat them out of their properties, which could now be legally sold by the individual tribal members who owned them. By declaring Indians as \"incompetent\" (both as children and adults) court-appointed conservators and guardians took control of a majority of Indian estates. A major oversight of the program was the appointment of judges, lawyers, and business people as Indian conservators and guardians—the very people the program sought to protect Indians and their estates from. The program was administered by the Indio Superior Court's Judge Hilton McCabe, subject of \"Golden Checkerboard\". McCabe concurrently acted as a conservator to a number of tribal members and an executor, in addition to his administrative and legal roles.\n\nThe book received favorable reviews from \"Desert Magazine\" and the \"American Bar Association Journal\".\nFollowing a lawsuit by the Indians against the \"distorted, glorifying biography\", the publisher withdrew the book from the market. \n\nWith the ability to control Indian estates, the conservatorship program fostered corruption among the conservators and administrators—a series of Pulitzer Prize (1968) winning \"Riverside Press-Enterprise\" articles authored by journalist George Ringwald exposed such instances of excessive fees, fee-splitting, and other types of questionable conduct. The conservatorship program was officially ended in 1968 after the Secretary of the Interior's Palm Springs Task Force similarly exposed it as fraudulent and corrupt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "301456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301456", "title": "Happy ending", "text": "Happy ending\n\nA happy ending is an ending of the plot of a work of fiction in which almost everything turns out for the best for the protagonists, their sidekicks, and almost everyone except the villains.\n\nIn storylines where the protagonists are in physical danger, a happy ending mainly consists of their survival and successful completion of the quest or mission; where there is no physical danger, a happy ending may be lovers consummating their love despite various factors which may have thwarted it. A considerable number of storylines combine both situations. In Steven Spielberg's version of \"War of the Worlds\", the happy ending consists of three distinct elements: The protagonists all survive the countless perils of their journey; humanity as a whole survives the alien invasion; \"and\" the protagonist father regains the respect of his estranged children. The plot is so constructed that all three are needed for the audience's feeling of satisfaction in the end. \n\nA happy ending is epitomized in the standard fairy tale ending phrase, \"happily ever after\" or \"and they lived happily ever after\". (\"One Thousand and One Nights\" has the more restrained formula \"they lived happily until there came to them the One who Destroys all Happiness\" (i.e. Death); likewise, the Russian versions of fairy tales typically end with \"they lived long and happily, and died together on the same day\".) Satisfactory happy endings are happy for the reader as well, in that the characters he or she sympathizes with are rewarded. However, this can also serve as an open path for a possible sequel. For example, in the 1977 film \"Star Wars\", Luke Skywalker defeats the Galactic Empire by destroying the Death Star; however, the story's happy ending has consequences that follow in \"The Empire Strikes Back\". The concept of a permanent happy ending is specifically brought up in the Stephen King fantasy/fairy tale novel \"The Eyes of the Dragon\" which has a standard good ending for the genre, but simply states that \"there were good days and bad days\" afterwards.\n\nA happy ending only requires that the main characters be all right. Millions of innocent background characters can die, but as long as the characters that the reader/viewer/audience cares about survive, it can still be a happy ending. Roger Ebert comments in his review of Roland Emmerich's \"The Day After Tomorrow\": \"Billions of people may have died, but at least the major characters have survived. Los Angeles is leveled by multiple tornadoes, New York is buried under ice and snow, the United Kingdom is flash-frozen, and lots of the Northern Hemisphere is wiped out for good measure. Thank god that Jack, Sam, Laura, Jason and Dr. Lucy Hall survive, along with Dr. Hall's little cancer patient.\"\n\nThe presence of a happy ending is one of the key points that distinguish melodrama from tragedy. In certain periods, the endings of traditional tragedies such as \"Macbeth\" or \"Oedipus Rex\", in which most of the major characters end up dead, disfigured, or discountenanced, have been actively disliked. In the Seventeenth Century, the Irish author Nahum Tate sought to improve William Shakespeare's \"King Lear\" in his own heavily modified version in which Lear survives and Cordelia marries Edgar. Tate's version dominated performances for a century and a half, Shakespeare's original nearly forgotten. Both David Garrick and John Philip Kemble, while taking up some of Shakespeare's original text, kept Tate's happy ending. Edmund Kean played \"King Lear\" with its tragic ending in 1823, but failed and reverted to Tate's crowd-pleaser after only three performances. Only in 1838 did William Macready at Covent Garden successfully restore Shakespeare's original tragic end – Helen Faucit's final appearance as Cordelia, dead in her father's arms, became one of the most iconic of Victorian images and the play's tragic end was finally accepted by the general public. Most subsequent critics have not found Tate's amendments an improvement, and welcomed the restoration of Shakespeare's original. Happy endings have also been fastened – equally, with no lasting success – to \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Othello\". \n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of what a happy ending is; such definitions can considerably vary with time and cultural differences. An interpretation of \"The Merchant of Venice\"s forced conversion of Shylock to Christianity is that it was intended as a happy ending. As a Christian, Shylock could no longer impose interest, undoing his schemes in the play and ending the rivalry between him and Antonio, but more important, contemporary audiences would see becoming a Christian as a means to save his soul (cf. Romans 11:15). In later times, Jews (and non-Jewish opponents of anti-Semitism) strongly objected to that ending, regarding it as depicting a victory for injustice and oppression and as pandering to the audience's prejudices.\n\nMost interpretations of the legend of Don Juan end with the protagonist rake being dragged off to Hell, in just retribution for his many sins (for example, the ending of Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\"). However, José Zorrilla - whose 1844 play \"Don Juan Tenorio\" is the version most well-known in the Spanish-speaking world - believed that a story should never end sadly, and must always have a happy ending. In Zorrilla's depiction, Don Juan is saved at the last moment from the flames of Hell by the selfless pure love of Doña Inés, a woman whom he wronged but who forgave him; she had made a deal with God to offer her own blameless soul on behalf of Don Juan's - thus redeeming Don Juan and taking him with her to Paradise.\n\nA \"Times\" review of \"The Spy Who Came in from the Cold\" strongly criticized John le Carré for failing to provide a happy ending, and gave unequivocal reasons why in the reviewer's opinion (shared by many others) such an ending is needed: \"The hero must triumph over his enemies, as surely as Jack must kill the giant in the nursery tale. If the giant kills Jack, we have missed the whole point of the story.\"\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw had to wage an uphill struggle against audiences, as well as some critics, persistently demanding that his \"Pygmalion\" have a happy ending, i.e. that Professor Higgins and Eliza Doolitle would ultimately get married. To Shaw's great chagrin, [[Herbert Beerbohm Tree]] who presented the play in London's [[West End theatre|West End]] in 1914 had sweetened the ending and told Shaw: \"My ending makes money; you ought to be grateful. Your ending is damnable; you ought to be shot.\" The irritated Shaw added a postscript essay, \"'What Happened Afterwards\", to the 1916 print edition, for inclusion with subsequent editions, in which he explained precisely why in his view it was impossible for the story to end with Higgins and Eliza getting married. Nevertheless, audiences continued wanting a happy ending also for later adaptations such as the musical and film \"[[My Fair Lady]]\".\n\nIn numerous cases, [[Hollywood]] studios adapting literary works into film added a happy ending which did not appear in the original. \n\n\n[[Category:Endings]]\n[[Category:Narratology]]\n[[Category:Fiction]]\n[[Category:Plot (narrative)]]\n[[Category:Recurrent elements in fairy tales]]"}
{"id": "30082779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30082779", "title": "Hugh Freeze", "text": "Hugh Freeze\n\nDanny Hugh Freeze Jr. (born September 27, 1969) is an American football coach. He is currently the Offensive Coordinator for the University of Tennessee. He is the former head coach of the University of Mississippi. Freeze served as the head football coach at Lambuth University from 2008 to 2009 and at Arkansas State University in 2011. He was previously a successful high school football coach at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, where he coached Michael Oher and Greg Hardy. He would later follow both of them to the University of Mississippi.\n\nFreeze attended Senatobia High School and the University of Southern Mississippi, from which he graduated in 1992 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and a minor in coaching and sports administration.\n\nIn 1992, Freeze joined the staff at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, as the football team's offensive coordinator and defensive backs coach. Freeze also served as dean of students. In 1995, he was promoted to head coach. Freeze ran the no huddle spread offense and led his team to the state championship twice, in 2002 and 2004, and the regional championship each year from 1995 to 1998 and in 2001 and 2002. He received Region 8-AA Coach of the Year honors five times and Associated Press Coach of the Year honors six times. In ten years at Briarcrest, Freeze was 94–30 as head coach (.785 winning percentage) and 126–37 overall. Freeze was depicted in and motion picture \"The Blind Side\", about one of his former players, current free agent offensive tackle Michael Oher.\n\nWhile at Briarcrest Christian School, Freeze also coached the girls basketball team from 1992 to 2004, and actually had more success in this role, with an overall record of 305–63 (.829 winning percentage), seven straight championship appearances, and four championships.\n\nFollowing his dismissal from Ole Miss, some former students alleged that Freeze had engaged in inappropriate conduct with female students while at Briarcrest. Freeze has denied the allegation and the school has stated it is unaware of any sexual improprieties involving Freeze during his tenure at the school.\n\nIn 2005, the University of Mississippi hired Freeze as an assistant athletic director for football external affairs. The following season, he became the tight ends coach and recruiting coordinator, positions he held through 2007. After that season, he replaced head coach Ed Orgeron on an interim basis before the hiring of Houston Nutt. Freeze interviewed for the offensive coordinator position with Nutt, a position that eventually went to Kent Austin.\n\nIn January 2008, Lambuth University, a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), named Freeze its head coach. In 2008, he led Lambuth to an 8–4 record and a first round loss in the NAIA playoffs, marking their first appearance in the playoffs since 2004 under then head coach Vic Wallace. He was considered for the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga's head coaching position following the 2008 season, but remained at Lambuth University for another season and compiled a 20–5 overall record, and defeating opponents 41–17 on average. In 2009, he led the Eagles to their best regular season record in school history with an unblemished 11–0 mark. Lambuth advanced to the second round of the NAIA playoffs for first time in 11 years—having won one game before suffering elimination to finish 12–1 as the sixth-ranked team in the NAIA.\n\nIn 2010, he joined the staff at Arkansas State as offensive coordinator after a brief stint as offensive coordinator at San Jose State University under Mike MacIntyre. The Red Wolves finished with a 4–8 record, but their offensive rankings jumped from 95th in total offense and 90th in scoring offense in the NCAA Division I FBS to 43rd and 46th, respectively. The Red Wolves' offense broke nine school records including total plays (856), first downs (262), pass attempts (438), pass completions (266), completion percentage (.607), passing yards (3,057), passing yards per game (254.8), and passing touchdowns (23). The Red Wolves' offense averaged 403.4 yards per game, eclipsing over 300 yards all 12 times it took the field for the first time in the history of the program. A-State posted at least 400 yards of total offense in seven games during the 2010 campaign, the most ever as an NCAA FBS member, all in his first year as offensive coordinator. After the season, Freeze was promoted to replace head coach Steve Roberts.\n\nIn 2011, his only season as head coach at Arkansas State, he led the Red Wolves to a 10–2 record and their first Sun Belt Conference title since 2005. The Red Wolves' offense averaged 447.8 ypg (28th nationally, 1st in Sun Belt Conference) including 293.6 ypg passing and 154.2 ypg rushing. Freeze left Arkansas State before the Arkansas State's appearance in the GoDaddy.com Bowl following the season.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, Freeze was announced as the 37th head coach of the University of Mississippi. During the press conference to introduce Freeze as the head coach, he stated that he wanted to \"retire at Ole Miss.\" He was signed to a four-year contract with an annual salary of $1.5 million plus incentives up to $2.5 million.\n\nIn his first season at Ole Miss, Freeze led the Rebels to a 6–6 record in the regular season, making Ole Miss bowl eligible for the first time since 2009 with a 41–24 victory over Mississippi State in the Egg Bowl. His Rebels accepted a bid to play in the BBVA Compass Bowl in Birmingham, Alabama, on January 5, 2013. They beat the University of Pittsburgh 38–17 to finish 7–6.\n\nFreeze received national attention on National Signing Day 2013 as Ole Miss brought in the fifth ranked recruiting class in the country.\n\nFreeze won the 2014 Grant Teaff Coach of the Year award by the Fellowship of Christian Athletes.\n\nDuring Freeze's third season at Ole Miss, he led the Rebels to a 7–0 start, the program's best start since the Johnny Vaught era. By October, they had risen as high as third in the nation, their highest ranking at that late stage in the season in almost half a century. They ultimately finished 9–3, only the third time since Vaught's tenure that Ole Miss has won that many games in the regular season. That netted them an appearance in the 2014 Peach Bowl–their first major bowl appearance since the 1970 Sugar Bowl, and easily the biggest bowl they had attended since Vaught's tenure.\n\nOn September 19, 2015, Freeze's Rebels beat Alabama, 43–37, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, making Freeze only the third head coach, along with Les Miles and Steve Spurrier, to defeat a Nick Saban-coached team in back-to-back years (Michigan's Lloyd Carr beat Saban's Michigan State Spartans in three consecutive years, '96–'98). The victory catapulted the Rebels to #3 in the AP rankings. They went on to tally their second straight nine-win season, and garnered a berth in the 2016 Sugar Bowl, where they won 48–20 over Oklahoma State. They finished ninth in the AP Poll and 10th in the Coaches' Poll—their first top-10 finishes in a final poll since 1969.\n\nIn January 2016, the NCAA charged Ole Miss with numerous recruiting violations. An investigation turned up evidence that Ole Miss employees and boosters arranged numerous \"impermissible benefits\" for players, such as car loans and cash. At least one recruit was suspected of getting help on his college entrance exam. \n\nThe investigation reopened soon after star offensive tackle Laremy Tunsil admitted taking money from one of Freeze's assistants. In February 2017—three months after suffering its first losing season since the year Freeze arrived—Ole Miss withdrew from bowl consideration for the upcoming season. The move came on the same day that the NCAA sent an updated notice of allegations charging the Rebels with eight additional violations. Most seriously, it accused Freeze of not monitoring his assistants, and also accused Ole Miss of not properly controlling the program.\n\nOn July 13, 2017, Freeze's predecessor, Houston Nutt, sued Ole Miss for defamation, contending that Freeze and school officials falsely blamed him for the violations. As part of discovery for the lawsuit, Nutt's attorneys filed a Freedom of Information Act request for calls Freeze made on his university-issued cell phone during January 2016. Nutt's attorneys contended that Freeze and others at Ole Miss leaked information to the press as part of an effort to smear their client. \n\nWhile reviewing those records, Nutt's attorneys discovered a call to a number associated with a female escort service, and alerted Ole Miss officials about it. Freeze claimed it was a misdialed number. School officials investigated, and discovered what they later described as \"a concerning pattern\" of similar calls dating back to shortly after he arrived in Oxford. On July 20, chancellor Jeff Vitter and athletic director Ross Bjork gave Freeze an ultimatum: resign or be fired for violating the morals clause of his contract. Freeze opted to resign; offensive coordinator Matt Luke was named interim coach.\n\nOn October 11, 2018, Freeze was named as the Offensive Coordinator for the Arizona Hotshots of the Alliance of American Football.\n\nFreeze and his wife Jill have three daughters; Ragan, Jordan and Madison. Freeze is a born again Christian and has been outspoken about his faith throughout his coaching career. He and his family attend Pinelake Church in Oxford.\n\n\nAssistant coaches under Hugh Freeze who became NCAA head coaches:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55075194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55075194", "title": "Human response to disasters", "text": "Human response to disasters\n\nHuman response to disasters has been recorded throughout human history. In ancient times disasters were often perceived as a result of a deity, divine being, or spiritual creature showing their displeasure over human behavior. This later changed as humans began to see disasters as natural events that caused physical destruction and social chaos to individuals, communities, and societies as opposed to responses to human actions.\n\nThe term \"disaster myth\" has been created to describe the belief that people will behave in an irrational, uncontrolled, and even extreme manner outside of normal and accepted social standards despite evidence that proponents state prove otherwise. Proponents of the term further state that people will only act irrationally in the direst of circumstances when terrible danger is imminent and no avenue of escape appears available. They argue that these disaster myths cause a negative impact when they cause people, officials, and disaster-relief organizations to make detrimental or incorrect disaster planning and response decisions.\n\nOne commonly held disaster myth is that people develop an insurmountable, illogical fear in the face of a disaster. In turn, this fear becomes infectious, spreads to others, and causes people to flee without thinking and in a chaotic manner that could hurt those around them.\n\nIn fact, just the opposite can be expected in most cases. Even when experiencing the increased stress from an earthquake, since they arrive unannounced and it is not known when the aftershocks will end, people continue to act rationally. Not only do few people panic, most are unwilling to participate in an organized evacuation. Those who live in the disaster area tend to stay in place. The only ones who usually flee are the visitors, tourists, and transients. Disasters also draw people to the area. Some want to help while others just want to see the destruction.\n\nThe general public and organizations involved in emergency planning, management, and response all tend to accept this disaster myth as reality. Panicking can cause harm to others if people flee without thought. Staying put can be even worse since the people are not getting away from the disaster’s damage and destruction. When necessary, people should evacuate in an orderly manner to avoid the disaster. It also provides an opportunity to help others evacuate who may need assistance. The myth of panic can cause officials to be cautious when issuing public bulletins. By not wanting to instigate or amplify the believed panic, officials may wait too long to provide the information on which the populace should act. To avoid contributing to or increasing the level of this mythical panic, officials have also chosen to not share information about preparations for some types of disasters (e.g. chemical and biological attacks).\n\nThe antithesis of the panic myth was seen with Orson Welles’ The War of the Worlds radio broadcast in 1938, the 1942 Cocoanut Grove nightclub fire, and as Hurricane Carla approached the Gulf Coast areas of Texas and Louisiana in 1961. Rational behavior also dominated after earthquakes in Europe, North and South America, and Asia. Despite many reports of widespread panic, evidence later proved otherwise. The myth of panic affecting the official warnings of authorities has been seen in Mexico when the Rio Grande River flooded, in Italy during the flooding of the city of Florence, and after a volcanic eruption in Japan. In the instances when authorities chose to send the military instead of humanitarian organizations in response to Hurricane Katrina, it was in some part to help manage and control the perceived panic among the population.\n\nMany people believe those who experience a disaster firsthand experience emotional trauma that has both immediate and lasting effects. It is thought the initial devastation of the disaster leaves people too fragile and in shock. As such, they are unable to cope with their situation or participate in recovery efforts. They are consequently dependent on assistance from outside relief agencies.\n\nOnly in a small minority of cases does this myth turn out to be true. And many times, the experienced shock is short-lived. What in fact happens in most cases is people react immediately to the disaster and its effects. The disaster can also be a jolt of energy which drives people to respond to the emergency. Those who went through the disaster are the first engaged in relief and rescue efforts before any outside agency. They come together along familiar lines such as family and friends and then move as needed to a larger scale involving groups with which they associate (e.g. churches). If the familiar cannot be contacted or they are unable to respond, only then do most people look toward the faceless law enforcement, welfare, and relief organizations for assistance. People will also seek help from outside the familiar when special equipment or medical skills are required.\n\nThe myth of widespread shock leads outside relief organizations to plan their efforts as if they are the only ones who will be providing assistance. This may create a disconnected rather than complementary relationship between them and the local agencies. Additionally, the feeling on the part of the survivors that they do not need to rely on outsiders coupled with the relief organizations believing they are saviors creates a wall between the two which in turn inhibits communication, coordination, and effective relief and recovery efforts.\n\nPeople’s reliance on self and the well-known was seen in a variety of disaster types such as the 1953 tornado in Flint-Beecher, Michigan, the 1955 flood of Marysville and Yuba City, California, Hurricane Audrey in 1957, Hurricane Carla in 1961, Hurricane Betsy in 1965, and the 1971 earthquake in San Fernando, California. Both in Mexico City in 1985 and in Turkey in 1999, thousands of local residents banded together to search for fellow victims in the earthquake wreckage. Neighbors performed more than half of the rescue activities after the Great Hanshin-Awaji earthquake hit Kobe City, Japan in 1995.\n\nPeople believe the population impacted by a disaster are unable to do anything about their situation so are standing by just waiting for the saviors from afar to swoop in with the solution to all of their suffering. Not only that, relief organizations often think the aid must be provided immediately. This myth is especially pervasive when the disaster strikes a third-world country and it is a “superior” western country coming to the rescue.\n\nWhile relief organizations with emergency managers, medical teams, and the like do offer assistance after a disaster, most people are actually saved by other survivors and local authorities, agencies, and organizations.\n\nBecause of this myth, more supplies are often sent than the disaster area typically needs. In addition to excess quantity, much of the supplies end up being of little to no use. Relief organizations often do not wait for an assessment of the disaster area and an identification of needs which can be provided by local officials or performed by themselves. As a consequence, money is often wasted on sending unneeded teams of experts or supplies when local authorities and victims would benefit more if that same money was allocated towards providing resources that filled gaps and complemented their efforts. Donors compound the issue by donating used clothing, household items, and the like. With too many supplies on-hand or in possession of supplies they cannot use, local officials are forced to waste manpower and resources on disposing of them. Instead of providing unwanted and unrequested goods, organizations and donors should send money which can be more easily applied to fulfilling local needs.\n\nAn example of this myth’s impact was seen following the 1993 Hokkaidō earthquake as authorities were forced to spend 1.2 million in U.S. dollars on the removal of unnecessary relief supplies.\n\nOutside rescue, relief, and recovery agencies almost always miscalculate the amount of available resources for basic needs that are available locally in the aftermath of a disaster. They believe there are not enough materiel, supplies, and personnel for the initial response.\n\nIn fact, there are usually enough supplies to last several weeks. Enough food can normally be found in stores, warehouses, and people’s homes. Clothing is rarely needed. Medical supplies reside in hospitals, warehouses, or nearby communities. Hospitals as well as police and fire departments often transition to 24-hour operations. And no evidence is available that proves the unfound belief that key personnel will leave their posts to go attend to their families and friends.\n\nRelief agencies tend to believe they must act immediately rather than assess the situation first. As a result, they often provide supplies when there is already enough on-site for the immediate future.\n\nThe prevalence of looting in the wake of disasters is another common myth. It is thought that disasters provide cover for criminal activity. In this scenario, people take advantage of law enforcement and other agencies responsible for maintaining the peace, safety, and security being occupied with disaster response and relief efforts. People believe criminals will use the disaster as an opportunity to loot due to a prevalence of evacuated, abandoned, and unguarded homes and stores.\n\nWhile looting can occur, they are always isolated incidents. And much reported looting is either entirely false or, at worst, desperate survivors scavenging for necessities.\n\nBut because people believe looting happens, they frequently refuse to leave despite the disaster’s destruction and damage in order to protect their homes and property. When no looting occurs, people tend to believe it is because enough security was in place to prevent it rather than looters did not exist in the first place. Also, officials who believe in this myth end up assigning personnel to a protection role rather than to a much more critical rescue, relief, or logistics support function.\n\nThe lack of connection between disasters and looting was seen in the rates for theft and burglaries actually falling after Hurricane Betsy in 1965. This myth’s impact was also seen outside the United States as evidenced by many Guatemalans staying after the 1976 earthquake out of fear of having their animals, homes, and possessions stolen.\n\nPeople tend to believe that survivors are extremely negative after a disaster and need to assurance that the outside world cares and the future is bright for themselves and their community.\n\nIn fact, people are most often optimistic and have very high morale in a disaster’s aftermath. They frequently subordinate any personal feelings of loss and suffering in order to apply themselves to providing food, shelter, and other services to those in need. Their motivation to help one another boosts the sense of community and togetherness.\n\nBecause of the myth, dignitaries and officials feel the need to come to the disaster area to reassure the survivors. They often make promises of aid that either are not kept or do not happen in a timely manner. This can cause survivors to resent outsiders. This resentment in turn can prevent the survivors from asking for needed skills and resources that the outsiders can in fact provide.\n\nWhen a disaster results in deaths, especially in large quantities, people often believe they are at considerable risk of catching a disease from them. They also believe disease epidemics develop in the wake of disasters.\n\nThe fact that they died from the disaster does not make them a risk for spreading diseases. If a body does carry a communicable disease, the person already had it when he or she was alive. The fact that the body is now stationary and will remain in one place makes it less of a risk than prior to death. And an epidemic would happen only if either of two circumstances exist: 1) the disaster brings disease with it for which the people are not immune or 2) the disaster’s effects lead to malnutrition, the malnutrition increases susceptibility to disease, and finally, a large number of people contract the disease.\n\nThe belief in the myth can result in the hurried disposal of the bodies without proper identification, burial, or involvement by the next of kin. This can add to the suffering of survivors because they were not allowed to properly care for their loved ones. In addition to the personal toll, needlessly disposing of dead bodies can divert personnel and supplies from other areas where at that time they are needed more (e.g. involved in actions that benefit those still living). Fear or rumor of an epidemic can also cause relief organizations to provide medicines, resources, and other aid for a problem that does not exist.\n\nThis myth has been repeated many times such as in the 1972 earthquake in Managua, Nicaragua, Hurricane Mitch in 1998, the 1999 earthquake in Turkey, and the 2000 flooding in Mozambique. Additionally, rumors of hepatitis, measles, dysentery, and typhus that were later proven to be false followed the 1976 earthquake in Guatemala.\n\nPeople who have experienced a disaster often believe the dramatic accounts of their own suffering. It allows them to pass off their actions as atypical and heroic. In the process of telling others about their involvement, the mythic component of their story is spread along with the reality.\n\nDisaster survivors tend to worry about looting. Their increased anxiety can cause them to spread reports whether they definitely know of any or not. While most people who are asked admit to not having personally witnessed or experienced looting, many claim of being aware of it elsewhere. The belief in looting can make people jump to the conclusion that looting was the cause of items going missing before considering the disaster may have moved, buried, or destroyed them.\n\nGovernment agencies, civilian organizations, and first responders all believe to some extent in disaster myths. When this happens, the myths in turn are often included in their planning and response to disasters, victims, and survivors. And practices based even partially on disaster myths are not only likely to result in inappropriate or inefficient relief and response actions, they can also help to perpetuate the myths thereby affecting people and property in the next disaster.\n\nAn example of how organizations can perpetuate disaster myths takes place in the days following a disaster and up until official numbers are compiled. During this time, officials from emergency, relief, rescue, and welfare organizations can overestimate the loss of life and destruction of property. This sheds a more positive light on their organizations since they can point to effective emergency procedures and local heroism as the reason their figures turned out to be higher than the actual numbers. If their calculations end up being lower than the official figures, they might be blamed for incompetence and inefficiency.\n\nAlthough the inability to cope by a disaster-site’s community and people is a myth, it continues to be believed. One reason is the justification relief agencies give while promoting the assistance they provide. They feel they are needed because they believe facilities such as hospitals, police and fire departments, and other local first responders do not have the capacity to meet the sheer demand from a disaster. And if their efforts do not go as planned, they often point to survivors’ irrationality rather than reassess the assumptions on which they developed their relief plans.\n\nLocal, regional, and national officials make up a primary source of information for the media. In the self-imposed small window the media has to get out the latest details of the disaster, fact-checking sometimes suffers and they rely solely on the officials' accuracy. Consequently, officials substantially influence the media's portrayal and what viewers, listeners, and readers see. An example of this is seen in officials highlighting the positives within their own organization's efforts while downplaying the information from and activities by unofficial groups and sources.\n\nWhen asked by the media, law enforcement officials frequently say they are taking sufficient action to prevent looting even if they have taken no action on the issue. If the norm happens and little to no looting occurs, they may be credited for the absence of crime. But if the exception to the rule happens, they do not want to be blamed for not protecting against the looting. Whether it is true or not, people believe local law enforcement is out keeping the area secure from looters and the myth continues to propagate.\n\nMany myths are perpetuated by the mass media to include newspapers, television, radio, and internet news. This is largely due to the way they portray disasters. In fact, most people base their opinions and beliefs regarding disasters and survivor behavior on what they see in the media. The media strives to keep their viewers’ and readers’ attention for as long as possible. Drama and destruction is interesting and compelling; most of everything else is secondary. For the most part, the media, regardless of country, takes a fairly standard approach to disaster coverage and reporting. Immediately after the disaster, they rely on statistics of destruction and damage followed by stories of victims and those providing the rescue and relief. The media repeatedly moves away from discussing the disaster as a whole to focusing on individual parts and the drama involved in them. As a result of its manner in covering disasters, the media may capture only pieces instead of the entire event while emphasizing the unusually heroic or unusually tragic incidents.\n\nA main focus of media coverage centers on emergency management organizations performing rescue and relief actions in the disaster area. The media frequently portrays international relief teams as angels saving the victims from the disaster's destruction while simultaneously implying the local officials are negligent, inept, or corrupt. Within this backdrop, the portrayal of a breakdown in society and social behavior is more likely to appear in coverage of disasters occurring outside the United States. An example of this type of portrayal that helps perpetuate disaster myths involves the frequent reports of people panicking in both small and large numbers to the point of fleeing when faced by an oncoming disaster such as a hurricane.\n\nAdditionally, when the international media noticed few stories of looting coming out of Japan following the Great East Japan Disaster in 2011, they generally remarked on how well the Japanese people behave. By believing in this myth, they assumed the Japanese showed more behavioral control than other societies rather than understanding it rarely happens in association with any disaster.\n\n"}
{"id": "40929468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40929468", "title": "Hunchun incident", "text": "Hunchun incident\n\nThe Hunchun incident (October 2, 1920) was a reported raid on a Japanese consulate in Manchuria resulting in the death of thirteen Japanese. The Japanese government used this incident to justify sending thousands of Imperial Japanese troops into Manchuria on October 5, 1920. These escalations culminated with the Battle of Qingshanli (October 21–26, 1920) between Japan and the Korean Independence Army, where Korean rebels fought Japanese soldiers.\n\nFor more than a decade prior to Korea’s March 1st Movement (1919) nationalist groups of Korean rebels, many of whom were former soldiers in the Korean army, organized into various pro-independence factions in Manchuria. Due to its strategic location across the Korean border, guerilla fighters could effectively launch raids on Japanese consular police stations, and then retreat back to the Chinese side of the boundary. For example, Hong Pomdo (a previous Righteous Army leader) created the Korean Independence Army and trained so-called independence fighters in Yanji. Additionally, the Northern Route Military Headquarters was established under the leadership of So Il, with Kim Chwajin commanding more than four hundred independence fighters at its officer training school. Separately, Yi Tonghwi also trained over 3,000 independence fighters in Hunchun and armed them with weapons provided by the Red Bolshevik army.\n\nResponding to the March 1st Movement’s failure to secure independence and arouse international sentiments toward the Koreans’ plight under Japanese colonial rule, disaffected Koreans came together on April 13, 1919 in Shanghai to form a republican Korean provisional government with the hope of working together with the independence factions in Manchuria to eventually obtain freedom from Japan.\n\nAs the momentum behind Korean independence movements in Manchuria increased, Japanese consular police chief Suematsu Kichiji became increasingly concerned about increasing radical Bolshevism among Koreans. To try and suppress these movements, he ordered numerous illegal police raids on suspected radical Jiandao base camps, which were protested by local Chinese leaders. While it is clear that some of the Korean guerrilla fighters in Manchuria were influenced by leftist ideologies, the major factions primarily supported the Shanghai Provisional Government and were focused primarily on Korean independence and self-determination.\n\nAngered by the Japanese suppression of the March 1st Movement, Korean independence fighters in Manchuria began increasing their raids against Japanese border posts, killing numerous Japanese guards, with the eventual goal of advancing into Korea to remove the Japanese. During the early summer months of 1920, Korean rebels fought with Japanese troops in thirty-two battles along the border. After one particular Japanese counterattack, Hong Pomdo’s forces surrounded and killed 120 Japanese soldiers and wounded more than 200.\n\nIn effort to contain the Korean rebels, Japan petitioned both Tokyo and the Chinese government to help, but received little assistance. Subsequently, on October 2, 1920, a Japanese consulate in the Chinese city of Hunchun in Jilin Province was attacked and burned to the ground purportedly (according to Japanese sources) by the Korean Independence Army, killing thirteen Japanese people. It was further reported that the “bandits” carrying out this attack “committed indiscriminate acts of murder and pillage” and “looted local shops.”\n\nMany South Korean historians maintain, however, that the attack on Hunchun was not carried out by the Korean rebels, but rather was staged by the Japanese to justify incursion into Manchuria. Some South Korean sources further believe that the attack was coordinated with Chinese bandit leader Ch'ang-chiang-hao who had been bribed by the Japanese to carry out the attack with several bandits in order to incriminate the Koreans. These sources maintain that Chang went further than the Japanese had requested him to in the scale of his attack. Other South Korean scholars even maintain that the entire incident was a complete Japanese fabrication.\n\nNorth Korea is likewise skeptical about the Japanese narrative of the incident, with official sources recently asserting that “the Japanese imperialists cooked up the ‘Hunchun incident’ in which they hurled mounted bandits into attacking their consulate and kicked up a wholesale whirlwind of suppression against Koreans in Northeast China under that pretext.”\n\nThough it is difficult for historians to determine who was behind the attack, or whether the incident actually took place, this controversial event is historically significant because Japan used it to justify its escalated military intervention in Manchuria. Japan petitioned and received permission from China to send 15,000 troops from the 19th Division of the Chosen Army of Japan to contain the Korean rebel armies in Jilin province.\n\nIn reaction to the Hunchun incident, a Japanese punitive “Jiandao Expedition” was accordingly sent to Manchuria, and used “search and destroy” patrols to suppress the guerrilla fighters by carrying out numerous arrests and executions. By December 1920, a Korean Commission report described that Japanese soldiers had burned down thirty-two villages and killed “all the male inhabitants of the [Hunchun] district, and massacred 145 peaceful inhabitants.” One house was reportedly burned down with “women and children inside.”\n\nThough Korean independence forces in Manchuria were never effectively organized under the leadership of the Shanghai Provisional Government, they did achieve notable military victories against the Japanese brigades. The most significant of these was the Battle of Qingshanli, where about 400 Korean rebels were able to defeat the better-trained Japanese after four days of intense combat. In this battle the Koreans killed about 1,200 Japanese soldiers while losing only 60 of their own. However, according to Japanese records, 11 soldiers were killed in action, 24 wounded.\n\nIn early 1921, after a series of skirmishes and retreats on both sides, as well as criticism from local Chinese authorities and the international community, most members of the 19th Division withdrew from eastern Manchuria. Some of the socialist-leaning Korean rebels were then recruited by the Red Bolshevik army to assist in its civil war prior to the formation of the Soviet Union.\n"}
{"id": "57713358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57713358", "title": "Killing of José Rodríguez", "text": "Killing of José Rodríguez\n\nOn 10 October 2012, at the Mexico–United States border near Nogales, Arizona, U.S. Border Patrol agent Lonnie Swartz fired 16 shots at José Antonio Elena Rodríguez, killing him, on the grounds that young men threw rocks at him and other law enforcement agents.\n\nAfter the incident, the law enforcement agencies stated the Mexican civilians were trying to stop them from confiscating a shipment of contraband drugs as well as moving immigrants across the border.\n\nRodriguez was hit 10 times by the patrol officer's shots.\n\nAround 11:30 p.m. on Wednesday 10 October, 2012, John Zuñiga, a police officer in Nogales, Arizona, received a call reporting \"suspicious activity\" on International Street, a road running directly along the border. Getting to the scene, Zuñiga heard from another police officer from Nogales, Quinardo Garci, that two men carrying \"bundles taped to their backs\" had climbed the fence into the United States. Identifying the bundles, on the basis of similar incidents in the past, as most probably containing marijuana, they called out for back up.\n\nAfter several Border Patrol and Customs agents arrived, they saw the two men scaling the fence back into Mexico, empty-handed and with nothing on their backs. They commanded the two men to climb back down. At that time, Garcia and Zuñiga stated in their reports that they saw \"rocks flying through the air\" at the assorted agents and also heard \"gunfire,\" although they were unable to identify its source. \n\nIn the days following the incident, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency stated that\n\nThe person hit was José Antonio Elena Rodríguez, a 16-year old resident of Nogales, Mexico. He was unarmed, standing on the Mexican side of the border on a sidewalk on Calle Internacional street, in front of a doctor’s office, below a sign reading \"Medical Emergencies\" in Spanish. He was hit from behind by 10 bullets. The autopsy revealed that gunshot wounds to the head, lungs, and arteries killed him. \n\nU.S. Border Patrol agent Lonnie Ray Swartz was charged with second degree murder for the killing of José Rodríguez. It was the first time a US law enforcement officer was brought up on charges related to a killing that took part across the US-Mexican border, despite there having been a number of similar incidents in the preceding decade. \n\nIn the trial, which began in late 2015 at the Evo A. DeConcini U.S. Courthouse, the defendant claimed he had used deadly force because Rodriguez \"had been throwing rocks.\" Although a witness testified that Rodríguez was not throwing rocks at the law enforcement officers, evidence showed that he was, along with other youths and men. Prosecutors acknowledged that Rodríguez was throwing rocks across the border but stated \"he did not deserve to die\" for this. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection refused to release surveillance-camera footage of the incident.\n\nAfter the testimony by Emma Lew, the director of the medical examiner in Miami-Dade County, Florida, who stated that Swartz's first shot \"likely hit the boy in the middle of his back as he was running,\" the prosecution rested its case in the trial on 5 April 2018.\n\nOn 23 April 2018, Swartz was acquitted of the charge for second-degree murder; the jury was deadlocked on lesser charges. \nThe judge presiding on the trial, Raner Collins, declared a mistrial. The head of the Tucson union for Border Patrol officers, stated, after the jury's decision was announced, that \"justice was properly served\" and that the union was \"pretty happy with it.\" \n\nAfter the jury's decision was reported in the news, protesters gathered outside the federal courthouse in downtown Tucson late Monday afternoon, and blocked off the intersection in front of it. Among those participating in the protest was the mother of Carlos LaMadrid, another Mexican teen who, in 2011, had been shot and killed by Border Patrol agents.\n\nA 2015 review by the Border Patrol's internal affairs department reviewed 67 shooting incidents that resulted in 19 people dying, during the period from January 2010 through October 2012. The review found agents guilty of criminal conduct in 3 of the incidents. Two agents faced disciplinary action in the form of an \"oral reprimand.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34258585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258585", "title": "Let's Do It! World", "text": "Let's Do It! World\n\nLet's Do It! World is a global civic movement that started from Estonia, asking people worldwide to join a series of local, national and regional clean-up events. Among other projects, it is the founder of World Cleanup Day.\n\nThe Let's Do It! movement was first conceived in Estonia in year 2008, where a country clean-up action called Let's do it! (in Estonian: \"Teeme Ära!\") cleaned up 10,000 tons of illegal waste by more than 50,000 volunteers in one day. Following Estonia's lead many countries also started their own country clean-up events. In 2011 a new initiative called Let's do it! World was started with the aim of promoting massive clean-ups from 24 March 2012 till 15 September 2012. After a successful World Cleanup 2012 project the next bigger goal is to have World Cleanup Day in 2018.\n\nToday, the movement has grown into a network of 113 countries. All together, 14 million participants have been engaged in movement's activities.\n\nLet's Do It! World is an accredited member of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nSince 2017, the movement uses W sign aka Three Fingers Up as a symbol. \n\nOn the 3rd of May 2008 over 50,000 people came out of their homes to clean up Estonia, the rest followed the process via all the media channels. That's 4% out of a population of 1,3 million - which would equal 15,3 million in the USA or 57 million in India. The idea spread from Estonia to the whole Europe and beyond. Next spring, in 2009, Latvia and Lithuania cleaned their countries with more than 250,000 people participating and have done it henceforth for three years, engaging more people each year. On 20 March 2010 Portugal cleaned their country with 200,000 people. Slovenia followed shortly, breaking all records with 270,000 people (which is 13% of the overall population of the country) taking part in the action. In the beginning of June the same year, Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine was cleaned. By the end of 2011 more than 2.5 million people have participated in Let’s Do It! cleanup actions in 16 countries – Estonia, India, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Cambodia, Russia, Hungary and Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, starting from 24 March until 25 September, a series of cleanups happened around the globe, on all continents, bringing together millions of volunteers in 96 countries. The action was initiated on 24 March 2012 by volunteers in Slovenia and Portugal.\n\nTo bring together doers and initiators and share existing experience – Let's Do It! teams were organizing workshops and regional gatherings, introducing the World Cleanup 2012 around the world. Each group or organisation was leading the cleanup action in their country.\nAfter a successful World Cleanup 2012 project, the network set more ambitious goals. During the Let's Do It! Clean World Conference held in Prishtina, Kosovo on the 6th-9th of February 2014, it was agreed, that the aim of the global movement is to clean up the whole World from illegally dumped solid waste and to then keep the planet clean. To reach the essential transformation in the global society, the leaders of country cleanups set the ambitious goal to involve 380 million people by 2018. According to Let's Do It! World, this is around 5% of the world’s population and is estimated to be the amount to create a lasting change.\n\nThe most massive cleanup actions (data: October 2014) within the movement have happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Kosovo and in Albania.\n\nIn 2012, 289,000 Slovenians came out of the homes and cleaned up the entire country in just one day. This is 14% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2013, 375,000 cleaned up the country in Bulgaria in a one-day country cleanup action (13,9% of country's population).\n\nIn 2012, 210,000 people (10% of country's population) cleaned up Latvia from illegal waste in just one day.\n\nIn 2013, a massive civic cleanup action also took place in Kosovo, bringing together 132,000 people (7% of the population) and in the same year, Albania also had a massive cleanup action, uniting 147,000 people (5,25%) to clean up the country in just one day.\n\nIn 2015, 250,000 people (8,6% of country's population) cleaned up Lithuania from illegal waste in one day.\n\nIn 2015, over 500,000 people participated in Let's Do It! actions in Ukraine cleaning up illegal dump-sites around the country. \n\nAround 15 millions people in 158 countries took part on the World Clean Up Day, the 15th of September 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5971019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5971019", "title": "List of Cuba–United States aircraft hijackings", "text": "List of Cuba–United States aircraft hijackings\n\nAircraft hijacking incidents between the United States and Cuba were at their height between 1968 and 1972. These incidents have variously been attributed to terrorism, extortion, flight for political asylum, mental illness, and transportation between the two countries as a result of the ongoing antagonistic Cuba-United States relations and the Communist government restrictions against Cubans attempting to leave Cuba. Subsequent measures by both governments contributed to a gradual reduction of reported incidents towards the mid-1970s. Governmental measures included an amendment to Cuban law which made hijacking a crime in 1970, the introduction of metal detectors in U.S. airports in 1973, and a joint agreement between the U.S. and Cuba signed in Sweden to return or prosecute hijackers.\n\nBelow is a non-comprehensive list of hijacking incidents of aircraft between Cuba and the United States.\nBefore the Cuban Revolution:\n\nAfter the Cuban Revolution:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29752766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752766", "title": "List of fan conventions by date of founding", "text": "List of fan conventions by date of founding\n\nThe list of modern fan conventions for various genres of entertainment extends to the first conventions held in the 1930s. \n\nSome fan historians claim that the 1936 Philadelphia Science Fiction Conference, a.k.a. Philcon, was the first science fiction convention ever held. Others, such as Fred Patten and Rob Hansen, make this claim for the January 1937 event in Leeds, England, organized by the Leeds Science Fiction League, which was specifically organised as a conference, with a program and speakers. Out of this came the first incarnation of the British Science Fiction Association.\n\nWhile a few conventions were created in various parts of the world within the period between 1935-1960, the number of convention establishments increased slightly in the 1960s and then increased dramatically in the 1970s, with many of the largest conventions in the modern era being established during the latter decade. Impeti for further establishment of local fan conventions include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12261050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12261050", "title": "List of games with concealed rules", "text": "List of games with concealed rules\n\nGames with concealed rules are games where the rules are intentionally concealed from new players, either because their discovery is part of the game itself, or because the game is a hoax and the rules do not exist. In fiction, the counterpart of the first category are games that supposedly do have a rule set, but that rule set is not disclosed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23563446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23563446", "title": "List of largest funerals", "text": "List of largest funerals\n\n\n"}
{"id": "942315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=942315", "title": "List of peasant revolts", "text": "List of peasant revolts\n\nThis is a chronological list of conflicts in which peasants played a significant role.\n\nHistory of peasant wars spans over a period of over two thousand years. A variety of reasons fueled the emergence of the peasant revolt phenomenon, including:\n\n\nLater peasant revolts such as the Telangana Rebellion were also influenced by agrarian socialist ideologies.\n\nThe majority of peasant rebellions ended prematurely and were unsuccessful. Peasants suffered from limited funding and lacked the training and organisational capabilities of professional armies.\n\nThe list gives the name, the date, the peasant allies and enemies, and the result of these conflicts following this legend:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40106633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40106633", "title": "List of prison escapes", "text": "List of prison escapes\n\nThe following is a list of historically famous prison escapes, and of multiple prison escapes:\n\nThere have been many infamous escapes throughout history:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21396853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21396853", "title": "List of science and engineering blunders", "text": "List of science and engineering blunders\n\nThis is a list of engineering blunders, i.e., gross errors or mistakes resulting from grave lack of proper consideration, such as stupidity, confusion, carelessness, or culpable ignorance, which resulted in notable incidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48494006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48494006", "title": "Lowara Madi incident", "text": "Lowara Madi incident\n\nOn 21 September 2008 at 10 pm local time, in the Ghulam Khan district of North Waziristan Pakistani soldiers fired on two American helicopter gunships that entered Pakistani airspace with 12.7 mm heavy machine guns. The helicopters stopped and hovered for a while, before returning over the border to Afghanistan without retaliation. It is unknown if any of the helicopters sustained any damage in this first incident.\n\nThirty minutes later, two gunships attempted to cross the border again at the same place. Pakistani regular and Frontier Corps troops fired warning shots into the air and away from the helicopters, causing the helicopters to turn back without attacking any targets in Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "30860671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860671", "title": "Museum of Hoaxes", "text": "Museum of Hoaxes\n\nThe Museum of Hoaxes is a website created by Alex Boese in 1997 in San Diego, California as a resource for reporting and discussing hoaxes and urban legends, both past and present.\n\nIn 2004, PC Magazine included the site as one of the \"Top 100 Sites You Didn't Know You Couldn't Live Without,\" and Sci Fi Weekly named it \"site of the week\" for the week beginning 7 February 2007.\n\nBoese has published two books on hoaxes: \"Museum of Hoaxes\" (E.P. Dutton, 2002, ) and \"Hippo Eats Dwarf: A Field Guide to Hoaxes and Other B.S.\" (Harvest Books, 2006, ). A third book by Boese, \"Elephants on Acid\" (Harvest Books, 2007, ), focuses on unusual scientific experiments. His latest book is \"Electrified Sheep\", published by Boxtree 2011, is also about strange scientific experiments.\n\n"}
{"id": "1972777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972777", "title": "Neil deGrasse Tyson", "text": "Neil deGrasse Tyson\n\nNeil deGrasse Tyson (; born October 5, 1958) is an American astrophysicist, author, and science communicator. Since 1996, he has been the Frederick P. Rose Director of the Hayden Planetarium at the Rose Center for Earth and Space in New York City. The center is part of the American Museum of Natural History, where Tyson founded the Department of Astrophysics in 1997 and has been a research associate in the department since 2003.\n\nTyson studied at Harvard University, the University of Texas at Austin and Columbia University. From 1991 to 1994 he was a postdoctoral research associate at Princeton University. In 1994, he joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist and the Princeton faculty as a visiting research scientist and lecturer. In 1996, he became director of the planetarium and oversaw its $210-million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, Tyson wrote monthly essays in the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine, some of which were later published in his books \"Death by Black Hole\" (2007) and \"Astrophysics for People in a Hurry\" (2017). During the same period, he wrote a monthly column in \"Star Date\" magazine, answering questions about the universe under the pen name \"Merlin\". Material from the column appeared in his books \"Merlin's Tour of the Universe\" (1998) and \"Just Visiting This Planet\" (1998). Tyson served on a 2001 government commission on the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, and on the 2004 Moon, Mars and Beyond commission. He was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal in the same year. From 2006 to 2011, he hosted the television show \"NOVA ScienceNow\" on PBS. Since 2009, Tyson hosted the weekly podcast \"StarTalk\". A spin-off, also called \"StarTalk\", began airing on National Geographic in 2015. In 2014, he hosted the television series \"\", a successor to Carl Sagan's 1980 series \"\". The U.S. National Academy of Sciences awarded Tyson the Public Welfare Medal in 2015 for his \"extraordinary role in exciting the public about the wonders of science\".\n\nTyson was born in Manhattan as the second of three children, into a family living in the Bronx. His mother, Sunchita Maria Tyson (née Feliciano), was a gerontologist for the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and is of Puerto Rican descent. His African-American father, Cyril deGrasse Tyson (1927–2016), was a sociologist, human resource commissioner for New York City mayor John Lindsay, and the first Director of Harlem Youth Opportunities Unlimited. Tyson has two siblings: Stephen Joseph Tyson and Lynn Antipas Tyson. Tyson's middle name, deGrasse, is from the maiden name of his paternal grandmother, who was born as Altima de Grasse in the British West Indies island of Nevis.\n\nTyson grew up in the Castle Hill neighborhood of the Bronx, and later in Riverdale. From kindergarten throughout high school, Tyson attended public schools in the Bronx: P.S. 36, P.S. 81, the Riverdale Kingsbridge Academy (then called \"P.S. 141\"), and The Bronx High School of Science (1972–1976) where he was captain of the wrestling team and editor-in-chief of the \"Physical Science Journal\". His interest in astronomy began at the age of nine after visiting the sky theater of the Hayden Planetarium. He recalled that \"so strong was that imprint [of the night sky] that I'm certain that I had no choice in the matter, that in fact, the universe called me.\" During high school, Tyson attended astronomy courses offered by the Hayden Planetarium, which he called \"the most formative period\" of his life. He credited Dr. Mark Chartrand III, director of the planetarium at the time, as his \"first intellectual role model\" and his enthusiastic teaching style mixed with humor inspired Tyson to communicate the universe to others the way he did.\n\nTyson obsessively studied astronomy in his teen years, and eventually even gained some fame in the astronomy community by giving lectures on the subject at the age of fifteen. Astronomer Carl Sagan, who was a faculty member at Cornell University, tried to recruit Tyson to Cornell for undergraduate studies. In his book, \"The Sky Is Not the Limit\", Tyson wrote:\n\nTyson revisited this moment on his first episode of \"\". Pulling out a 1975 calendar belonging to the famous astronomer, he found the day Sagan invited the 17-year-old to spend a day in Ithaca. Sagan had offered to put him up for the night if his bus back to the Bronx did not come. Tyson said, \"I already knew I wanted to become a scientist. But that afternoon, I learned from Carl the kind of \"person\" I wanted to become.\"\n\nTyson chose to attend Harvard where he majored in physics and lived in Currier House. He was a member of the crew team during his freshman year, but returned to wrestling, lettering in his senior year. He was also active in dance, in styles including jazz, ballet, Afro-Caribbean, and Latin Ballroom.\n\nTyson earned an AB degree in physics at Harvard College in 1980 and then began his graduate work at the University of Texas at Austin, from which he received an MA degree in astronomy in 1983. By his own account, he did not spend as much time in the research lab as he should have. His professors encouraged him to consider alternate careers and the committee for his doctoral dissertation was dissolved, ending his pursuit of a doctorate from the University of Texas.\n\nTyson was a lecturer in astronomy at the University of Maryland from 1986 to 1987 and in 1988, he was accepted into the astronomy graduate program at Columbia University, where he earned an MPhil degree in astrophysics in 1989, and a PhD degree in astrophysics in 1991 under the supervision of Professor R. Michael Rich. Rich obtained funding to support Tyson's doctoral research from NASA and the ARCS foundation enabling Tyson to attend international meetings in Italy, Switzerland, Chile, and South Africa and to hire students to help him with data reduction. In the course of his thesis work, he observed using the 0.91 m telescope at the Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory in Chile, where he obtained images for the Calán/Tololo Supernova Survey helping to further their work in establishing Type Ia supernovae as standard candles. These papers comprised part of the discovery papers of the use of Type Ia supernovae to measure distances, which led to the improved measurement of the Hubble constant and discovery of dark energy in 1998. He was 18th author on a paper with Brian Schmidt, a future winner of the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics, in the study of the measurement of distances to Type II Supernovae and the Hubble constant.\n\nDuring his thesis research at Columbia University, Tyson became acquainted with Professor David Spergel at Princeton University, who visited Columbia University in the course of collaborating with his thesis advisor on the Galactic bulge typically found in spiral galaxies.\n\nTyson's research has focused on observations in cosmology, stellar evolution, galactic astronomy, bulges, and stellar formation. He has held numerous positions at institutions including the University of Maryland, Princeton University, the American Museum of Natural History, and the Hayden Planetarium.\n\nIn 1994, Tyson joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist while he was a research affiliate in Princeton University. He became acting director of the planetarium in June 1995 and was appointed director in 1996. As director, he oversaw the planetarium's $210 million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000. Upon being asked for his thoughts on becoming director, Tyson said \"when I was a kid... there were scientists and educators on the staff at the Hayden Planetarium... who invested their time and energy in my enlightenment... and I've never forgotten that. And to end up back there as its director, I feel this deep sense of duty, that I serve in the same capacity for people who come through the facility today, that others served for me\".\n\nTyson has written a number of popular books on astronomy. In 1995, he began to write the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine. In a column he authored for a special edition of the magazine, called \"City of Stars\", in 2002, Tyson popularized the term \"Manhattanhenge\" to describe the two days annually on which the evening sun aligns with the street grid in Manhattan, making the sunset visible along unobstructed side streets. He had coined the term in 1996, inspired by how the phenomenon recalls the sun's solstice alignment with the Stonehenge monument in England. Tyson's column also influenced his work as a professor with The Great Courses.\n\nIn 2001, U.S. President George W. Bush appointed Tyson to serve on the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry and in 2004 to serve on the President's Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, the latter better known as the \"Moon, Mars, and Beyond\" commission. Soon afterward, he was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian honor bestowed by NASA.\nIn 2004, Tyson hosted the four-part \"Origins\" miniseries of the PBS \"Nova\" series, and, with Donald Goldsmith, co-authored the companion volume for this series, \"Origins: Fourteen Billion Years Of Cosmic Evolution\". He again collaborated with Goldsmith as the narrator on the documentary \"400 Years of the Telescope\", which premiered on PBS in April 2009.\n\nAs director of the Hayden Planetarium, Tyson bucked traditional thinking in order to keep Pluto from being referred to as the ninth planet in exhibits at the center. Tyson has explained that he wanted to look at commonalities between objects, grouping the terrestrial planets together, the gas giants together, and Pluto with like objects, and to get away from simply counting the planets. He has stated on \"The Colbert Report\", \"The Daily Show\", and \"BBC Horizon\" that this decision has resulted in large amounts of hate mail, much of it from children. In 2006, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) confirmed this assessment by changing Pluto to the dwarf planet classification.\n\nTyson recounted the heated online debate on the Cambridge Conference Network (CCNet), a \"widely read, UK-based Internet chat group\", following Benny Peiser's renewed call for reclassification of Pluto's status. Peiser's entry, in which he posted articles from the AP and \"The Boston Globe\", spawned from \"The New York Times\"s article entitled \"Pluto's Not a Planet? Only in New York\".\n\nTyson has been vice-president, president, and chairman of the board of the Planetary Society. He was also the host of the PBS program \"Nova ScienceNow\" until 2011. He attended and was a speaker at the symposium in November 2006. In 2007, Tyson was chosen to be a regular on The History Channel's popular series \"The Universe\".\nIn May 2009, Tyson launched a one-hour radio talk show called \"StarTalk\", which he co-hosted with comedian Lynne Koplitz. The show was syndicated on Sunday afternoons on KTLK AM in Los Angeles and WHFS in Washington DC. The show lasted for thirteen weeks, but was resurrected in December 2010 and then, co-hosted with comedians Chuck Nice and Leighann Lord instead of Koplitz. Guests range from colleagues in science to celebrities such as GZA, Wil Wheaton, Sarah Silverman, and Bill Maher. The show is available via the Internet through a live stream or in the form of a podcast.\n\nIn April 2011, Tyson was the keynote speaker at the 93rd International Convention of the Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society of the Two-year School. He and James Randi delivered a lecture entitled \"Skepticism\", which related directly with the convention's theme of \"The Democratization of Information: Power, Peril, and Promise\".\n\nIn 2012, Tyson announced that he would appear in a YouTube series based on his radio show \"StarTalk\". A premiere date for the show has not been announced, but it will be distributed on the Nerdist YouTube Channel. On February 28, 2014, Tyson was a celebrity guest at the White House Student Film Festival. In 2014, he helped revive Carl Sagan's \"\" television series, presenting \"\" on both FOX and the National Geographic Channel. Thirteen episodes were aired in the first season, and Tyson has stated that if a second season were produced, he would pass the role of host to someone else in the science world. On April 20, 2015, he began hosting a late-night talk show entitled \"StarTalk\" on the National Geographic Channel, where Tyson interviews pop culture celebrities and asks them about their life experiences with science.\n\nTyson is co-developing a sandbox video game with Whatnot Entertainment, \"\", which aims to help provide players with a realistic simulation of developing a space-faring culture, incorporating educational materials about space and technology. The game is anticipated for release in 2018.\n\nTyson has written and broadcast extensively about his views of science, spirituality, and the spirituality of science, including the essays \"The Perimeter of Ignorance\" and \"Holy Wars\", both appearing in \"Natural History\" magazine and the 2006 \"Beyond Belief\" workshop. In an interview with comedian Paul Mecurio, Tyson offered his definition of spirituality: \"For me, when I say spiritual, I’m referring to a feeling you would have that connects you to the universe in a way that it may defy simple vocabulary. We think about the universe as an intellectual playground, which it surely is, but the moment you learn something that touches an emotion rather than just something intellectual, I would call that a spiritual encounter with the universe.\" Tyson has argued that many great historical scientists' belief in intelligent design limited their scientific inquiries, to the detriment of the advance of scientific knowledge.\n\nWhen asked during a question session at the University at Buffalo if he believed in a higher power, Tyson responded: \"Every account of a higher power that I've seen described, of all religions that I've seen, include many statements with regard to the benevolence of that power. When I look at the universe and all the ways the universe wants to kill us, I find it hard to reconcile that with statements of beneficence.\" In an interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson said, \"So what people are really after is what is my stance on religion or spirituality or God, and I would say if I find a word that came closest, it would be agnostic ... at the end of the day I'd rather not be any category at all.\" Additionally, in the same interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson mentioned that he edited Wikipedia's entry on him to include the fact that he is an agnostic:I'm constantly claimed by atheists. I find this intriguing. In fact, on my Wiki page – I didn't create the Wiki page, others did, and I'm flattered that people cared enough about my life to assemble it – and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" I said, \"Well that's not really true.\" I said, \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an agnostic.\" I went back a week later it had been rewritten and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" – again within a week – and I said, \"What's up with that?\" so I said \"Alright, I have to word it a little differently.\" So I said, okay \"Neil deGrasse Tyson, widely claimed by atheists, is actually an agnostic.\"During the interview \"Called by the Universe: A Conversation with Neil deGrasse Tyson\" in 2009, Tyson said: \"I can't agree to the claims by atheists that I'm one of that community. I don't have the time, energy, interest of conducting myself that way... I'm not trying to convert people. I don't care.\"\n\nIn March 2014, philosopher and secularism proponent Massimo Pigliucci asked Tyson \"What is it you think about God?\" Tyson replied \"I remain unconvinced by any claims anyone has ever made about the existence or the power of a divine force operating in the universe.\" Pigliucci then asked him why he expressed discomfort with the label \"atheist\" in his Big Think video. Tyson replied by reiterating his dislike for one-word labels, saying \"That's what adjectives are for. What kind of atheist are you? Are you an ardent atheist? Are you a passive atheist? An apathetic atheist? Do you rally, or do you just not even care? So I'd be on the 'I really don't care' side of that, if you had to find adjectives to put in front of the word 'atheist.'\" Pigliucci contrasted Tyson with scientist Richard Dawkins: \"[Dawkins] really does consider, at this point, himself to be an atheist activist. You very clearly made the point that you are not.\" Tyson replied: \"I completely respect that activity. He's fulfilling a really important role out there.\"\n\nTyson has spoken about philosophy on numerous occasions. In March 2014, during an episode of \"The Nerdist Podcast\", he stated that philosophy is \"useless\" and that a philosophy major \"can really mess you up\", which was met with disapproval. The philosopher Massimo Pigliucci later criticized him for \"dismiss[ing] philosophy as a useless enterprise\".\n\nIn an undated interview at Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Tyson talked about being black and one of the most visible and well-known scientists in the world. He told a story about being interviewed about a plasma burst from the sun on a local Fox affiliate in 1989. \"I'd never before in my life seen an interview with a black person on television for expertise that had nothing to do with being black. And at that point, I realized that one of the last stereotypes that prevailed among people who carry stereotypes is that, sort of, black people are somehow dumb. I wondered, maybe ... that's a way to undermine this sort of, this stereotype that prevailed about who's smart and who's dumb. I said to myself, 'I just have to be visible, or others like me, in that situation.' That would have a greater force on society than anything else I could imagine.\"\n\nIn 2005, at a conference at the National Academy of Sciences, Tyson responded to a question about whether genetic differences might keep women from working as scientists. He said that his goal to become an astrophysicist was, \"...hands down the path of most resistance through the forces ... of society.\" He continued: \"My life experience tells me, when you don’t find blacks in the sciences, when you don’t find women in the sciences, I know these forces are real and I had to survive them in order to get where I am today. So before we start talking about genetic differences, you gotta come up with a system where there’s equal opportunity. Then we can start having that conversation.\"\n\nIn a 2014 interview with \"Grantland\", Tyson said that he related his experience on that 2005 panel in an effort to make the point that the scientific question about genetic differences can't be answered until the social barriers are dismantled. \"I'm saying before you even have that conversation, you have to be really sure that access to opportunity has been level\". In that same interview, Tyson said that race is not a part of the point he is trying to make in his career or with his life. According to Tyson, \"[T]hat then becomes the point of people's understanding of me, rather than the astrophysics. So it's a failed educational step for that to be the case. If you end up being distracted by that and not [getting] the message\". He purposefully no longer speaks publicly about race. \"I don't give talks on it. I don't even give Black History Month talks. I decline every single one of them. In fact, since 1993, I've declined every interview that has my being black as a premise of the interview\".\n\nTyson is an advocate for expanding the operations of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Arguing that \"the most powerful agency on the dreams of a nation is currently underfunded to do what it needs to be doing\". Tyson has suggested that the general public has a tendency to overestimate how much revenue is allocated to the space agency. At a March 2010 address, referencing the proportion of tax revenue spent on NASA, he stated, \"By the way, how much does NASA cost? It's a half a penny on the dollar. Did you know that? The people are saying, 'Why are we spending money up there...' I ask them, 'How much do you think we're spending?' They say 'five cents, ten cents on a dollar.' It's a half a penny.\"\n\nIn March 2012, Tyson testified before the United States Senate Science Committee, stating that:\n\nRight now, NASA's annual budget is half a penny on your tax dollar. For twice that—a penny on a dollar—we can transform the country from a sullen, dispirited nation, weary of economic struggle, to one where it has reclaimed its 20th century birthright to dream of tomorrow.\n\nInspired by Tyson's advocacy and remarks, Penny4NASA, a campaign of the Space Advocates nonprofit, was founded in 2012 by John Zeller and advocates the doubling of NASA's budget to one percent of the Federal Budget.\n\nIn his book \"Space Chronicles: Facing the Ultimate Frontier\" Tyson argues that large and ambitious space exploration projects, like getting humans to Mars, will probably require some sort of military or economic driver in order to get the appropriate funding from the United States Federal government.\n\nTyson collaborated with the organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) on a public service announcement that stated, \"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that kindness is a virtue.\" He also granted PETA an interview in which he discussed the concept of intelligence (both of human and other animals), the failure of humans to heretofore communicate meaningfully with other animals, and the need of humans to be empathetic.\n\nAs a science communicator, Tyson regularly appears on television, radio, and various other media outlets. He has been a regular guest on \"The Colbert Report\", and host Stephen Colbert refers to him in his comedic book \"I Am America (And So Can You!)\", noting in his chapter on scientists that most scientists are \"decent, well-intentioned people\", but, presumably tongue-in-cheek, that \"Neil DeGrasse Tyson is an absolute monster.\" He has appeared numerous times on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\". He has made appearances on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\", and \"The Rachel Maddow Show\". He served as one of the central interviewees on the various episodes of the History Channel science program, \"The Universe\". Tyson participated on the NPR radio quiz program \"Wait Wait... Don't Tell Me!\" in 2007 and 2015. He has appeared several times on \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", and he was also featured on an episode of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\" as the ask-the-expert lifeline. He has spoken numerous times on the Philadelphia morning show, \"Preston and Steve\", on 93.3 WMMR, as well as on SiriusXM's \"Ron and Fez\" and \"The Opie and Anthony Show\".\n\nTyson has been featured as a guest interviewee on \"The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe\", \"Radiolab\", \"Skepticality\", and \"The Joe Rogan Experience\" podcasts and has been in several of the Symphony of Science videos.\n\nTyson lived near the World Trade Center and was an eyewitness to the September 11, 2001 attacks. He wrote a widely circulated letter on what he saw. Footage he filmed on the day was included in the 2008 documentary film \"102 Minutes That Changed America\".\n\nIn 2007, Tyson was the keynote speaker during the dedication ceremony of Deerfield Academy's new science center, the Koch Center, named for David H. Koch '59. He emphasized the impact science will have on the twenty-first century, as well as explaining that investments into science may be costly, but their returns in the form of knowledge gained and piquing interest is invaluable. Tyson has also appeared as the keynote speaker at The Amazing Meeting, a science and skepticism conference hosted by the James Randi Educational Foundation.\n\nTyson made a guest appearance as himself in the episode \"Brain Storm\" of \"Stargate Atlantis\" alongside Bill Nye and in the episode \"The Apology Insufficiency\" of \"The Big Bang Theory\". Archive footage of him is used in the film \"Europa Report\". Tyson also made an appearance in an episode of \"Martha Speaks\" as himself.\nIn a May 2011 \"StarTalk Radio\" show, \"The Political Science of the Daily Show\", Tyson said he donates all income earned as a guest speaker.\n\nTyson is a frequent participant in the website Reddit's AMAs (Ask Me Anythings) where he is responsible for three of the top ten most popular AMAs of all time.\n\nIn \"Action Comics\" #14 (January 2013), which was published November 7, 2012, Tyson appears in the story, in which he determines that Superman's home planet, Krypton, orbited the red dwarf LHS 2520 in the constellation Corvus 27.1 lightyears from Earth. Tyson assisted DC Comics in selecting a real-life star that would be an appropriate parent star to Krypton, and picked Corvus, which is Latin for \"Crow\", and which is the mascot of Superman's high school, the Smallville Crows. Tyson also had a minor appearance as himself in the 2016 film \"\".\n\nIn May 2013, the Science Laureates of the United States Act of 2013 (H.R. 1891; 113th Congress) was introduced into Congress. Neil deGrasse Tyson was listed by at least two commentators as a possible nominee for the position of Science Laureate, if the act were to pass. On March 8, 2014, Tyson made a SXSW Interactive keynote presentation at the Austin Convention Center.\n\nOn June 3, 2014, Tyson co-reviewed \"Gravity\" in a CinemaSins episode. He made two more appearances with CinemaSins, co-reviewing \"Interstellar\" on September 29, 2015, and \"The Martian\" on March 31, 2016.\n\nIn 2016, Tyson narrated and was a script supervisor for the science documentary, Food Evolution, directed by Academy Award nominated director Scott Hamilton Kennedy. In the same year, Tyson made a guest appearance on the Avenged Sevenfold album \"The Stage\", where he delivered a monolog on the track \"Exist\". In 2017, Tyson appeared on Logic's album \"Everybody\" on the song \"AfricAryaN\" as well as on \"The Moon\" on Musiq Soulchild's album \"Feel the Real\".\n\nIn 2018, Tyson made a guest appearance on \"The Big Bang Theory\" as himself, together with fellow scientist Bill Nye, in the first episode of the show's final season (\"The Conjugal Configuration\").\nTyson lives in Lower Manhattan with his wife, Alice Young. They have two children: Miranda and Travis. Tyson met his wife in a physics class at the University of Texas at Austin. They married in 1988 and named their first child Miranda, after the smallest of Uranus' five major moons. Tyson is a wine enthusiast whose collection was featured in the May 2000 issue of the \"Wine Spectator\" and the Spring 2005 issue of \"The World of Fine Wine\".\n\nList of awards received by Tyson:\n\n\n\n\nList of works by Tyson:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20731129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731129", "title": "Personal watercraft-related accidents", "text": "Personal watercraft-related accidents\n\nThe number of personal watercraft-related accidents has increased with the popularity of personal watercraft (PWC) (also commonly known as jet skis) since their introduction during the late 1960s. The use of the term \"jet ski\" for all types of PWCs is a misnomer; Jet Ski is a registered trademark in the United States for a line of PWCs manufactured by Kawasaki). With the increased use of personal watercraft since their inception, the hazards accompanying their use have also increased. According to U.S. government reports, most accidents are associated with rental operators, underage operators, under-trained and undereducated boaters and a variety of factors associated with recreational-boating accidents (excessive speed, inattention, reckless operation, alcohol consumption and violations of the \"Rules of the Road\"). Due to their affordability, ease of use, and relatively low transportation and maintenance costs, personal watercraft have significantly increased the number of water-based enthusiasts in the U.S. This rise in participation has created conflicts between the various boating segments in the U.S. and a need for additional boater education. Recreational-boating accidents are the second-largest transportation-related cause of injury in the U.S. (after automobile accidents).\n\nPersonal watercraft are vessels designed for recreational use on the water, carrying between one and four passengers. The U.S. Coast Guard defines PWC as \"craft less than 13 feet in length designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the craft rather than within the confines of a hull\". The original PWCs were manufactured during the mid-1950s in the United Kingdom and Europe. Ten years later Bombardier Recreational Products (BRP) began manufacturing PWC's in the USA under the name Sea-Doo. BRP left the PWC business shortly thereafter, and in 1973 Kawasaki introduced a \"stand-up\" watercraft designed for a single operator (with a tray for standing or kneeling, in place of a seat). By the late 1980s \"sit-down\" models had appeared on the market, allowing the rider to be seated (similar to a snowmobile or motorcycle seat). These sit-down models were made by Kawasaki (1986), Yamaha (1987) and BRP (1988). Polaris and Arctic were two American companies which entered the market during the early 1990s.\n\nPWC have an inboard engine with a screw-shaped impeller to create thrust and propulsion for steering. They are small, fast, and easy to maneuver; PWCs do not use external propellers, making them safer for swimmers and wildlife. The user-friendly properties of PWCs have contributed to the increase in popularity amongst less-experienced watercraft users. To increase safety, a number of U.S. consumer groups suggested that all boats should utilize the jet-drive mechanism (also called a pump-jet) employed by PWC manufacturers since this would reduce the risk of propeller injuries.\n\nAll boating accidents in the United States either occur on state- or federally-patrolled waters. Whether state or federal, reports must be filed for a predefined level of damage and are compiled by the United States Coast Guard (which uses the reported data for its annual BAR—Boating Accident Report—Statistical Reports). As automotive law-enforcement officers outnumber boating law-enforcement officers in the U.S., federal government reports for watercraft are comparatively fewer. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) conducted general investigation of the recreational-boating accident-reporting system in 1998 and compiled its findings in a published report. The NTSB's investigation emerged with data seen as representative of overall recreational boating; an example follows from the report's conclusion:\n\nInattention (attributed to 307 operators), inexperience (attributed to 296 operators), and inappropriate speed for the operating conditions (attributed to 246 operators) were the most frequently cited causes that contributed to the PWC accidents. One or more of these three causes were associated with 70 percent of the 814 accidents. A fourth cause, improper lookout (153), was associated with about one-fifth of the accidents.\n\nAccording to the aforementioned interpretation of the NTSB report: \n\nA study performed by the Red Cross in 1991 concluded that during the research period, PWC accidents were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population. This was later supported by a Coast Guard study presented to the State of Vermont in 1996. Both studies presented findings that the comparative accident rates for personal water craft were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population; the reports emphasized the high level of attention and publicity that PWC accidents receive.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, several states (including California and Florida, two jurisdictions which, according to the NTSB report, accounted for over 50 percent of all personal-water-craft accidents in the U.S.) changed their laws regarding the use of personal water craft. These amendments included the introduction of limits for wake-jumping, the prescribed use of a PWC within of another vessel, \"spraying\" activities, mandated operation of PWCs within of the shoreline, and age restrictions for operators (the operator age was raised from 12 to 16 years for all affected states, with Florida also introducing a mandatory boating-safety course for those under age 18). According to the State of California, these laws have directly contributed to an over-50-percent reduction in accidents.\n\nA notable fatality occurred on July 1, 2012 in Little Sabine Bay (near Pensacola Beach), Florida; retired astronaut Alan Poindexter was killed when the PWC he was riding was rammed by one operated by one of his sons.\n\nThe leading cause of PWC accidents among riders in 2007 was reckless or careless driving. According to the National Transportation Safety Board in the U.S., this accounted for 26.3 percent of all PWCs involved in accidents in 2007. Reckless driving has been defined in the Personal Watercraft Act of 2005 in the U.S. as follows:\nReckless driving is defined differently by state. For example, in Florida reckless driving on a PWC is defined as \"maneuvering a personal watercraft by weaving through congested vessel traffic, jumping the wake of another vessel unreasonably close or when visibility around the vessel is obstructed, or swerving at the last possible moment to avoid collision is classified as reckless operation of a vessel\".\nIn U.S. law, the penalties for operating a vessel in a negligent or reckless manner are defined as following:\n(a) A person operating a vessel in a negligent manner or interfering with the safe operation of a vessel, so as to endanger the life, limb, or property of a person is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 in the case of a recreational vessel, or $25,000 in the case of any other vessel.\n(b) A person operating a vessel in a grossly negligent manner that endangers the life, limb, or property of a person commits a class A misdemeanor.\nBecause of the increasing popularity of water sports (particularly PWC), the number of vessels in use has increased in the last several decades. According to the U.S. Coast Guard, the number of registered vessels was 8,557,857 in 1980 and 12,875,568 in 2007. This has resulted in more-crowded waterways and increased hazards. Because of the increased congestion caused by the number of vessels, a heightened need for attention and caution is required by operators. In 2007, 17.2 percent of all PWC-related accidents were caused by driver inattention.\n\nAs the market has grown for PWC manufacturers, vessel power has also increased. Modern PWC engines have more than 250 horsepower and can reach speeds of over . Excessive speed accounted for nearly 15 percent of all PWC-related accidents in 2007, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nThe steering characteristics of jet boats (including personal watercraft) when they are \"off throttle\" seem to differ from conventional steering. All recreational planing boats steer with thrust. Jet boats (including PWCs) generate that thrust with a moveable nozzle connected to a jet pump; propeller boats generate thrust through a downward-placed, exposed propeller. The fact that the propeller is placed downward in the water and is exposed means that even when it is not generating thrust that some amount of steering effect is possible. Jet boats have no downward projection, and achieve no additional steering effect from the device. If the operator of a jet boat releases the throttle, steering effectiveness decreases roughly in proportion to thrust reduction. The NTSB related an example of an off-throttle steering accident in the personal watercraft safety study of 1998: \nThe Florida Marine Patrol accident description states, \"[Operator] was\nattempting to make a turn south through a cut in the mangroves . . . . He was not real familiar with operating a jet ski with a passenger. When he attempted to make a left turn he let off the throttle which caused the PWC to lose steering capabilities. The forward momentum of the PWC took [operator] and passenger into the mangrove shoreline.\n[Operator] received a puncture wound to the left side of his neck . . . .\"\nAccording to the NTSB, 24 percent of reported PWC accidents list steering problems or loss of control as contributing factors; in Florida, it is the second-leading cause of PWC-related accidents. PWC manufacturers have been working to develop a system to prevent off-throttle steering. Modifications have been made to solve this problem in newer PWC models.\n\nBecause of the ease of operating a PWC, little training and experience is required to perform basic maneuvers of a PWC. The NTSB reported in 1998 that 32 percent of operators involved in accidents reported that they had operated a vessel between zero and ten times prior to the accident; 86 never, 75 once and 225 between 2 and 10 times. Of the 712 operators who were asked about training, 84 percent said they had received no training and the other 16 percent participated in some boating training. Regulations concerning training courses and age limits for operators vary by state and by country. In the U.S. the minimum operator age ranges from 12–18 years; young operators may require adult supervision on the vessel and training in accordance with local laws.\n\nOne particularly serious type of personal watercraft injury occurs when a female rider falls off the back of the craft and into the path of the craft's high-pressure water jet.The jet thrust is powerful enough to push water into the rider's orifices, which can result in severe internal injuries to the rider's vagina, rectum or anus, and possibly death.\n\nFor example, in 2014, the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District, Division One upheld in full a San Diego County jury verdict against Bombardier Recreational Products and two other defendants in favor of two plaintiffs injured simultaneously in a single 2007 fall from a PWC, which included awards, respectively, of $3.385 million and $1.063 million in compensatory damages (with liability divided in equal portions among the three defendants). The appellate court also affirmed awards of $1.5 million in punitive damages against BRP alone for each plaintiff (adding up to $3 million in punitive damages) which were based on the jury's express finding that BRP's conduct manifested a \"reckless or callous disregard for the rights of others\".\n\nHowever, on the other hand, there are also examples where the owner, operator, and/or user of the personal watercraft have been found entirely at fault by a jury without any fault whatsoever on the manufacturer. For example, in 2010 in a case venued in the federal court of the Middle District of Florida, a jury found the 2006 Sea-Doo safe and not defective as to design, warnings, manufacture, and that BRP was not negligent in the design of its product. BRP maintained the Sea-Doo was reasonably safe, state-of-the-art, compliant with industry standards as well as the U.S. Coast Guard's standards, and was not the cause of plaintiff's injuries and/or accident. The plaintiff testified she did not have any conversation with anyone concerning the use of protective gear, such as wet suit bottoms or equivalent protective clothing and was not provided any safety information before riding. During the trial, the operator admitted he saw, but chose not to read, the onboard warning label. He also admitted that he did not read the safety recommendations in the operator’s guide nor watch the safety video. Counsel for BRP in the Thomas case, Scott Sarason, commented on the case that, “Statistically speaking, the probability of the type of incident involved in this case is extremely rare. Owners, operators and passengers of personal watercrafts must think safety first. It’s important for people to realize that these watercraft are classified as boats. That’s why the watercraft industry has been working diligently with authorities like the U.S. Coast Guard to introduce programs like ‘Know Before You Go’ in an effort to prevent accidents and injuries.” The Thomas case is just one example, of a handful, where such a rare accident is caused by extraneous persons or factors (including, but not limited to, the presence of alcohol, operator inexperience/inattention, careless or reckless operation, violation of state/local boating laws, failure on the part of the operator and/or owner to convey necessary safety information provided by the manufacturer, etc.). \n"}
{"id": "56393119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56393119", "title": "Precious Moloi-Motsepe", "text": "Precious Moloi-Motsepe\n\nDr Precious Moloi-Motsepe is a South Africa fashion entrepreneur and a philanthropist. Her company ran the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in Johannesburg and Cape Town.\n\nMoloi-Motsepe was brought up in Soweto. Her father was a teacher and her mother was a nurse. She attended Wits University and became a hospital physician and general practitioner. In 1993 she opened a women’s health clinic in Johannesburg.\n\nIn 1989, she married Patrice Motsepe, a lawyer who was also brought up in Soweto.\n\n\"Forbes\" Magazine estimated her family's wealth at $2.5 billion and noted that they were South Africa's wealthiest black couple. They have said that they intend to donate half their wealth to charity.\n\nShe was the head of the Motsepe Family Foundation in 2017. She has a strong interest in fashion and in 2007 she founded an organisation called African Fashion International which encourages young South African designers. She ran the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in her home city and in Cape Town. In 2017, the Cape Town event was abandoned by Moloi-Motsepe after high winds in March and rescheduled for the following April.\n"}
{"id": "1381851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381851", "title": "Romanes Lecture", "text": "Romanes Lecture\n\nThe Romanes Lecture is a prestigious free public lecture given annually at the Sheldonian Theatre, Oxford, England.\n\nThe lecture series was founded by, and named after, the biologist George Romanes, and has been running since 1892. Over the years, many notable figures from the Arts and Sciences have been invited to speak. The lecture can be on any subject in science, art or literature, approved by the Vice-Chancellor of the University.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe text of each Romanes Lecture is generally published by Oxford University Press using the \"Clarendon Press\" imprint, and where appropriate the citation for an individual lecture is listed in the published works of each author's entry in Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39788995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39788995", "title": "The Day the Earth Smiled", "text": "The Day the Earth Smiled\n\nThe Day the Earth Smiled refers to July 19, 2013, the date on which the \"Cassini\" spacecraft turned to image Saturn, most of its visible ring system, and Earth, during an eclipse of the Sun. The spacecraft had done this twice before (in 2006 and 2012) in its previous nine years in orbit. The name is also used to refer to the activities associated with the event, as well as to the photographic mosaic created from it.\n\nConceived by the planetary scientist Carolyn Porco, who was the imaging team leader for \"Cassini\", the concept called for the people of the world to reflect on their place in the cosmos, to marvel at life on Earth, and, at the time the pictures were taken, to look up and smile in celebration.\n\nThe final mosaic from July 19, processed at the Cassini Imaging Central Laboratory for Operations (CICLOPS), was released to the public on November 12, 2013. \"The Day the Earth Smiled\" photograph includes Earth, Mars, Venus, and many Saturnian moons. A higher-resolution image, which depicts Earth and its moon as distinct points of light, was taken with the \"Cassini\" narrow-angle camera and was released shortly afterwards.\n\nThe \"Cassini\" probe took images of Earth from close to a billion miles away at 21:27 UTC, July 19, 2013. A number of activities were planned to celebrate the occasion:\n\n\nRaw images from \"Cassini\" were received on Earth shortly after the event, and a couple of processed images—a high-resolution image of the Earth and the Moon, and a small portion of the final wide-angle mosaic showing the Earth—were released to the public a few days following the July 19 imaging sequence.\n\nProcessing of the full mosaic took place at CICLOPS under Porco's direction over the course of approximately two months. During the four hours it took \"Cassini\" to image the entire 404,880-mile-wide scene, the spacecraft captured a total of 323 images, 141 of which were used in the mosaic. NASA revealed that this imaging marked the first time four planets – Saturn, Earth, Mars, and Venus – had been captured at once in visible light by the \"Cassini\" craft. It was also the first time the people of Earth knew in advance that their picture would be taken from the outer solar system.\n\nNASA's official release of the final \"The Day the Earth Smiled\" mosaic on November 12, 2013 was met with much fanfare in news media outlets around the world. The image graced the front page of \"The New York Times\" the following day. Public figures including media producer Seth MacFarlane lauded the image. The mosaic was also presented by Carolyn Porco, and dedicated to the late astronomer Carl Sagan, at a ceremony at the Library of Congress in honor of its acquisition of Sagan's papers. In addition, a collage of images submitted by 1,600 members of the public to NASA's Wave at Saturn campaign was released on November 12.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21828440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21828440", "title": "This Is It (concert residency)", "text": "This Is It (concert residency)\n\nThis Is It was a planned concert residency by Michael Jackson which was scheduled to begin in July 2009 and end September 29, 2009 with a second leg which was scheduled to run from January 2010 through March 2010 with a total of 50 shows. Jackson announced This Is It at a press conference in the O2 Arena, stating that it would be his final series of concerts in London. AEG Live, the concert promoters, released a promotional video that took up an entire commercial break, setting a record for ITV. Initially, only 10 concerts were announced, but following public demand, 40 more concerts were added. Ticket sales broke several records and Jackson's album sales increased following the announcement; AEG Live estimated that the first 10 dates alone would have earned Jackson approximately £50 million. \n\nIn preparation for the concert series, Jackson had been collaborating with high-profile figures including fashion designer Christian Audigier, choreographer Kenny Ortega and bodybuilder Lou Ferrigno. Prior to Jackson's death in 2009, Allgood Entertainment sued Jackson for $40 million, claiming that he had breached an exclusivity agreement with them by agreeing to the This Is It concerts; the case was dismissed.\n\nAfter Jackson's death, AEG Live offered either refunds to ticket holders or a special \"souvenir\" ticket designed by Jackson. The cancelled shows, record-breaking ticket sales and potential for a world tour led to This Is It being termed \"the greatest concert[s] that never happened.\" Columbia Pictures acquired the footage of the rehearsals and released a concert film, \"Michael Jackson's This Is It,\" accompanied by a compilation album of the same name.\n\nJackson announced the first 10 performances during a press conference at the O2 Arena on March 5, 2009. As many as 7,000 fans and 350 reporters awaited Jackon's arrival, many donning Jackson-related clothing. He commented at the conference, \"I just wanted to say that these will be my final show performances in London. When I say this is it, it really means this is it\", adding that it was his \"final curtain call\", although he may have just been referring to performing in London. Organizers touted the residency as, \"dramatic shows [that] promise an explosive return with a band of the highest calibre, a state-of-the-art stage show and incredible surprise support acts\". Hours before the press conference, promotional posters for the residency were displayed around London. Further promotion took up an entire commercial break period on ITV London during \"Dancing on Ice\", the first time this has ever happened for a musical artist. The advert, which cost £1 million to air, was viewed by 11 million people.\n\nThe shows, Jackson's first significant concert events since the in 2001, had been cited as one of the year's most important musical events, and as the greatest comeback in the history of pop. Randy Phillips, president and chief executive of AEG Live, stated that the first 10 dates would earn Jackson approximately £50 million (about US$80.1 million). \"The Guardian\" characterized the concerts as an \"astonishing comeback for a man who in recent years has been dogged by controversy\", adding that Jackson still had \"enormous commercial clout\". The \"Evening Standard\" stated that the deal was the \"showbiz coup of the decade\" for AEG Live, while \"The Independent\" remarked that the finalized 50 concerts would provide London with a \"much-needed\" economic boost. Joe Cohen, chief executive of Seatwave, told BBC 6 Music that the shows would generate £1 billion for the economy.\n\nSome websites offered early tickets, which the Association of Secondary Ticket Agents warned were fake. \"We are warning people not to buy tickets that are not yet on sale because it is unlikely that they will receive those tickets\", announced the organization's chief, Graham Burns. He concluded, \"It's impossible when the dates haven't been announced to be selling tickets for something when there are no announced dates\". Jackson's official website allowed fans to register early for a \"pre-sale\" draw. Some fans had difficulty applying, as the website could not deal with the large number of registrations—reportedly up to 16,000 applications a second. In the space of 24 hours, nearly a million people from around the world registered for pre-sale tickets, enough to fill the venue 50 times over. Tickets that had not even been printed were selling on auction website eBay for £300. Sales of Jackson's albums increased following the press conference. Overnight, sales of \"Off the Wall\" rose 200%, \"Bad\" rose 110%, \"Dangerous\" rose 165% and \"Thriller 25\" rose 155%.\n\nThe two-day pre-sale began on March 11, and 40 extra dates were added to meet high demand—five of these dates were reserved in their entirety for the public sale. More than 1.5  million fans caused two sites offering pre-sale tickets to crash within minutes of going online. In the space of two hours, 190,000 tickets were sold. Two million people tried to buy pre-sale tickets in the space of 18 hours. Veronica Schmidt of \"The Times\" stated of the reception, \"Michael Jackson has floored his critics\", while organizers proclaimed it a \"cultural phenomenon\". It was announced that Jackson would break the record for number of shows performed by an artist at a single venue, which had been set by Prince, who hosted a residency at the same arena for his concerts. According to Jackson's website, the following records were or would have been broken: \"The biggest audience ever to see an artist in one city\", \"The greatest number of people to attend a series of arena shows\", \"The fastest ticket sales in history\". Randy Phillips acknowledged that Jackson could have sold out even more dates, but this would have conflicted with other career plans. On March 13, the other 50% of seats for dates 1–45 and all the seats for dates 46–50 went on sale to the general public. Within four hours, all 50 dates had sold out. At this stage, the sales of \"King of Pop\" were up 400% and the sales of \"Thriller\" were up 200%. Tickets appeared on eBay for as much as £10,000.\n\nThe 50-concert run was originally scheduled to start on July 8, 2009 and conclude on February 24, 2010. Each of the shows would have been performed at the O2 Arena in London, which has a capacity of 23,000. New York-based fashion designer Zaldy served as head costumer, creating ten of Jackson's stage looks while the other six were created by his longtime costumers, Michael Bush and Dennis Tompkins. Jay Ruckel from La Crasia Gloves recreated Jackson's iconic single glove for the concerts. The costumes he was to wear during the shows were encrusted with 300,000 Swarovski crystals. In April 2009, thousands of dancers flew in from all around the world to audition from the 13th to the 15th for Jackson, who helped select the 11 finalists in person. Kenny Ortega, who had collaborated with Jackson previously, was to work on the overall design and direction of concerts. Ortega said that the final product would have been a \"theatrical musical experience\". According to Randy Philips, £13 million was to be spent on producing the concerts, which would have included 18–22 songs and 22 different sets. There also would have been aerial dancing similar to routines by Cirque du Soleil. Carla Ferrigno told Reuters that her husband Lou had been helping Jackson train in advance of the shows. Jackson and Ferrigno had previously worked together.\n\nOn May 20, it was announced that the first concert would be pushed back five days to July 13 and three other July dates would be rescheduled for March 2010. AEG Live said that the delay was necessary because more time was needed for dress rehearsals. The revised schedule called for 27 shows between July 13 and September 29, 2009, followed by a three-month break, before resuming in the new year with 23 more shows between January 7 and March 6, 2010. Some fans petitioned for the reversal of AEG Live's decision. In late June, several hundred seats for each of the dates were put on sale. These seats were held back until production logistics were worked out.\n\nIt was suggested that after the London concerts, Jackson might head to Australia, Europe, India, China, Hong Kong and Japan before moving on to North America. Randy Phillips, the CEO of AEG Live, told The LA Times that Australia was part of Michael Jackson's international tour plans.\n\nAccording to Jermaine Jackson's 2011 book \"You Are Not Alone: Michael Through a Brother's Eyes\", after the London concerts were finished, Jackson was planning to extend his deal with AEG Live which included new music, a potential three-picture movie deal, a series of one-off concert dates starting in China, a halftime slot at one of the future Super Bowl games to surpass his own halftime show at the Super Bowl XXVII in January 1993 and two more tours (one of which was to be a final reunion with his brothers based on a promise made to their mother to see her sons perform together one last time before she passed away). After the deal was completed, he planned to take time off from musical entertainment and move on to (possibly) directing his own film ideas, such as making a feature-length motion picture based on his 1982 song \"Thriller\" and the music video of the same name. It was also later revealed that a yearly Halloween television special based on his horror-themed songs, such as \"Thriller\" and \"Ghosts\", was part of Jackson's deal with AEG Live.\n\nIn Conrad Murray's manslaughter trial, David Walgren stated another one of Jackson's future plans was to open a children's hospital. This was heard in an audio tape Conrad Murray played of Jackson under the influence of propofol on May 10, 2009. His voice is barely recognisable in the recording, but he can be clearly heard saying that he wanted to build the greatest children's hospital in the world and name it after himself: The \"Michael Jackson's Children's Hospital\". Walgren also stated that while the tour was happening, Jackson wanted to buy an estate with streams, horses and animals so his three children, Prince, Paris and Blanket could live normal lives as their father performed the concerts, as he was photographed looking for a house in the United Kingdom with his children. Walgren also said that the tour would begin that summer, and Jackson could take his children out of school and bring them with him so they could see him perform in London.\n\nAs shown in \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\", songs prepared for the concerts included \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"They Don't Care About Us\", \"Human Nature\", \"Smooth Criminal\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\", a medley of songs by The Jackson 5 consisting of \"I Want You Back\", \"The Love You Save\", \"I'll Be There\" and \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\", \"I Just Can't Stop Loving You\", \"Thriller\", \"Beat It\", \"Black or White\", \"Earth Song\", \"Billie Jean\", and \"Man in the Mirror\". Later on, \"Stranger in Moscow\", \"You Are Not Alone\", \"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough\", \"Rock with You\", \"Dirty Diana\" ,\"You Rock My World\", \"Dangerous\", \"We Are the World\", \"Heal the World\" and \"Will You Be There\" were also confirmed to have been planned for the shows. Due to the larger than usual roster of songs, as well as time constraints, Jackson would perform some songs with one verse less than he did in previous tours (such as \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\" and \"Black or White\"). \"Bad\" was rumored to have been reserved for select concerts. On the final dates, Jackson wanted to perform a ballad called \"River Ripple\", written by him, with an African choir and his children. During the final concert before \"Man in the Mirror\", Michael was slated to premiere a song called \"Best of Joy\", written and recorded in 2009 prior to Jackson's death. As of 2018, the full version of \"River Ripple\" remains unreleased (although snippets of the song have leaked on YouTube), while \"Best of Joy\" was officially released in 2010 on Jackson's first posthumous album of unreleased songs, \"Michael\".\n\n\n\nIn June 2009, concert promoter Allgood Entertainment, represented by Ira Meyerowitz and Jon Kekielek of MJlawfirm, sued Jackson for $40 million. He claimed that Jackson, through his manager Frank DiLeo, had agreed to a single and a $30 million reunion concert with The Jackson 5 and his sister Janet Jackson. According to the concert promoter, the alleged contractual agreement prevented Jackson from performing elsewhere before the reunion concert and for a three-month period after it. Thus, agreeing to a 50 date residency at the O2 arena was an alleged breach of the Allgood Entertainment contract. The filing company stated that AEG Live knew of the alleged agreement with Jackson and used their dominance in the industry to coerce Jackson into agreeing to the residency. In August 2010, the judge dismissed the case, stating that there was no evidence of a binding agreement, no contracts were signed. The case was in limbo as of 2013.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, Jackson died after going into cardiac arrest which was caused by an overdose of Propofol and benzodiazepines, eighteen days before his planned first show. AEG Live, who persuaded Jackson to sign up for the shows, faced a liability of up to £300 million and an empty venue for the next nine months. The O2 arena stated that full refunds, including all ticket service charges, would be available to those who purchased tickets through authorized agents, but that \"fans will have the option to be sent the actual tickets they would have received to attend the shows in lieu of the full refunds which are being offered.\" Fans who bought their tickets from private sellers potentially faced difficulties. eBay recommended that purchasers contact their sellers for refunds and stated that those who used PayPal can get their money back if the purchase was made during the last 45 days, then later stated that \"all buyers on the site will receive a full refund for their ticket purchase\".\n\nFollowing Jackson's death, AEG stated that they had over \"100 hours of footage of preparations and rehearsals for the shows\". On August 10, 2009, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff approved a deal between film distributor Columbia Pictures and AEG Live for the former company to purchase and distribute rehearsal footage of Jackson for a film entitled \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\". According to court documents, Columbia paid $60 million (£35 million) for rights to the rehearsal footage. The papers filed in court had reportedly stated that Jackson's estate will get 90% of the profits and that AEG Live will get the remaining 10% from the film's revenue. The film was directed by Kenny Ortega who was also the director of the live concert. It was compiled mostly from footage that was shot as reference for production discussions and was never meant to be shown publicly. Some of the music and vocals in the film were added from previous recordings, though most were from the live performance. The film was released on October 28, 2009.\n\nAn accompanying album to the film was also released. Titled \"This Is It\", the compilation was distributed internationally on October 26, and to North America the following day. The two-disc album features music \"inspired from the documentary of the same name\". Of the album, Sony said, \"Disc one will feature the original album masters of some of Michael's biggest hits arranged in the same sequence as they appear in the film\" and stated that \"the disc ends with two versions of the 'never-released' 'This Is It' [...] This song is featured in the film's closing sequence and includes backing vocals by Michael's brothers, The Jacksons and Alvin Chea of Take 6.\" Sony added that the second disc will feature previously unreleased versions from Jackson's \"catalogue of hits\", along with a spoken word poem entitled \"Planet Earth\" and a 36-page commemorative booklet with \"exclusive photos of Michael from his last rehearsal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29192344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29192344", "title": "Tragedy (event)", "text": "Tragedy (event)\n\nA tragedy is an event of great loss, usually of human life. Such an event is said to be \"tragic\". Traditionally the event would require \"some element of moral failure, some flaw in character, or some extraordinary combination of elements\" to be tragic.\n\nNot all death is considered a tragedy. Rather it is a precise set of symptoms surrounding the loss that define it as such. There are a variety of factors that define a death as \"tragic\".\n\nAn event in which a massive number of deaths occur may be seen as a tragedy. This can be re-enforced by media attention or other public outcry.\n\nA tragedy does not necessarily involve massive death. The death of a single person, e.g., a public figure or a child, may be seen as a tragedy. The person need not necessarily have been famous before death.\n\nGenerally, the label of \"tragedy\" is given to an event based on public perception. There are a number of factors that can make a death be considered a tragedy.\n\nThe scope of an event can affect the public view, and make it appear tragic. This can be the case whether the death toll is high, or if a single, unexpected death occurs in a well-beloved person.\n\nThe degree of attachment in the public eye may also impact whether or not the event is publicly labeled as a tragedy. For example, the unexpected death of a preparatory school student that receives heavy media attention may be seen as more tragic than that of a recidivist prisoner who is beaten to death by fellow inmates.\n\nA death may be viewed as a tragedy when it is premature in nature. An old person dying of old age is an expectation, but the death of a child or of a young, healthy adult that is not expected by others can be viewed as tragic.\n\nPublicity is a factor in making the public view an event as a tragedy. With publicity of a large number of deaths or even a single death, this plays on the emotions of the general public, and thereby impacts perception.\n\nThe range of coverage affects the number of people in whose eyes the event is viewed as tragic. While local coverage may garner sympathy from those in the hometown of the deceased, international coverage may lead the whole world to mourn.\n\nThe resulting consequences from one or more deaths can be seen as a tragedy. For example, if a large number of persons are killed in a terrorist attack, not only is life lost, but others may lose their sense of security, and this impacts the lives of others in other ways.\n\nThe long-term effects of an event can render it as tragic. Tragedies often have effects that shape those affected, and are remembered even long after, as they clearly impact the future for those involved. They may also be commemorated on anniversaries or whenever they otherwise come to mind. A public tragedy often leads to measures being taken to prevent similar tragic events in the future.\n\nThere are various ways tragedy can affect people.\n\nThe typical reaction to tragedy is heavy grief, followed by a slow recovery. Common feelings following a tragedy include sadness, depression, crying, blame, and guilt. Some people wonder what they did to deserve such suffering.\n\nFor some, their faith may be a source of comfort in the wake of tragedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "33761097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33761097", "title": "Use error", "text": "Use error\n\nThe term use error has recently been introduced to replace the commonly used terms human error and user error. The new term, which has already been adopted by international standards organizations for medical devices (see #Use errors in health care below for references), suggests that accidents should be attributed to the circumstances, rather than to the human beings who happened to be there.\n\nThe term \"use error\" was first used in May 1995 in an MD+DI guest editorial, “The Issue Is ‘Use,’ Not ‘User,’ Error,” by William Hyman. Traditionally, human errors are considered as a special aspect of human factors. Accordingly, they are attributed to the human operator, or user.\nWhen taking this approach, we assume that the system design is perfect, and the only source for the use errors is the human operator. For example, the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) HFACS \nclassifies use errors attributed to the human operator, disregarding improper design and configuration setting, which often result in missing alarms, or in inappropriate alerting.\n\nThe need for changing the term was due to a common malpractice of the stakeholders (the responsible organizations, the authorities, journalists) in cases of accidents. Instead of investing in fixing the error-prone design, management attributed the error to the users.\nThe need for the change has been pointed out by the accident investigators: \n\nA mishap is typically considered as either a use error or a force majeure:\n\n\nIn 1998, Cook, Woods and Miller presented the concept of hindsight bias, exemplified by celebrated accidents in medicine, by a workgroup on patient safety\nThe workgroup pointed at the tendency to attribute accidents in health care to isolated human failures.\nThey provide references to early research about the effect of knowledge of the outcome, which was unavailable beforehand, on later judgement about the processes that led up to that outcome. They explain that in looking back, we tend to oversimplify the situation that the actual practitioners faces. They conclude focusing on the hindsight knowledge prevents our understanding of the richer story, the circumstances of the human error.\n\nAccording to this position, the term Use Error is formally defined in several international standards, such as IEC 62366, ISO 14155 and ISO 14971, to describe\n\nISO standards about medical devices and procedures provide examples of use errors, which are attributed to human factors, include slips, lapses and mistakes. Practically, this means that they are attributed to the user, implying the user’s accountability.\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration glossary of medical devices provides the following explanation about this term:\n\nWith this interpretation by ISO and the FDA, the term ‘use error’ is actually synonymous with ‘user error’.\nAnother approach, which distinguishes ‘use errors’ from ‘user errors', is taken by IEC 62366. Annex A includes an explanation justifying the new term:\n\nThis explanation complies with “The New View”, which Sidney Dekker suggested as an alternative to “The Old View”. This interpretation favors investigations intended to understand the situation, rather than blaming the operators.\n\nIn a 2011 report draft on health IT usability, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) defines \"use error\" in healthcare IT this way: “Use error is a term used very specifically to refer to user interface designs that will engender users to make errors of commission or omission. It is true that users do make errors, but many errors are due not to user error per se but due to designs that are flawed, e.g., poorly written messaging, misuse of color-coding conventions, omission of information, etc.\".\n\nAn example of an accident due to a user error is the ecological disaster of 1967 caused by the Torrey Canyon supertanker. The accident was due to a combination of several exceptional events, the result of which was that the supertanker was heading directly to the rocks. At that point, the captain failed to change the course because the steering control lever was inadvertently set to the Control position, which disconnected the rudder from the wheel at the helm.\n\nExamples of the second type are the Three Mile Island accident described above, the NYC blackout following a storm and the chemical plant disaster in Bhopal, India (Bhopal Disaster).\n\nThe URM Model characterizes use errors in terms of the user’s failure to manage a system deficiency. Six categories of use errors are described in a URM document:\n\nErik Hollnagel argues that going from and 'old' view to a 'new' view is not enough. One should go all the way to a 'no' view. This means that the notion of error, whether user error or use error might be destructive rather than constructive. \nInstead, he proposes to focus on the performance variability of everyday actions, on the basis that this performance variability is both useful and necessary. In most cases the result is that things go right, in a few cases that things go wrong. But the reason is the same.\n\nHollnagel expanded on this in his writings about the efficiency–thoroughness trade-off principle\nof Resilience Engineering,\n\nand the Resilient Health Care Net.\n"}
{"id": "31341292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31341292", "title": "When Technology Fails", "text": "When Technology Fails\n\nWhen Technology Fails, edited by Neil Schlager, is a collection of 103 case studies about significant technological disasters, accidents, and failures of the 20th century. It was published in 1994 by Gale Research, Inc. It was one of the top referenced books in the New York Public Library in 1995. The book was updated and re-released in 2005.\n\nThe book consists of 1,000- to 1,500-word entries, arranged by subject, that discuss the background, timeline, and impact of each event. Each entry is written by journalists, engineers, and researchers, and provides a cursory overview, rather than in-depth technological analysis. Entries are supplemented by bibliographies, black-and-white photographs, charts, and other print media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29071145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29071145", "title": "World news", "text": "World news\n\nWorld news or international news or even foreign coverage is the news media jargon for news from abroad, about a country or a global subject. For journalism, it is a branch that deals with news either sent by foreign correspondents or news agencies, or – more recently – information that is gathered or researched through distance communication technologies, such as telephone, satellite TV or the internet.\n\nAlthough in most of the English-speaking world this field is not usually regarded as a specific specialization for journalists, it is so in nearly all the world. Particularly in the United States, there is a blurred distinction between world news and \"national\" news when they include directly the national government or national institutions, such as wars in which the US are involved or summits of multilateral organizations in which the US are a member.\n\nAt the birth of modern journalism, most news were foreign, as registered by the courants of the 17th century in West and Central Europe, such as the \"Daily Courant\" (England), the \"Nieuwe Tijudinger\" (Antwerp), the \"Relation\" (Strasbourg), the \"Avisa Relation oder Zeitung\" (Wolfenbüttel) and the \"Courante Uyt Italien, Duytsland & C.\" (Amsterdam). Since these papers were aimed at bankers and merchants, they brought mostly news from other markets, which usually meant other nations. In any case, it is worthy to remark that nation-states were still incipient in 17th-century Europe.\n\nFrom the 19th century on, with newspapers already established in Europe, the United States and a few other countries, innovations in telecommunications such as the telegraph made news from abroad easier to be spread. The first news agencies were then founded, like AFP (France), Reuters (UK), Wolff (currently DPA, Germany) and the AP (US).\n\nWar journalism is one of the best known subfields of world news (although war coverage can be national for the media of belligerent countries themselves).\n\nThere are essentially two types of reporters who do foreign reporting: the foreign correspondent (full-time reporter employed by a news source) and the special envoy (sent abroad to cover a specific subject, temporarily stationed in a location).\n\nThe correspondent is a reporter based in a foreign city (often the capital of a country) covering a region, a country or sometimes even an entire continent. He or she regularly files stories to the news editor. He/she gathers materials for these stories from local officials, members of the community, and the local media, as well as from events he/she directly witnesses. Correspondents typically stay in touch with the local community and maintain contacts with other journalists and correspondents in order to identify strategic sources in the government, among diplomats, members of the military and other organizations on the ground who may provide important information.\n\nThe number of foreign correspondents has dropped significantly over the past 20 years or more. Often, a media company is either uninterested or unable to afford to support a single correspondent, such as in many developing countries. In some places, they cannot obtain visas due to political constraints, or otherwise dangerous conditions prohibit a media company from stationing a reporter there. In recent years, the drop in foreign correspondents has been due to cutbacks within media companies (often, but not always, a result of economics alone). Among English language newspapers, only eight daily newspapers have full-time correspondents in more than ten foreign stations, four from the US, three from the UK and one from India: \n\n35 – \"Wall Street Journal\" (US): Baghdad, Bangkok, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, London, Manila, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, Paris, Prague, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, São Paulo, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Taipei, Tokyo, Toronto, Zurich\n\n24 – \"New York Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Cairo, Caracas, Dakar, Hong Kong, Islamabad, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Rome, São Paulo, Shanghai, Tokyo\n\n19 – \"Financial Times\" (UK): Beijing, Berlin, Bombay, Brussels, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Taipei, Tokyo, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n17 – \"Washington Post\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Berlin, Bogotá, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Shanghai, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n15 – \"The Guardian\" (UK): Accra, Bangkok, Beijing, Berlin, Brussels, Kabul, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Los Angeles, Madrid, New York, Paris, Rome, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n13 – \"The Daily Telegraph\" (UK): Beijing, Brussels, Jerusalem, Kabul, Los Angeles, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n13 – \"Los Angeles Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, New Delhi, Seoul\n\n12 – \"The Hindu\" (India): Addis Ababa, Beijing, Colombo, Dhaka, Dubai, Islamabad, Kathmandu, London, Moscow, Paris, Singapore, Washington \n\nWhen reporters working abroad have no permanent labor contract with media outlets, they are called stringers. Since they have no salary, stringers usually produce material for several different companies at once.\n\nA news agency is an organization of journalists established to supply news reports to news organizations: newspapers, magazines, and radio and television broadcasters. Such an agency may also be referred to as a wire service, newswire or news service. The bulk of major news agency services contains foreign news.\n\nThe major news agencies generally prepare hard news stories and feature articles that can be used by other news organizations with little or no modification, and then sell them to other news organizations. They provide these articles in bulk electronically through wire services (originally they used telegraphy; today they frequently use the Internet). Corporations, individuals, analysts and intelligence agencies may also subscribe.\n\n\n"}
