{"id": "31272034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31272034", "title": "Abraham Rovigo", "text": "Abraham Rovigo\n\nAbraham Rovigo (born ca. 1650 in Modena, died 1713 in Mantua) was a Jewish scholar, rabbi and kabbalist. He studied in Venice in the \"yeshiva\" of Moses Zacuto and devoted himself to study the Kabbalah. He was one of the main supporters of the moderate wings of Sabbatai Zevi and gathered around him many followers of the movement, like Behr Perlhefter, Mordechai Mokiach and Mordechai Ashkenazi. In 1700–1701 he spent one year in Fürth, in order to proofread and manage the publishing of the manuscripts of the Zoharic commentary of his pupil Mordecai Ashkenazi. One year later, he and a group of followers settled in the Holy Land.\n\nRovigo came from a wealthy Modena family, and was dedicated throughout his entire life to studying, collecting, and publishing Kabbalistic manuscripts.\nHe was a close friend of Benjamin ben Eliezer Ha-Kohen Vitale of Reggio with whom he had studied Kabbalah in Venice under Moses Zacuto. Scholem also mentions in several places the correspondence about Sabbatean affairs he maintained with Meir bar Hiyya Rofe between the years 1674 and 1678 as a very important source for the history of the Sabbatean movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "10502483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10502483", "title": "Appointment of Catholic bishops", "text": "Appointment of Catholic bishops\n\nThe appointment of bishops in the Catholic Church is a complicated process. Outgoing bishops, neighbouring bishops, the faithful, the apostolic nuncio, various members of the Roman Curia, and the pope all have a role in the selection. The exact process varies based upon a number of factors, including whether the bishop is from the Latin Church or one of the Eastern Catholic Churches, the geographic location of the diocese, what office the candidate is being chosen to fill, and whether the candidate has previously been ordained to the episcopate.\n\nInitially, bishops were chosen by the local clergy with approval from nearby bishops. \"A newly elected bishop was installed in office and given his authority [...] by the bishops who supervised the election and performed the ordination.\" The bishops of the most important sees sought acceptance from Rome. The early church fathers attest to the fact that the Church of Rome - in effect its diocese - was the central point of authority. They attest to the Church's reliance on Rome for advice, for mediation of disputes, and for guidance on doctrinal issues. They note, as Ignatius of Antioch (ca 1st century) does, that Rome \"holds the presidency\" among the other churches, and that, as Irenaeus (ca 2nd century) explains, \"because of its superior origin, all the churches must agree\" with Rome. They are also clear on the fact that it is full communion with Rome and the bishop of Rome that causes one to be in communion with the Catholic Church. This displays a recognition that, as Cyprian of Carthage (3rd century) puts it, Rome is \"the principal church, in which sacerdotal unity has its source.\" By the time of the First Council of Nicaea in 325, the metropolitan bishop had a role of the greatest importance in the selection. The Council decreed that the consent of the metropolitan bishop was normally required.\n\nLater, state authorities demanded their consent for the election of bishops. In medieval times, rulers demanded not only their consent to an election made by others but the right to choose the bishops directly. The Investiture Controversy changed that to some extent, but later concessions meant that many kings and other secular authorities exercised a right of appointment or at least of veto until the second half of the 20th century. In the early 19th century, this was still so normal that, in spite of the opposition of the Church in Ireland to the proposed royal veto of the appointment of bishops, the Holy See was prepared to grant it to the British king.\n\nIt was in 1871 that a radical shift in law and practice began to take place. In that year the Law of guarantees gave the pope the right to choose the bishops of the Kingdom of Italy, all 237 of them, appointments that through the unification of Italy had fallen into the hands of King Victor Emmanuel II of Italy. Although the pope denounced the law, he nevertheless profited by it to appoint, within the first seven months that followed, 102 new Italian bishops. Before the unification of Italy the various rulers made the appointments, with the pope doing so only for the Papal States. The 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State had a similar effect for appointing bishops in the territories ruled by France. In the early 20th century papal appointment of Catholic bishops was an almost universal practice except where, in virtue of the Spanish patronato real and the Portuguese padroado, the appointment of Catholic bishops remained in the hands of the civil authorities.\n\nThus the 1917 Code of Canon Law was able to affirm that, in the Latin Church, the decision rests with the pope. In the course of the 20th century, remaining privileges enjoyed by secular authorities gradually diminished, especially since the Second Vatican Council (1962–1965), which declared that the right of nominating and appointing bishops belongs \"per se\" exclusively to the competent ecclesiastical authority and requested the civil authorities who still had rights and privileges in this field to renounce them voluntarily.\n\nCanon 401 §1 of the Code of Canon Law states that archdiocesan/diocesan bishops (including cardinals) “are requested to” submit their resignation to the pope on reaching the age of 75 years. Some do so earlier with a view to having the resignation take effect immediately on reaching 75. Bishops should also offer their resignation if ill-health or other grave problems render them unsuited for fulfilling their office. The letter of resignation goes first to the apostolic nuncio or apostolic delegate, the pope's representative in the country or region. He forwards it to whichever department of the Holy See has particular responsibility for the selection of bishops for the country in question: the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples in the case of mission countries, the Congregation for the Oriental Churches in the case of even Latin bishops in certain Middle Eastern countries and Greece, the Secretariat of State if the country's government has been given the right to present objections of \"a general political nature\" (not of a party-political kind) or is involved in some other way, but generally the Congregation for Bishops. The Congregation presents the bishop's offer of resignation to the pope, who has a range of options from rejecting the offer of resignation to accepting it with immediate effect. In the case of diocesan bishops who have reached 75 years of age, the usual decision is to accept the resignation but with effect only from the date of publication of the appointment of a successor, a decision known as acceptance \"nunc pro tunc\" (now for then).\n\nIf the resignation is accepted with immediate effect, the episcopal see becomes vacant on publication of the pope's decision. Vacancy of a see may occur also because of a bishop's transfer to another see or position, or because of his death. In the case of a \"nunc pro tunc\" acceptance, the see does not become vacant immediately, but the process that leads to the appointment of a successor begins without delay.\n\nOne important element in selecting a bishop is the list of priests, of both the diocesan and the religious clergy, that the bishops of the ecclesiastical province or the whole Episcopal Conference judge to be suitable generically (without reference to any particular see) for appointment as bishops. They are required to draw up this list at least once every three years, so that it is always recent.\n\nWhen it comes to a concrete appointment for a particular see, the papal representative (apostolic nuncio or delegate) asks either the outgoing bishop, or in case of a \"sede vacante\", the vicar general or diocesan administrator, to draw up a report on its situation and the needs. That person will be the bishop who has presented his resignation or, if the see is vacant, the diocesan administrator or apostolic administrator. The papal representative is also obliged to consult the metropolitan archbishop and the other bishops of the province, the president of the bishops conference, and at least some members of the college of consultors and the cathedral chapter. He may also consult others, whether clergy, diocesan or religious, and \"lay persons of outstanding wisdom\".\n\nCanon law insists on enabling those consulted to provide information and express their views confidentially, requiring that they be consulted \"individually and in secret\". Accordingly, when the \"Irish Times\" of 12 April 2007 published the text of the letter with which Archbishop Giuseppe Lazzarotto, Nuncio to Ireland, consulted certain priests on the choice of their next bishop, he said, \"All aspects relating to the process of episcopal appointments should be dealt with in the strictest confidentiality. I trust that you will understand that I cannot depart from this practice.\"\n\nThe nuncio then decides on a short list, or \"terna\", of three candidates for further investigation and seeks precise information on each of them. Since if it were widely known that a priest who was not the one who was finally chosen for the post had been under consideration, people might think he had been excluded because of some fault found in him (a groundless conclusion, since all those examined may be eminently worthy and suitable, but only one can be selected), the nuncio will ask those consulted about individual candidates to observe the strictest confidentiality on the fact of the consultation. He will then send to the Holy See a list (known as a \"terna\") of the (usually) three candidates that seem to be the most appropriate for consideration, together with all the information that has been gathered on them and accompanying the information with the conclusions that he himself draws from the evidence.\n\nThe qualities that a candidate must have are listed in canon 378 §1. As well as being at least 35 years old and a priest for at least 5 years, he should be \"outstanding in strong faith, good morals, piety, zeal for souls, wisdom, prudence and human virtues\", and should possess the other qualities needed for fulfilling the office in question; and he should be well versed in sacred Scripture, theology and canon law and, preferably, hold a doctorate in one of these fields.\n\nThe congregation of the Roman Curia responsible for the appointment (one of the four indicated above) studies the documentation provided by the nuncio, taking into consideration his opinion, but not necessarily accepting it. It might even reject all the candidates he has proposed and ask him to prepare another list, or it might ask him to provide more information on one or more of the priests who have already been presented. When the Congregation decides on which priest should be appointed, it presents its conclusions to the pope, asking him to make the appointment. If he agrees, the papal act is communicated to the nuncio for him to obtain the consent of the priest to his appointment and to choose a date for its publication. The newly appointed bishop is obliged to get episcopal consecration within three months of the arrival the papal bull of his appointment, which is usually prepared only at least a month after the publication. If the consecration takes place within the diocese, he takes charge immediately. If it occurs elsewhere, a separate act is required, after the consecration, for taking possession of his new post.\n\nBringing the process to a conclusion obviously requires much time, usually taking at least nine months, and it may on occasions take up to two years.\n\nThe procedure described above is the normal one for the appointment of a diocesan bishop. In the case of an auxiliary bishop, the diocesan bishop chooses the three priests to be presented for the appointment, but the nuncio still has the duty of gathering information and opinions on the candidates, and the Congregation can either select one of them or ask for a different list of candidates to be presented.\n\nIn some countries, the diocesan chapter or some other body decides on the three names to send, through the nuncio, to the Holy See. With the names, the nuncio sends the information he has gathered on the candidates. If none of the three candidates is acceptable to the Holy See, the chapter is asked for another list. However, the Holy See can reject the list in its entirety and appoint someone not proposed by the chapter. In other cases the cathedral chapter chooses the bishop from among a list of three presented to them by the Holy See.\n\nThe chapter participates in the election of bishops of 13 of the 27 German dioceses (Aachen, Cologne, Essen, Freiburg, Fulda, Hildesheim, Limburg, Mainz, Münster, Osnabrúck, Paderborn, Rottenburg-Stuttgart, Trier), 3 Swiss dioceses (Basel, Chur, Sankt Gallen), and 1 Austrian (Salzburg).\n\nFor the Personal Ordinarates established under the apostolic constitution \"Anglicanorum Coetibus\", out of respect for the synodal tradition of Anglicanism, the Ordinary will be appointed by the Roman Pontiff from a terna of names presented by the Governing Council (CN Art. 4 § 1)\n\nIn the past, privileges regarding the appointment of bishops were granted to kings and other civil authorities. In accordance with the decision of the Second Vatican Council, the Code of Canon Law lays down that \"for the future, no rights or privileges of election, appointment, presentation or designation of Bishops are conceded to civil authorities.\" In about a dozen countries, the civil government still has the right of consultation or even of presentation.\n\nThere are 23 Eastern Catholic Churches totalling about 20 million people that are in communion with the Holy See but their liturgy and other practices are different. A patriarchal Eastern Catholic church itself elects its bishops who are to serve within its own territory, but other bishops are appointed by the Pope. Before the election of a bishop, the patriarchal synod considers the names proposed by its members and draws up a list of those it considers to be valid candidates for episcopacy; this is communicated to the Pope and any name for which he refuses his assent is removed from the list. When the synod then comes to elect a bishop, no further procedure is required if the person chosen is on the list; but if he is not on the list, the assent of the Pope is needed before asking the newly elected to accept his election. The same arrangement holds for a Church headed by a Major Archbishop. In the official bulletins and news media of the Holy See, these appointments are published as decisions of the Eastern Church in question, not of the Pope. The procedure for appointing bishops of other Eastern Churches and those bishops of patriarchal and major archiepiscopal Churches who are to serve outside the territory of the Church in question is similar to that for Latin bishops, and the appointments are published as acts of the Pope.\n\n"}
{"id": "3402438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402438", "title": "Battle of Gujrat", "text": "Battle of Gujrat\n\nThe Battle of Gujrat was a decisive battle in the Second Anglo-Sikh War, fought on 21 February 1849, between the forces of the East India Company, and a Sikh army in rebellion against the Company's control of the Sikh Empire, represented by the child Maharaja Duleep Singh who was in British custody in Lahore. The Sikh army was defeated by the British regular and Bengal Army forces of the British East India Company. After it capitulated a few days later, the Punjab was annexed to the East India Company's territories and Duleep Singh was deposed.\n\nAfter the British victory in the First Anglo-Sikh War, the Punjab was indirectly governed by a British representative at the Durbar (court) in Lahore and Agents in several of the regions. The Sikh Army, the Khalsa, was kept in being and used to keep order in the Punjab and North West Frontier Region. The Khalsa regarded itself as betrayed rather than defeated in the first war, and several of its Sardars (Generals) plotted rebellion.\n\nHowever, the first outbreak came at Multan on 18 April 1848, where rebellious troops murdered a British agent (Lieutenant Patrick Vans Agnew) and expelled a Sirdar imposed as ruler by the British Resident at Lahore. The former ruler, Dewan Mulraj, resumed his authority and prepared for a siege. Rather than use large forces from the British and Bengal Armies during the hot weather and monsoon seasons, the Governor General of Bengal, Lord Dalhousie, deployed part of the Khalsa and other irregular contingents against Mulraj. On 14 September, the troops from the Khalsa besieging Multan under Sardar Sher Singh Attariwalla also rebelled. They did not join Mulraj however, but moved north along the Chenab River into the main Sikh-populated area of the Punjab to gather recruits and obtain supplies.\n\nLate in 1848, a large British and Bengal army took the field during the cold weather season under the Commander in Chief of the Bengal Army, General Sir Hugh Gough. Gough already had a reputation, whether deserved or not, for unimaginative head-on tactics. On 22 November at Ramnagar, his cavalry were repulsed attacking a Sikh bridgehead on the east bank of the Chenab. Then on 13 January 1849, he launched a hasty frontal attack against Sher Singh's army at Chillianwala near the Jhelum River and was driven back with heavy casualties. Several days' heavy rain followed, preventing either army from renewing the battle. After they had faced each other for three days, both withdrew.\n\nRather than launch a counter-attack against Gough, Sher Singh's aim was to join forces with the troops under his father, Sardar Chattar Singh Attariwalla. Chattar Singh's army had been confined to the Hazara region for several months by Muslim irregulars under British officers. At the start of 1849, Amir Dost Mohammed Khan of Afghanistan had sided with the rebellious Sikhs. His aim was to recover the area around Peshawar, which had been conquered by Ranjit Singh early in the nineteenth century, but his support was half-hearted. Nevertheless, when 3,500 Afghan horsemen approached the vital fort of Attock on the Indus River, its garrison of Muslim troops defected. This allowed Chattar Singh to move out of Hazara and link up with Sher Singh near Rawalpindi.\n\nOn the British side, once news of Chillianwala reached Britain, Gough was almost immediately superseded. His replacement was General Charles James Napier, who would require several weeks to travel from England. In the meantime, the Siege of Multan had resumed, and Mulraj was forced to surrender on 22 January. This allowed the bulk of the besieging force to reinforce Gough's army. In particular, they brought large numbers of heavy guns with them. Gough, who had now received word of his dismissal but who remained in command until formally relieved, advanced against the Sikh army. He had three infantry divisions and a large cavalry force, with 100 guns of various weights and calibres.\n\nIn spite of his successes, Sher Singh, who commanded the combined Sikh forces, was running out of strategic options. His large army was unable to find enough food. Any move north or west to obtain supplies would involve abandoning the main Sikh-populated area of the Punjab and moving into potentially hostile Muslim areas. He therefore attempted a bold outflanking move against Gough. His army moved east, intending to cross the Chenab and then move south before crossing the river again to attack Gough from the rear. When they reached the river, they found it swollen by heavy rains, and the few fords were defended by irregular Muslim cavalry under British officers, later reinforced by some of the troops marching up from Multan.\n\nSher Singh withdrew to Gujrat, where his army hastily prepared a defensive position. The Sikhs constructed a double entrenchment, which was also protected by a ravine. Most of the artillery was grouped in a central battery, screened by hastily planted bushes. The cavalry was deployed on the flanks. Several small villages in advance of the central battery were occupied by infantry, and the houses and buildings were prepared with \"loopholes\" for defence. Although the position was strong, it was exposed to British artillery fire, and the hastily erected screen of brush was not as effective as the belts of scrub and jungle which had hidden the Sikh artillery from view at Chillianwala.\n\nEarly on 21 February, Gough advanced against this position. When the Sikh artillery opened fire and disclosed their position, Gough deployed his large numbers of heavy guns against them. In a three-hour artillery duel, the Sikhs were forced to abandon their guns. Sikh and Indian sources were later to refer to the battle as the \"Battle of the Guns\". Once the Sikh artillery was largely silenced, the British infantry advanced. There was desperate hand-to-hand fighting for the small fortified villages of Burra Kalra and Chota Kalra. However, the British guns were being advanced in successive \"bounds\", and the Sikhs broke. Gough reported after the battle:\n\nThe heavy artillery continued to advance with extraordinary celerity, taking up successive forward positions, driving the enemy from those [positions] they had retired to, whilst the rapid advance and beautiful fire of the Horse Artillery and light field-batteries ... broke the ranks of the enemy at all points. The whole infantry line now rapidly advanced and drove the enemy before it; the \"nulla\" [ravine] was cleared, several villages stormed, the guns that were in position carried, the camp captured and the enemy routed in every direction\n\nThe Bengal Horse Artillery and British and Indian cavalry took up a ruthless and merciless pursuit, which turned the Sikh retreat into a rout over .\n\nThe next day, a division under Major General Sir Walter Gilbert took up the pursuit. The remnants of Sher Singh's forces retreated across the Jhelum and into progressively rougher country for eleven days, but Sher Singh was finally forced to agree to British terms for surrender. His army, reduced to 20,000 men (mainly irregular cavalry) and 10 guns, handed over its arms at a two-day ceremony on 12 March and disbanded.\n\nThe small Afghan contingent also hastily retreated, destroying the pontoon bridge at Attock behind them. Dost Mohammed later concluded a peace with the East India Company, acknowledging their possession of the Peshawar region.\n\nThe Punjab was formally annexed to British territory at Lahore on 2 April.\n\nAt the end of his career, Gough had finally fought a model battle, using his vast superiority in heavy guns to drive Sher Singh's troops from their position without resorting to the bayonet as he usually did, and turning their retreat into a rout with his cavalry and horse artillery. He had also been able to operate for the first time without receiving contradictory instructions from Dalhousie. Throughout the war, Dalhousie had alternately goaded on and restrained Gough, usually at the most inconvenient moments.\n\nAfter the British had withdrawn at Chillianwala, Sikh and other irregulars showed no mercy to abandoned British combatant wounded and the British at Gujrat showed no mercy to surrendered or fleeing enemies. However, both sides' documented war records show a deep level of respect and admiration for each other fighting prowess.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "323292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323292", "title": "Beit Shemesh", "text": "Beit Shemesh\n\nBeit Shemesh (,; ; , \"Beth Shamesh\", \"Bethshamesh\" or \"Bet shemesh\" and most often Beth-Shemesh in English translations of the Hebrew Bible) is a city located approximately west of Jerusalem in Israel's Jerusalem District, with a population of in . The history of Beit Shemesh goes back to pre-biblical times. The modern city of Beit Shemesh was founded in 1950.\n\nThe ancient city of Beit Shemesh (\"house of the sun\" or \"temple of the sun\" in Hebrew) was originally named after the Canaanite sun-goddess Shemesh, who was worshipped there in antiquity. The ruins of the ancient biblical city are located at a site called Tel Beit Shemesh (Tell er-Rumeileh), a tell located near the modern city. In the Amarna letters Shamash is mentioned several times, along with Addu, as one of the greatest gods: the Pharaoh is \"like Addu and Shamash\". The name Beth-Shemesh was shared by (at least) two other places in Palestine and one more in Egypt.\n\nBeit Shemesh is first mentioned in the Hebrew Bible in the Book of Joshua, as a city in the territory of the tribe of Judah on the border between their territory and that of the tribe of Dan. In , this city was set aside as one of the 13 Kohanic cities for the priests of the tribe of Levi, the Kohanim.\n\nAnother city by the same name, Beit Shemesh, is later mentioned in , being situated in the territory of the tribe of Naphtali.\n\nThe city located in the territorial bounds of the tribe of Judah is mentioned in the 6th chapter of 1 Samuel as being the first city encountered by the Ark of the Covenant on its way back from Philistia after having been captured by the Philistines in battle. The stone on which the Ark was placed is recorded as still being located there at the time of writing the Books of Samuel. In the King James Version this stone is described as \"the great stone of Abel\".\n\nIn 2 Kings 14, Beit Shemesh is again mentioned as being the site of the battle between Amaziah king of Judea and Jehoash king of Israel.\n\nAfter the destruction of much of Judah by Sennacherib in 701 BCE, the city was abandoned for a while, but there seems to have been an attempt by a group of Judahites at resettling Beth Shemesh, judging by the refurbishing of the water reservoir in the 7th century BCE. However, after the Babylonian conquest of Judah in the early 580s, either the new Babylonian rulers, or the nearby Philistine metropolis of Ekron favoured by them, apparently put an end to the initiative by sealing and covering over the vital water reservoir, which was not uncovered until 2004. During the first Jewish return, at the beginning of the Second Temple period, there was no lasting revival of the city, as opposed to many other places in the vicinity such as Beit Guvrin, Maresha, and others. Consequently, the small Arab towns of Dayr Raban and Dayr Rafat used rocks for building from this very ancient source.\n\nA monastery and other remains from the Byzantine period have been found on the tell.\n\nIn the late 19th century the area was known as 'Ain Shems or Khirbet 'Ain Shems and was used as a temporary harvest-time residence by local Arabs. The small mosque of Abu Mizar stood there.\n\nDuring the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the Egyptian army invaded the area and set up a fortified post, called \"Mishlat\" in Hebrew, on a hill overlooking Beit Shemesh, within the Arab-village Dayr Aban. The post changed hands several times during fighting. The Harel Brigade occupied part of the post for several months giving rise to the name \"the joint post\" or the \"Mishlat HaMeshutaf\" with 60 meters dividing them and the enemy forces. The Mishlat was finally taken by the Harel force in the Ha-Har offensive during the night of 19–20 October 1948.\n\nBeit Shemesh is the point from which the so-called Convoy of 35 set out to bring provisions to besieged Gush Etzion. On 15 January 1948 a group of 38 Palmach volunteers left Hartuv near Beit Shemesh. After one member of the group sprained his ankle, the group, now numbering 35, continued on its way. Their presence was discovered by two Arab women who encountered two scouts of the group near Surif; an earlier version, that the soldiers were discovered by an Arab shepherd who they graciously let go, was based on a eulogy written by Ben-Gurion and is apparently apocryphal).\nOn 6 December 1950, the Hartuv displaced persons camp \"Ma'abarat Har-Tuv\" was established on the site of the current-day Moshav Naham. The first inhabitants were Jewish Bulgarian immigrants. They were joined by more Jewish immigrants from Bulgaria, Iran, Iraq, Romania, Morocco and Kurdistan. In 1952 the first permanent houses were built in Beit Shemesh. Prior to 1948 the Ramat Beit Shemesh neighborhood area was the site belonging to the Arab village Bayt Nattif. This village was built on remnants of an ancient Judean town, with various remnants of Jewish settlement from the time, such as a mosaic floor, wineries and other remains, especially from the period of the Hasmonean kings and earlier. This area is currently under dispute about preservation, having been the subject of a grassroots campaign.\n\nIn its early years, Beit Shemesh came to typify the \"Development Town\" with a largely North African immigrant population. In 1977, following a writeup in Haaretz newspaper, Beit Shemesh was perceived as the main outpost for Menachem Begin's Likud party. He promised to rehabilitate neighborhoods and when Likud came to power that year, investment in the city increased.\n\nThe Israel Police maintains a bomb disposal specialist unit and training center in Beit Shemesh.\n\nWhen the city was built in the 1950s, it was initially settled by new immigrants from Iran, Iraq, Romania, Bulgaria, Morocco and Iraqi Kurdistan. In the 1990s, the city saw a large influx of new immigrants from the former Soviet Union, Ethiopia and English-speaking countries, turning it into a major center for Anglo immigrants. Considerable numbers have come from North America, the United Kingdom, South Africa and Australia. This population tends to be Orthodox, educated and from middle income groups. At the same time, Orthodox Jews from within Israel also began moving to the city, seeking roomier, low-cost housing.\n\nAccording to a city councillor, there were no Haredim in Beit Shemesh before the 1990s. Since then, Beit Shemesh has become increasingly religious, with a large Haredi sector. Many synagogues and yeshivas have been built in the city. Religious communities represented in Beit Shemesh include Ger, Belz, Shomer Emunim, Satmar and Neturei Karta. In 2011 Haredim made up 40% of the population, of which an estimated 50 or 60 families with great influence are militant. According to statistics published by the municipality, 63% of the city's schoolchildren in 2010 were Haredim. 75% of the children entering the first grade in the 2012/2013 academic year will be registered in official Haredi institutions.\n\nThe population of Beit Shemesh is expected to reach 150,000 in 2020.\n\nTwo new areas, the Nahala UMenucha neighborhood, and Ramat Beit Shemesh, were built in the 1990s, doubling the size of the city.\n\nRamat Beit Shemesh (\"Beit Shemesh Heights\") is an expansion that lies directly adjacent to, and to the south of, the original part of Beit Shemesh, colloquially referred to as \"Old Beit Shemesh\". It is located on a hill overlooking the old town. Ramat Beit Shemesh has a large, diverse Orthodox population. Originally, it consisted of two areas: \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Alef\" and \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Bet\". In \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Bet\", families belonging to Eda Haredit constitute the majority. In 2002, following tensions between the Haredi and non-religious population, plans were drawn up to build another secular neighborhood, HaShachar. In 2007, Ramat Shilo, considered a subdistrict of Ramat Beit Shemesh, with both Dati Leumi and Haredi residents was built. In 2009, it was announced that a new neighborhood, \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Gimmel\", would be built as a largely Haredi neighborhood on a large block of state-owned land bordering southern Beit Shemesh. In 2016 the Israeli Land Authority published tenders for 3,268 new apartments, to be built in the newly proposed areas of \"Ramat Beit Shemesh Dalet and Hey.\" According to plans, ultimately there are to be 8,300 new apartments in \"RBS Dalet\" alone.\n\nBeit Shemesh also has an urban kibbutz affiliated with the Kibbutz Movement, Tamuz, founded in 1987.\n\nThe large English-speaking community is concentrated in Ramat Beit Shemesh Alef, as well as in the Sheinfeld, Nofei Aviv, Migdal HaMayim and Givat Sharett neighborhoods of \"Old Beit Shemesh\".\nBeit Shemesh is developing rapidly, and under a current masterplan approved by the Israeli government in 2017, Beit Shemesh will double in population, to more than 200,000 residents, with 17,000 new housing units built along with 130 acres zoned as new commercial space for businesses and hotels. It is expected that the city could be home to as many as 250,000 residents by 2025. A new commercial center in the Ramat Beit Shemesh neighborhood is planned to be the city's largest.\n\nThe mayor of Beit Shemesh, Moshe Abutbul, is a member of Shas. The deputy-mayor, Shmuel Greenberg, is a member of United Torah Judaism (UTJ). \"Haaretz\" quotes Abutbul as saying: \"Beit Shemesh is not a Haredi city and will not be one.\" In the 2009 elections, Shas and UTJ won nine seats in the 21-seat municipal council, one seat went to a new Haredi party called Tov.\n\nFormerly a Likud stronghold, in the 2006 Knesset elections United Torah Judaism became the city's strongest party, with 22.2 percent of the votes and Shas getting 19.9 percent. In 2009 Likud regained its primacy, obtaining 22.2 percent of the votes, and Shas also gained, garnering 20.9 percent, with United Torah Judaism a close third at 20.6 percent. Eda Haredit boycott the elections.\n\nDuring the municipal elections held on 22 October 2013, acting on several anonymous tips, police raided several private residences and recovered 200 ID cards and disguising materials such as hats, glasses and wigs which law enforcement suspected were used or going to be used for fraudulent voting. Additionally, eight people were arrested on suspicion for engaging and coordinating fraudulent voting activities.\n\nOn 10 December 2013 a three judge panel of the Jerusalem District Court nullified the results of the October municipal elections due to voter fraud and ordered a new election.\n\nFollowing an unprecedented 76% voter turnout rate, incumbent mayor Moshe Abutbul beat contender Eli Cohen with a 51% majority vote during the reelection which took place on 11 March 2014. \nIn 2001, there were 56 schools and 14,148 students in the city: 41 elementary schools with 10,716 elementary school students, and 20 high schools with 3,432 high school students. 40.3% of 12th grade students were entitled to a matriculation certificate.\n\nBeit Shemesh has two industrial zones containing mainly small industry, particularly in the Northern industrial zone which is typified by carpentry and metalwork workshops, garages and wholesale and retail outlets. The Western industrial zone contains several larger companies including Beit Shemesh Engines Ltd. (BSEL) which manufactures and repairs jet engines and jet engine components, Barzellan and others. Nearby in the Noham industrial zone are situated various other factories and offices. Since the hi-tech boom of 1996–2001 Beit Shemesh has been host to several hi-tech startups including Omek Interactive.\n\nBeit Shemesh Railway Station provides hourly service on the Israel Railways Herzliya–Jerusalem line. The station is located in the north industrial zone of Beit Shemesh. It was reopened on 13 September 2003, having existed for over a century at the same location. The station has three platforms.\n\nBus transportation within Beit Shemesh and most inter-city routes is operated by Superbus, which began service on 5 January 2009. The Egged Bus Cooperative, which previously operated all bus service in and to Beit Shemesh, still operates a limited number of bus lines from Beit Shemesh to Jerusalem.\n\nBeit Shemesh is home to numerous sports clubs all under the main sport associations (Beitar, Hapoel, and Maccabi). The city has soccer teams including juniors, seniors and over-35s teams and boasted a franchise in the Israel Baseball League. The Beit Shemesh Blue Sox represented Beit Shemesh in the league's only season, though they played their games at Gezer Field in Kibbutz Gezer due to a lack of proper facilities in Beit Shemesh. There is also a very active Little League in Beit Shemesh and Ramat Beit Shemesh, with over 300 members.\nIn the field of judo, Elitzur Beit Shemesh has won many prizes. Israel Kung Fu and world Nunchaku champion (2001) Eli Ivgi was born in and lives in Beit Shemesh.\nConstruction of a regulation-sized baseball field in Bet Shemesh is planned. The ground-breaking ceremony taking place on January 6th, 2017. \n\nOn 13 March 1997, seven 13 and 14-year-old girls from Beit Shemesh's AMIT Feurst School were killed at the \"Island of Peace\" site in Naharayim by a Jordanian soldier while they were visiting the joint Israeli and Jordanian tourist resort under Jordanian rule on a class trip. King Hussein of Jordan went to Beit Shemesh a few days after the massacre to extend his condolences and ask forgiveness in the name of his country, a step which was seen as both courageous and touching.\n\nIn 2004 the Israel Association of Ethiopian Jews claimed that Ethiopian Jews working for the municipality were being paid below-minimum wages.\nIn 2011, the Association criticized the referral of Ethiopian Jews to three private pre-schools run by the mayor's wife.\n\nAccording to the \"Jerusalem Post\", women who belong to a Haredi burqa sect in Beit Shemesh were ostracized by the Haredi community. The leader of the movement, dubbed the \"Taliban mother\" by the Israeli press, was convicted by the Jerusalem District Court in 2009 on three counts of abuse of a minor and 25 counts of assault in aggravated circumstances, and sentenced to four years in prison. Her husband was also convicted of 10 counts of assault and three counts of abuse of a minor or helpless person, and was sentenced to six months in jail.\n\nIn 2011, conflicts erupted in Beit Shemesh between extremist ultra-Orthodox men, possibly members of a group known as the Sikrikim, and other residents of the town due to gender separation at local health clinics, and so called ‘mehadrin buses’ where men sit in the front and women in the back.\n\nWhen the municipality removed a sign asking women to stay away from a synagogue, hundreds of Haredi men staged riots in which they attacked police officers and reporters. Several placards urging segregation between men and women were put back after being removed by the police.\n\nAfter the opening of Orot Banot national-religious girls’ school in September 2011, groups of Haredi extremists gathered in front of the school, calling the girls names and spitting at them when they headed to and from school. Stones hurled at a boys' school belonging to the same educational network injured a boy in the leg. Two men were arrested on suspicion of throwing eggs and tomatoes at students. In a demonstration outside the school a female journalist was assaulted by young Haredi men who cursed and spat at her, and a clash with parents of girls studying at the school was broken up by the police force.\n\nIn December 2011, a public outcry was raised when a television news channel interviewed 8-year old Na'ama Margolese, who was cursed and spat at on her way to school by Haredi extremists.\n\"The Jewish Daily Forward\" reported that the issue is really a property dispute over ownership of the school building. Some Haredi women distributed flowers to the girls of Orot Banot school, telling them \"sister to sister\" that they were beautiful. On 27 December 2011, a protest against extremism near the Orot Banot school drew 10,000 people. After the incidents in Beit Shemesh were reported in foreign press, the US State Department updated its Jerusalem travel advisory advising visitors to \"dress appropriately\" when visiting ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods, or to avoid them entirely.\nNa'ama's mother Hadassah Margolese who has repeatedly spoken out on behalf of national religious Beit Shemesh residents against Haredi tendencies, including about an occurrence in which little girls' faces were blurred out on Purim advertisements distributed in her neighborhood, and a humiliating experience at the ritual bath reportedly left Beit Shemesh with her family in late July 2013 after being attacked by members of her own national religious community who accused her of exposing the community to public shame.\n\nin February 2015 Judge David Gideoni accepted a claim filed by four women who protested an illegal \"modesty sign\" posted in Ramat Beit Shemesh Bet. The judge ordered Mayor Moshe Abutbul and the Beit Shemesh Municipality to pay each of the women complainants NIS 15,000. The city then saw further signs of \"religious radicalization\" when the word \"woman\" was repeatedly erased from a sign at a women's health center.\n\nIn 1971, excavations at Givat Sharett conducted by Israeli archaeologist Claire Epstein revealed a residential settlement of the Middle Bronze Age, including a temple.\n\nThe most ancient iron workshop in the world was discovered in Beit Shemesh in 2003. The only remnants of a fortified city with an advanced water system, from the time of the early Kingdom of Judah was found here. The bones of animals found in the 12th–11th centuries BCE layer indicate a diet typical of the Israelites who inhabited the hill country in this period. These together with the pottery finds indicate the cultural influences on the inhabitants of this border town. However, it is not possible to determine their specific ethnic identity, which could be Canaanite, Philistine or Israelite.\n\nIn August 2012 archaeologists from Tel Aviv University announced the discovery of a circular stone seal, approximately 15 millimetres in diameter. The seal was found on the floor of a house at Beit Shemesh and is dated to the 12th century BCE. According to Haaretz, \"excavation directors Prof. Shlomo Bunimovitz and Dr. Zvi Lederman of Tel Aviv University say they do not suggest that the human figure on the seal is the biblical Samson. Rather, the geographical proximity to the area where Samson lived, and the time period of the seal, show that a story was being told at the time of a hero who fought a lion, and that the story eventually found its way into the biblical text and onto the seal.\"\n\nAnimal bones found nearby may also be a clue to boundary disputes between different cultures. Pig bones have been found a few kilometres from Beit Shemesh, but only a few have been found actually at Beit Shemesh and at some point during the 11th century BCE it appears that the local population stopped eating pig. Haaretz reports that \"According to Bunimovitz, when the pork-eating Philistines arrived in the country from the Aegean, the local people stopped eating pork to differentiate themselves from the newcomers.\"\n\nIn 2014, archaeologists Irene Zilberbod and Tehila Libman announced the nearby discovery of a large compound from the Byzantine period that was most probably a monastery. It comprised a residential area and an industrial area with wine and olive presses. The remains of buildings with two or three stories and impressive mosaic floors were discovered. The compound ceased to function in the early Muslim period and was subsequently occupied by other residents.\nThe excavations were continuing with additional finds through late 2017.\n\nBeit Shemesh is a Sister City of:\nIn the Partnership 2gether program of the Jewish Agency for Israel, Beit Shemesh and the Mateh Yehuda Regional Council are linked to South Africa and Washington, D.C.\n\nAfter the \"Washington Post\" reported in October 2011 that Montgomery County, Maryland was considering a partnership with Beit Shemesh, a local coalition, Human Rights Matter!, objected. The campaign was supported by the Mossawa Center, an organization that defines its goal as the promotion of equality for the Arab minority in Israel but which has been criticized for its rejection of Israel as a Jewish state and its foreign funding from the European Commission, George Soros's Open Society Institute and the New Israel Fund, among others, as well as Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mairead Maguire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9208751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9208751", "title": "Chaplain Corps (United States Army)", "text": "Chaplain Corps (United States Army)\n\nThe Chaplain Corps of the United States Army consists of ordained clergy of multiple faiths who are commissioned Army officers serving as military chaplains as well as enlisted soldiers who serve as assistants. Their purpose is to offer religious church services, counseling, and moral support to the armed forces, whether in peacetime or at war.\n\nThe U.S. Army Chaplain Center and School (USACHCS) is part of the Armed Forces Chaplaincy Center (AFCC), which also includes the Air Force Chaplain Service Institute (AFCSI) and the U.S. Naval Chaplaincy School and Center (NCSC). The three schools are co-located at Fort Jackson, in Columbia, S.C.\n\nIn 2005, the Base Realignment and Closure Commission decided to put all military ministry training at the same location. While it was authorized, funding was not part of the BRAC, and the Air Force departed Ft Jackson in 2012, currently leaving only the Army and Navy at the Armed Forces Chaplaincy Center. \n\nThe purpose of the AFCC was to have closer cooperation among the three chaplain corps and to share instruction and training. While that was the goal, the core curriculums were maintained by the three service schools and a joint program of instruction (POI) was never created. \n\nThe U.S. Army Chaplain School was approved on 9 February 1918. Its first session began on 3 March 1918, at Fort Monroe, Virginia. Chaplain (MAJ) Aldred A. Pruden, who developed the plan for the school, was named the first commandant of the school. It subsequently moved to Camp Zachary Taylor (Kentucky), Camp Grant (Illinois), Fort Leavenworth (Kansas), Fort Benjamin Harrison (Indiana), Harvard University (Massachusetts), Fort Devens (Mass.), Fort Oglethorpe (Georgia), Carlisle Barracks (Pennsylvania), Fort Slocum (New York) (1951–62), Fort Hamilton (N.Y.) (1962–74), Fort Wadsworth (N.Y.) (1974–79), and Fort Monmouth (New Jersey) (1979–95).\n\nDue to a revision of DA PAM 611-21 (Military Occupational Classification and Structure) Effective October 1, 2013, Chaplain Candidates, previously belonging to the Staff Specialist Branch until ordination have worn the Staff Specialist insignia in lieu of religious denomination insignia. The transition from the Staff Specialist Branch to the Chaplain Branch left the candidates without an authorized branch insignia. Responding to the need, Chief of Chaplains Chaplain (Major General) Donald L. Rutherford submitted a request for collar insignia which was approved by HQDA, G-1 on 23 February 2012. The design for the collar insignia was authorized on 18 June 2012.\n\nThe Chief of Chaplains of the United States Army is the head of the Army Chaplaincy. The position was created to better organize the corps. The current Chief of Chaplains is Chaplain (Major General) Paul K. Hurley who was sworn in on May 22, 2015.\n\n\nThe U.S. Army Chaplain Museum is located at Fort Jackson, South Carolina. It was established on 14 August 1957, at the then–United States Army Chaplain School at Fort Slocum, New York. It was dedicated on 10 February 1958, by Chaplain (MG) Patrick J. Ryan, Chief of Chaplains.\n\nWhen the troop-transport ship was torpedoed during World War II, four Army chaplains ministered to the soldiers and sailors on the sinking ship, gave up their life jackets, and sacrificed their lives when the ship sank. Those chaplains – known as \"The Four Chaplains\" – were Lt. George L. Fox, Methodist; Lt. Alexander D. Goode, Jewish; Lt. John P. Washington, Roman Catholic; and Lt. Clark V. Poling, Dutch Reformed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342410", "title": "Christianity and other religions", "text": "Christianity and other religions\n\nChristianity and other religions documents Christianity's relationship with other world religions, and the differences and similarities.\n\nEvangelical Christians believe that religious pluralism is heresy and contradicts the Bible. Some Christians have argued that religious pluralism is an invalid or self-contradictory concept. Maximal forms of religious pluralism claim that all religions are equally true, or that one religion can be true for some and another for others. Some, but by no means all, Christians hold such pluralism to be logically impossible. Roman Catholicism believes that while it is the fullest and most complete revelation of God to Man, other Christian denominations have also received genuine revelation from God, although partial and incomplete.\n\nAlthough Calvinists believe God and the truth of God cannot be plural, they also believe that those civil ordinances of man which restrain man from evil and encourage toward good, are ordinances of God (regardless of the religion, or lack of it, of those who wield that power). Christians are obligated to be at peace with all men, as far as it is up to them, and to submit to governments for the Lord's sake, and to pray for enemies.\n\nCalvinism is not pacifistic and Calvinists have been involved in religious wars, notably the French Wars of Religion and the English Civil War. Some of the first parts of modern Europe to practice religious tolerance had Calvinistic populations, notably the Netherlands.\n\nIn recent years, some Christian groups have become more open to religious pluralism; this has led to many cases of reconciliation between Christians and people of other faiths. The liberalization of many Seminaries and theological institutions, particularly in regards to the rejection of the notion that the Bible is an infallible document, has led to a much more human-centered and secular movement within Mainline Christian denominations, particularly in the United States. Some Mainline churches no longer hold to exclusivist views on salvation.\n\nIn recent years there has been much to note in the way of reconciliation between some Christian groups and the Jewish people. Many modern day Christians, including many Catholics and some liberal Protestants, have developed a view of the New Testament as an extended covenant; they believe that Jews are still in a valid relationship with God, and that Jews can avoid damnation and earn a heavenly reward. For these Christians, the New Testament extended God's original covenant to cover non-Jews. The article Christian–Jewish reconciliation deals with this issue in detail.\n\nMultiple smaller Christian groups in the US and Canada have come into being over the last 40 years, such as \"Christians for Israel\". Their website says that they exist in order to \"expand Christian-Jewish dialogue in the broadest sense in order to improve the relationship between Christians and Jews, but also between Church and Synagogue, emphasizing Christian repentance, the purging of anti-Jewish preliminary attitudes and the false 'Replacement' theology rampant throughout Christian teachings.\"\n\nA number of large Christian groups, including the Catholic Church and several large Protestant churches, have publicly declared that they will no longer proselytize Jews.\n\nOther Modern Christian views, including some conservative Protestants, reject the idea of the New Testament as an extended covenant, and retain the classical Christian view as described earlier.\n\nFor the Catholic Church, there has been a move at reconciliation not only with Judaism, but also Islam. The Second Vatican Council states that salvation includes others who acknowledge the same creator, and explicitly lists Muslims among those (using the term Mohammedans, which was the word commonly used among non-Muslims at the time). The official Catholic position is therefore that Jews, Muslims and Christians (including churches outside of Rome's authority) all acknowledge the same God, though Jews and Muslims have not yet received the gospel while other churches are generally considered deviant to a greater or lesser degree.\n\nThe most prominent event in the way of dialogue between religions has arguably been the 1986 Peace Prayer in Assisi to which Pope John Paul II, against considerable resistance also from within the Roman Catholic church, invited representatives of all world religions. John Paul II’s remarks regarding Christian denominations were found in his Ut unum sint address. This initiative was taken up by the Community of Sant'Egidio, who, with the support of John Paul II, organized yearly peace meetings of religious representatives. These meetings, consisting of round tables on different issues and of a common time of prayer has done much to further understanding and friendship between religious leaders and to further concrete peace initiatives. In order to avoid the reproaches of syncretism that were leveled at the 1986 Assisi meeting where the representatives of all religions held one common prayer, the follow-up meetings saw the representatives of the different religions pray in different places according to their respective traditions.\n\nThe question of whether traditional Chinese ancestor veneration, consists of worshipping a God or veneration of a saint was important to the Roman Catholic church during the Chinese Rites controversy of the early 18th century. This dispute was between the Dominicans who argued that Confucianism and Chinese folk religion was worship, and therefore incompatible with Catholicism, and the Jesuit who argued the reverse. The pope ultimately ruled in favor of the Dominicans, a decision which greatly reduced the role of Catholic missionaries in China. However, this decision was partially reversed by Pope Pius XII in 1939; after this, Chinese customs were no longer considered superstition or idolatry, but a way of honoring esteemed relatives (not entirely dissimilar to the Catholic practice of praying for the dead).\n\nSikhs also believe in one God and follow the Ten Sikh Gurus, unlike Christians who believe in one Almighty God made up of three distinct persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit (Known as the Trinity). However, there is no heaven or hell in the Sikh religion.\n\nHistorically, the relationship between Christianity and Judaism has been strained. In the past, Christians were often taught that \"the Jews\" killed Christ, for which \"murder\" they bear a collective guilt (an interpretation which most major denominations now reject). Jews meanwhile have tended to associate Christianity with various pogroms, or in better times, with the dangers of assimilation. Anti-Semitism has a long history in Christianity (see Christianity and anti-Semitism), and indeed is far from dead (for example, in contemporary Russia). However, since the Holocaust, much dialogue aimed at Christian–Jewish reconciliation has taken place, and relations have greatly improved. Today, many conservative evangelicals support Christian Zionism, much to the irritation of Arab Christians, based partly on the Millennialist belief that the modern state of Israel represents the fulfillment of Biblical prophecy.\n\nThe phenomenon of Messianic Judaism has become something of an irritant to Jewish / Christian relations. Messianic Jews—who generally seek to combine a Jewish identity with the recognition of Jesus—are rejected by mainstream Jewish groups, who dismiss Messianic Judaism as little more than Christianity with Jewish undertones.\n\nThe Jewish conception of the messiah (משיח \"mashiach\" in Hebrew) holds certain similarities to that of Christians, yet there are substantial differences. According to Jews, the Hebrew Scriptures contain a small number of prophecies concerning a future descendant of King David, who will be anointed (Hebrew: moshiach) as the Jewish people's new leader and will establish the throne of David in Jerusalem forever. In the Jewish view, this fully human and mortal leader will rebuild the land of Israel and restore the Davidic Kingdom. This subject is covered in the section on Jewish eschatology. Some Christians have a different understanding of the term \"messiah\", and believe that Jesus is the messiah referred to in the Old Testament prophecies; that the kingdom in these prophecies was to be a heavenly kingdom, not an earthly one; and that Jesus' words and actions in the New Testament provide evidence of his identity as messiah and that the remainder of messianic prophecy will be fulfilled in the Second Coming. Other Christians acknowledge the Jewish definition of \"messiah\", and hold that Jesus fulfills this, being 'fully man' (in addition to being 'fully God'), and believe that the Second Coming will establish the Kingdom of God on earth, where Jesus, as messiah and descendant from David, will reign from Jerusalem.\n\nIslam shares a number of beliefs with Christianity. They share similar views on judgment, heaven, hell, spirits, angels, and a future resurrection. Jesus is acknowledged and respected by Muslims as a great prophet. However, while Islam relegates Jesus to a lesser status than God — \"in the company of those nearest to God\" in the Qur'an, mainstream (Trinitarian) Christianity teaches without question that Jesus is God the Son, one of the three Hypostases (common English: persons) of Christianity's Trinity, divinely co-equal with the Father and the Holy Spirit.\n\nThe religions both share a belief in the virgin birth of Jesus, his miracles and healings, and that he ascended bodily into heaven. However, Jesus is not accepted as the son by Muslims, who strictly maintain that he was a human being who was loved by God and exalted by God to ranks of the most righteous. They believe in God as a single entity, not as the Trinity accepted by the vast majority of Christians. Neither do Muslims accept Jesus' crucifixion. Since Muslims believe only in the worship of a strictly monotheistic God who never assumed human flesh, they do not accept the use of icons, and see this as shirk (idolatry). Muslim influence played a part in the initiation of iconoclasm and their conquests caused the iconoclasm in the Byzantine Empire. For the same reason, they do not worship or pray to Muhammad, Jesus, or any other prophets; only to God.\n\nAdherents of Islam have historically referred to themselves, Jews, and Christians (among others) as People of the Book since they all base their religion on books that are considered to have a divine origin. Christians however neither recognize the Qur'an as a genuine book of divine revelation, nor agree with its assessment of Jesus as a mere prophet, on par with Muhammad, nor for that matter accept that Muhammad was a genuine prophet.\n\nMuslims, for their part, believe that parts of the Gospels, Torah and Jewish prophetic books have been forgotten, misinterpreted, or distorted by their followers. Based on that perspective, Muslims view the Qur'an as correcting the errors of Christianity. For example, Muslims reject belief in the Trinity, or any other expression of the divinity of Jesus, as incompatible with monotheism.\n\nNot surprisingly, the two faiths have often experienced controversy and conflict (an example being the Crusades). At the same time, much fruitful dialogue has occurred as well. The writings of Catholic theologian Thomas Aquinas frequently cite those of the Jewish philosopher Moses Maimonides, as well as Muslim thinker Averroes ('Ibn-Rushd).\n\nOn May 6, 2001 Pope John Paul II, the first pope to pray in a mosque, delivered an address at Umayyad Mosque in Damascus, saying: \"It is important that Muslims and Christians continue to explore philosophical and theological questions together, in order to come to a more objective and comprehensive knowledge of each other's religious beliefs. Better mutual understanding will surely lead, at the practical level, to a new way of presenting our two religions not in opposition, as has happened too often in the past, but in partnership for the good of the human family.\" This Mosque of Damascus is famous for containing the head of John the Baptist.\n\nBuddhism, Hinduism and Christianity differ on fundamental beliefs on heaven, hell and reincarnation, to name a few. From the Hindu perspective, heaven (Sanskrit \"svarga\") and hell (\"Naraka\") are temporary places, where every soul has to live, either for the good deeds done or for their sins committed.\n\nThere also exist significant similarities in Christian and Hindu theology, most notably in that both religions present a trinitarian view of God. The Holy Trinity of Christianity, consisting of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, is sometimes seen as roughly analogous to the Trimurti of Hinduism, whose members -- Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva—are seen as the three principal manifestations of Brahman, or Godhead.\n\nChristian-Hindu relations are a mixed affair. On one hand, Hinduism's natural tendency has been to recognize the divine basis of various other religions, and to revere their founders and saintly practitioners. In Western countries, Vedanta has influenced some Christian thinkers, while others in the anti-cult movement have reacted against the activities of immigrant gurus and their followers. (See also: Pierre Johanns, Abhishiktananda, Bede Griffiths, Dalit theology.)\n\nThe Christian Ashram Movement, a movement within Christianity in India, embraces Vedanta and the teachings of the East, attempting to combine the Christian faith with the Hindu ashram model and Christian monasticism with the Hindu \"sannyasa\" tradition.\n\nIn the 19th century, some scholars began to perceive similarities between Buddhist and Christian practices, e.g. in 1878 T.W. Rhys Davids wrote that the earliest missionaries to Tibet observed that similarities have been seen since the first known contact. In 1880 Ernest De Bunsen made similar observations in that with the exception of the death of Jesus on the cross, and of the Christian doctrine of atonement, the most ancient Buddhist records had similarities with the Christian traditions.\n\nBuddhism and Protestantism came into political conflict in 19th century Sri Lanka and in Tibet c. 1904 (the Francis Younghusband Expedition). Various events have cooperated to introduce various strains of Buddhist theology and meditation to several generations of Western spiritual seekers (including some Catholic religious). Relations are generally good between both religions, except perhaps in South Korea where Christians have damaged Buddhist temples and engaged in other forms of Christian extremism. The Russian republic of Kalmykia recognizes both Tibetan/Lamaist Buddhism and Russian Orthodoxy as its official religions.\n\nMany scholars believe the eschatology of Judaism and possibly the idea of monotheism originated in Zoroastrianism, and may have been transferred to Judaism during the Babylonian captivity, thus eventually influencing Christian theology. Bible scholar P.R. Ackroyd states: \"the whole eschatological scheme, however, of the Last Judgment, rewards and punishments, etc., within which immortality is achieved, is manifestly Zoroastrian in origin and inspiration.\" However, the theory is questioned by other mainstream historians and scholars. \"The Oxford History of the Biblical World\" states \"There is little if any effect of Zoroastrian elements on Judaism in the Persian period.\". Nevertheless, scholars such as Soloman Nigosian contend, in regarding the similar ideas of Zoroaster and later Jewish writers, that \"the ideas were indigenous to Iran...it is hardly conceivable that some of the characteristic ideas and practices in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam came into being without Zoroastrian influence.\" The new faith (Zoroastrianism) emerged in larger Persian empires. \" Zoroastrianism reflected the cosmopolitan society of the empires\". During this time Zoroastrianism profoundly effected the beliefs and values of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam (\"Traditions & Encounters: A brief global History\", Jerry H. Bentley. pg. 93). It is also possible that Zoroastrianism and later Jewish theology came from a common source.\n\n\"For more on this theory, see Jewish history, Judaism, and Zoroastrianism.\"\n\nIn the Younger Avesta, three divinities of the Zoroastrian pantheon are repeatedly identified as ahuric, meaning that each, as Ahura, act together in both representing and protecting Asha, or the divine truth governing the universe. These three are Ahura Mazda, Mithra and Burz, and hence known as the \"Ahuric triad.\" Similarities with the Christian Trinity can be seen between Ahura Mazda and God the Father, Mithra and Christ the Logos, as well as between Burz and the Holy Spirit, both of which are associated symbolically with water. Both Zoroastrianism and Christianity consider themselves to be monotheistic, but like all other monotheisms they have highlighted certain aspects or energies of the divine to emphasize, and these are not meant to be interpreted as separate divinities. In both religions there are guardian angels, or fravashi, which are considered to be created beings and are distinct from the Energies of God or divine emanations. The Zoroastrian term yazata, however, has variously been interpreted as meaning emanations or \"sparks\" of the divine, or as being roughly synonymous with the term \"angels.\" There have been various theories on the possible relationship between these aspects of Zoroastrianism and ideas of divine emanation in esoteric Christianity, Jewish Kabbalah, Islamic mysticism (Sufism), and other religious systems, such as Gnosticism, Yazidism, and the Druze, among others.\n\nThere are many parallels between Mithraism, the religion of Sol Invictus, and Christianity. Aurelian is believed to have established the \"Dies Natalis Solis Invicti\" (Day of the Birth of Sol Invictus) as an annual festival held on the day when the sun's daily declination visibly starts rising again after the winter solstice, namely on December 25; the birth of the central figure was thus celebrated on the day which Christians later used to celebrate Jesus' birth (having always celebrated this at Epiphany). Other similarities include the stories of Christ and Mithra as children being visited by shepherds, the trinity, and the immortal soul. Sunday itself was imposed as the official day of rest by Constantine, who referred to it as the \"Day of the venerable Sun\". (Although Christians worshiped on Sunday from at least 150 years before Constantine)\n\nThe earliest attestation of Mithraism is Plutarch's record of it being practised in 68BC by Cilician pirates, the first mithraists. Tertullian, a Christian writer who lived between the 2nd and 3rd centuries, admitted there was a strong similarity between the practises of the two faiths:\n\nJustin Martyr, an earlier 2nd century Church Father, agreed that the similarities existed, claiming that Mithraism had copied the Eucharist. Justin argued that the devil had invented Mithraism to mock Christianity. Christian apologist Ronald H. Nash stated:\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith believes that there is one God who sends divine messengers to guide humanity throughout time, which is called Progressive revelation (Bahá'í)—and is different from the Christian belief of Progressive revelation (Christian). They believe in the divine knowledge and essence of Jesus, among other messengers such as Muhammad, Zoroaster, Moses, Buddha, Krishna, and others. Interpretations vary, but the Bahá'í Faith is sometimes considered an Abrahamic faith. The followers of the Bahá'í Faith believe in God, as do Christians, and recognize Jesus' teachings, but they have different views of the Trinity and divinity of Jesus. The Bahá'í view of prophets is that although they have both human and divine characteristics, they are not themselves God, but rather \"divine manifestations.\" They also see the Trinity as symbolic where Jesus and the Holy Spirit are polished mirrors that reflect the pure light from God. Although Bahá'ís affirm the Bible as sacred scripture, they do not consider the Bible to be wholly authentic as Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith, affirmed that \"The Bible is not wholly authentic, and in this respect not to be compared with the Qur’án, and should be wholly subordinated to the authentic Sayings of Bahá’u’lláh.\"\n\nBahá'ís share some views with Christianity regarding moral and immoral behavior. Bahá'ís condemn polygamy, premarital sex, and homosexual acts while treating everyone, including homosexuals, with love, respect, and dignity. (See Homosexuality and Bahá'í Faith.)\n\nHubbard described Scientology as \"the Western Anglicized continuance of many earlier forms of wisdom.\" Hubbard includes the teachings of Jesus among belief systems cited as these \"earlier forms of wisdom\". Jesus is recognized in Scientology as part of its \"religious heritage\", though \"is seen as only one of many good teachers\".\n\nIn the 2008 book \"Vintage Jesus: Timeless Answers to Timely Questions\", authors Mark Driscoll and Gerry Breshears write: \"According to Scientology, Jesus is an \"implant\" forced upon a Thetan about a million years ago\", and Jack Huberman writes in \"101 People Who Are Really Screwing America\" that in Scientology Jesus is seen as having been \"implanted in humanity's collective memory\", by the character Xenu from Scientology space opera.\n\nThe spread of Christianity has been international, in some cases entirely displacing the religions and altering the customs encountered among those people to whom it has come. This centuries-long process has been met with violent opposition at times, and likewise the spread of Christianity has in some cases been carried out with martial force. The relationship of Christianity to other faiths is encumbered to some extent by this history, with modern Christians, particularly in the West, expressing embarrassment over the violence in Christianity's past.\n\nConverting adherents of other religions is widely accepted within Christianity. Many Christian organizations believe that they have a duty to make converts among every people. In recent years, ecumenism and dialogue between different religions has been endorsed by many official representatives of the Christian churches, as a way of effecting reconciliation between Christian people and people of other faiths, leading to many cases of reconciliation. In some cases, this endorsement is accompanied by a complete disavowal of all proselytizing efforts under the banner of religious pluralism.\n\nThis is specially marked by the inauguration, or installation, of Archbishop of York Dr John Sentamu from Uganda, on November 29, 2005. Dr Sentamu is the first black African archbishop of the Church of England. He is also the first archbishop to beat bongo drums in the cathedral at his own inauguration. The newspaper Guardian, which dedicated its double middle page of the following day to a full picture of the grinning archbishop in full apparel at the porch of the cathedral, says that:\n\"Dr Sentamu's sermon was a stern lecture to the Church of England to grow out of being a 'judgmental and moralising' congregation of 'pew-fillers, sermon-taters, Bible readers, even born-again believers and Spirit-filled charismatics' and go out to make friends in the world. 'We have lost the joy and power that makes real disciples and we've become consumers of religion, not disciples of Jesus-Christ', he said. 'Christians, go and make friends among Buddhists, Hindus, Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, agnostics, atheists, not for the purpose of converting them to your beliefs but for friendship, understanding, listening, hearing.' His remarks were greeted with applause, not with silence as the order of the service instructed.\"\n\nA special case is the issue of Christian–Jewish reconciliation, in which significant reconciliation has been reached.\n\nChristian converts have often carried some of their previous customs to their new faith. This on occasion has led to syncretisms, that are often not accepted by mainstream Christians:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40658211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40658211", "title": "Cunnilingus in Halacha", "text": "Cunnilingus in Halacha\n\nWithin the guidelines of halacha as presented by chazal and early rabbinic authorities, Oral-vulvar stimulation in Halacha (also known as נשיקת אותו מקום lit. \"kissing of that place\") is the discussion of whether or not a man may orally stimulate his wife's vulva (cunnilingus) independent of whether this stimulation does or does not result in her achieving orgasm.\n\nThe discussion is within the exclusive framework of a halachically permitted marital relationship and only during the time that one's wife is not in her Niddah state.\n\nTalmud Bavli (Nedarim p. 20b) quotes the majority of rabbis (who disagree with the fringe view of Yohanan Ben Dahabai) who are lenient by stating that \"all that man desires to do with his wife he may\" (provided she agrees). The Talmud goes on to bring a parable of a man who makes a meat or fish purchase, that he may cook his purchase in any way he desires.\n\nIn a varying text of kallah rabthi as printed in \"battei medrashoth\" Rabbi Werthheimer notes the significance of the Talmud quoting both meat and fish in its parable;\n\nSince the Torah forbids cooking one's meat in milk, a parable quoting just meat would not suffice as meat has this restrictive element whereas fish has a lesser restrictive element, thus implying that man has an enhanced level of (sexual) freedom with his wife.\n\nThe Rambam takes a somewhat lenient approach that permits oral-vulvar stimulation but at the same time discourages its actual practice\n\nAs stringent view of oral-vulvar stimulation when a woman may conceive is presented in Kallah Rabthi, one of the Minor tractate in the name of Rabbah:\n\nThe Sifthei Kohen (vol. 2 p. 244) commentary to the Torah points out that the kohen personality is to be extra-scrupulous with oral-vulvar stimulation of his wife when producing offspring, as per Rabbi Yochanan's ben Dhabai's warning that it may cause a physical blemish were his wife to conceive; as a kohen is bounded by the Torah rules of kohanic disqualifications, and may be disqualified from specific Bet HaMikdash services if he has a physical blemish.\n\nShulchan Aruch (Orach Hayyim ch. 240) takes a stringent view of oral-vulvar stimulation by stating that the transgressor violates the spirit of the Torah verses of והצנע לכת (\"Thou shalt walk humbly\" -Micha 6:8) and בעבור תהיה יראתו על פניכם לבלתי תחטאו (\"So that fear (of God) should be on your faces so that you should not sin\" -Exodus 9:16) and of בל תשקצו את נפשותיכם (\"Thou should not make your soul despicable\" Leviticus 20:25).\n\nThe Remah\"s glosses to Shulchan Aruch (Even HaEzer ch. 25) take a more lenient on oral-vulvar stimulation as does Rabbi Yoel Sirkus (the \"Bach\") who permit it in accordance with halacha, but nonetheless discourage its practice.\n\nRabbi A. Arbel in his work \"Ba'athi Legani\" points out that the Rambam disagrees that oral-vulvar stimulation violates the spirit of the verse of בל תשקצו, as the average person – during sexual excitement – is not disgusted at the notion of orally stimulating the vulva.\n\nA similar point of view is written by Rabbi Blumenkrants who states that the Remah, Chelkath Mechokek and the Aruch HaShulchan all agree that one may do with his wife as one desires – including oral-vulvar stimulation – as this is not punishable according to bare-basic halahcha.\n\n"}
{"id": "8215273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8215273", "title": "Daheshism", "text": "Daheshism\n\nDaheshism (in Arabic الداهشية) is a spiritual message established by Dr. Dahesh (real name Salim Moussa Achi) in 1942:\n\nOn March 23, 1942, at the age of thirty three, Dr. Dahesh proclaimed in Beirut a spiritual message in which he called upon all people to embrace the ideals, the essence of their religions, not reducing their faith into external shows of pagan-like rituals and practices. He declared his belief that humans—like all the other creatures on Earth—are subject to a cosmic law system. \n\nThe just dispensations of this spiritual system apportion to humans their reincarnation on Earth, or in other worlds, according to their deserts. This cycle of reincarnation will come to an end only when they achieve spiritual transcendence by their own free will, integrating themselves into the spirit world. \n\nProclaimed by Salim Moussa Achi (\"Doctor Dahesh\") on March 23, 1942, Daheshism is a spiritual doctrine whose tenets are built around the belief in a deeply mysterious, non-anthropomorphic, ever-present and watchful God. \nDaheshism teaches that all the major prophets (e.g., Abraham, Moses, David, Buddha, Jesus, and Mohammad) emanated from the same source known as The Christ. However — and as per a written directive by Doctor Dahesh — a Daheshist is obligated to respect other cultures' idea of God, to refrain from proselytizing, and never to engage in any sort of coercion. Daheshism believes in the intrinsic correlation between all the major religions: while Daheshism implies a “Unity of Religions,” it recognizes the necessity for those different religions. From a Daheshist perspective, a Christian, for example, need only become a better Christian. \n\nA Daheshist believes that all of creation is spread out over a multidimensional universe divided into three principal realms, each divided into 150 levels:\n\nThe utmost 150 levels make up the World of the Spirits, also known as The Divine Worlds. The highest, or purest of these Divine Worlds, are called The Heavens — the realm of God almighty. \n\nDaheshists believe that since no one can transgress certain limits — ever — the prospect of peering into the realm of God is therefore impossible. \n\nThe realm of the Spirits comprises 150 levels; within these levels, dwell the Spirits. From these Spirits, extends a network of energy signatures known to the Daheshists as the Spiritual Fluids, in various degrees of loftiness, and depth, forming two subsequent realms known as Paradise, and Hell, each divided into 150 levels.\n\nSpiritual Fluids are therefore the utmost-fundamental sentient energy building blocks, as well as the fabric and hidden consciousness of the realms of Paradise and Hell.\n\nDaheshists believe in the existence of an equitable universal justice system that allows the Spiritual Fluids of all living — and non-living matter alike — to leave one plane of existence and reincarnate into another, according to their actions and tendencies. It is through these many cycles of reincarnation that Spiritual Fluids are given the opportunity to purify themselves in order to materialize in progressively better worlds, with the ultimate goal to become one with God. \n\nTo a Daheshist, as sad and tragic as it may often feel, death is but a transition from one reality into another whose setting and circumstances that lie waiting are the direct consequences of one’s thoughts and actions. \n\nDaheshism is summarized in the following five points:\n\nDaheshists believe that Doctor Dahesh was, in part, a materialization of a Spiritual Fluid from THE CHRIST — the source of all the prophets, including Jesus Christ and Moses.\n\nThe Dahesh Heritage Center and The Daheshist Publishing Company, located on Broadway, New York, publish many books related to Dr. Dahesh's literature; Daheshism history; beliefs and news; and art-related literature as Dr. Dahesh was an avid art collector. His art collection is gathered in the Dahesh Museum of Art in New York.\n\nThe Daheshist Publishing Company also publishes the quarterly publication \"Dahesh Voice\" (in Arabic صوت داهش) in English and Arabic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56502287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56502287", "title": "David Kerr (religion scholar)", "text": "David Kerr (religion scholar)\n\nDavid A. Kerr (16 May 1945 – 14 April 2008) was a British scholar of Christian-Muslim relations and world Christianity.\n\nKerr was born and raised in London to Wilfred Kerr, a minister of the United Reformed Church, and Agatha Jean, the daughter of Scottish missionaries in China (1921–27). He conducted his studies in Arabic and Islamic Studies at SOAS, University of London (1963–66), theology at Mansfield College, Oxford (1966–68), and a PhD at St Antony's College, Oxford (1969–73). His doctoral work on church-state relations in Lebanon was supervised by the scholar of Middle Eastern studies, Albert Hourani.\n\nKerr worked for a short time as a journalist with the BBC World Service. He later took up a position teaching Islamic studies at the Selly Oak Colleges (now part of the University of Birmingham) in 1973, founding the Centre for the Study of Islam and Christian-Muslim Relations in 1976. In 1987, he became the director of the Duncan Black Macdonald Center for the Study of Islam and Christian-Muslim studies at Hartford Seminary, before returning to the UK in 1996 to succeed Andrew Walls as professor of Christianity in the Non-Western World and as the director of the Centre for the Study of Christianity in the Non-Western World at the University of Edinburgh. In 2005, he took up a post at the University of Lund as a professor of Missiology and Ecumenics. Shortly upon arriving in Sweden, he was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and died in 2008.\n\nHis wife, Gun Holmström, was a Finnish student in London when they first met in his father's church. They married in Finland in 1970 and had two children, Simeon and Anna.\n\nKerr was an active administrator of a number of a academic centres around the world. He was also known for his supervision of Masters and PhD students from various parts of Africa and Asia, most of whom English was not their first language. It is said that while he was the director for the Centre for the Study of Christianity in the Non-Western World, he had oversight of over thirty students at a given time. Stephen Goodwin comments:\nDavid belonged to that set of scholars who saw their principle task to be the education, support and development of their students; the student subsequently would be the primary witness of the scholar's work, rather than the contemporary tendency, under the pressure of publications-based funding, to issue forth a stream of books.\nAlthough Kerr never produced an academic monograph himself, he was well-respected for his scholarship as can be seen in the two-volume Festschrift produced in his honour:\n\nThe appendix of his Festschrift lists significant articles in the areas of Christian-Muslim relations (including historical, theological, missiological, and regional studies), Middle Eastern Christianity, and Ecumenics.\n"}
{"id": "41185116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41185116", "title": "Eternal oblivion", "text": "Eternal oblivion\n\nIn philosophy, eternal oblivion (also referred to as non-existence or nothingness) is the permanent cessation of one's consciousness upon death. This concept is often associated with religious skepticism and atheism, and may be based in part on the lack of objective evidence for an afterlife and identifying fallacies in the arguments for an afterlife such as Occam's razor.\n\nAccording to contemporary theories of consciousness, the brain is the basis of subjective experience, agency, self-awareness, and awareness of the surrounding natural world. When brain death occurs, all brain function permanently ceases. Many people who believe that death is a permanent cessation of consciousness also believe that consciousness is dependent upon the functioning of the brain. Scientific research has discovered that some areas of the brain, like the reticular activating system or the thalamus, appear to be necessary for consciousness, because damage to these structures or their lack of function causes a loss of consciousness.\n\nThrough a naturalist analysis of the mind (an approach adopted by many philosophers of mind and neuroscientists), it is regarded as being dependent on the brain, as shown from the various effects of brain damage.\n\nThe English word \"oblivion\" (late 14c.) comes from the Old French \"oblivion\" (13c.) and directly from the Latin \"oblivionem\", meaning \"forgetfulness; a being forgotten\", which also comes from the word \"oblivisci\" (\"to forget\"). Oblivion itself means \"state of being forgotten\".\n\nThomas W. Clark, founder of Center for Naturalism, wrote a paper titled \"Death, Nothingness, and Subjectivity\". He critiqued what he saw as a flawed description of eternal oblivion as a \"plunge into darkness\". When some imagine their deaths (including the non-religious), they project themselves into a future self which experiences an eternal silent darkness. This is wrong, because without consciousness, there is no awareness of space and no basis for time. For Clark, in oblivion there isn't even an absence of experience, as we can only speak of experience when a subjective self exists.\n\nAccording to neuroscientist Giulio Tononi, consciousness is \"all we are and all we have: lose consciousness and, as far as you are concerned, your own self and the entire world dissolve into nothingness.\"\n\nSteven Pinker explains the following in the seminar Is Science Killing the Soul, a discussion with Richard Dawkins presenting evidence against the existence of souls. He elaborates;\n\nIn his book \"The Big Picture\", physicist Sean Carroll asserts that through physics we can demonstrate that death is equivalent to eternal oblivion. He writes;\n\nIn the \"Apology of Socrates\" (written by Plato), after Socrates is sentenced to death, he addresses the court. He ponders the nature of death, and summarizes that there are basically two opinions about it. The first is that it is a migration of the soul or consciousness from this existence into another, and that the souls of all previously deceased people will also be there. This excites Socrates, because he will be able to conduct his dialectic inquiries with all of the great Greek heroes and thinkers of the past. The other opinion about death is that it is oblivion, the complete cessation of consciousness, not only unable to feel but a complete lack of awareness, like a person in a deep, dreamless sleep. Socrates says that even this oblivion does not frighten him very much, because while he would be unaware, he would correspondingly be free from any pain or suffering. Indeed, Socrates says, not even the great King of Persia could say that he ever rested so soundly and peacefully as he did in a dreamless sleep.\n\nCicero, writing three centuries later in his treatise \"On Old Age\", in the voice of Cato the Elder, similarly discussed the prospects of death, frequently referring to the works of earlier Greek writers. Cicero also concluded that death was either a continuation of consciousness or cessation of it, and that if consciousness continues in some form, there is no reason to fear death; while if it is in fact eternal oblivion, he will be free of all worldly miseries, in which case he should also not be deeply troubled by death.\n\nSimilar thoughts about death were expressed by the Roman poet and philosopher Lucretius in his first-century BC didactic poem \"De rerum natura\" and by the ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus in his \"Letter to Menoeceus\", in which he writes;\n\nParaphrasing philosopher Paul Edwards, Keith Augustine and Yonatan I. Fishman note that \"the greater the damage to the brain, the greater the corresponding damage to the mind. The natural extrapolation from this pattern is all too clear — obliterate brain functioning altogether, and mental functioning too will cease\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11627", "title": "Faith healing", "text": "Faith healing\n\nFaith healing is the practice of prayer and gestures (such as laying on of hands) that are believed by some to elicit divine intervention in spiritual and physical healing, especially the Christian practice. Believers assert that the healing of disease and disability can be brought about by religious faith through prayer and/or other rituals that, according to adherents, can stimulate a divine presence and power. Religious belief in divine intervention does not depend on empirical evidence that faith healing achieves an evidence-based outcome.\n\nClaims \"attributed to a myriad of techniques\" such as prayer, divine intervention, or the ministrations of an individual healer can cure illness have been popular throughout history. There have been claims that faith can cure blindness, deafness, cancer, AIDS, developmental disorders, anemia, arthritis, corns, defective speech, multiple sclerosis, skin rashes, total body paralysis, and various injuries. Recoveries have been attributed to many techniques commonly classified as faith healing. It can involve prayer, a visit to a religious shrine, or simply a strong belief in a supreme being.\n\nMany people interpret the Bible, especially the New Testament, as teaching belief in, and the practice of, faith healing. According to a 2004 \"Newsweek\" poll, 72 percent of Americans said they believe that praying to God can cure someone, even if science says the person has an incurable disease. Unlike faith healing, advocates of spiritual healing make no attempt to seek divine intervention, instead believing in divine energy. The increased interest in alternative medicine at the end of the 20th century has given rise to a parallel interest among sociologists in the relationship of religion to health.\n\nVirtually all scientists and philosophers dismiss faith healing as pseudoscience. Faith healing can be classified as a spiritual, supernatural, or paranormal topic, and, in some cases, belief in faith healing can be classified as magical thinking. The American Cancer Society states \"available scientific evidence does not support claims that faith healing can actually cure physical ailments\". \"Death, disability, and other unwanted outcomes have occurred when faith healing was elected instead of medical care for serious injuries or illnesses.\" When parents have practiced faith healing rather than medical care, many children have died that otherwise would have been expected to live. Similar results are found in adults.\n\nRegarded as a Christian belief that God heals people through the power of the Holy Spirit, faith healing often involves the laying on of hands. It is also called supernatural healing, divine healing, and miracle healing, among other things. Healing in the Bible is often associated with the ministry of specific individuals including Elijah, Jesus and Paul.\n\nChristian physician Reginald B. Cherry views faith healing as a pathway of healing in which God uses both the natural and the supernatural to heal. Being healed has been described as a privilege of accepting Christ's redemption on the cross. Pentecostal writer Wilfred Graves, Jr. views the healing of the body as a physical expression of salvation. , after describing Jesus exorcising at sunset and healing all of the sick who were brought to him, quotes these miracles as a fulfillment of the prophecy in : \"He took up our infirmities and carried our diseases.\"\n\nEven those Christian writers who believe in faith healing do not all believe that one's faith presently brings about the desired healing. \"[Y]our faith does not effect your healing now. When you are healed rests entirely on what the sovereign purposes of the Healer are.\" Larry Keefauver cautions against allowing enthusiasm for faith healing to stir up false hopes. \"Just believing hard enough, long enough or strong enough will not strengthen you or prompt your healing. Doing mental gymnastics to 'hold on to your miracle' will not cause your healing to manifest now.\" Those who actively lay hands on others and pray with them to be healed are usually aware that healing may not always follow immediately. Proponents of faith healing say it may come later, and it may not come in this life. \"The truth is that your healing may manifest in eternity, not in time.\"\n\nParts of the four gospels in the New Testament say that Jesus cured physical ailments well outside the capacity of first-century medicine. One example is the case of \"a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years, and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was not better but rather grew worse.\" After healing her, Jesus tells her, \"Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace! Be cured from your illness.\" At least two other times Jesus credited the sufferer's faith as the means of being healed: and .\n\nJesus endorsed the use of the medical assistance of the time (medicines of oil and wine) when he told the parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:25-37), who \"bound up [an injured man's] wounds, pouring on oil and wine\" (verse 34) as a physician would. Jesus then told the doubting teacher of the law (who had elicited this parable by his self-justifying question, \"And who is my neighbor?\" in verse 29) to \"go, and do likewise\" in loving others with whom he would never ordinarily associate (verse 37).\n\nThe healing in the gospels is referred to as a \"sign\" to prove Jesus' divinity and to foster belief in him as the Christ. However, when asked for other types of miracles, Jesus refused some but granted others in consideration of the motive of the request. Some theologians' understanding is that Jesus healed \"all\" who were present every single time. Sometimes he determines whether they had faith that he would heal them.\n\nJesus told his followers to heal the sick and stated that signs such as healing are evidence of faith. Jesus also told his followers to \"cure sick people, raise up dead persons, make lepers clean, expel demons. You received free, give free\".\n\nJesus sternly ordered many who received healing from him: \"Do not tell anyone!\" Jesus did not approve of anyone asking for a sign just for the spectacle of it, describing such as coming from a \"wicked and adulterous generation.\"\n\nThe apostle Paul believed healing is one of the special gifts of the Holy Spirit, and that the possibility exists that certain persons may possess this gift to an extraordinarily high degree.\n\nIn the New Testament Epistle of James, the faithful are told that to be healed, those who are sick should call upon the elders of the church to pray over [them] and anoint [them] with oil in the name of the Lord.\n\nThe New Testament says that during Jesus' ministry and after his Resurrection, the apostles healed the sick and cast out demons, made lame men walk, raised the dead and performed other miracles.\n\nJesus used miracles to convince people that he was inaugurating the Messianic Age. as in Mt 12.28. Scholars have described Jesus' miracles as establishing the kingdom during his lifetime.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the new Pentecostal movement drew participants from the Holiness movement and other movements in America that already believed in divine healing. By the 1930s, several faith healers drew large crowds and established worldwide followings.\n\nThe first Pentecostals in the modern sense appeared in Topeka, Kansas, in a Bible school conducted by Charles Fox Parham, a holiness teacher and former Methodist pastor. Pentecostalism achieved worldwide attention in 1906 through the Azusa Street Revival in Los Angeles led by William Joseph Seymour.\n\nSmith Wigglesworth was also a well-known figure in the early part of the 20th century. A former English plumber turned evangelist who lived simply and read nothing but the Bible from the time his wife taught him to read, Wigglesworth traveled around the world preaching about Jesus and performing faith healings. Wigglesworth claimed to raise several people from the dead in Jesus' name in his meetings.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, Aimee Semple McPherson was a controversial faith healer of growing popularity during the Great Depression. Subsequently, William M. Branham has been credited as the initiater of the post-World War II healing revivals. The healing revival he began led many to emulate his style and spawned a generation of faith healers. Because of this, Branham has been recognized as the \"father of modern faith healers.\" According to writer and researcher Patsy Sims, \"the power of a Branham service and his stage presence remains a legend unparalleled in the history of the Charismatic movement.\" By the late 1940s, Oral Roberts, who was associated with and promoted by Branham's Voice of Healing magazine also became well known, and he continued with faith healing until the 1980s. Roberts discounted faith healing in the late 1950s, stating, \"I never was a faith healer and I was never raised that way. My parents believed very strongly in medical science and we have a doctor who takes care of our children when they get sick. I cannot heal anyone – God does that.\" A friend of Roberts was Kathryn Kuhlman, another popular faith healer, who gained fame in the 1950s and had a television program on CBS. Also in this era, Jack Coe and A. A. Allen were faith healers who traveled with large tents for large open-air crusades.\n\nOral Roberts's successful use of television as a medium to gain a wider audience led others to follow suit. His former pilot, Kenneth Copeland, started a healing ministry. Pat Robertson, Benny Hinn, and Peter Popoff became well-known televangelists who claimed to heal the sick. Richard Rossi is known for advertising his healing clinics through secular television and radio. Kuhlman influenced Benny Hinn, who adopted some of her techniques and wrote a book about her.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church recognizes two \"not mutually exclusive\" kinds of healing, one justified by science and one justified by faith:\n\nIn 2000, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued \"Instruction on prayers for healing\" with specific norms about prayer meetings for obtaining healing, which presents the Catholic Church's doctrines of sickness and healing.\n\nIt accepts \"that there may be means of natural healing that have not yet been understood or recognized by science,\" but it rejects superstitious practices which are neither compatible with Christian teaching nor compatible with scientific evidence.\n\nFaith healing is reported by Catholics as the result of intercessory prayer to a saint or to a person with the gift of healing. According to \"U.S. Catholic\" magazine, \"Even in this skeptical, postmodern, scientific age—miracles really are possible.\" Three-fourths of American Catholics say they pray for miracles.\n\nAccording to John Cavadini, when healing is granted, \"The miracle is not primarily for the person healed, but for all people, as a sign of God's work in the ultimate healing called 'salvation,' or a sign of the kingdom that is coming.\" Some might view their own healing as a sign they are particularly worthy or holy, while others do not deserve it.\n\nThe Catholic Church has a special Congregation dedicated to the careful investigation of the validity of alleged miracles attributed to prospective saints. Pope Francis tightened the rules on money and miracles in the canonization process. Since Catholic Christians believe the lives of canonized saints in the Church will reflect Christ's, many have come to expect healing miracles. While the popular conception of a miracle can be wide-ranging, the Catholic Church has a specific definition for the kind of miracle formally recognized in a canonization process.\n\nAccording to \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", it is often said that cures at shrines and during Christian pilgrimages are mainly due to psychotherapy — partly to confident trust in Divine providence, and partly to the strong expectancy of cure that comes over suggestible persons at these times and places.\n\nAmong the best-known accounts by Catholics of faith healings are those attributed to the miraculous intercession of the apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary known as Our Lady of Lourdes at the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes in France and the remissions of life-threatening disease claimed by those who have applied for aid to Saint Jude, who is known as the \"patron saint of lost causes\".\n, Catholic medics have asserted that there have been 67 miracles and 7,000 unexplainable medical cures at Lourdes since 1858. In a 1908 book, it says these cures were subjected to intense medical scrutiny and were only recognized as authentic spiritual cures after a commission of doctors and scientists, called the Lourdes Medical Bureau, had ruled out any physical mechanism for the patient's recovery. Belgian philosopher and skeptic Etienne Vermeersch coined the term Lourdes effect as a criticism of the magical thinking and placebo effect possibilities for the claimed miraculous cures as there are no documented events where a severed arm has been reattached through faith healing at Lourdes. Vermeersch identifies ambiguity and equivocal nature of the miraculous cures as a key feature of miraculous events.\n\nChristian Science claims that healing is possible through an understanding of the underlying spiritual perfection of God's creation. The world as humanly perceived is believed to be a distortion of spiritual reality. Christian Scientists believe that healing through prayer is possible insofar as it succeeds in correcting the distortion. Christian Scientists believe that prayer does not change the spiritual creation but gives a clearer view of it, and the result appears in the human scene as healing: the human picture adjusts to coincide more nearly with the divine reality. Prayer works through love: the recognition of God's creation as spiritual, intact, and inherently lovable.\n\nAn important point in Christian Science is that effectual prayer and the moral regeneration of one's life go hand-in-hand: that \"signs and wonders are wrought in the metaphysical healing of physical disease; but these signs are only to demonstrate its divine origin, to attest the reality of the higher mission of the Christ-power to take away the sins of the world.\" Christian Science teaches that disease is mental, a mortal fear, a mistaken belief or conviction of the necessity and power of ill-health – an ignorance of God's power and goodness. The chapter \"Prayer\" in \"Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures\" gives a full account of healing through prayer, while the testimonies at the end of the book are written by people who believe they have been healed through spiritual understanding gained from reading the book.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) has had a long history of faith healings. Many members of the LDS Church have told their stories of healing within the LDS publication, the \"Ensign\". The church believes healings come most often as a result of priesthood blessings given by the laying on of hands; however, prayer often accompanied with fasting is also thought to cause healings. Healing is always attributed to be God's power. Latter-day Saints believe that the Priesthood of God, held by prophets (such as Moses) and worthy disciples of the Savior, was restored via heavenly messengers to the first prophet of this dispensation, Joseph Smith.\n\nAccording to LDS doctrine, even though members may have the restored priesthood authority to heal in the name of Jesus Christ, all efforts should be made to seek the appropriate medical help. Brigham Young stated this effectively, while also noting that the ultimate outcome is still dependent on the will of God.\n\nKonkhogin Haokip has claimed some Muslims believe that the Quran was sent not only as a revelation, but as a medicine, and that they believe the Quran heals any physical and spiritual ailments through such practices as\n\nSome critics of Scientology have referred to some of its practices as being similar to faith healing, based on claims made by L. Ron Hubbard in \"\" and other writings.\n\nNearly all scientists dismiss faith healing as pseudoscience. Some opponents of the pseudoscience label assert that faith healing makes no scientific claims and thus should be treated as a matter of faith that is not testable by science. Critics reply that claims of medical cures should be tested scientifically because, although faith in the supernatural is not in itself usually considered to be the purview of science, claims of reproducible effects are nevertheless subject to scientific investigation.\n\nScientists and doctors generally find that faith healing lacks biological plausibility or epistemic warrant, which is one of the criteria to used to judge whether clinical research is ethical and financially justified. A Cochrane review of intercessory prayer found \"although some of the results of individual studies suggest a positive effect of intercessory prayer, the majority do not\". The authors concluded: \"We are not convinced that further trials of this intervention should be undertaken and would prefer to see any resources available for such a trial used to investigate other questions in health care.\" \n\nA review in 1954 investigated spiritual healing, therapeutic touch and faith healing. Of the hundred cases reviewed, none revealed that the healer's intervention alone resulted in any improvement or cure of a measurable organic disability.\n\nIn addition, at least one study has suggested that adult Christian Scientists, who generally use prayer rather than medical care, have a higher death rate than other people of the same age.\n\nThe Global Medical Research Institute (GMRI) was created in 2012 to start collecting medical records of patients who claim to have received a supernatural healing miracle as a result of Christian Spiritual Healing practices. The organization has a panel of medical doctors who review the patient’s records looking at entries prior to the claimed miracles and entries after the miracle was claimed to have taken place. “The overall goal of GMRI is to promote an empirically grounded understanding of the physiological, emotional, and sociological effects of Christian Spiritual Healing practices.” This is accomplished by applying the same rigorous standards used in other forms of medical and scientific research.\n\nSkeptics of faith healing offer primarily two explanations for anecdotes of cures or improvements, relieving any need to appeal to the supernatural. The first is \"post hoc ergo propter hoc\", meaning that a genuine improvement or spontaneous remission may have been experienced coincidental with but independent from anything the faith healer or patient did or said. These patients would have improved just as well even had they done nothing. The second is the placebo effect, through which a person may experience genuine pain relief and other symptomatic alleviation. In this case, the patient genuinely has been helped by the faith healer or faith-based remedy, not through any mysterious or numinous function, but by the power of their own belief that they would be healed. In both cases the patient may experience a real reduction in symptoms, though in neither case has anything miraculous or inexplicable occurred. Both cases, however, are strictly limited to the body's natural abilities.\n\nAccording to the American Cancer Society:\nThe American Medical Association considers that prayer as therapy should not be a medically reimbursable or deductible expense.\n\nReliance on faith healing to the exclusion of other forms of treatment can have a public health impact when it reduces or eliminates access to modern medical techniques. This is evident in both higher mortality rates for children and in reduced life expectancy for adults. Critics have also made note of serious injury that has resulted from falsely labelled \"healings\", where patients erroneously consider themselves cured and cease or withdraw from treatment. For example, at least six people have died after faith healing by their church and being told they had been healed of HIV and could stop taking their medications. It is the stated position of the AMA that \"prayer as therapy should not delay access to traditional medical care\". Choosing faith healing while rejecting modern medicine can and does cause people to die needlessly.\n\nChristian theological criticism of faith healing broadly falls into two distinct levels of disagreement.\n\nThe first is widely termed the \"open-but-cautious\" view of the miraculous in the church today. This term is deliberately used by Robert L. Saucy in the book \"Are Miraculous Gifts for Today?\". Don Carson is another example of a Christian teacher who has put forward what has been described as an \"open-but-cautious\" view. In dealing with the claims of Warfield, particularly \"Warfield's insistence that miracles ceased,\" Carson asserts, \"But this argument stands up only if such miraculous gifts are theologically tied exclusively to a role of attestation; and that is demonstrably not so.\" However, while affirming that he does not expect healing to happen today, Carson is critical of aspects of the faith healing movement, \"Another issue is that of immense abuses in healing practises... The most common form of abuse is the view that since all illness is directly or indirectly attributable to the devil and his works, and since Christ by his cross has defeated the devil, and by his Spirit has given us the power to overcome him, healing is the inheritance right of all true Christians who call upon the Lord with genuine faith.\"\n\nThe second level of theological disagreement with Christian faith healing goes further. Commonly referred to as cessationism, its adherents either claim that faith healing will not happen today at all, or may happen today, but it would be unusual. Richard Gaffin argues for a form of cessationism in an essay alongside Saucy's in the book \"Are Miraculous Gifts for Today\"? In his book \"Perspectives on Pentecost\" Gaffin states of healing and related gifts that \"the conclusion to be drawn is that as listed in 1 Corinthians 12(vv. 9f., 29f.) and encountered throughout the narrative in Acts, these gifts, particularly when exercised regularly by a given individual, are part of the foundational structure of the church... and so have passed out of the life of the church.\" Gaffin qualifies this, however, by saying \"At the same time, however, the sovereign will and power of God today to heal the sick, particularly in response to prayer (see e.g. James 5:14,15), ought to be acknowledged and insisted on.\"\n\nSkeptics of faith healers point to fraudulent practices either in the healings themselves (such as plants in the audience with fake illnesses), or concurrent with the healing work supposedly taking place and claim that faith healing is a quack practice in which the \"healers\" use well known non-supernatural illusions to exploit credulous people in order to obtain their gratitude, confidence and money. James Randi's \"The Faith Healers\" investigates Christian evangelists such as Peter Popoff, who claimed to heal sick people on stage in front of an audience. Popoff pretended to know private details about participants' lives by receiving radio transmissions from his wife who was off-stage and had gathered information from audience members prior to the show. According to this book, many of the leading modern evangelistic healers have engaged in deception and fraud. The book also questioned how faith healers use funds that were sent to them for specific purposes. Physicist Robert L. Park and doctor and consumer advocate Stephen Barrett have called into question the ethics of some exorbitant fees.\n\nThere have also been legal controversies. For example, in 1955 at a Jack Coe revival service in Miami, Florida, Coe told the parents of a three-year-old boy that he healed their son who had polio. Coe then told the parents to remove the boy's leg braces. However, their son was not cured of polio and removing the braces left the boy in constant pain. As a result, through the efforts of Joseph L. Lewis, Coe was arrested and charged on February 6, 1956 with practicing medicine without a license, a felony in the state of Florida. A Florida Justice of the Peace dismissed the case on grounds that Florida exempts divine healing from the law. Later that year Coe was diagnosed with bulbar polio, and died a few weeks later at Dallas' Parkland Hospital on December 17, 1956.\n\nTV personality Derren Brown produced a show on faith healing entitled \"Miracles for sale\" which arguably exposed the art of faith healing as a scam. In this show, Derren trained a scuba diver trainer picked from the general public to be a faith healer and took him to Texas to successfully deliver a faith healing session to a congregation.\n\nThe 1974 Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA) required states to grant religious exemptions to child neglect and child abuse laws in order to receive federal money. The CAPTA amendments of 1996 state:\n\nThirty-one states have child-abuse religious exemptions. These are Alabama, Alaska, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Vermont, Virginia, and Wyoming. In six of these states, Arkansas, Idaho, Iowa, Louisiana, Ohio and West Virginia, the exemptions extend to murder and manslaughter. Of these, Idaho is the only state accused of having a large number of deaths due to the legislation in recent times. In February 2015, controversy was sparked in Idaho over a bill believed to further reinforce parental rights to deny their children medical care.\n\nParents have been convicted of child abuse and felony reckless negligent homicide and found responsible for killing their children when they withheld lifesaving medical care and chose only prayers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1810126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810126", "title": "Girdle-measurers", "text": "Girdle-measurers\n\nGirdle-measurers were practitioners of a specific type of curative English folk magic. They claimed to be able to tell whether fairies had placed a person under a spell, or otherwise caused trouble for them. They did this by measuring the changing length of the afflicted person's belt or girdle.\n"}
{"id": "7582544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7582544", "title": "Higher consciousness", "text": "Higher consciousness\n\nHigher consciousness is the consciousness of a higher Self, transcendental reality, or God. It is \"the part of the human being that is capable of transcending animal instincts\". The concept was significantly developed in German Idealism, and is a central notion in contemporary popular spirituality. However, it has ancient roots, dating back to the Bhagvad Gita and Indian Vedas.\n\nFichte distinguished the finite or empirical ego from the pure or infinite ego. The activity of this \"pure ego\" can be discovered by a \"higher intuition\".\n\nFichte (1762-1814) was one of the founding figures of German idealism, which developed from the theoretical and ethical writings of Immanuel Kant. His philosophy forms a bridge between the ideas of Kant and those of the German Idealist Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.\n\nAccording to Michael Whiteman, Fichte's philosophical system \"is a remarkable western formulation of eastern mystical teachings (of Advaita).\"\n\nIn 1812 Schopenhauer started to use the term \"the better consciousness\", a consciousness\nAccording to Yasuo Kamata, Schopenhauer's idea of \"the better consciousness\" finds its origin in Fichte's idea of a \"higher consciousness\" (\"höhere Bewusstsein\") or \"higher intuition\", and also bears resemblance to Schelling's notion of \"intellectual intuition\". According to Schopenhauer himself, his notion of a \"better consciousness\" was different from Schelling's notion of \"intellectual intuition\", since Schelling's notion required intellectual development of the understanding, while his notion of a \"better consciousness\" was \"like a flash of insight, with no connection to the understanding.\"\n\nAccording to Schopenhauer,\n\nAlmost all religions have a concept of higher consciousness in at least some sects. It was first mentioned in recorded human history in the Sanskrit Hindu texts, the Upanishads.\n\nFriedrich Schleiermacher (1768-1834) made a distinction between lower and higher (self)consciousness. In Schleirmacher's theology, self-consciousness contains \"a feeling that points to the presence of an absolute other, God, as actively independent of the self and its 'world'.\" For Schleiermacher, \"all particular manifestations of piety share a common essence, the sense of dependency on God as the outside 'infinite'.\" The feeling of dependency, or \"God-consciousness\", is a higher form of consciousness. This consciousness is not \"God himself\", since God would then no longer be \"an infinite infinite, but a finite infinite, a mere projection of consciousness.\"\n\nFor Schleiermacher, the lower consciousness is \"the animal part of mankind\", which includes basic sensations such as hunger, thirst, pain and pleasure, as well as basic drives and pleasures, and higher consciousness is \"the part of the human being that is capable of transcending animal instincts\", and the \"point of contact with God\". Bunge describes this as \"the essence of being human\".\n\nWhen this consciousness is present, \"people are not alienated from God by their instincts\". The relation between the lower and the higher consciousness is akin to \"Paul's struggle of the spirit to overcome the flesh\", or the distinction between the natural and the spiritual side of human beings.\n\nThe idea of a \"wider self walled in by the habits of ego-consciousness\" and the search for a \"higher consciousness\" was manifested in 19th century movements as Theosophy New Thought Christian Science, and Transcendentalism.\n\nThe 19th century Transcendentalists saw the entire physical world as a representation of a higher spiritual world. They believed that humans could elevate themselves above their animal instincts, attain a higher consciousness, and partake in this spiritual world.\n\nAccording to Blavatsky, who founded the Theosophical Movement,\nBlavatsky refers to Fichte in her explanation of Theosophy:\nThe idea of \"lower\" and \"higher consciousness\" has gained popularity in modern popular spirituality. According to James Beverley, it lies at the heart of the New Age movement.\n\nKen Wilber has tried to integrate eastern and western models of the mind, using the notion of \"lower\" and \"higher consciousness\". In his book \"The Spectrum of Consciousness\" Wilber describes consciousness as a spectrum with ordinary awareness at one end, and more profound types of awareness at higher levels. In later works he describes the development of consciousness as a development from lower consciousness, through personal consciousness, to higher transpersonal consciousness.\n\nGerald Edelman, in his 'Theory of Consciousness', distinguishes higher consciousness, or \"secondary consciousness\" from \"primary consciousness\", defined as simple awareness that includes perception and emotion. Higher consciousness in contrast, \"involves the ability to be conscious of being conscious\", and \"allows the recognition by a thinking subject of his or her own acts and affections\". Higher consciousness requires, at a minimal level semantic ability, and \"in its most developed form, requires linguistic ability, or the mastery of a whole system of symbols and a grammar\".\n\nPsychedelic drugs can be used to alter the brain cognition and perception, some believing this to be a state of higher consciousness and transcendence. Typical psychedelic drugs are hallucinogens including LSD, DMT (Dimethyltryptamine), cannabis, peyote, and psilocybin mushrooms. According to Wolfson, these drug-induced altered states of consciousness may result in a more long-term and positive transformation of self.\n\nAccording to Dutta, psychedelic drugs may be used for psychoanalytic therapy, as a means to gain access to the higher consciousness, thereby providing patients the ability to access memories that are held deep within their mind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4368443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4368443", "title": "Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums", "text": "Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums\n\nHochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums, or Higher Institute for Jewish Studies, was a rabbinical seminary, established in Berlin in 1872 and closed down by the Nazi government of Germany in 1942. Upon the order of the government, the name was officially changed (1883–1923 and 1933–42) to Lehranstalt für die Wissenschaft des Judentums.\n\nAbraham Geiger, who had been active in establishing Reform Judaism, wanted a university for Jewish studies in Berlin. Unable to become part of the University of Berlin, he was involved in 1870 in creating a separate institution. Also involved were David Cassel, Israel Lewy and Heyman Steinthal, the Jewish \"intellectuals\" and professors at the University of Berlin.\n\nGeiger's \"General Introduction to the Science of Judaism,\" \"Introduction to the Biblical Writings\" and \"Lectures on Pirḳe Abot\" were originally delivered as lectures at the seminary. Some of the best German-Jewish teachers taught there in the spirit of the \"Wissenschaft des Judentums\" movement: Hanoch Albeck, Ismar Elbogen, Julius Grünthal, Julius Guttmann, Franz Rosenthal, Harry Torczyner, and Leo Baeck.\n\nMoritz Steinschneider referred to the \"Hochschule\" as a \"new ghetto of Jewish learning,\" which he felt could ultimately not produce the standards of scholarship achieved in the university setting .\n\nOfficially the institution was not affiliated with a movement or denomination. It sought free inquiry and research without any restrictions. It stood for a conservative Judaism, but its main object was the scientific study of things Jewish, freed as far as possible from denominational disputes. There was no religious test for professors but it was assumed that all of the faculty lived according to the Jewish tradition and were fluent in Hebrew. As the school was never dependent on any religious or public organization, the board was constantly engaged in raising money from wealthy contributors, sponsors of scholarly \"chairs\" and scholarships.\n\nIn 1872, the first year, there were only 12 students, including four women. In 1921, there were 63 full-time and 45 part-time students enrolled in the \"Hochschule\". Many of the students came from the Eastern European countries, notably Poland, as graduates of Orthodox Yeshivot. By 1930–33 the school had achieved so great a reputation that many non-Jews, especially Christian clergy, enrolled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3021808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3021808", "title": "Ipomoea purpurea", "text": "Ipomoea purpurea\n\nIpomoea purpurea, the common morning-glory, tall morning-glory, or purple morning glory, is a species in the genus \"Ipomoea\", native to Mexico and Central America. Like all morning glories the plant entwines itself around structures, growing to a height of tall. The leaves are heart-shaped and the stems are covered with brown hairs. The flowers are trumpet-shaped, predominantly blue to purple or white, and diameter.\n\nThe plant is predisposed to moist and rich soil, but can be found growing in a wide array of soil types. It is naturalized throughout warm temperate and subtropical regions of the world. Although it is often considered a noxious weed, \"Ipomoea purpurea\" is also grown for its beautiful purple and white flowers and has many cultivars. Common cultivars include \"I. purpurea\" 'Crimson Rambler' (red-violet blossoms with white throats), 'Grandpa Ott's,' 'Kniola's Black Knight,' and 'Star of Yelta' (blossoms in varying shades of deep purple with white or pale pink throats) and 'Milky Way' (white blossoms with mauve accents).\n\nThe triangular seeds may have some history of use as a psychedelic; they, like \"Ipomoea tricolor\" may contain LSA. Effects are reported to be somewhat similar to those of LSD.\n\nAcylated cyanidin glycosides can be isolated from violet-blue flowers of \"I. purpurea\". These anthocyanins were all based on cyanidin 3-sophoroside-5-glucoside, acylated with caffeic acid and/or p-coumaric acid.\n\nAcylated pelargonidin glycosides can be isolated from the red-purple flowers of \"I. purpurea\". The acylated anthocyanins were all based on pelargonidin 3-sophoroside-5-glucoside, acylated with caffeic acid and/or glucosylcaffeic acid.\n\nCommercial morning glory seeds are commonly treated with toxic methylmercury which serves as a preservative and a cumulative neurotoxic poison that is considered useful by some to discourage recreational use of them. There is no legal requirement in the United States to disclose to buyers that seeds have been treated with a toxic heavy metal compound. According to the book Substances of Abuse, in addition to methylmercury, the seeds are commonly coated with a chemical that cannot be removed with washing that is designed to cause unpleasant physical symptoms such as nausea and abdominal pain. The book states that this chemical is also toxic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54293976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54293976", "title": "John Davies of Nercwys", "text": "John Davies of Nercwys\n\nJohn Davies (John Davies of Nercwys) (born at Llanerch, in the parish of Llanarmon yn Ial 26 May, 1799 and baptised in the Parish Church on 31 May, 1799 the family moved to Rhos Ithel, Nercwys in about 1800 where he died on 5 March 1879) was a Welsh Calvinistic Methodist minister, preacher and writer. His parents were Joseph and Eleanor Davies Nee Parry. Although an itinerant preacher his home remained in Nercwys area of Flintshire, hence the place name was used as an additional epithet to differentiate him from others named John Davies. He grew up living in the Mold area. At the age of 16, in 1815, he is known to have become a member of Mold Methodist Society. A few years later he began preaching, and in 1834 was ordained.\n\nHis writings include a commentary on the Book of Proverbs (1869).\n\nHe died in March 1879.\n"}
{"id": "4650431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4650431", "title": "Kurdification", "text": "Kurdification\n\nKurdification is a cultural change in which non-ethnic Kurds or/and non-ethnic Kurdish area becomes Kurdish. This can happen both naturally (as seen in Turkish Kurdistan) and deliberately (as seen in Iraq after the invasion of Iraq).\n\nThe notion of kurdification is different from country to country. In Turkish Kurdistan, many ethnic Armenians, Bulgarians, Circassians, Chechens, Georgians, Ingushs, and Ossetians have become kurdified, as a result of fleeing to the region and having subsequently interacted with ethnic Kurds. In Iraqi Kurdistan, currently the minorities like Turkmens, Assyrians, Yazidis and Shabaks are undergoing a process of Kurdification in the disputed territories of northern Iraq.\n\nWhen refugees from Caucasus reached the Ottoman Empire, Constantinople decided not to settle these in Kurdistan due to the extreme poverty and lack of material resources for the refugees. Yet after some time, the Ottomans started seeing the refugees as a chance to diminish the Kurdish claim to the region and allowed the refugees to settle in the region. In 1862, Circassian refugees from the Shapsug tribe arrived in the Kurdish areas of Ahlat and Adilcevaz and settled in the three Kurdish villages of Yoğurtyemez, Xanik (Çukurtarla), Develik and founded the village of Koxiş (Yolçatı).\n\nThe first big wave of Caucasian refugees to Kurdistan was in 1864 when 15,000 to 20,000 refugees settled in Sarıkamış, founding new villages and settling in abandoned Greek and Armenian villages. These refugees included Circassians, Chechens, Laks and Avars. The largest group of refugees were Circassias who fled the Circassia region (part of the Russian Empire) during the ethnic cleansing of Circassians. Two years later, Shapsug tribe with members of the Abzakh tribe founded the villages of Bolethan (Karapolat), Arnis (Güzgülü) and Ximsor (Eskibalta) near Bingöl. Concurrently with the Circassian migration, Ossetians settled in the villages of Xulik (Otluyazı) and Ağcaviran (Akçaören) in Ahlat, Yaramış, Karaağıl, Hamzaşeyx (Sarıpınar), Simo (Kurganlı) in the eastern Muş region, and Lekbudak (Budaklı) near Karaçoban. According to the Russian intelligence officer Aleksandr Kolyubakin, no less than 1,500 Ossetians lived in the Sanjak of Muş in the late 1880s.\n\nChechens and Ingushs mostly settled in Varto area, in the villages of Arincik (Kıyıbaşı), Çarbuhur (Bağiçi), Tepeköy, Artet (Serinova), Ulusırt and Arinç (Çöğürlü), Avars who settled in Kayalık village, and Circassians of the Kabardian tribe founded the village of Narlı Çerkezleri (Eskinarlı) in Pazarcık area. There is also a Georgian village in Diyarbakir Province.\n\nFrom early stage on, these Caucasians went through a process of kurdification and thereby had Kurdish as their mother tongue.\n\nWhen the Kurdish question rose in Turkey, it also had an effect on their Caucasian neighbours. Even today, there is an aversion from joining the Kurds in their conflict against the Turkish state, but many individuals of Caucasian origin joined the Kurdistan Workers' Party. As part of their campaign, the Kurdish party Peoples' Democratic Party won most Caucasian villages in Turkish Kurdistan.\n\nThrough the 20th century, an unknown number of Armenians living in the mountainous region of Tunceli (Dersim) had converted to Alevism. During the Armenian Genocide, many of the Armenians in the region were saved by their Kurdish neighbors. According to Mihran Prgiç Gültekin, the head of the Union of Dersim Armenians, around 75% of the population of Dersim is descended from \"converted Armenians.\" He reported in 2012 that over 200 families in Tunceli have declared their Armenian descent, but others are afraid to do so. In April 2013, Aram Ateşyan, the acting Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople, stated that 90% of Tunceli's population is of Armenian origin.\n\nOn 21 August 2006, Shabak Democratic Party leader Hunain Qaddo, proposed the creation of a separate province within the borders of the Nineveh Plain, in order to combat the Arabization and Kurdification of Iraqi minorities. The Iraqi government voted against the proposition. \n\nThere have been reports that some Arabs are being displaced in previously mixed Kurdish-Arab villages in Northern Iraq.\n\nThe Kurdish government defended the Kurdification with the implementation of article 140 of the Iraqi constitution which ensured the restoration of the situation as it was before Saddam Hussein's genocide and Arabization policies against the Kurdish population during the Al-Anfal Campaign and the Kurdish Feyli genocide.\n\nIntensified tensions between Kurds and Sunni Arabs led to violent clashes between both of them since Saddam's Arabization and genocide campaigns against the Kurdish population in Iraqi Kurdistan. On 21 August 2006, Shabak Democratic Party leader Hunain Qaddo proposed the creation of a separate province within the borders of the Nineveh Plains, in order to combat the \"Arabization\" and \"Kurdification\" of Iraqi minorities. The Iraqi government voted against the proposition.\n\nKurdification or re-Kurdification (post-Saddam) has been an open policy of the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) in Iraq since 2003, according to Gareth Stansfield, a professor of Middle East politics at the University of Exeter.<ref name=\"rebeccacollard/makhmour\"></ref> Some Assyrians sources claimed that the Kurds have clear plans for the annexation of the Nineveh Plains to the Kurdish control and it is claimed by Assyrian activists that they have \"always sent their followers to international forums to interrupt international protection for Assyrians\". The Hareetz newspaper had reported on 24 December 2014 that the Kurds object to the establishment of a protected Christian enclave, because they want to annex the Nineveh Valley, most of whose residents are Christians. The Assyrian activist from the Assyrian Patriotic Movement claimed that the entire Assyrian Triangle (between Greater Zab and the River Tigris) has been \"occupied by Kurdish intruders\". Some Assyrians in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq also complained that construction plans are \"aimed at affecting a demographic change that divides Assyrian blocs\". Also some Yazidis, Shabaks and Turkmens have reported that they are facing a policy of cultural and security control against them, especially in areas which belonged to the Kurds before Saddam's Al-Anfal Campaign.\n\nIn 2016, David Romano, Professor of Middle East Politics, said that without the YPG and Peshmerga, the Assyrians of northern Syria and Iraq would likely all be dead, lying in some jihadist-dug mass grave. Another view is that the Kurdish militia (Peshmerga) quickly abandoned their positions at the beginning of the ISIL occupation of the city of Mosul, and that the Peshmerga, who had disarmed Assyrians and left them defenseless, retreated without informing the indigenous Christian population, leaving them uninformed and unarmed.\n\nThe United States Holocaust Memorial Museum published news which argued that the Yazidis have frequently been pressured to assimilate to both Arab and Kurdish ethnicities. Other sources have stated that Yazidis already speak Northern Kurdish which is one of the two major dialects of Kurdish language. \n\nDuring the Iraqi civil war, Iraqi army troops fled their posts around the Nineveh Plains while ISIL attacked. Later, KRG forces, with the support of coalition airstrikes, captured these areas from ISIL. Since then, there have been disputes between pro-government Assyrians and Kurds, as the former have either asked the Kurds to leave or promised them autonomy.\n\nIn 2011, some Yazidi activists voiced their \"concern over forced assimilation into Kurdish identity\". Some have accused the Kurdish and Iraqi parties of diverting US $12 million of reconstruction funds allocated for Yazidi areas in Jebel Sinjar to a Kurdish village and marginalizing them politically. According to Sweden-based economist David Ghanim, the goal of some tactics of the KRG had been to push Shabak and Yazidi communities to identify as Kurds, which has been strongly denied by KRG authorities. He also claimed that the Kurdish authorities are working to impose Kurdish identity on the Yazidis and the Shabaks. The Assyrian International News Agency claimed that the Kurds have annexed Assyrian, Yazidi and Shabak villages and which now under Kurdish Control in North Iraq, and that in Iraqi Kurdistan, Assyrian politicians of some towns have been replaced with Kurdish ones.\n\nAssyrians have claimed that Kurdish nationalists have enforced revisionist curricula in schools with a Kurdish-nationalist bias. This is controversial since it has been noted they \"alter historical and geographical facts\", including Assyrian place names which are changed to Kurdish names, and students are taught that King Nebuchadnezzar from the Old Testament married a Kurdish woman.\n\nTurkish news claimed that Ossama Telcu, member of the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, had claimed that the PYD forces set ablaze civil registry and land registry buildings in Manbij shortly after taking city from ISIL. According to Turkish AA source, PYD forces set ablaze civil registry and land registry buildings in Manbij. In addition, it was claimed that the PYD had also been sending away Sunni Arabs and Turkmen residents who want to return to their homes in Manbij on the pretext that ISIL has planted mines inside the house. However, the Reuters, Kurdish and US sources reported that civilians had returned to their homes. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "212622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212622", "title": "List of Bahá'ís", "text": "List of Bahá'ís\n\nThe following list sets down the name of each member of the Bahá'í Faith who is the subject of a Wikipedia article. For another index of individual Bahá'ís with Wikipedia articles, see .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30720769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30720769", "title": "List of Māori deities", "text": "List of Māori deities\n\nThe following is a list of Māori deities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3071793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3071793", "title": "Maitatsine", "text": "Maitatsine\n\nMohammed Marwa (died 1980), best known by his nickname Maitatsine (and less commonly, as \"AllahTatsine\"), was a controversial preacher in Nigeria. \"Maitatsine\" is a Hausa word meaning \"the one who damns\" and refers to his curse-laden public speeches against the Nigerian state.\n\nHe was originally from Marwa in northern Cameroon. After his education he moved to Kano, Nigeria in about 1945, where he became known for his controversial preachings on the Qur'an. Although a Koranic scholar, he seemingly rejected the hadith and the sunnah and regarded the reading of any other book but the Koran as paganism. Maitatsine spoke against the use of radios, watches, bicycles, cars and the possession of more money than necessary. \n\nThe British colonial authorities sent him into exile, but he returned to Kano shortly after independence. By 1972 he had a notable and increasingly militant following known as \"Yan Tatsine\". In 1975 he was again arrested by Nigerian police for slander and public abuse of political authorities But in that period he began to receive acceptance from religious authorities, especially after making hajj, the Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca. As his following increased in the 1970s, so did the number of confrontations between his adherents and the police. His preaching attracted largely a following of youths, unemployed migrants, and those who felt that mainstream Muslim teachers were not doing enough for their communities. By December 1980, continued Yan Tatsine attacks on other religious figures and police forced the Nigerian army to become involved. Subsequent armed clashes led to the deaths of around 5,000 people, including Maitatsine himself. Maitatsine died shortly after sustaining injuries in the clashes either from his wounds or from a heart attack.\n\nAccording to a 2010 article published by the Sunday Trust magazine the military cremated Maitatsine's remains, which now rest in a bottle kept at a police laboratory in Kano.\n\nDespite Mohammed Marwa's death, Yan Tatsine riots continued into the early 1980s. In October 1982 riots erupted in Bulumkuttu, near Maidaguri, and in Kaduna, to where many Yan Tatsine adherents had moved after 1980. Over 3,000 people died. Some survivors of these altercations moved to Yola, and in early 1984 more violent uprisings occurred in that city. In this round of rioting, Musa Makaniki, a close disciple of Maitatsine, emerged as a leader and Marwa's successor. Ultimately more than 1,000 people died in Yola and roughly half of the city's 60,000 inhabitants were left homeless. Makaniki fled to his hometown of Gombe, where more Yan Tatsine riots occurred in April 1985. After the deaths of several hundred people Makaniki retreated to Cameroon, where he remained until 2004 when he was arrested in Nigeria.\n\nThe Islamist Quranist group Kala Kato are an off-shoot of the Yan Tatsine.\n\nSome analysts view the terrorist group Boko Haram as an extension of the Maitatsine riots.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44379811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379811", "title": "Marx's method", "text": "Marx's method\n\nVarious Marxist authors have focused on Marx's method of analysis and presentation (historical materialist and logically dialectical) as key factors both in understanding the range and incisiveness of Karl Marx's theoretical writing in general and ' in particular. One of the clearest and most instructive examples of this is his discussion of \"the value-form\", which acts as a primary guide or key to understanding the logical argument as it develops throughout the volumes of '.\n\nMarx himself presents a simplified explanation in the Appendix to the first German edition of \"\" published in English translation in \"Capital & Class\". The need for this appendix was suggested by Engels and there is an exchange of correspondence concerning its purpose and form.\n\nThe two principal components of marxist science are the dialectical method of logical deduction and genetic synthesis and its application to the evolution of real social history. While in each of these areas considered separately there are at least a number of scholarly works, there are few examples of substantial exegesis and fewer still successful applications of marxian method to the fundamental obstacles to class-consciousness today. This is reflected both at the general level of lack of understanding of the social nature of technological change embodied in Marx's theory of the value-form, reflected in widespread ignorance of the detail of the 'rational kernel' of Hegel's dialectic whose the principal 'forms of being' Marx used to structure the whole of the work on 'Capital'. His analytical evolution of the relation between subjective and objective development and their qualitative and quantitatively measured forms and functions which make up the logical skeleton in his presentation are almost universally ignored. Compare Hegel's Logic for instance with Marx the value-form.\n\nMore than any other twentieth century marxist Lenin selfconsciously assimilated the fundamentals of this methodological approach (to the careful study of which he returned at the most critical political moments and set about the task of applying it to the 'burning questions of our movement'. His appreciation of the importance of the knowledge of real social movements is apparent from his studies: The development of Capitalism in Russia and his Notebooks on Imperialism.\n\nLukacs' revolutionary career is made more problematic by his intellectual capitulation to the pressures of stalinism. The essays from his period of active revolutionary leadership however are of unparalleled importance for their reassertion of Hegel's contribution to marxism. In addition his critical review of Bukharin published as Technology & Social Relations remains of seminal importance as one of the few direct attempts to deal with the problem of the methodological degeneration of communist theory on this question utilising an adequate level of theoretical and historical understanding.\n\nRubin's 'Essays' shared this appreciation of the weakness of communist theory (as did the work of KORSCH & JAKUBOWSKI) but with the exceptions of Henryk Grossman's work at the Frankfurt Institute for Social Research, and Evgeny Preobrazhensky's New Economics, Rubin was in this period almost alone in articulating the central methodological content embodied in Marx's theoretical concepts. Roman Rosdolsky's valuable study The making of Marx's 'Capital' which re-emphasises the importance of use-value in Marx's two-fold analysis, was a result of his discovery of one of the rare copies of Grundrisse Marx's previously unpublished rough draft for 'Capital'.\n\nWhereas Lenin had come to his understanding of the importance of Hegel's Logic by extensive study, Grossman's emphasis grew out of the need to re-articulate the structural method of 'Capital' in dealing with imperialism at the necessary level of theory. Rosdolsky was however able to read Marx directly asserting his enormous debt to Hegel and exploring out-loud the methodological problems of the relation between the investigation and presentation of his 'critique'.\n\nLukacs in 1930 had a similar experience in his reading of the then recently deciphered Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844 on which he subsequently commented: \"the overwhelming effect produced in me by Marx's statement that objectivity was the primary material attribute of all things and relations...that objectification is a natural means by which man masters the world and as such can be either a positive or a negative fact...it became clear to us that even the best and most capable Marxists, like Plekhanov and Mehring, had not had a sufficiently profound grasp of the universal nature of Marxism. They failed, therefore, to understand that Marx confronts us with the necessity of erecting a systematic aesthetics on the foundations of dialectical materialism.\". It was in this period that Lukacs began his twin study of The Young Hegel and The Destruction of Reason on the one hand looking at the contribution Hegel made to the rational scientific basis of dialectical materialism and on the other how in a direct reaction to the development of Marxism the irrationalist elements of Hegel's thought were promoted and the revolutionary critical element dismembered in the process of the degeneration of bourgeois philosophy.\n\nThe immediate post-war period produced little that was marxist by these criteria, with perhaps the sole exception of Paul Mattick's essays which defended the orthodox theoretical marxism, particularly on the issue of Marx's theory of crisis, against revisionists such as Paul Sweezy. Mattick's essay Technology and the Mixed Economy (1966) was a rare articulation of the limitations and social origin of the drive for labour productivity. Mattick drew substantially on Grossman's 1929 study The law of accumulation and the breakdown of capitalism defending its analysis against Sweezy 1942] and other anti-marxists who sought to eradicate the connection between capitalist accumulation and the theory of crises. Mattick argued that despite the appearance of the post-war boom capitalism would continue to retard the development of productive forces and that the limits to capital accumulation would reassert themselves. Until Grossman's work becomes fully available in English, Mattick's Economic Crisis and Crisis Theory remains the most readily available articulation of the necessity of revolutionary theory for today's conditions. The 1970s saw a resurgence of marxist studies which sought to assimilate the theoretical gains which had been lost to working class politics in the middle decades of the twentieth century.\n\nDrawing on these and other forgotten works in the marxist tradition and a renewed study of the methodologically explicit drafts and early writings and correspondence of Marx, a tendency began to emerge which struggled to return theoretically to an authentic \"Marx's Marxism\" and come to terms with the outstanding problems facing marxist critique of capitalist society in the second half of the twentieth century. Unfortunately the political hiatus caused by the largely unexpected collapse of the Soviet Union, resulted in a widespread fragmentation and demoralisation even amongst those marxist writers who were critical of the stalinist state formations.\n\nThe nature of the Soviet Union, the political tenacity and character of stalinism itself, an explanation of the political hold of and contemporary forms of Reformism in the working class and the restatement of the fundamentals of the marxist struggle against the state, and the bourgeois ideological weapons of nationalism, imperialism and the oppression of nations and nationalities, racial and women's oppression and the economic role of the family under capitalism. This tendency has yet to re-articulate Marx's critique of ideological power of the politics of productivity theoretically in challenging the revisionist acceptance of technological mystification.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17202440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17202440", "title": "Matt Dillahunty", "text": "Matt Dillahunty\n\nMatt Wade Dillahunty (born March 31, 1969) is an American atheist activist. He was the president of the Atheist Community of Austin from 2006 to 2013. He has hosted the Austin-based webcast and cable-access television show \"The Atheist Experience\" since 2005, and formerly hosted the live Internet radio show \"Non-Prophets Radio\". He is also the founder and contributor of the counter-apologetics encyclopedia \"Iron Chariots\" and its subsidiary sites.\n\nHe is regularly engaged in formal debates and travels the United States speaking to local secular organizations and university groups as part of the Secular Student Alliance's Speakers Bureau. Alongside fellow activists Seth Andrews and Aron Ra, he traveled to Australia in March 2015 as a member of the Unholy Trinity Tour. In April 2015 he was an invited speaker at the Merseyside Skeptics Society QEDCon in Manchester, United Kingdom. Beginning in the summer of 2017, Dillahunty joined a speaking tour sponsored by the foundation \"Pangburn Philosophy\" where he shares the stage with fellow atheists Sam Harris, Richard Dawkins, and Lawrence Krauss.\n\nRaised Southern Baptist, Dillahunty considered becoming a minister. His religious studies, instead of bolstering his faith as he intended, led him to no longer believe in Christianity and, eventually, all religions. Dillahunty spent eight years in the US Navy, before leaving to work in the field of computer software design. In 2011, he married \"The Atheist Experience\" colleague and co-host of the \"Godless Bitches\" podcast Beth Presswood. Dillahunty describes himself as a feminist.\nDillahunty is one of the subjects of the 2014 documentary film \"My Week in Atheism\" by director John Christy.\n\nDillahunty is a proponent of debates, both formal and informal, as a very effective way of conveying information. \"I am absolutely convinced from my experience and the evidence that I've gathered over the years of doing this that they are incredibly valuable.\" He has spoken at atheist and freethought conferences around the country and debated numerous Christian apologists, including Ray Comfort (on \"The Atheist Experience\"), and David Robertson on Premier Christian Radio's \"Unbelievable\". At the 2014 American Atheists convention in Salt Lake City, he gave a workshop that outlined some key ideas in effective debating: \"Take the opponent seriously: 'The audience has to sense that I can perfectly understand their views, and have rejected them.' Use logic: 'I tell them that I can write a better book than the Bible. Simple: I copy it word for word, except the parts about slavery.' And don't forget emotion: 'It is theater. That is my advantage with a Baptist background over someone like Richard Dawkins, although he knows more about science.'\" He has also stated that he is willing to say \"I don't know\" in a debate, a \"scary concept\" to some of his audience.\n\nOne of Dillahunty's recurring themes has been the superiority of secular morality over religious morality. His key contentions on the issue are that secular moral systems are inclusive, dynamic, encourage change, and serve the interests of the participants, whereas religious moral systems serve only the interests of an external authority. He touched on the subject again at a lecture at the 2013 American Atheists Convention in Austin: \"They say we're immoral, when we're the only ones who understand that morality is derived from empathy, fairness, cooperation, and the physical facts about interacting in this universe. They've broken their moral compass and sacrificed their humanity on the altar of religion. They say we're lost and broken and in need of salvation, when we're the ones who are free.\" Dillahunty holds the view that advocating infinite reward or punishment for finite deeds is \"morally inferior\".\n\nDillahunty has advocated for reproductive rights. After hearing that Secular Pro-Life set up a table at the 2012 American Atheists convention, Dillahunty challenged a representative of the organization to a public debate on the issue. The debate took place at the 2012 Texas Freethought Convention, with Dillahunty debating Kristine Kruszelnicki. Dillahunty used bodily autonomy as his primary argument for abortion rights, which is based on Judith Jarvis Thompson's essay on the subject, \"A Defense of Abortion.\" In March 2014, Dillahunty debated Clinton Wilcox, who is not a member of Secular Pro-Life, though the debate was advertised on their blog. The aftermath led to a falling out with the organization, and Dillahunty announced in a Facebook post that he would not debate them in public again. He and Beth Presswood later appeared on Amanda Marcotte's podcast \"RH Reality Check\" to explain the events of the preceding years, and said that \"the optics of a cis male without a womb\" debating women's rights is not what he wanted to advocate, and would let others take the lead in public on the issue.\n\nAdvocacy of the primacy of skepticism is another of Dillahunty's recurring themes. He said at the American Atheists convention in Austin in 2013 that the closest thing he has to a motto is \"to believe as many true things and as few false things as possible,\" taking his inspiration from David Hume. In the same lecture, he said that being a skeptic is the most important identifier of who he is. In addition, Dillahunty said that skepticism has something to say about untested religious claims, and that philosophical skepticism will lead to atheism. \nHe sees atheism as a subset of skepticism, and he does not see why skepticism should not address religious claims, something that has become a point of controversy in the skeptic community. Dillahunty rhetorically asked, \"how popular would psychics be, how popular would ghosts be, if there wasn't this monolithic idea that 70-80% of the population believe, that within each of us is an eternal soul that leaves the body when we're dead and either goes on to some afterlife or lingers around here on the earth?...If you teach people about what we know, about what most likely happens when we die, they will strive to treat people better while they're alive, and their grief will be lessened because they understand reality.\" He admonished \"don't just do skepticism with the goal of getting it right, do it with the goal of not being able to get it wrong.\" In an interview published by the Norwegian Humanist Association, he said he doesn't see why religious claims about reality should be treated any differently by skeptics than conspiracy theories and allegations about alien visitation.\n\nDillahunty's explanation of the philosophical burden of proof is presented in his gumball analogy. For a hypothetical jar filled with a large number of gumballs, any positive claim about whether there were an odd or even number of gumballs would be dubious without further supporting evidence. Therefore, not believing the claim \"the number of gumballs is even\" without evidence does not mean believing that the number is, in fact, odd. Likewise, not believing the claim \"there is a god\" without evidence does not mean believing that there isn't one. This demonstrates that the common retort \"what is your proof that there is no god?\" is in fact a fallacious shifting of the burden of proof.\n\nIn 2011, Dillahunty was awarded the Atheist of the Year award, nicknamed the \"Hitchie\" for Christopher Hitchens, by Staks Rosch writing for Examiner.com. The award process involved Rosch's readers voting for nominees he selected.\n\nHe received the 2012 Catherine Fahringer Freethinker of the Year Award from the Freethinkers Association of Central Texas.\n"}
{"id": "29635206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29635206", "title": "Meditative postures", "text": "Meditative postures\n\nVarious meditative postures have been used in meditation. Sitting, supine (lying), and standing postures are used.\n\nThe bodily positions applied during Yoga are found at the Wikipedia page Asana. Most well known in the Buddhist and Hindu traditions, as well as in their modern forms, are the full-lotus, half-lotus, Burmese, and kneeling positions.\n\nMeditation can also be practiced while walking, such as kinhin, or doing simple repetitive tasks, as in Zen samu, or work which encourages mindfulness.\n\nCross legged sitting helps create a stable base for meditation. Several seated asanas are practiced such as full-lotus, half-lotus, easy crossed legs, or siddhasana (\"perfect pose\"). Sitting on the heels is possible, among other positions. Seated meditation cushions are often used to help extend meditative time and serve to elevate the hips and spine into proper alignment\n\nSitting cross-legged (or upon one's knees) for extended periods when one is not sufficiently limber, can result in a range of ergonomic complaints called \"meditator's knee\". These are common and may be endured for long periods of time in extensive meditation retreats, however caution is often advised, and the guidance of an instructor or 'guru' is often sought extensively.\n\nIn the full-lotus, half-lotus and Burmese positions, used in Buddhism and Hinduism, it is often said that the spinal column must be kept \"straight,\" that is, the individual should sit erect but relaxed, by balancing the torso such that the spinal column supports it in a natural way. One should feel comfortable and rest in a simple and unstrained way.\n\nSitting on a cushion that elevates the pelvis as high as or higher than the knees and then slightly rolling the pelvis forward makes it easier to keep the spine upright. It is said in multiple traditions that the chin should be slightly tucked in, the tongue pressed against the roof of the mouth, lips lightly pressed together shoulders back.\n\nThose traditions related to kundalini yoga, take a less formal approach. While the basic practice in these traditions is also to sit still quietly in a traditional posture, they emphasize the possibility of kriyas – spontaneous yogic postures, changes in breathing patterns or emotional states, or perhaps repetitive physical movements such as swaying, etc., which may naturally arise as the practitioner sits in meditation, and which should not be resisted but rather allowed to express themselves to enhance the natural flow of energy through the body. This is said to help purify the nadis and ultimately deepen one's meditative practice.\n\nCross-legged postures, especially those such as the full-lotus, may be difficult due to a lack of familiarization. Most Westerners are not used to sitting in cross-legged positions for extended periods of time. For this reason Westerners are often advised to use a chair or a bench until they are ready for the traditional cross-legged positions. Yoga and stretching also are applicable as a means of developing the flexibility needed for the cross-legged postures.\n\nIf practiced routinely and done correctly, full-lotus is easy to maintain for long periods of time without discomfort, as muscular effort is used only keep the spine balanced, and not to support the weight of the torso. Often this posture is explained as a way of encouraging the circulation of what some call \"spiritual energy,\" the \"vital breath\", the \"life force\" (Sanskrit \"prana\", Chinese \"qi\", Latin \"spiritus\") or the Kundalini. It is said that one's meditation will not be as good if one's posture is not so good.\n\nIn various traditions people meditate by sitting on a chair, flat-footed and without back support (as in New Thought); sitting on a stool (as in Orthodox Christianity); or walking (in Therevada Buddhism); or walking in mindfulness, which is known as kinhin (in Zen Buddhism).\n\nVarious hand-gestures or mudras may be prescribed in meditation. In Vajrayana Buddhism mudras carry symbolic meaning. According to Yogic philosophy the mudras affect consciousness, mood and energy.\n\nFor instance in Buddhist meditation the hands are often held with the right resting atop the left and thumbs touching. Some traditions hold say that each finger is associated with a different sensitivity and that the finger endings, lock into mudras, create subtle energy shifts due to these different energy circuit connections. Pressing on finger endings also stimulates brain sections relating to different qualities – which a practitioner may want to enhance through meditation to invoke specific effects or changes. Other traditions hold that the right on top of left symbolizes the state of samsara while many common depictions of The Buddha have that he holds his left on top of right, due to his enlightenment.\n\nIn some schools such as Zen, the eyes are half-closed and half-open, looking slightly downward. In others such as Brahma Kumaris, the eyes are kept fully open. In other traditions the eyelids are kept 1/10 or barely open depending on what drishti the meditation instructs. Drishti refers to eye focus in kundalini yoga and means \"vision\" or \"insight\" in Sanskrit. Pictures of saints in meditation may reflect different eye postures, and different meditations may call for staring into a saint's eyes, a candle flame, or some other object of focus, which is known as trataka meditation.\n\nIn Sufism, meditating (muraqaba) with the eyes closed is called Varood and keeping them open is known as Shahood or Fa'tha.\n\nOften such details are shared by more than one religion, even in cases where mutual influence seems unlikely. One example is \"navel-gazing,\" which is apparently attested to within Eastern Orthodoxy as well as Chinese qigong practice. Another is the practice of focusing on the breath, found in Orthodox Christianity, Sufism, and numerous Indic traditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1775318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775318", "title": "Meekness", "text": "Meekness\n\nMeekness is an attribute of human nature and behavior. It has been defined several ways: righteous, humble, teachable, and patient under suffering, long suffering willing to follow gospel teachings; an attribute of a true disciple.\n\nMeekness has been contrasted with humility as referring to behavior towards others, whereas humility refers to an attitude towards oneself – meekness meaning restraining one's own power, so as to allow room for others.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204745", "title": "Michael Novak", "text": "Michael Novak\n\nMichael Novak (September 9, 1933 – February 17, 2017) was an American Catholic philosopher, journalist, novelist, and diplomat. The author of more than forty books on the philosophy and theology of culture, Novak is most widely known for his book \"The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism\" (1982). In 1993 Novak was honored with an honorary doctorate degree at Universidad Francisco Marroquín due to his commitment to the idea of liberty. In 1994 he was awarded the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, which included a million-dollar purse awarded at Buckingham Palace. He wrote books and articles focused on capitalism, religion, and the politics of democratization.\n\nNovak served as United States Ambassador to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in 1981 and 1982 and led the U.S. delegation to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in 1986. Additionally, Novak served on the board of directors of the now-defunct Coalition for a Democratic Majority, a conservative anti-Communist faction of the Democratic Party, which sought to influence Democratic Party policies in the same direction that the Committee on the Present Danger later did. Novak was George Frederick Jewett Scholar in Religion, Philosophy, and Public Policy at the American Enterprise Institute. In 2004, he claimed to be a lifelong Democrat, while noting that he has supported many Republican candidates.\n\nNovak was born in 1933 in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, to a Slovak-American family, the son of Irene (Sakmar) and Michael J. Novak. He was married to Karen Laub-Novak, a professional artist and illustrator, who died of cancer in August 2009. They have three children (Richard, Tanya, and Jana) and four grandchildren.\n\nNovak earned a B.A. \"summa cum laude\" in philosophy and English from Stonehill College in 1956, a Sacrae Theologiae Baccalaureus (a degree in theology), from the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome in 1958 and\nan M.A. in history and philosophy of religion from Harvard University in 1966.\nNovak attended Harvard University to study philosophy and religion, intending to obtain a doctorate in philosophy of religion. Novak stated that he thought the philosophy department was too focused on analytic philosophy, neglecting religion . He left Harvard after receiving his M.A., and began work as a writer.\n\nNovak worked as a correspondent for the National Catholic Reporter during the second session of the Second Vatican Council in Rome, where he also got the opportunity to fulfill a book contract for a fellow reporter who was not able to complete the project. The result was Novak's second book, \"The Open Church\", a journalistic account of the events of the second session of the Council.\n\nHis writings at the time were criticized by the more Conservative factions in the Church, and apostolic delegate Egidio Vagnozzi advised US Churchmen to silence him.\n\nEarly in his career, Novak published two novels: \"The Tiber Was Silver\" (1961) and \"Naked I Leave\" (1970). At the time, he considered the modest $600 advance to be \"a fortune.\"\n\nNovak's friendship with the Presbyterian theologian Robert McAfee Brown during the Second Vatican Council led to a teaching post at Stanford University, where he became the first Roman Catholic to teach in the Humanities program. Novak taught at Stanford University from 1965 to 1968, during the key years of student revolt throughout California. During this period, he wrote \"A Time to Build\" (1967), discussing problems of belief and unbelief, ecumenism, sexuality, and war. In 1968, he signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War. In \"A Theology for Radical Politics\" (1969), Novak makes theological arguments in support of the New Left student movement, which he urged to advance the renewal of the human spirit rather than merely to reform social institutions. His book \"Politics: Realism and Imagination\" includes accounts of visiting American Vietnam War deserters in France (\"Desertion\"), the birth and development of the student movement at Stanford (\"Green Shoots of Counter-Culture\") and philosophical essays on nihilism and Marxism.\n\nNovak left Stanford for a post as dean of a new \"experimental\" school at the newly founded State University of New York at Old Westbury, Long Island.\n\nNovak's writings during this period included the philosophical essay \"The Experience of Nothingness\" (1970, republished in 1998), in which he cautioned the New Left that utopianism could lead to alienation and rootlessness. Novak's novel \"Naked I Leave\" (1970) chronicles his experiences in California and in the Second Vatican Council and his journey from seminarian to reporter.\n\nAfter serving at Old Westbury/SUNY from 1969 to 1972, Novak launched the humanities program at the Rockefeller Foundation in 1973–1974. In 1976, he accepted a tenured position at Syracuse University as University Professor and Ledden-Watson Distinguished Professor of Religion. In the fall semesters of 1987 and 1988, Novak held the W. Harold and Martha Welch chair as Professor of American Studies at the University of Notre Dame.\n\nIn the spring of 1978, Novak joined the American Enterprise Institute for Social Policy Research as a Resident Scholar, a position he held for more than a decade. He would later stay with the American Enterprise Institute as the George Frederick Jewett Chair of Religion, Philosophy, and Public Policy, and as the Institute's Director of Social and Political Studies.\n\nNovak was a frequent contributor to magazines and journals including \"First Things\" and \"National Review\". In 1994, he was a signer of the document Evangelicals and Catholics Together. On December 12, 2007 Novak declared his support for the presidential candidacy of Republican Mitt Romney.\n\nIn 2012, he authored an article entitled 'The Moral Imperative of a Free Economy' in \"\", published by the George W. Bush Presidential Center.\n\nNovak was a founding board member of the Institute on Religion and Democracy. He was also a founding member of the Board of Trustees of Ave Maria University and was a member of the Ave Maria Mutual Funds Catholic Advisory Board. A portrait of Novak by Igor Babailov hangs in the Canizaro Library on campus.\n\nIn 2016 he joined the Tim and Steph Busch School of Business and Economics of the Catholic University of America as a distinguished visiting professor.\n\nNovak died of complications from colon cancer February 17, 2017 in Washington, D.C. at the age of 83.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27369104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27369104", "title": "Multidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research", "text": "Multidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research\n\nMultidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research is a report, originally published in 1999, by a Fetzer Institute / National Institute on Aging working group on the measurement of religion and spirituality. A revised version with a new preface was published in 2003. The book presents a series of 12 self-report questionnaire measures, each focused on a particular aspect of religiousness or spirituality, along with reviews of underlying theory and supporting research. The book's purpose is to provide validated measures of spiritual and religious factors in health research. The book includes the Brief Multidimensional Measure of Religiousness/Spirituality (BMMRS), a practical measure with selected items from the 12 previous chapters.\n\nThe book has been widely cited in health and behavioral science research, and several subsequent publications have been partially or entirely dedicated to evaluating and critiquing the measures.\n\nBoth editions contain an introduction, followed by 12 chapters, each on the measurement of a particular aspect (\"domain\") of religion or spirituality. Combining all these questions gives the Multidimensional Measure of Religiousness/Spirituality. (MMRS). Concluding pages of each edition select items for a briefer 38-item version of the questionnaire (BMMRS), along with data from a US national survey that incorporated many of its items.\n\nBackground and purpose. The Introduction states the book is responding to \"a growing body of literature... indicat<nowiki>[ing]</nowiki> that various dimensions of religiousness and spirituality may enhance subjective states of well-being... lower levels of depression and psychological distress... and reduce morbidity and mortality... elicit<nowiki>[ing]</nowiki> considerable attention from medical researchers in epidemiology, psychology, sociology, gerontology, and other fields\" (p. 1). However,\n\nHealth researchers who seek to include religious or spiritual domains in their studies typically confront various problems. Few health researchers have a scholarly background in religiousness/spirituality and most are not acquainted with the long history of attempts to conceptualize and measure multiple dimensions of religiousness... <nowiki>[and]</nowiki> we currently have no widely used and validated set of standard measures for key religious/spiritual domains to recommend to interested health researchers (pp. 1-2)\n\nThus, \"the NIA and the Fetzer Institute established a core working group to:\n\nPlausibility of health effects. The Introduction described a variety of \"potential mechanisms\" by which religiou/spirituality might affect health. These include \"behavioral mechanisms\" (e.g., less drug abuse), \"social mechanisms\" (e.g., community ties), \"psychological mechanisms\" (e.g., emotional support or religious coping), and physiological mechanisms\" (e.g., prayer or meditation that elicits a \"relaxation response\") (pp. 3–4).\n\nCultural orientation. The Introduction also noted that \"While many of the items have a strong Judeo-Christian focus... the group also proposed a number of items relevant to the growing proportion of Americans who engage in spiritual activities outside the content of churches and synagogues\" (p. 3).\n\nDomain-focused chapters. The titles of the 12 domain-focused chapters, each written by one of the committee members, are shown in the adjacent table. A sample question from each chapter's questionnaire measure is also shown in the table.\n\nBrief measure. The final chapter contains a \"short form\" (BMMRS) with 36 items mostly drawn from the longer measures that appear in the previous 12 chapters (see table). Two additional items elicit a respondent's overall self-ranking (e.g., \"To what extent to you consider yourself a spiritual person?\", with a similar question about being a \"religious person\"). This chapter is entitled:\n\nSurvey data. The appendix contains results from administering the BMMRS to a US nationally representative sample, through the General Social Survey, in 1998. For example, it was found that 24.4 percent of US adults reported engaging in private prayer \"more than once a day\", and 9.0 percent reported engaging in meditation \"more than once a day\" (p. 92). The appendix is entitled:\n\nBy 2010, the book had been cited more than 350 times in scientific publications. Critiques and evaluations of the MMRS or BMMRS have appeared in\nthe \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\",\n\"Research on Aging\",\nthe \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\",\nthe \"International Journal for the Psychology of Religion\",\n\"Journal of Religion and Health\",\n\"Research in the Social Scientific Study of Religion\", and elsewhere.\n\nIn the \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\", Harold G. Koenig wrote that\n\nThe Fetzer Institute’s Multidimensional Measure of Religiousness/Spirituality is rapidly becoming the standard measure of religiousness/spirituality in the spirituality and health field overall, given its comprehensive nature... There also exist national norms for the short version of this instrument (p. 352).\n\nHowever, he expressed concern that some items for some of the domains of the BMMRS might be \"contaminated\": \"Among its spirituality subscales are meaning, values, and forgiveness subscales <nowiki>[containing]</nowiki> items such as... 'Knowing that I am a part of something greater than myself gives meaning to my life'... <nowiki>[and]</nowiki> 'It is easy for me to admit that I am wrong,' ... these positive traits could very well be the outcome or the results of spirituality. However, should they be part of the definition itself?... completely secular persons and atheists may experience these things as frequently or more frequently than so called 'spiritual persons\" (p. 352). Others have empirically tested this issue for the BMMRSs Daily Spiritual Experiences Scale finding that it is composed of two factors - theism and civility — with many people who eschew religion and spirituality scoring highly on civility.\n\nIn \"Research on Aging\", Idler and other working group members reported results of in-depth analyses of data from administering the BMMRS in the 1998 General Social Survey. The various BMMRS questions \"had the expected relationships with other measures of <nowiki>[religious]</nowiki> concepts. Overall, the instrument has the appropriate characteristics of reliability and validity to be used in further research.\" (p. 356). Another analysis of the same data suggested that the BMMRS \"is useful for\nmultiethnic research,\" and that the daily spirituality and values/beliefs scales could benefit by being combined (p. 446).\n\nSeveral researchers evaluated how well the BMMRS appeared to work when given to different populations. One study concluded that \"most BMMRS measures are reliable and valid for use among adolescents\" (p. 439). Another found that the \"BMMRS is a viable multifactor measure of <nowiki>[religion/spirituality]</nowiki> for use with young adults\" when the \"wording on some items was slightly altered to be more inclusive of various religious traditions\" (pp. 106, 110). A third reported that in a sample of midwestern US college students, \"despite having a collection of items from 12 different domains, these items really constitute two major areas of interest: one relating to spiritual experiences and the other to religious involvements\" (p. 194). In a population of patients undergoing rehabilitation, it appears that \"the BMMRS assesses distinct positive and negative aspects of religiousness and spirituality that may be best conceptualized... as... (a) Spiritual Experiences... (b) Religious Practices... (c) Congregational Support; and (d) Forgiveness\" (p. 146). Findings from Southern US adults suggested that the MMRS appears best at measuring \"3 primary factors (Meaning, Spirituality, Religious Practices and Organized Religiousness) and 2 secondary factors (Guilt vs. God’s Grace, and Loving/Forgiving God)\" (p. 181).\n\nJohn Traphagan, in \"Research on Aging\", examined how the book can \"raise questions about the extent to which basic ideas associated with the study of Judeo-Christian religions are meaningful in contexts such as Japan\" and other Asian countries (p. 387). He argued that questions suggested for many of the 12 domains are irrelevant to understanding religiousness/spirituality in Japan. However, a few MMRS domains held promise. For example, with regard to religious coping, he stated that \"certain kinds of ritual performance in Japan can be understood in terms of coping mechanisms, and this is an area identified in the Fetzer report that holds promise for cross-cultural research (at least in relation to Japan)\" (p. 405).\n\nAccording to the book's 2003 preface, the Fetzer Institute continues to receive requests for the booklet, and at that time had distributed 2,000 print copies and 1200 internet downloads. The preface reports that \"the most popular subscales being used are the Religious/Spiritual Coping and the Daily Spiritual Experiences Scales (DSES). One fourth of respondents have used the booklet in either a course that they teach, in a seminar, or in a symposium.\" (p. ii)\n\nFetzer Institute published the original paperbound edition in 1999, and published a paperbound \"reprint\" in 2003 that contained a new preface. The 2003 edition is also available for downloading without charge from the Fetzer Institute website (see external links). The two editions are:\n\nOne of the scales, the DSES, has been translated into multiple foreign (non-English) languages: Mandarin Chinese, Korean, German, Greek, Vietnamese, French and Spanish (p. 716).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45165495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45165495", "title": "Om Swami", "text": "Om Swami\n\nOm Swami is a monk and author of ten best-selling books including \"Kundalini: An Untold Story\", \"A Million Thoughts\", \"The Wellness Sense\", \"When All Is Not Well\", and \"If Truth Be Told: A Monk's Memoir\"\n\nSwami was born in North India on the twelfth night of the waxing moon in the month of Margasirsa, according to the Vedic calendar. Showing deep inclination towards spirituality from an early age, Swami studied a range of Vedic and astrological texts, eventually becoming a professional astrologer during his teen years. Quitting his job as a part-time editor for a weekly business newspaper, he left for Australia to pursue tertiary education and later acquired Australian citizenship.\n\nIn 2000, Swami graduated with a Bachelor of Business from University of Western Sydney and later, in 2002, acquired Master of Business Administration at University of Technology Sydney. Later he started a software business in Australia and expanded its operations to USA, Canada, UK and India over the next six years. He worked with various companies. Swami later moved back to India and acquired a healthcare company.\n\nOn 15 March 2010, Swami renounced his material wealth and left for his spiritual journey quietly. Heading straight to Kashi, he was initiated into the path of renunciation by a Naga saint in a little village some eighty kilometers away from Varanasi. After spending four and a half months there, Swami left for the Himalayas where he spent the next thirteen months in intense meditation in complete isolation and solitude. During the days of his intense practice, he meditated for up to 22 hours every day including straight 10-hour stretches. \n\nSwami gives his own perspective on enlightenment in his book \"If Truth Be Told\". \"Enlightenment does not mean you have to live like a pauper. It does not mean you have to subject yourself to a life of hardship and abstinence. On the contrary, to be enlightened means to live in the light of love, compassion and truthfulness\".\n\n\"If Truth Be Told: A Monk's Memoir\" is his self-written memoir, published by Harper Collins in December 2014. The book was listed as number 6 in the top 10 non fiction books in the country as reported by The Financial Express (India)\n\n"}
{"id": "29478378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29478378", "title": "Opus Sanctorum Angelorum", "text": "Opus Sanctorum Angelorum\n\nOpus Sanctorum Angelorum (English: \"Work of the Holy Angels\"), more commonly known as Opus Angelorum (English: \"Work of the Angels\"; German: \"Engelwerk\"), is a Roman Catholic association which promotes devotion to angels. According to Pope Benedict XVI (2008) it was a public association of the Church in conformity with traditional doctrine and with the directives of the Holy See. It spreads devotion to the Holy Angels among the faithful, exhorts them to pray for priests, and promotes love for Christ in His Passion and union with it.\n\nThe association is active particularly in Austria, where it originated, and in Germany, but also in Portugal, Brazil, Mexico, India, the Philippines, Italy and the United States.\n\nIt includes lay members, religious sisters and priests. Critics keep calling it a sect inside the Roman Catholic Church in spite of having been approved papally in 2008. It was often linked to the Catholic Scouts of Europe.\n\nThe association was founded in 1949 by a group of priests and seminarians in Innsbruck, Austria, to seek the aid of the angels in support of the Church and the priesthood and for the salvation of souls.\n\nThe association drew inspiration from the accounts that Gabriele Bitterlich (1896-1978) gave of her private revelations. She claimed to have received visions of the angels, including their names and their functions.\n\nSome of Mrs Bitterlich's followers were circulating sensational theories of \"spiritual warfare\" between angels and demons, based on her writings. In view of the controversy over these theories, Cardinal Joseph Höffner, Archbishop of Cologne, wrote on 1 December 1977, shortly before the death of Mrs Bitterlich, to ask the Holy See to institute an enquiry.\n\nThe Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith carried out the requested investigation and responded on 24 September 1983 with a letter, known by its incipit, \"Litteris diei\", which laid down:\n\nThis was followed up by a decree of 6 June 1992, which repeated the contents of the 1983 letter and, in view of incorrect interpretation and application of that letter, laid down the following rules:\n\nThe Delegate chosen was the Dominican priest, Father Benoit Duroux, who handed over to another Dominican priest, Father Daniel Ols, in March 2010.\n\nUntil 2018 there were two reported cases of consummated murder linked legally to the \"Work of the Holy Angels\". Both murders were related to sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nIn India’s state of Kerala, an exorcism performed by Opus Sanctorum Angelorum’s priests led to a case of murder in 1990. The involved priests had failed to report the exorcized person, who had committed sexual abuse of minors, to Indian police although the report was mandatory according to Indian Penal Code. The OSA tried to justify abuse and murder with the fictitious \"demons Dragon, Varina and Selithareth\".\nIn 1994, the high-ranking Brazilian OSA member Frederico Cunha ORC was found guilty of first degree murder and sexual abuse of minors. Several Opus Sanctorum Angelorum priests had tried to cover up his crimes committed on the Portuguese Madeira Island in May 1992, bribing witnesses and instigating perjury. In April 1998 Cunha fled to Rio de Janeiro, where he still lived in March 2018.\n\nUntil 2014 several attempts of killing a German priest, who had left the OSA before, have failed. He returned to common Roman Catholic spiritual welfare after his survival.\n\nOn 31 May 2000, a revised form of the Act of Consecration to the Angels was approved by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith.\n\nIn the year 2002, a female branch of the Canons Regular, which is known as the Sisters of the Holy Cross, was established in Innsbruck.\n\nIn the following year, 2003, the Congregation for Institutes of Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life granted definitive approval to the Canons Regular of the Holy Cross of Coimbra, a religious institute founded in 1131 and, after becoming defunct in the 19th century, refounded in 1977, receiving the formal approval of the Holy See in 1979. To it, in accordance with canons 677 §2 and 303 of the Code of Canon Law, the care of \"Opus Angelorum\" movement is committed.\n\nOn 7 November 2008, the same Congregation approved the statutes of the Opus Angelorum as a public association of the faithful.\n\nOn 4 November 2010, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith declared: \"Today, thanks to the obedience of its members, the Opus Angelorum can be considered to be living loyally and serenely in conformity with the doctrine of the Church and with canonical and liturgical law. Therefore, in its present state, the Opus Angelorum is a public association of the Church in conformity with traditional doctrine and with the directives of the Holy See.\"\n\nSome news sources presented the Holy See's statement of approval of the association as instead a warning to beware of it. An example was the BBC's news item \"Vatican warns of 'wayward' Opus Angelorum sect\". The warning issued was not against the association but against some ex-members, who had either been expelled or who had left of their own accord, and who were endeavouring to form a rival movement that would reject the norms issued by the Holy See.\n\n"}
{"id": "38280978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38280978", "title": "Overdetermination", "text": "Overdetermination\n\nOverdetermination occurs when a single-observed effect is determined by multiple causes, any one of which alone would be sufficient to account for (\"determine\") the effect. That is, there are more causes present than are necessary to cause the effect. In the philosophy of science, this means that more evidence is available than is necessary to justify a conclusion. Overdetermination is in contrast to underdetermination, when the number or strength of causes is insufficient. \n\nThe term \"overdetermination\" () was also used by Sigmund Freud as a key concept in his psychoanalysis.\n\nFreud wrote in \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" that many features of dreams were usually \"overdetermined,\" in that they were caused by multiple factors in the life of the dreamer, from the \"residue of the day\" (superficial memories of recent life) to deeply repressed traumas and unconscious wishes, these being \"potent thoughts\". Freud favored interpretations which accounted for such features not only once, but many times, in the context of various levels and complexes of the dreamer's psyche.\n\nThe concept was later borrowed for a variety of other realms of thought.\n\nIn contemporary analytic philosophy an event or state of affairs is said to be \"overdetermined\" if it has two or more distinct, sufficient causes. In philosophy of mind, the famous case of overdetermination is called mental-physical causal overdetermination. If we accept that a mental state (M) is realized by a physical state (P). And M can cause another mental state (M*) or another physical state (P*). Then, nomologically speaking, P can cause M* or P* too. In this way, M* or P* is both determined by M and P. In other words, both M* and P* are overdetermined. Since either M or P is sufficient for M* or P*, the problem of mental-physical causal overdetermination is the causal redundancy. \n\nWhereas there may unproblematically be recognised many different \"necessary\" conditions of the event's occurrence, no two distinct events may lay claim to be sufficient conditions, since this would lead to overdetermination. A much used example is that of firing squads, the members of which simultaneously firing at and 'killing' their targets. Apparently, no one member can be said to have caused the victims' deaths, since he or she would have been killed anyway. Another example is that Billy and Suzy each throw a rock through a window, and either rock alone could have shattered the window. In this case, similar to the example of firing squads, Billy and Suzy \"together\" shatter the window and the result is not overdetermined. Or, we can say, even if these two examples are a kind of overdetermination, this kind of overdetermination is benign.\n\nThere are many problems of overdetermination. First, overdetermination is problematic in particular from the viewpoint of a standard counterfactual understanding of causation, according to which an event is the cause of another event if and only if the latter would not have occurred, had the former not occurred. In order to employ this formula to actual complex situations, implicit or explicit conditions need to be accepted to be circumstantial, since the list of counterfactually acceptable causes would otherwise be impractically long (e.g. the Earth's continued existence could be said to be the (necessary) cause of one drinking one's coffee). Unless a circumstance-clause is included, the putative cause to which one wishes to draw attention could never be considered sufficient, and hence not comply with the counterfactual analysis. Second, overdetermination is problematic in that we do not know how to explain where the extra causation \"comes from\" and \"goes\". This makes overdetermination mysterious.\n\nThe New Critic I. A. Richards used the idea of overdetermination to explain the importance of ambiguity in rhetoric, the philosophy of language, and literary criticism.\n\nThe Marxist philosopher Louis Althusser imported the concept into Marxist political theory in an influential essay, \"Contradiction and overdetermination.\" Drawing from both Freud and Mao Zedong, Althusser used the idea of overdetermination as a way of thinking about the multiple, often opposed, forces active at once in any political situation, without falling into an overly simple idea of these forces being simply \"contradictory.\" Brewster, in Althusser et al.'s \"Reading Capital\" defines overdetermination as such:\n\n\"the representation of dream thoughts in images privileged by their condensation of a number of thoughts in a single image (condensation), or by the transference of psychic energy from a particularly potent thought to apparently trivial things ... [For Althusser] overdetermination of a contradiction is the reflection in it of its conditions of existence within the complex whole.\"\n\nAn instance of a popular riot calling for revolution could exemplify overdetermination. The event has to it, in capitalist culture, an over-application (determination) of agitation. The determinant contradictions (the reasons for popular revolt) are not addressed and so their great mass is \"displaced\" onto the singular event.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2725670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2725670", "title": "Pharmakos", "text": "Pharmakos\n\nA pharmakós (, plural pharmakoi) in Ancient Greek religion was the ritualistic sacrifice or exile of a human scapegoat or victim.\n\nA slave, a cripple or a criminal was chosen and expelled from the community at times of disaster (famine, invasion or plague) or at times of calendrical crisis. It was believed that this would bring about purification. On the first day of the Thargelia, a festival of Apollo at Athens, two men, the \"Pharmakoi\", were led out as if to be sacrificed as an expiation.\n\nSome scholia state that \"pharmakoi\" were actually sacrificed (thrown from a cliff or burned), but many modern scholars reject this, arguing that the earliest source for the \"pharmakos\" (the iambic satirist Hipponax) shows the \"pharmakoi\" being beaten and stoned, but not executed. A more plausible explanation would be that sometimes they were executed and sometimes not, depending on the attitude of the victim. For instance, a deliberate unrepentant murderer would most likely be put to death.\n\nIn \"Aesop in Delphi\" (1961), Anton Wiechers discussed the parallels between the legendary biography of Aesop (in which he is unjustly tried and executed by the Delphians) and the \"pharmakos\" ritual. For example, Aesop is grotesquely deformed, as was the \"pharmakos\" in some traditions; and Aesop was thrown from a cliff, as was the pharmakos in some traditions.\n\nGregory Nagy, in \"Best of the Achaeans\" (1979), compared Aesop’s \"pharmakos\" death to the “worst” of the Achaeans in the \"Iliad\", Thersites. More recently, both Daniel Ogden, \"The Crooked Kings of Ancient Greece\" (1997) and Todd Compton, \"Victim of the Muses: Poet as Scapegoat, Warrior and Hero\" (2006) examine poet \"pharmakoi\". Compton surveys important poets who were exiled, executed or suffered unjust trials, either in history, legend or Greek or Indo-European myth.\n\nWalter Burkert and René Girard have written influential modern interpretations of the \"pharmakos\" rite. Burkert shows that humans were sacrificed or expelled after being fed well, and, according to some sources, their ashes were scattered to the ocean. This was a purification ritual, a form of societal catharsis. Girard likewise discusses the connection between catharsis, sacrifice, and purification. Some scholars have connected the practice of ostracism, in which a prominent politician was exiled from Athens after a vote using pottery pieces, with the \"pharmakos\" custom. However, the ostracism exile was only for a fixed time, as opposed to the finality of the \"pharmakos\" execution or expulsion.\n\nPharmakos is also used as a vital term in Derridean deconstruction. In his essay \"Plato's Pharmacy\", Derrida deconstructs several texts by Plato, such as \"Phaedrus\", and reveals the inter-connection between the word chain \"pharmakeia–pharmakon–pharmakeus\" and the notably absent word \"pharmakos\". In doing so, he attacks the boundary between inside and outside, declaring that the outside (pharmakos, never uttered by Plato) is always-already present right behind the inside (\"pharmakeia–pharmakon–pharmakeus\"). As a concept, Pharmakos can be said to be related to other Derridian terms such as \"trace\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6931929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6931929", "title": "Pranava yoga", "text": "Pranava yoga\n\nPranava yoga is meditation on the sacred mantra Om, as outlined in the Upanishads, the \"Bhagavad Gita\", and the \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\". It is also called \"Aum yoga\" and \"Aum yoga meditation\". It is, simply put, fixing the mind on the sound of the mantra “Aum” – the sacred syllable that both symbolizes and embodies Brahman, the Absolute Reality – as the mantra is constantly repeated in unison with the breath. The purpose of pranava yoga is to become free from suffering and limitation.\n\nThe purpose is well stated in the Upanishads: “What world does he who meditates on Aum until the end of his life, win by That? If he meditates on the Supreme Being with the syllable Aum, he becomes one with the Light, he is led to the world of Brahman [the Absolute Being] Who is higher than the highest life, That Which is tranquil, unaging, immortal, fearless, and supreme.” – Prashna Upanishad 5:1,5,7\n\nAum, according to Hindu philosophy, is the primordial sound from which the whole universe was created. Aum, also called the Pranava, is the original Word of Power, and is recited as a mantra. A mantra is a series of verbal sounds having inherent sound-power that can produce a particular physical or psychological effect, not just something that has an assigned intellectual meaning. The word mantra derives from the Sanskrit expression ‘\"mananaath thraayathe\"’ which loosely means “a transforming thought”; literally, “that which, when thought, carries one across [the worldly ocean of sorrow]”. The power of a mantra lies in its ability to produce an objective, perceptible change in the yogi who repeats it correctly.\n\nIn the yoga tradition, Aum is the most sacred of holy words, the supreme mantra. Aum is also called the Pranava, a Sanskrit word which means both controller of life force (prana) and life-giver (infuser of prana). “That which causes all the pranas to prostrate themselves before and get merged in the Paramatman, so as to attain identity with Him, is for that reason known as the Pranava.” – Atharvashikha Upanishad 1:10a. Aum is called the Shabda Brahman – God as Sound/Vibration. According to yoga theory, the universe has emanated from this primal movement in God. By following the thread of Aum back in meditation to more and more subtle levels of awareness, the yogi regains union with Brahman.\n\nThe Upanishads (both the major and minor) are full of references to Aum and meditation on Aum. Below is a small sampling:\n\n\nSpeaking from the perspective of the Infinite Being, enumerating his major manifestation-embodiments, Krishna says: \"I am the syllable Om.\"(Gita 7:8) He also says the same thing in 9:17 (\"I am...the sacred monosyllable\") and 10:25 (\"Among words I am the monosyllable Om\").\n\nWhat to \"do\" with aum is then outlined by Krishna: \"Engaged in the practice of concentration... uttering the monosyllable Om--the Brahman--remembering Me always, he...attains to the supreme goal. I am easily attainable by that ever-steadfast Yogi who constantly and daily remembers Me.\"– \"Bhagavad Gita\" 6:13; 8:12-14\n\nPatanjali’s Yoga Sutras, the most ancient and authoritative text on Yoga, outlines the purpose and process of yoga as follows:\n\n\"Ishwara [God] is a particular Purusha [Spirit, Person] Who is untouched by the afflictions of life, actions, and the results and impressions produced by these actions. In Him is the highest limit of omniscience. 36 Being unconditioned by time He is teacher even of the ancients. His designator [vachaka] is the Pranava [Om]. 37 Its japa [constant repetition] and bhavanam is the way [or: should be done]. From it result [come] the disappearance of obstacles and the turning inward of consciousness. Disease, languor, doubt, carelessness, laziness, worldly-mindedness, delusion, non-achievement of a stage, instability, these cause the distraction of the mind and they are the obstacles. [Mental] pain, despair, nervousness, and agitation are the symptoms of a distracted condition of mind. For removing these obstacles [there should be] the constant practice of the one principle [the japa and bhavanam of Om].\" – \"Yoga Sutras of Patanjali\" 1:24-32\n\nAum meditation is part of Kriya Yoga teachings. In addition to chanting the sound of aum, this meditation involves inhaling and exhaling while chanting aum in a very specific mudra.\n\n“[Remembrance of the Pranava] must become so automatic that you cannot breathe without remembering It.”\n\n“Om is the root of all sounds. Every other sound is contained in That, and It is used to take one beyond all sound.”\n\n“OM is the mantra, the expressive sound-symbol of the Brahman Consciousness in its four domains from the Turiya to the external or material plane. The function of a mantra is to create vibrations in the inner consciousness that will prepare it for the realisation of what the mantra symbolises and is supposed indeed to carry within itself. The mantra OM should therefore lead towards the opening of the consciousness to the sight and feeling of the One Consciousness in all material things, in the inner being and in the supraphysical worlds, in the causal plane above now superconscient to us and, finally, the supreme liberated transcendence above all cosmic existence. The last is usually the main preoccupation with those who use the mantra.” \"Letters on Yoga\", Vol. II, p. 745-46\n\n“If you are a serious student of Vedic mantras, you will chant Om because Vedic mantras begin with Om. Om, or the Omkara, is Krishna. Many people are fond of chanting Omkara. That is also nice, because Omkara is Krishna. If we simply remember, ‘This Omkara is Krishna,’ then we become perfect, because the goal is to become Krishna conscious. So you can become Krishna conscious while chanting Om.”\n\n“Om is the highest Name of God, and comprises many other Names of God. It should be borne in mind that Om is the Name of God exclusively–and of no other object material or spiritual–while the others are but descriptive titles and not exactly proper names.”\n\n“This is the Ultimate Word: but can any express its marvellous savor? He who has savored it once, he knows what joy it can give. Kabir says: Knowing it, the ignorant man becomes wise, and the wise man becomes speechless and silent.”\n\n“Constant japa of the Pranava, Omkar, Which is self-revealing, and constant focus on It as the form of Ishvara, and dedicating all actions to It as if you are not the doer yourself; is Kriya Yoga.”\n\n“Following the path of discrimination, let the pure mind be firmly fixed in Om.”\n\n“‘What will you gain’, some sages ask, ‘by merely hearing this sound?’ You hear the roar of the ocean from a distance. By following the roar you can reach the ocean. As long as there is the roar, there must also be the ocean. By following the trail of Om you attain Brahman, of which the Word is the symbol. That Brahman has been described by the Vedas as the ultimate goal.”\n\n“The purport of prescribing meditation on the Pranava is this. The Pranava is Omkara…the advaita-mantra which is the essence of all mantras…. In order to get at this true significance, one should meditate on the Pranava. …The fruition of this process is samadhi which yields release [moksha], which is the state of unsurpassable bliss.”\n\nIn the book \"Om Chanting and Meditation\":\n\nyoga charya chandrasekhar\nThe founder of pranava yoga center first started in Nellore town of andhra pradesh on 1996 and later on it was shifted to Hyderabad of Andhra pradesh and followed by his western disples. Activitists who spread pranava yoga to westerns\n\n\n"}
{"id": "458450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458450", "title": "Prophetic dance", "text": "Prophetic dance\n\nProphetic dance is a ritual dance in which the purpose is to obtain a communication from or to God (gods) spirits in order to receive a favorable response (rain and good harvests, for example). Is also present in modern Christian culture, in which the term is fixed.\n\n\"Prophetic Dance\" and or movements in the church can be classified in two distinct forms.\nThe first type most commonly used in conjunction with pageantry, presentation and performance primarily. Flags, banners, and processionals which are just a few ways to be used to minister to God. This type of ministry can have profoundly prophetic overtones but is still geared primarily for the benefit of God.\nThe second avenue in which prophetic dance or movement can be used is whereby the vehicle/person being used becomes the minister to and for the benefit of the people. Believers feel that dancing or any movement inspired by God can and will become His voice at that moment. They further subscribe to the belief that an experienced person not meaning in dance vocabulary but relationally with God can use this medium to heal, deliver and set people free from all types of sickness and disease. The Prophetic arts is described as God using our gifts and talents to reveal His heart.\n\n"}
{"id": "44633053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44633053", "title": "Psilocybe cabiensis", "text": "Psilocybe cabiensis\n\nPsilocybe cabiensis is a species of psilocybin mushroom in the family Strophariaceae. Described as new to science in 2004, it is found in Colombia, where it grows on bare clay soil in tropical forest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2175765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2175765", "title": "Ramtha's School of Enlightenment", "text": "Ramtha's School of Enlightenment\n\nRamtha's School of Enlightenment (RSE) is an American spiritual sect near the rural town of Yelm, Washington, U.S. The school was established in 1988 by J. Z. Knight, who claims to channel a 35,000-year-old being called Ramtha the Enlightened One. The school's teachings are based on these channeling sessions.\n\nIn 1988, J. Z. Knight founded Ramtha's School of Enlightenment (RSE), then called Ramtha's School of Enlightenment: The American Gnostic School, on her estate in Yelm, Washington, U.S. A division of Knight's company JZK, Inc., the school had around 80 staff members . According to RSE's website, it is an \"academy of the mind that offers retreats and workshops to people of all ages and cultures\". RSE's private, fenced compounds are only open to staff members and students, not to the public.\n\nIn 2004, various Ramtha school leaders joined community groups to strongly oppose a proposed 75,000-seat NASCAR racetrack in Yelm. The proposal was withdrawn. In 2007, Knight's profits from the school's activities and from sale of books, tapes, CDs and DVDs had reportedly been around $2.6 million. In 2008, lessons were given to the public in more than 20 countries, including the Czech Republic, Romania and Chile for the first time.\n\nThe school teaches that human beings have the capacity to utilize their inner wisdom, focus their brains, and create their own reality. The school's curriculum is based on the channelings by Knight of the entity Ramtha. Although the school has been criticised for being a cult (see below), Knight and her followers deny such claims and say that the school is neither a religion nor a cult.\n\nRamtha's School of Enlightenment teachings have been described as part of the New Age movement (the school itself claims to be outside it). A controversial religious scholar, J. Gordon Melton, wrote a book countering this argument called \"Finding Enlightenment: Ramtha's School of Ancient Wisdom\".\n\nLessons in the school's compounds sometimes include wine drinking, tobacco pipe smoking and dancing to rock ’n’ roll music. Allegedly, it is being taught that the nitric oxide in red wine (not the alcohol), also found in pipe tobacco (not the nicotine), can help to facilitate changes in the brain as a part of the process in which to achieve these means.\n\nThrough various focus techniques, the students believe they are on their way to becoming as \"enlightened\" as other shamans who can alter their personal reality at will. The main activities towards that goal vary from specific focusing, meditation-like techniques, breathing techniques, blindfolded archery, energy healing (for one's self and for someone else), finding the heart of a maze, and many more. The students are taught that human beings can train themselves into such powers that will allow them to levitate, raise the dead, make gold appear in their hand and predict the future. Eventually this may lead to the \"ascension\" of the physical body into the \"light body\".\n\nOther skills allegedly obtained by attending the lessons include psychokinesis, telepathy, clairvoyance, and other ESP skills, which have been criticized by various skeptics around the world.\n\nThe dialogues, and a lot of transcripts from Knight's Ramtha talks, have been compiled and published over the course of many years. Videotapes of various dialogue sessions have also been released. While some of the major themes around the school's teachings are covered in these publications, a more in-depth and systematic presentation of its philosophies and teachings are only accessible by attending a retreat in person.\n\nIn February 1997, Knight hosted a conference of scholars who had been studying her, the students and the school for the previous year. During their research phase, they also observed Knight's Ramtha sessions and measured various physiological functions of her body. The researchers examined Ramtha’s teachings and the school's practices from a variety of perspectives, including physics, feminism, parapsychology and religion. Melton organized the research. In addition to the conference presenters, Knight invited the media to attend. However, Knight said she did not sponsor the conference to gain publicity or to convince her skeptics.\n\nKnight paid the travel expenses and stipends for the conference presenters, which caused some of Knight’s critics to suggest she had influenced their research. The researchers denied this contention to the press and, according to the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\", \"were offended by a suggestion that the New Age spiritualist could have tried to buy their support\".\n\nApart from the conference proceedings, two papers were published. In 1998, Stanley Krippner published a paper on the psychological, phenomenological and geomagnetic results of the various studies. In 2009, Joan Hageman published a paper examining the results of the physiological testing on Knight and six students.\n\nRamtha's School of Enlightenment has been called a cult by various people, including her former husband Jeff Knight, former personal bodyguard Glen Cunningham, former students of the school (such as David McCarthy or Joe Szimhart), and skeptic Michael Shermer. Melton's book, which denies the school's status as a cult, has been criticized for siding with the school and not providing a neutral description of what is going on within the school. He has also been called a \"cult apologist\" by various opposers of cults. His position was further criticized when he took the stand as a witness in the case of Knight v. Knight (1992–1995) against Jeff Knight (JZ Knight's husband at the time), by further supporting that the school is not a cult.\n\nFormer students of the school have accused the RSE of practicing brain-washing and mind-control, as well as using intimidation and fear techniques to keep students in the school. David McCarthy, a student of the RSE between 1989 and 1996, calls Knight a \"spiritual predator\", and he mentions various parts of the teachings which had an intimidative character, such as the prophecy that unless students remain faithful to Ramtha, they will become prey of the \"lizard people\", and that the ancient figure of Jehovah would return to earth accompanied by lizard people, in a spaceship. The former students (including David McCarthy and Joe Szimhart) have formed an online community, Life After RSE (LARSE), to provide support for people who have quit the school and find themselves lost.\n\nA further controversial issue regarding the Ramtha teachings involve the so-called \"days to come\", which were prophesied earth changes. Instructions reputed as coming from Ramtha were given to the students, telling them to leave the cities, find a place in the country to grow their own food and become sovereign or self-sufficient. Another instruction was told to students to build underground shelters to protect themselves and their families.\n\nVarious incidents within the school's grounds have been characterized as controversial. Glen Cunningham, in an interview with David McCarthy, describes how, one evening, Knight suggested that all students should stay there overnight because she said it would be \"good for the energy\". That was before the Great Arena (formerly used as horse stables) had been floored, and as a result there would be a lot of dust in the air. Cunningham says that there was a very old woman among the students, who begged him that she did not want to do this and she wanted to go home, but Ramtha said that she can stay under the protection of Ramtha and her bodyguard. Leaving the arena the following day, the old woman died of pneumonia (due to the dust in the air and humidity).\n\nAnother incident which is mentioned by both Cunningham and Joe Szimhart is the practice of running blindfolded in a large fenced field. Szimhart mentions in particular an occasion around the year 1990, in which about 1,000 blindfolded students were directed to split up and run across the field, with their hands in the \"Consciousness & Energy\" position in front of them, and the exercise was meant to help the students overcome their fears. Szimhart recalls how many people crashed into each other, and that there were some injuries. A customer of his ended up with a deeply bruised shoulder and a big lump on his forehead. Aside from the minor injuries, a few people had to be treated at the hospital.\n\nIn 2011, Knight stated (while at the RSE supposedly channeling Ramtha), \"Fuck God’s chosen people! I think they have earned enough cash to have paid their way out of the goddamned gas chambers by now\", and said that Mexican people \"breed like rabbits\" and are \"poison,\" that all gay men used to be Catholic priests, and that organic farmers have bad hygiene. In 2012, videos of this were placed on the Internet by ex-students of Knight's and by the Freedom Foundation.\n\nIn 2004, three members of the RSE produced a controversial film that combined documentary interviews and a fictional narrative to posit a connection between science and spirituality, called \"What the Bleep Do We Know!?\". The film has been criticized by the scientific community due to its mis-representation of quantum physics, and an unnecessary connection to consciousness. The American Chemical Society's review criticizes the film as a \"pseudoscientific docudrama\", saying \"Among the more outlandish assertions are that people can travel backward in time, and that matter is actually thought.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57055364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57055364", "title": "Raoul Rigault", "text": "Raoul Rigault\n\nRaoul Adolphe Georges Rigault, born on 16 January 1846 in Paris, where he also died on 24 May 1871, was a journalist and French politician, best known for his role during the Paris Commune of 1871.\n\nHe is most notable for having saved the life of the French father of Impressionist painting, Auguste Renoir, from a firing squad; for having led a ruthless, French Revolution-style (\"Jacobin\") police operation during the Paris Commune; and for his unrelenting hatred of religion.\n\nRigault was the son of a councilor at the Seine prefecture and attended École polytechnique.\n\nThe New York Times in 1884 gives the following description of Rigault...\n\nAccording to the \"Association des Amies et Amis de la Commune de Paris 1871\" (Association of Friends and Friends of the 1871 Paris Commune), Rigault was hated for being a \"swagger of perversity\", \"scoundrel\", \"aristocrat of the thuggery\", for making jokes about how he had improved the guilotine, for his \"militant atheism,\" and for creating a police system of \"informants and snitches.\"\n\nRigault had been a revolutionary since his youth. In 1866, he was arrested at a meeting of revolutionaries at the Café de la Renaissance in Saint-Michel, and in 1868, he served three months imprisonment for publishing a journal on Atheism.\n\nRigault's revolutionary activity was anti-police and anti-establishment. He had \"spent long hours with a spyglass propped up on a Seine bookseller's stall, peering into the Prefecture of Police across the water,\" and with this information, he kept \"track of the coming and going of informers and plain-clothes men,\" and also managed the \"undoing of a particularly harsh and licentious judge, Delesvaux, who delighted in sentencing revolutionaries.\"\n\nWhile a fugitive in youth, he was hidden by Auguste Renoir, the famous painter, in the forests of Fontainebleau. He would return the favor by noticing Renoir destined for the firing squad in the Paris Commune, and having Renoir immediately pardoned and released.\n\nWhile the majority of the Commune's politicians were extremely progressive or left-wing, The New Yorker describes Rigault as \"the backward-looking aspect... A socialist polemicist of appetite and charm, he became, in effect, the head of the Commune's police force.\"\n\nOne American woman, Madame de Hegermann-Lindencrone, held audience with Rigault as Chief of Police, and described his quarters as barren of furniture, \"only the table...[and] two or three plain chairs... Just such a chamber as Robespierre might have occupied during \"his\" republic,\" claiming that Rigault \"took advantage of the unavoidable questions that belong to the making out of a passport.\"\n\nLike during most revolutions, his most popular acts as police chief were those in the beginning, when he freed those imprisoned by the imperial French government, which included revolutionaries, Anarchists, and Blanquists.\n\nAs police chief, the main occupation that Rigault worried himself with was with freeing Louis Auguste Blanqui, then being held by the monarchist forces of Versailles. His plan was to do a hostage trade of Archbishop Georges Darboy in exchange for Blanqui; but when this plan tragically failed, Darboy was executed by Commune forces in a stir of panic and desperation, killing one of the most reform-minded and democratically-oriented bishops of France.\n\nIf there was one issue over which the people of Paris instinctively and almost unanimously sympathized with Rigault, \"this was his violent anticlericalism,\" according to the historian, Alistair Horne. As chief of police, he searched and investigated churches for evidence of sympathy with Versailles (as with most forms of Revolution in Western Europe, this evidence meant \"any hidden arms\"). The arrest of Archbishop Darboy was done at the hand of Rigault. The following famous dialogue took place between a Jesuit and Rigault...\n\nOne historian of the Paris Commune wrote that, \"Atheism was a cardinal tenet of Blanqui's faith, and his disciple Rigault was an adept at priest-baiting.\"\n\nAfter the Paris Commune, he was \"simply executed with a bullet in the skull, on the street of Gay-Lussac on Wednesday, May 24, 1871.\" According to a more detailed account, Rigault had worn his National Guard uniform that day, in order to shame those who refused to keep up the fight. In this outfit, he was instantly picked up. At gunpoint by a Versailles officer, he was ordered to shout, \"Long Live Versailles!\" He responded, \"You are assassins! Long live the Commune!\" and was immediately shot.\n\n"}
{"id": "11222888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11222888", "title": "Religio licita", "text": "Religio licita\n\nReligio licita (\"permitted religion,\" also translated as \"approved religion\") is a phrase used in the \"Apologeticum\" of Tertullian to describe the special status of the Jews in the Roman Empire. It was not an official term in Roman law.\n\nAlthough it occurs in only one patristic text and in no classical Roman sources or inscriptions, the phrase has spawned abundant scholarly conjecture on its possible significance. Some scholars have gone so far as to imagine that all religions under the Empire had a legal status as either \"licita\" or \"illicita\", despite the absence of any ancient texts referring to these categories. The most extreme view has held that Tertullian's phrase means all foreign religions required a license from the Roman government. But it was Roman custom to permit or even encourage the subject peoples of the provinces and foreign communities in Rome to maintain their ancestral religion, unless specific practices were regarded as disruptive or subversive: \"A \"religio\" was \"licita\" for a particular group on the basis of tribe or nationality and traditional practices, coupled with the proviso that its rites were not offensive to the Roman people or its gods.\"\n\nTertullian uses the phrase in a passage arguing that Christians should be granted the same freedom to practice their religion as any other inhabitant of the Empire; the passage itself, and not the phrase \"religio licita\", is evidence of the general tolerance afforded under the Roman system of religion.\n\n\"Religio licita\" has sometimes been taken as a formal recognition or charter originating with Julius Caesar and embodied by various pieces of Roman legislation pertaining to the Jews, conceived of as a coherent policy. In fact, the various privileges and exemptions granted to the Jews were responses to specific complaints or requests, made in the context of the traditional patronage network, and had nothing to do with a supposed \"religio licita\" status. To the extent that the Romans respected Judaism, it was because of the religion's great antiquity, ancestral tradition being regarded as a source of social and political stability.\n\nIt has been observed that \"Roman magistrates treated the Jews the way they did not because they were consciously tolerant, but simply because they had no reason to hinder the free exercise of Jewish religious practices.\"\n\nSome scholars have argued that Christianity was declared a \"religio illicita\" (an impermissible or illegitimate religion) by Domitian in the 80s AD. Though this term appears nowhere, it has been conjectured that a declaration of Christianity as \"illicita\" was the legal basis for official persecutions. There was, however, \"no law, either existing section of criminal law, or special legislation directed against the Christians, under which Christians were prosecuted in the first two centuries.\" Rome lacked a uniform policy or legal code pertaining to foreign cults, and before Christian hegemony in the 4th century, there was no legal language to designate a concept analogous to \"heresy\" or crimes against orthodox religion.\n\nUnder Constantine the Great, Christianity and other religions became tolerated with the Edict of Milan in 313. Toleration did not extend to religions that practiced human sacrifice, such as Druidism. This state of affairs lasted until 380, when Nicene Christianity was adopted as the state religion of the Roman Empire, after which time persecution of non-Christian and non-Nicene cults began. Priscillian was executed for heresy in 385, and Theodosius I began outlawing Rome's traditional religious rituals in 391.\n\n"}
{"id": "9169274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9169274", "title": "Religion in North America", "text": "Religion in North America\n\nReligion in North America spans the period of Native American dwelling, European settlement, and the present day. Its various faiths have been a major influence on art, culture, philosophy and law.\n\nBetween them, the United States, Mexico and Canada account for 85 percent of the population of North America. Religion in each of these countries is dominated by Christianity (77.4), making it the largest religion in North America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "574203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574203", "title": "Sacred bull", "text": "Sacred bull\n\nNumerous peoples throughout the world have at one point in time honored bulls as sacred. In Sumerian mythology, Marduk is the \"bull of Utu\". In Hinduism, Shiva's steed is Nandi, the Bull. The sacred bull survives in the constellation Taurus. The bull, whether lunar as in Mesopotamia or solar as in India, is the subject of various other cultural and religious incarnations as well as modern mentions in New Age cultures.\n\nAurochs are depicted in many Paleolithic European cave paintings such as those found at Lascaux and Livernon in France. Their life force may have been thought to have magical qualities, for early carvings of the aurochs have also been found. The impressive and dangerous aurochs survived into the Iron Age in Anatolia and the Near East and were worshipped throughout that area as sacred animals; the earliest survivals of a bull worship are at neolithic Çatalhöyük.\n\nThe bull was seen in the constellation Taurus by the Chalcolithic and had marked the New Year at springtide by the Bronze Age, for 4000–1700 BCE.\n\nThe Sumerian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" depicts the killing by Gilgamesh and Enkidu of the Bull of Heaven as an act of defiance of the gods. From the earliest times, the bull was lunar in Mesopotamia (its horns representing the crescent moon).\n\nIn Egypt, the bull was worshiped as Apis, the embodiment of Ptah and later of Osiris. A long series of ritually perfect bulls were identified by the god's priests, housed in the temple for their lifetime, then embalmed and encased in a giant sarcophagus. A long sequence of monolithic stone sarcophagi was housed in the Serapeum, and was rediscovered by Auguste Mariette at Saqqara in 1851. The bull was also worshipped as Mnevis, the embodiment of Atum-Ra, in Heliopolis. \"Ka\" in Egyptian is both a religious concept of life-force/power and the word for bull.\n\nWe cannot recreate a specific context for the bull skulls with horns (\"bucrania\") preserved in an 8th millennium BCE sanctuary at Çatalhöyük in eastern Anatolia. The sacred bull of the Hattians, whose elaborate standards were found at Alaca Höyük alongside those of the sacred stag, survived in Hurrian and Hittite mythology as Seri and Hurri (\"Day\" and \"Night\"), the bulls who carried the weather god Teshub on their backs or in his chariot and grazed on the ruins of cities.\n\nBulls were a central theme in the Minoan civilization, with bull heads and bull horns used as symbols in the Knossos palace. Minoan frescos and ceramics depict bull-leaping, in which participants of both sexes vaulted over bulls by grasping their horns.\n\nThe Iranian language texts and traditions of Zoroastrianism have several different mythological bovine creatures. One of these is Gavaevodata, which is the Avestan name of a hermaphroditic \"uniquely created (\"-aevo.data\") cow (\"gav-\")\", one of Ahura Mazda's six primordial material creations that becomes the mythological progenitor of all beneficent animal life. Another Zoroastrian mythological bovine is Hadhayans, a gigantic bull so large that it could straddle the mountains and seas that divide the seven regions of the earth, and on whose back men could travel from one region to another. In medieval times, Hadhayans also came to be known as Srīsōk (Avestan *\"Thrisaok\", \"three burning places\"), which derives from a legend in which three \"Great Fires\" were collected on the creature's back. Yet another mythological bovine is that of the unnamed creature in the \"Cow's Lament\", an allegorical hymn attributed to Zoroaster himself, in which the soul of a bovine (\"geush urvan\") despairs over her lack of protection from an adequate herdsman. In the allegory, the cow represents humanity's lack of moral guidance, but in later Zoroastrianism, Geush Urvan became a yazata representing cattle. The 14th day of the month is named after her and is under her protection.\n\nBulls also appear on seals from the Indus Valley Civilisation.\n\nNandi appears in Hindu mythology as the primary vehicle and the principal \"gana\" (follower) of Shiva.\n\nIn Rig Veda, Indra was often praised as a Bull (Vrsabha – 'vrsa' means he and bha means being or uksan- a bull aged five to nine years, which is still growing or just reached its full growth), with bull being an icon of power and virile strength not just in Aryan literature but in many IE cultures.\n\nIn Cyprus, bull masks made from real skulls were worn in rites. Bull-masked terracotta figurines and Neolithic bull-horned stone altars have been found in Cyprus.\n\nThe Canaanite (and later Carthaginian) statue to which sacrifices were burnt, either as a deity or a type of sacrifice – Moloch – was referred to as a horned man, and likened to Cronus by the Romans. There may be a connection between sacrifice to the Cretan horned man Minotaur and Cronus' himself. Both Baʿal and El were associated with the bull in Ugaritic texts, as it symbolized both strength and fertility. \n\nCronus' son Zeus was raised on Crete in hiding from his father. Having consumed all of his own children (the gods) Cronus is fed a boulder by Zeus (to represent Zeus' own body so he appears consumed) and an emetic. His vomiting of the boulder and subsequently the other gods (his children) in the Titanomachy bears comparison with the volcanic eruption that appears to be described in Zeus' battle with Typhon in the \"Theogony\". Consequently, Cronus may be associated with the eruption of Thera through the myth of his defeat by Zeus. The later association between Canaanite religions in which child sacrifice took place Ezek. 20:25-26 and the association of child sacrifice with a horned god (as potentially on Crete and certainly in Carthage) may also be connected with the Greek myth of sending young men and women to the Minotaur, a bull-headed man.\n\nExodus 32:4 \"He took this from their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool and made it into a molten calf; and they said, 'This is your god, O Israel, who brought you up from the land of Egypt'.\"\n\nNehemiah 9:18 \"even when they made an idol shaped like a calf and said, 'This is your god who brought you out of Egypt!' They committed terrible blasphemies.\"\n\nCalf-idols are referred to later in the Tanakh, such as in the Book of Hosea, which would seem accurate as they were a fixture of near-eastern cultures.\n\nSolomon's \"Molten Sea\" basin stood on twelve brazen bulls.\n\nYoung bulls were set as frontier markers at Dan and Bethel, the frontiers of the Kingdom of Israel.\n\nMuch later, in Abrahamic religions, the bull motif became a bull demon or the \"horned devil\" in contrast and conflict to earlier traditions. The bull is familiar in Judeo-Christian cultures from the Biblical episode wherein an idol of the golden calf (() is made by Aaron and worshipped by the Hebrews in the wilderness of the Sinai Peninsula (Book of Exodus). The text of the Hebrew Bible can be understood to refer to the idol as representing a separate god, or as representing Yahweh himself, perhaps through an association or religious syncretism with Egyptian or Levantine bull gods, rather than a new deity in itself.\n\nAmong the Twelve Olympians, Hera's epithet \"Bo-opis\" is usually translated \"ox-eyed\" Hera, but the term could just as well apply if the goddess had the head of a cow, and thus the epithet reveals the presence of an earlier, though not necessarily more primitive, iconic view. (Heinrich Schlieman, 1976) Classical Greeks never otherwise referred to Hera simply as the cow, though her priestess Io was so literally a heifer that she was stung by a gadfly, and it was in the form of a heifer that Zeus coupled with her. Zeus took over the earlier roles, and, in the form of a bull that came forth from the sea, abducted the high-born Phoenician Europa and brought her, significantly, to Crete.\n\nDionysus was another god of resurrection who was strongly linked to the bull. In a worship hymn from Olympia, at a festival for Hera, Dionysus is also invited to come as a bull, \"with bull-foot raging.\" \"Quite frequently he is portrayed with bull horns, and in Kyzikos he has a tauromorphic image,\" Walter Burkert relates, and refers also to an archaic myth in which Dionysus is slaughtered as a bull calf and impiously eaten by the Titans.\n\nFor the Greeks, the bull was strongly linked to the Cretan Bull: Theseus of Athens had to capture the ancient sacred bull of Marathon (the \"Marathonian bull\") before he faced the Minotaur (Greek for \"Bull of Minos\"), who the Greeks imagined as a man with the head of a bull at the center of the labyrinth. Minotaur was fabled to be born of the Queen and a bull, bringing the king to build the labyrinth to hide his family's shame. Living in solitude made the boy wild and ferocious, unable to be tamed or beaten. Yet Walter Burkert's constant warning is, \"It is hazardous to project Greek tradition directly into the Bronze Age.\" Only one Minoan image of a bull-headed man has been found, a tiny Minoan sealstone currently held in the Archaeological Museum of Chania.\n\nIn the Classical period of Greece, the bull and other animals identified with deities were separated as their \"agalma\", a kind of heraldic show-piece that concretely signified their numinous presence.\n\nThe religious practices of the Roman Empire of the 2nd to 4th centuries included the \"taurobolium\", in which a bull was sacrificed for the well being of the people and the state. Around the mid-2nd century, the practice became identified with the worship of Magna Mater, but was not previously associated only with that cult (\"cultus\"). Public taurobolia, enlisting the benevolence of Magna Mater on behalf of the emperor, became common in Italy and Gaul, Hispania and Africa. The last public taurobolium for which there is an inscription was carried out at Mactar in Numidia at the close of the 3rd century. It was performed in honor of the emperors Diocletian and Maximian.\n\nAnother Roman mystery cult in which a sacrificial bull played a role was that of the 1st–4th century Mithraic Mysteries. In the so-called \"tauroctony\" artwork of that cult (\"cultus\"), and which appears in all its temples, the god Mithras is seen to slay a sacrificial bull. Although there has been a great deal of speculation on the subject, the myth (i.e. the \"mystery\", the understanding of which was the basis of the cult) that the scene was intended to represent remains unknown. Because the scene is accompanied by a great number of astrological allusions, the bull is generally assumed to represent the constellation of Taurus. The basic elements of the tauroctony scene were originally associated with Nike, the Greek goddess of victory.\n\nMacrobius lists the bull as an animal sacred to the god Neto/Neito, possibly being sacrifices to the deity.\n\nA prominent zoomorphic deity type is the divine bull. Tarvos Trigaranus (\"bull with three cranes\") is pictured on reliefs from the cathedral at Trier, Germany, and at Notre-Dame de Paris. In Irish mythology, the Donn Cuailnge plays a central role in the epic \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\" (\"The Cattle Raid of Cooley\"), which features the hero Cú Chulainn, which were collected in the seventh century \"Lebor na hUidre\" (\"Book of the Dun Cow\").\n\nPliny the Elder, writing in the first century, describes a religious ceremony in Gaul in which white-clad druids climbed a sacred oak, cut down the mistletoe growing on it, sacrificed two white bulls and used the mistletoe to cure infertility:\nThe practice of bullfighting in the Iberian Peninsula and southern France are connected with the legends of Saturnin of Toulouse and his protégé in Pamplona, Fermin. These are inseparably linked to bull-sacrifices by the vivid manner of their martyrdoms set by Christian hagiography in the third century.\n\nIn some Christian traditions, Nativity scenes are carved or assembled at Christmas time. Many show a bull or an ox near the baby Jesus, lying in a manger. Traditional songs of Christmas often tell of the bull and the donkey warming the infant with their breath. This refers (or, at least, is referred) to the beginning of the book of the prophet Isaiah, where he says: \"The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib.\" (Isaiah 1:3)\n\nTaurus (Latin for \"the Bull\") is one of the constellations of the zodiac, which means it is crossed by the plane of the ecliptic. Taurus is a large and prominent constellation in the northern hemisphere's winter sky. It is one of the oldest constellations, dating back to at least the Early Bronze Age when it marked the location of the Sun during the spring equinox. Its importance to the agricultural calendar influenced various bull figures in the mythologies of Ancient Sumer, Akkad, Assyria, Babylon, Egypt, Greece, and Rome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "271971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271971", "title": "Sacred king", "text": "Sacred king\n\nIn many historical societies, the position of kingship carries a sacral meaning, that is, it is identical with that of a high priest and judge. The concept of theocracy is related, although a sacred king need not necessarily rule through his religious authority; rather, the temporal position has a religious significance.\n\nSir James George Frazer identified - or invented - the concept of the sacred king in his study \"The Golden Bough\" (1890–1915), the title of which refers to the myth of the Rex Nemorensis. Frazer gives numerous examples, cited below, and was an inspiration for the myth and ritual school. However, \"the myth and ritual, or myth-ritualist, theory\" is disputed; many scholars now believe that myth and ritual share common paradigms, but not that one developed from the other.\n\nAccording to Frazer, the notion has prehistoric roots and occurs worldwide, on Java as in sub-Saharan Africa, with shaman-kings credited with rainmaking and assuring fertility and good fortune. The king might also be designated to suffer and atone for his people, meaning that the sacral king could be the pre-ordained victim in a human sacrifice, either killed at the end of his term in the position, or sacrificed in a time of crisis (e.g. the Blót of Domalde).\n\nThe Ashanti flogged a newly-selected king (\"Ashantehene\") before enthroning him.\n\nFrom the Bronze Age in the Near East, the enthronement and anointment of a monarch is a central religious ritual, reflected in the titles \"Messiah\" or \"Christ\", which became separated from worldly kingship. Thus Sargon of Akkad described himself as \"deputy of Ishtar\", just as the modern Catholic Pope takes the role of the \"Vicar of Christ\".\n\nKings are styled as shepherds from earliest times, e.g., the term applied to Sumerian princes such as Lugalbanda in the 3rd millennium BCE. The image of the shepherd combines the themes of leadership and the responsibility to supply food and protection, as well as superiority.\n\nAs the mediator between the people and the divine, the sacral king was credited with special wisdom (e.g. Solomon or Gilgamesh) or vision (e.g. via oneiromancy).\n\nStudy of the concept was introduced by Sir James George Frazer in his influential book \"The Golden Bough\" (1890–1915); sacral kingship plays a role in Romanticism and Esotericism (e.g. Julius Evola) and some currents of Neopaganism (Theodism).\nThe school of Pan-Babylonianism derived much of the religion described in the Hebrew Bible from cults of sacral kingship in ancient Babylonia.\n\nThe so-called British and Scandinavian cult-historical schools maintained that the king personified a god and stood at the center of the national or tribal religion. The English \"myth and ritual school\" concentrated on anthropology and folklore, while the Scandinavian \"Uppsala school\" emphasized Semitological study.\n\nA sacred king, according to the systematic interpretation of mythology developed by Frazer in \"The Golden Bough\" (published 1890), was a king who represented a solar deity in a periodically re-enacted fertility rite. Frazer seized upon the notion of a substitute king and made him the keystone of his theory of a universal, pan-European, and indeed worldwide fertility myth, in which a consort for the Goddess was annually replaced. According to Frazer, the sacred king represented the spirit of vegetation, a divine John Barleycorn. He came into being in the spring, reigned during the summer, and ritually died at harvest time, only to be reborn at the winter solstice to wax and rule again. The spirit of vegetation was therefore a \"dying and reviving god\". Osiris, Adonis, Dionysus, Attis and many other familiar figures from Greek mythology and classical antiquity were re-interpreted in this mold. The sacred king, the human embodiment of the dying and reviving vegetation god, was supposed to have originally been an individual chosen to rule for a time, but whose fate was to suffer as a sacrifice, to be offered back to the earth so that a new king could rule for a time in his stead.\n\nEspecially in Europe during Frazer's early twentieth century heyday, it launched a cottage industry of amateurs looking for \"pagan survivals\" in such things as traditional fairs, maypoles, and folk arts like morris dancing. It was widely influential in literature, being alluded to by D. H. Lawrence, James Joyce, Ezra Pound, and in T. S. Eliot's \"The Waste Land\", among other works.\n\nRobert Graves used Frazer's work in \"The Greek Myths\" and made it one of the foundations of his own personal mythology in \"The White Goddess\", and in the fictional \"Seven Days in New Crete\" he depicted a future in which the institution of a sacrificial sacred King is revived. Margaret Murray, the principal theorist of witchcraft as a \"pagan survival,\" used Frazer's work to propose the thesis that many Kings of England who died as kings, most notably William Rufus, were secret pagans and witches, whose deaths were the re-enactment of the human sacrifice that stood at the centre of Frazer's myth. An idea used by fantasy writer Katherine Kurtz in her novel \"Lammas Night\".\n\n\nMonarchies carried sacral kingship into the Middle Ages, encouraging the idea of kings installed \"by the Grace of God\". See:\n\nMany of Rosemary Sutcliff's novels are recognized as being directly influenced by Frazer, depicting individuals accepting the burden of leadership and the ultimate responsibility of personal sacrifice, including Sword at Sunset, The Mark of the Horse Lord, and Sun Horse, Moon Horse.\n\nIn addition to its appearance in her novel \"Lammas Night\" noted above, Katherine Kurtz also uses the idea of sacred kingship in her novel \"The Quest for Saint Camber\".\n\nGeneral\n\n\"English school\"\n\n\"Scandinavian school\"\n\n"}
{"id": "666420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666420", "title": "Sahaja Yoga", "text": "Sahaja Yoga\n\nSahaja Yoga is a religious movement founded in 1970 by Nirmala Srivastava (1923-2011), more widely known as Her Holiness Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi or as \"Mother\" by her followers, who are called Sahaja yogis. \n\nSahaja Yoga is not only the name of the movement, but also the meditation technique the movement teaches and the state of awareness that is said to be achieved by the technique. According to the movement, this state is the state of self-realization produced by kundalini awakening and is accompanied by the experience of thoughtless awareness or mental silence. The movement teaches the belief that self-realization through kundalini awakening is a transformation which can be experienced on the central nervous system and results in a more \"moral, united, integrated and balanced\" personality.\n\nSrivastava described Sahaja Yoga as the pure, universal religion integrating all other religions. She also claimed that she herself was a divine incarnation, more precisely an incarnation of the Holy Ghost, or the Adi Shakti of the Hindu tradition, the great mother goddess who had come to save humanity. This is also how she is regarded by most of her devotees.\n\nThe teachings, practices and beliefs of Sahaja Yoga are mainly Hindu-based, with a predominance of elements from mystical traditions, as well as local customs of India. There are however important elements of Christian origin, such as the eternal battle between good and evil. References to a variety of other religious, spiritual, mystical as well as modern scientific frameworks are also interwoven in Srivastava's teachings, although to a lesser degree.\n\nSahaja Yoga ashrams are present in diverse countries which include the following : Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Italy, Kuwait, Nigeria, United Kingdom, United States of America, but are not limited to the aforementioned countries.\n\nThe word 'Sahaja' in Sanskrit has two components: 'Saha' meaning 'with you' and 'ja' meaning 'born'. \"A Dictionary of Buddhism\" gives the literal translation of Sahaja as \"innate\" and defines it as \"denoting the natural presence of enlightenment (bodhi) or purity.\" and Yoga means \"union\" or \"yoking\" and refers to a spiritual path or a state of spiritual absorption. According to a book published by the movement, Sahaja Yoga means \"spontaneous\" and \"born with you\" meaning that the kundalini is born within us and can be awakened spontaneously, without effort.\n\nThe term 'Sahaja Yoga' goes back at least to the 15th Century Indian mystic Kabir. and has also been used to refer to Surat Shabd Yoga.\n\nIn 2000, the term 'Sahaja Yoga' was trademarked in the United States by Vishwa Nirmala Dharma.\n\nBefore starting Sahaja Yoga, its founder Nirmala Srivastava earned a reputation as a faith healer. With a small group of devotees around her, she began spreading her message of Sahaja Yoga in India in the year 1970. As she moved with her husband to London, UK, she continued her work there, and year by year the movement grew and spread throughout Europe, by the mid-80's reaching North America. In 1989, Srivastava made her first trip to Russia and Eastern Europe. Srivastava charged no money, insisting that her lesson was a birthright which should be freely available to all. \"There can be no peace in the world until there is peace within,\" she said.\n\nSahaja Yoga beliefs are seen by the organisation as a re-discovered ancient knowledge that should be treated respectfully and scientifically, like a hypothesis and if found by experiments as truth, should be accepted. Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi is considered to be an \"avatar\" by many of her followers and as a carrier of the divine presence which leads some critics to find the organization as cultic.\nAdvanced concepts are not generally taught until a beginner is understood to have gained enough knowledge of their own subtle system through actual experience. Without direct experience of the meditation, some people have reported difficulties understanding or proceeding to the more advanced material. Sociologist, Judith Coney, for example, reported facing a challenge in getting behind what she called \"the public facade\". She described Sahaja yogis as adopting a low profile with uncommitted individuals to avoid unnecessary conflict.\n\nSahaja Yoga also states that spreading Sahaja Yoga techniques should be free for everyone.\n\nJudith Coney observed that the movement tolerates a variety of world views and levels of commitment with some practitioners choosing to remain on the periphery.\n\nSahaja Yoga believes that in addition to our physical body there is a subtle body composed of nadis (channels) and chakras (energy centres). There is no biomedical evidence of chakras. Psychoanalyst Sudhir Kakar writes that Nirmala Srivastava's additions to this widespread traditional 'tantric' model include giving it a scientific, neurological veneer, an elaboration of the health aspects and an introduction of notions of traditional Christian morality. Nirmala Srivastava equates the Sushumna nadi with the parasympathetic nervous system, the Ida nadi with the left and the Pingala nadi with the right sides of the sympathetic nervous system.\nSahaja Yoga believes that the chakras can be balanced by awakening the kundalini in the sacrum bone, which is conceived of as a normally dormant 'mother' energy. Nirmala Srivastava has said that the kundalini is the reflection within us of the Holy Spirit or Adi (Primordial) Shakti. She has said that kundalini \"is the desire of God... and the desire of God is the Shakti\" and that yoga is impossible without kundalini awakening. As the kundalini rises through these centres, the qualities of the chakras are said to begin manifesting spontaneously. Most illnesses are said to be a result of damage to the chakras, and kundalini is said to repair them.\n\nAccording to Sahaja Yoga, once the sahasrara (topmost) chakra is pierced by the kundalini, a person will feel a cool breeze on top of their head and/or on their hands. The chakras and nadis are believed by Sahaja Yoga to have associated places on the hands. Sensations of heat or coolness in the hands, head and/or body are used to make purported diagnoses of imbalances in the different chakras and nadis. These sensations (referred to as 'vibrations') are interpreted in Sahaja Yoga as indicating Self-Realization or an \"encounter with Reality.\" The vibrations sensed are believed to be an objective divine energy that can even be caught on camera.\n\nA Sahaja Yoga belief is that upon self-realization, the practitioner may also experience thoughtless awareness (Nirvichar Samādhi).\n\nVishwa Nirmala Dharma (trans: Universal Pure Religion, also known as Sahaja Yoga International) is the organizational part of the movement. It is a registered organisation in countries such as Colombia, the United States of America, and Austria. It is registered as a religion in Spain. \n\nThe organisation is governed by the World Council for the Advancement of Sahaja Yoga (WCASY), proposed in 2003 and formed the following year.\n\nIn addition to directly promoting Sahaja Yoga, the council promotes Sahaja culture, runs schools, a health centre, a youth movement, and a project for the rehabilitation of \"destitute women and orphaned children\".\n\nThere are no available statistical data about Sahaja Yoga membership. In 2001, the number of core members worldwide were estimated to 10,000, in addition to which around 100,000 practitioners more or less in the periphery were estimated to be found. There are varying reports about the movement's distribution worldwide. According to the Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi Sahaja Yoga World Foundation, Sahaja Yoga centers are established in over 95 countries. In a news article in Indian Express published on the occasion of Srivastava's death in 2011, however, Sahaja Yoga centers were told to be found in over 140 countries.\n\n\nSahaja Yoga's youth movement is called \"Yuvashakti\" (also \"Nirmal Shakti Yuva Sangha\"), from the Sanskrit words Yuva (Youth) and Shakti (Power).\n\nThe movement is active in forums such as the World Youth Conference and TakingITGlobal which aim at discussing global issues, and ways of solving them.\n\nThe Yuvashakti participated in the 2000 \"Civil Society & Governance Project\" in which they were \"instrumental in reaching out to women from the poor communities and providing them with work\".\n\nThe \"Vishwa Nirmala Prem Ashram\" is a not-for profit project by the NGO Vishwa Nirmala Dharma (Sahaja Yoga International) located in Noida, Delhi, India, opened in 2003. The ashram is a \"facility where women and girls are rehabilitated by being taught meditation and other skills that help them overcome trauma\".\n\nThe methods for practising Sahaja Yoga are made available free of charge to those interested. According to the official Sahaja Yoga website there is a fee for attending international pujas to cover costs and voluntary dakshina.\n\nAccording to author David V. Barrett, \"Shri Mataji neither charged for her lectures nor for her ability to give Self Realization, nor does one have to become a member of this organisation. She insisted that one cannot pay for enlightenment and she continued to denounce the false self-proclaimed 'gurus' who are more interested in the seekers' purse than their spiritual ascent\". However, the movement had been criticised because of encouragement of its members to make donations to pay the travel charges for Mataji's visits to their respective countries.\n\nJudith Coney found that most people who leave the movement voluntarily still had positive things to say about it. A smaller group of ex-members have made complaints against the movement which have been reported in the press. In 2001, \"The Independent\" reported that certain ex-members say \"that Sahaja Yoga is a cult which aims to control the minds of its members\" and ex-members claim that the organisation insists all family ties are broken and all communication with them cease. The article further details a number of beliefs - including that crying children are possessed by daemons, that negative and positive vibrations need 'clearing', advocates husbands slapping their spouses and hides many of the more occult practices from new members - including the high costs for participating in rituals. In 2005, \"The Record\" reported that some critics who feel that the group is a cult have started their own websites. In response to this, Sahaja yogis in one centre reflected on the ways in which some of their beliefs are disguised when in contact with non-members. Coney described this discussion as a \"frank and revealing\".\n\nA 2008 court case in Brussels ruled that Sahaja Yoga had been wrongly labelled as a cult by a Belgian state authority and awarded the group compensation.\n\nIn 2013, \"De Morgen\" reported that the Belgian Department of State Security monitors how often politicians are contacted and lobbied by organisations. The list of organisations includes Sahaja Yoga, as well as Scientology and The Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nIn 2001, The \"Evening Standard\" reported that Sahaja Yoga has been \"described as a dangerous cult\" and \"has a dissident website created by former members\". The reporter, John Crace, wrote about an event he attended and noted that a Sahaja Yoga representative asked him to feel free to talk to whomever he wanted. He remarked, \"Either their openness is a PR charm offensive, or they genuinely have nothing to hide.\" He proposed that \"one of the key definitions of a cult is the rigour with which it strives to recruit new members\" and concluded that there was no aggressive recruitment squeeze.\n\nA 2001 INFORM leaflet says that the emphasis on complete devotion has led to problems and controversy. There is a culture amongst a minority of Sahaja yogis to believe that those who deviate in particular ways may be possessed by 'negativity' or may be said to be mentally abnormal. Those who fight the pressure to follow the Guru's suggestions and radically change their lifestyle risk being expelled. It is claimed that this may bring problems for those who still believe in the power of the Guru and fear 'losing vibrations'. This expulsion is not enforced but is something understood socially and other yogis are not expected to change the way they react to those who have been expelled. It is also not a permanent expulsion; there have been cases of returning Sahaja yogis following brief periods 'out'.\n\nDavid V. Barrett wrote that some former members say that they were expelled from the movement because they \"resisted influence that Mataji had over their lives\". According to Barrett, the movement's founder's degree of control over members' lives has given rise to concerns. The Austrian Ministry for Environment, Youth and Family states that \"Sahaja Yoga\" regards Nirmala Srivastava as an authority who cannot be questioned.\n\nIn the meditation practice of the Sahaja movement the focus is on thoughts ceasing.\n\nA study comparing practitioners of Sahaja Yoga meditation with a group of non-meditators doing a simple relaxation exercise measured a drop in skin temperature in the meditators compared to a rise in skin temperature in the non-meditators as they relaxed. The researchers noted that all other meditation studies that have observed skin temperature have recorded increases and none has recorded a decrease in skin temperature. This suggests that Sahaja Yoga meditation, being a mental silence approach, may differ both experientially and physiologically from simple relaxation. Other brain characteristics have also been found.\n\nSahaja meditators appear to benefit from lower depression and scored above a broad control group for emotional well-being and mental health measures on SF-36 ratings, but this may reflect other factors, such as meditators being more interested in self care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8498658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8498658", "title": "Sokho", "text": "Sokho\n\nSokho, alternate spellings: Sokhoh, Sochoh, Soco, Sokoh, Hebrew: שוכה ,שוכו ,שכה, is the name given to two ancient towns in the territorial domain of Judah, the remains of both having been identified. \n\nBoth towns were given the name \"Shuweikah\" in Arabic, a diminutive of the Arabic \"shawk\", \"thorn.\" One is located to the south of Hebron and has been identified with the twin ruins known as \"Khirbet Shuwaikah Fauka\" and \"Tahta\" (Upper and Lower Shuwaikah), 6 km southwest of Eshtamoa in the Hebron Hills district (). The other ruin is the more popular of the two, situated on a hilltop overlooking the Elah Valley between Adullam and Azekah (), in the lower stratum of the Judaean hills. The site, occupied as early as the Iron Age, was visited by Claude Conder in 1881, who writes that it was already a ruin in his days, with two wells in the valley towards the west. A third town by this name, Shuwaykah, was located in the Hefer region (), north of Tulkarm.\n\nAlthough listed in Joshua 15:35 as being a city in the plain, it is actually partly in the hill country, partly in the plain. The Philistines encamped between Sokho and Azekah in the Elah Valley before Goliath's historic encounter with David, the son of Jesse (). David slew the Philistine giant with a stone slung from a shepherd's sling. Rehoboam fortified the place (), but it is not clear which of the two sites is referred to. Socho was one of the cities occupied temporarily by the Philistines in the time of Ahaz ().\n\nThe word \"Sokho\" appears on certain LMLK seals during the Judean monarchy, believed by many scholars to be one of four cities that acted in some administrative capacity.\n\nThe Mishnaic Rabbi Antigonus of Sokho, mentioned in \"Ethics of the Fathers\" (Pirkei Avot 1:3), likely came from the Hebron-region town. Rabbi Levi Sukia, of the first generation of Amoraim, also came from Sokho (Jerusalem Talmud, Eruvim).\n\nIn Byzantine times, Eusebius described Sokho (Σοκχωθ) as a double village at the ninth milestone between Eleutheropolis (Bet Guvrin) and Jerusalem (Eusebius, Onom. 156:18 ff.), which would correspond to the Elah Valley location. The 6th-century Madaba Map also depicts Sokho (Σωκω).\n\nThe hill of Tel Sokho is now known as \"\"Givat HaTurmosim\",\" or \"Hill of the Lupines.\" In late March, the entire hill is covered with wild blue Mountain lupines (\"Lupinus pilosus\") and becomes a popular outing destination for Israeli families. \nThe hill is surrounded by precipitous slopes on its north side, making it almost impassable. Trails ascend the mountain on its northwestern side and southeastern sides. The Elah Valley runs in a westerly-easterly direction on its north side, the hilltop affording a good view of the valley below. \nOn the elevated plateau, one can see the foundations of ancient dwellings carved into the bedrock with individual chambers divided by broken stone protuberances. Caves and grottos dot the landscape, and cisterns are carved deep into the rock. Oak trees, fig trees and terebinths grow on the mountainside and piles of large ashlar boulders, covered with lichen, attest to the presence of a defensive wall around the city in antiquity. According to the biblical narrative, when Joshua captured the city from the Canaanites, the city and environs became the inheritance of Judah.\nExcavations at the foot of the northern slope exposed a Byzantine building from the fifth–sixth centuries. Remains from Iron Age II were uncovered in another dig at the foot of the northern slope, and walls dating to the Middle Bronze Age were discovered in probe trenches. Potsherds dating to the Late Bronze Age and later periods were gathered, along with a terracotta figurine of reddish brown clay depicting a naked woman. The discovery of a preëxilic stamp with the imprint \"La-melekh\" (למלך) and where Sokho is named with another three cities has led archaeologists to conclude that Sokho may have served as an administrative or storage center. One of the wells to the west in the valley, mentioned by Claude Conder, was destroyed with explosives by Arab infiltrators (\"mistanenim\") in 1956, never being rebuilt. An intensive survey conducted in 2010 included an examination of Middle Bronze and Iron Age burial caves, as well as slag from a pottery workshop (which probably dates to the Crusader/Mamluk period).\n\n"}
{"id": "19064519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19064519", "title": "Sophia (journal)", "text": "Sophia (journal)\n\nSophia is an academic journal devoted to professional pursuits in philosophy, metaphysics, religion and moral thinking, founded in 1962 by Max Charlesworth and Graeme de Graaf. From 2001 Sophia was published by Ashgate Publishing in collaboration with the Australasian Society for Philosophy of Religion and Theology, and Australasian Society for Asian and Comparative Philosophy (University of Melbourne and Deakin University respectively). The journal has since moved to Springer in Dordrecht, with its editorial office split between Melbourne, Australia and both coasts of the United States. The Editors-in-Chief are Purushottama Bilimoria, Patrick Hutchings, and Jay Garfield.\n\nTogether with the Australasian Journal of Philosophy, it is one of the most prominent Australasian (meaning, Australia, New Zealand, The Pacific, Singapore, & H K) journals in the areas of philosophy, ethics and religion It prides itself in its rigorously scholarly profile, which is reflected in the international composition of its editorial board and the diverse philosophical traditions in which its contributors work, ranging from analytic, continental, to Asian/cross-cultural, feminist and indigenous concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "14743820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14743820", "title": "Sports chaplain", "text": "Sports chaplain\n\nA sports chaplain provides pastoral care for the sports person and the broader sports community including the coaches, administrators and their families.\n\nChaplains to sports communities have existed since the middle of the 20th century and have significantly grown in the past 20 years. The United States, United Kingdom and Australia have well established Christian sports chaplaincy ministries. \n\nIn 1982 a congress held in Hong Kong on sports mission saw sports chaplains and those interested in Mission to people engaged in sports come together from around the world including recognised representatives from North and South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, the sub-continent and Australasia. It was this congress that created the inspiration to further develop or initiate national sports missions and sports chaplains. \n\nSports chaplains consist of people from many different walks of life. Most commonly, the chaplains are ministers or full-time Christian workers but always, chaplaincy work is done without charge or any financial remuneration. Often, sports chaplains to a particular sport are former participants of that sport. This helps the chaplain to not only provide spiritual support and guidance to a player, but gives them the ability to empathize and relate to some of the challenges facing the participant with whom they are ministering.\n\nThere were 193 multi-faith sports chaplains at the London 2012 Olympics.\n\nThe USA have various sport related chaplaincy organizations. Along with major Denominations, Ministries such as Athletes in Action and Fellowship of Christian Athletes also provide chaplains to various sports at the collegiate and professional levels. Every major professional sport in the United States has at least some sports chaplaincy. Some sports are more coordinated, like Major League Baseball (see www.baseballchapel.org), but most are far more loosely structured with each chaplain having a program that best suits their team and individual situation. Every MLB, NFL, NBA & Major League Soccer franchise has a chaplain. Due to financial constraints, very few chaplains travel with their teams. In some cases, especially when an individual coach understands the value of the chaplain to their team, the coach may invite the chaplain to come on a road trip. This happens far more frequently when a team is traveling a short distance to a neighboring city by bus or motor coach, but in some cases, coaches have paid (out of their own pocket) to bring a chaplain on a road trip. \n\nIn recent years, much more work is being done by chaplains in specific sports to coordinate and work together so that their players can have support and encouragement from a chaplain even when they are “on the road”. \n\nIn addition, the US Olympic Team travels with one or more chaplains, primarily to provide emotional support to the athletes.\n\nSports Chaplaincy UK, formerly known as SCORE was established in 1991 under the guidance and direction of the Baptist Union of Great Britain to use the specialist experience of one of their ministers to pioneer sports chaplaincy and sports ministry.\n\nCalled Sports Chaplaincy UK since 2011, the Christian charity seeks to resource over 250 chaplains in a variety of sports and situations. Their chaplains are mainly in football, rugby union, rugby league, cricket and horseracing. They supplied over 40 chaplains to serve at the London2012 Olympics. All offer pastoral and spiritual support in a sensitive, non-judgement, non-sectarian way. All work with integrity and professionalism amongst the whole community of their clubs - the players, coaches, organisation and support staff. There is a real sense of affirmation and endorsement from the widest spectrum of the sports world, from the chaplains' work and involvement.\n\nAs a direct result of the Hong Kong 1982 Congress on Sports Mission, pioneered by Mark Tronson, the Australian Heads of Churches approved a Sports Chaplaincy mission, which was named the 'Sports and Leisure Ministry' (SLM). It was initially housed within the well established InterChurch Trade and Industry Mission (ITIM). In 1985 Australian Heads of Churches gave SLM its independence and in 1987 its Heads of Churches appointed board members adopted incorporation. In 2000 Heads of Churches released its founder, Mark Tronson, to establish Well-Being Australia, specialising in athlete respite. Five years later in 2005 SLM changed its name to Sports Chaplaincy Australia (SCA). \n\nAs a result of its solid foundation under Australian Heads of Churches, SLM (now SCA) has seen many professional sports in Australia adopt sport chaplains. Over 180 chaplains now serve in sports and sport organizations such as cricket, motor racing, tennis, rugby league, basketball, baseball, soccer, golf, yachting, skiing, netball, rodeo and horse racing, the Australian Institute of Sport, and State Institutes of Sport.\n\n\nSports Chaplaincy Australia\nWell-Being Australia\n"}
{"id": "47059715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47059715", "title": "Teuila cards", "text": "Teuila cards\n\nTeuila cards are a pack of fortune-telling cards, apparently brought from Samoa by Isobel Strong, step-daughter of Robert Louis Stevenson.\n\nBoth backs and fronts are coloured pictures, the back depicting a woman using the cards.\n\n"}
{"id": "266899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266899", "title": "Third eye", "text": "Third eye\n\nThe third eye (also called the mind's eye, or inner eye) is a mystical and esoteric concept of a speculative invisible eye which provides perception beyond ordinary sight.\n\nIn certain dharmic spiritual traditions the third eye refers to the ajna (or brow) chakra. The third eye refers to the gate that leads to inner realms and spaces of higher consciousness. In New Age spirituality, the third eye often symbolizes a state of enlightenment or the evocation of mental images having deeply personal spiritual or psychological significance. The third eye is often associated with religious visions, clairvoyance, the ability to observe chakras and auras, precognition, and out-of-body experiences. People who are claimed to have the capacity to utilize their third eyes are sometimes known as \"seers\". In Hinduism, the third eye is said to be located around the middle of the forehead, slightly above the junction of the eyebrows. \n\nIn Taoism and many traditional Chinese religious sects such as Chan (called Zen in Japanese), \"third eye training\" involves focusing attention on the point between the eyebrows with the eyes closed, and while the body is in various qigong postures. The goal of this training is to allow students to tune into the correct \"vibration\" of the universe and gain a solid foundation on which to reach more advanced meditation levels. Taoism teaches that the third eye, also called the mind's eye, is situated between the two physical eyes, and expands up to the middle of the forehead when opened. Taoism claims that the third eye is one of the main energy centers of the body located at the sixth Chakra, forming a part of the main meridian, the line separating left and right hemispheres of the body. In Taoist alchemical traditions, the third eye is the frontal part of the \"Upper Dan Tien\" (upper cinnabar field) and is given the evocative name \"muddy pellet\".\n\nAccording to the Christian teaching of Father Richard Rohr, the concept of the third eye is a metaphor for non-dualistic thinking; the way the mystics see. In Rohr's concept, mystics employ the first eye (sensory input such as sight) and the second eye (the eye of reason, meditation, and reflection), \"but they know not to confuse knowledge with depth, or mere correct information with the transformation of consciousness itself. The mystical gaze builds upon the first two eyes—and yet goes further.\" Rohr refers to this level of awareness as \"having the mind of Christ\".\n\nAdherents of theosophist H.P. Blavatsky have suggested that the third eye is in fact the partially dormant pineal gland, which resides between the two hemispheres of the brain. Reptiles and amphibians sense light via a third parietal eye—a structure associated with the pineal gland—which serves to regulate their circadian rhythms, and for navigation, as it can sense the polarization of light. C.W. Leadbeater claimed that by extending an \"etheric tube\" from the third eye, it is possible to develop microscopic and telescopic vision. It has been asserted by Stephen Phillips that the third eye's microscopic vision is capable of observing objects as small as quarks. According to this belief, humans had in far ancient times an actual third eye in the back of the head with a physical and spiritual function. Over time, as humans evolved, this eye atrophied and sunk into what today is known as the pineal gland. Dr. Rick Strassman has hypothesized that the pineal gland, which maintains light sensitivity, is responsible for the production and release of DMT (dimethyltryptamine), an entheogen which he believes possibly could be excreted in large quantities at the moments of birth and death.\n\nThe use of the phrase \"mind's eye\" does not imply that there is a single or unitary place in the mind or brain where visual consciousness occurs. Philosophers such as Daniel Dennett have critiqued this view. However, others, such as Johnjoe McFadden of the University of Surrey in the United Kingdom and the New Zealand-based neurobiologist Susan Pockett, propose that the brain's electromagnetic field is consciousness itself, thus causing the perception of a unitary location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7912947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7912947", "title": "Traditional African masks", "text": "Traditional African masks\n\nRitual and ceremonial masks are an essential feature of the traditional culture of the peoples of a part of Sub-Saharan Africa, e.g. roughly between the Sahara and the Kalahari Desert. While the specific implications associated to ritual masks widely vary in different cultures, some traits are common to most African cultures. For instance, masks usually have a spiritual and religious meaning and they are used in ritual dances and social and religious events, and a special status is attributed to the artists that create masks to those that wear them in ceremonies. In most cases, mask-making is an art that is passed on from father to son, along with the knowledge of the symbolic meanings conveyed by such masks. African masks come in all different colours, such as red, black, orange, and brown. \n\nTraditional African masks are one of the elements of great African art that have most evidently influenced Europe and Western art in general; in the 20th century, artistic movements such as cubism, fauvism and expressionism have often taken inspiration from vast and diverse heritage of African masks. Influences of this heritage can also be found in other traditions such as South- and Central American masked Carnival parades.\n\nIn most traditional African cultures, the person who wears a ritual mask conceptually loses his or her human life and turns into the spirit represented by the mask itself( it is sad). This transformation of the mask wearer into a spirit usually relies on other practices, such as specific types of music and dance, or ritual costumes that contribute to conceal the mask-wearer's human identity. The mask wearer thus becomes a sort of medium that allows for a dialogue between the community and the spirits (usually those of the dead or nature-related spirits). Masked dances are a part of most traditional African ceremonies related to weddings, funerals, initiation rites, and so on. Some of the most complex rituals that have been studied by scholars are found in Nigerian cultures such as those of the Yoruba and Edo peoples, that bear some resemblances to the Western notion of theatre. \nSince every mask has a specific spiritual meaning, most traditions comprise several different traditional masks. The traditional religion of the Dogon people of Mali, for example, comprises three main cults (the \"Awa\" or cult of the dead, the \"Bini\" or cult of the communication with the spirits, and the \"Lebe\" or cult of nature); each of these has its pantheon of spirits, corresponding to 78 different types of masks overall. It is often the case that the artistic quality and complexity of a mask reflects the relative importance of the portrayed spirit in the systems of beliefs of a particular people; for example, simpler masks such as the \"kple kple\" of the Baoulé people of Côte d'Ivoire (essentially a circle with minimal eyes, mouth and horns) are associated to minor spirits.\n\nAfrican masks are usually shaped after a human face or some animal's muzzle, albeit rendered in a sometimes highly abstract form. The inherent lack of realism in African masks (and African art in general) is justified by the fact that most African cultures clearly distinguish the essence of a subject from its looks, the former, rather than the latter, being the actual subject of artistical representation. An extreme example is given by \"nwantantay\" masks of the Bwa people (Burkina Faso) that represent the flying spirits of the forest; since these spirits are deemed to be invisible, the corresponding masks are shaped after abstract, purely geometrical forms.\nStylish elements in a mask's looks are codified by the tradition and may either identify a specific community or convey specific meanings. For example, both the Bwa and the Buna people of Burkina Faso have hawk masks, with the shape of the beak identifying a mask as either Bwa or Buna. In both cases, the hawk's wings are decorated with geometric patterns that have moral meanings; saw-shaped lines represent the hard path followed by ancestors, while chequered patterns represent the interaction of opposites (male-female, night-day, and so on)\n\nTraits representing moral values are found in many cultures. Masks from the Senufo people of Ivory Coast, for example, have their eyes half closed, symbolizing a peaceful attitude, self-control, and patience. In Sierra Leone and elsewhere, small eyes and mouth represent humility, and a wide, protruding forehead represents wisdom. In Gabon, large chins and mouths represent authority and strength. The Grebo of the Ivory Coast carve masks with round eyes to represent alertness and anger, with the straight nose to represent unwillingness to retreat.\n\nAnimals are common subjects in African masks. Animal masks might actually represent the spirit of animals, so that the mask-wearer becomes a medium to speak to animals themselves (e.g. to ask wild beasts to stay away from the village); in many cases, nevertheless, an animal is also (sometimes mainly) a symbol of specific virtues. Common animal subjects include the buffalo (usually representing strength, as in the Baoulé culture), crocodile, hawk, hyena, warthog and antelope. Antelopes have a fundamental role in many cultures of the Mali area (for example in Dogon and Bambara culture) as representatives of agriculture. Dogon antelope masks are highly abstract, with a general rectangular shape and many horns (a representation of abundant harvest. Bambara antelope masks (called \"chiwara\") have long horns representing the thriving growth of millet, legs (representing roots), long ears (representing the songs sung by the working women at harvest time), and a saw-shaped line that represents the path followed by the Sun between solstices. A 12th/13th century mural from Old Dongola, the capital of the Nubian kingdom of Makuria, depicts dancing masks decorated with cowrie shells imitating some animal with long snouts and big ears.\n\nA common variation on the animal-mask theme is the composition of several distinct animal traits in a single mask, sometimes along with human traits. Merging distinct animal traits together is sometimes a means to represent unusual, exceptional virtue or high status. For example, the Poro secret societies of the Senufo people of the Ivory Coast have masks that celebrate the exceptional power of the society by merging three different \"danger\" symbols: antelope horns, crocodile teeth, and warthog fangs. Another well-known example is that of \"kifwebe\" masks of the Songye people (Congo basin), that mix the stripes of a zebra (or okapi), the teeth of a crocodile, the eyes of a chameleon, the mouth of an aardvark, the crest of a rooster, the feathers of an owl and more.\n\nAnother common subject of African masks is a woman's face, usually based on a specific culture's ideal of feminine beauty. Female masks of the Punu people of Gabon, for example, have long curved eyelashes, almond-shaped eyes, thin chin, and traditional ornaments on their cheeks, as all these are considered good-looking traits. Feminine masks of the Baga people have ornamental scars and breasts. In many cases, wearing masks that represent feminine beauty is strictly reserved to men.\n\nOne of the well-known representations of female beauty is the \"Idia\" mask of Benin. It is believed to have been commissioned by a king of Benin in memory of his mother. To honor his dead mother, the king wore the mask on his hip during special ceremonies.\n\nAs the veneration of defunct ancestors is a fundamental element of most African traditional cultures, it is not surprising that the dead is also a common subject for masks. Masks referring to dead ancestors are most often shaped after a human skull. A well-known example is the \"mwana pwo\" (literally, \"young woman\") of the Chokwe people (Angola), that mixes elements referring to feminine beauty (well-proportioned oval face, small nose and chin) and other referring to death (sunken eye sockets, cracked skin, and tears); it represents a female ancestor who died young, venerated in rites such as circumcision rites and ceremonies associated to the renewal of life. As veneration of the dead is most often associated to fertility and reproduction, many dead-ancestor masks also have sexual symbols; the \"ndeemba\" mask of the Yaka people (Angola and DR Congo), for example, is shaped after a skull complemented with a phallic-shaped nose.\n\nA special class of ancestor masks are those related to notable, historical or legendary people. The \"mwaash ambooy\" mask of the Kuba people (DR Congo), for example, representing the legendary founder of the Kuba Kingdom, Woot, while the \"mgady amwaash\" mask represents his wife Mweel.\n\nThe most commonly used material for masks is wood, although a wide variety of other elements can be used, including light stone such as steatite, metals such as copper or bronze, different types of fabric, pottery, and more. Some masks are painted (for example using ochre or other natural colorants). A wide array of ornamental items can be applied to the mask surface; example include animal hair, horns, or teeth, sea shells, seeds, straws, egg shell, and feathers. For example, animal hair or straws are often used for a mask's hair or beard.\n\nThe general structure of a mask varies depending on the way it is intended to be worn. The most common type applies to the wearer's face, like most Western (e.g., carnival) masks. Others are worn like hats on the top of the wearer's head; examples include those of the Ekhoi people of Nigeria and Bwa people of Burkina Faso, as well as the famous \"chiwara\" masks of the Bambara people. Some masks (for example those of the Sande society of Liberia and the Mende people of Sierra Leone, that are made from hollow tree stumps) are worn like helmets covering both the head and face. Some African cultures have mask-like ornaments that are worn on the chest rather than the head of face; this includes those used by the Makonde people of East Africa in \"ndimu\" ceremonies.\n\nAs African masks are largely appreciated by Europeans, they are widely commercialized and sold in most tourist-oriented markets and shops in Africa (as well as \"ethnic\" shops in the Western World). As a consequence, the traditional art of mask-making has gradually ceased to be a privileged, status-related practice, and mass production of masks has become widespread. While, in most cases, commercial masks are (more or less faithful) reproductions of traditional masks, this connection is weakening over time, as the logics of mass-production make it harder to identify the actual geographical and cultural origins of the masks found in such venues as curio shops and tourist markets. For example, the Okahandja market in Namibia mostly sells masks that are produced in Zimbabwe (as they are cheaper and more easily available than local masks), and, in turn, Zimbabwean mask-makers reproduce masks from virtually everywhere in Africa rather than from their own local heritage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20647654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20647654", "title": "Trickster", "text": "Trickster\n\nIn mythology, and in the study of folklore and religion, a trickster is a character in a story (god, goddess, spirit, man, woman, or anthropomorphisation), which exhibits a great degree of intellect or secret knowledge, and uses it to play tricks or otherwise disobey normal rules and conventional behaviour.\n\nTricksters are archetypal characters who appear in the myths of many different cultures. Lewis Hyde describes the trickster as a \"boundary-crosser\". The trickster crosses and often breaks both physical and societal rules. Tricksters \"...violate principles of social and natural order, playfully disrupting normal life and then re-establishing it on a new basis.\"\n\nOften, the bending/breaking of rules takes the form of tricks or thievery. Tricksters can be cunning or foolish or both. The trickster openly questions and mocks authority. They are usually male characters, and are fond of breaking rules, boasting, and playing tricks on both humans and gods.\n\nAll cultures have tales of the trickster, a crafty creature who uses cunning to get food, steal precious possessions, or simply cause mischief. In some Greek myths Hermes plays the trickster. He is the patron of thieves and the inventor of lying, a gift he passed on to Autolycus, who in turn passed it on to Odysseus. In Slavic folktales, the trickster and the culture hero are often combined.\n\nFrequently the trickster figure exhibits gender and form variability. In Norse mythology the mischief-maker is Loki, who is also a shape shifter. Loki also exhibits gender variability, in one case even becoming pregnant. He becomes a mare who later gives birth to Odin's eight-legged horse Sleipnir.\n\nBritish scholar Evan Brown suggested that Jacob in the Bible has many of the characteristics of the trickster:The tricks Jacob plays on his twin brother Esau, his father Isaac and his father-in-law Laban are immoral by conventional standards, designed to cheat other people and gain material and social advantages he is not entitled to. Nevertheless, the Biblical narrative clearly takes Jacob's side and the reader is invited to laugh and admire Jacob's ingenuity–as is the case with the tricksters of other cultures\".\n\nIn a wide variety of African language communities, the rabbit, or hare, is the trickster. In West Africa (and thence into the Caribbean via the slave trade), the spider (Anansi) is often the trickster.\n\nThe trickster or clown is an example of a Jungian archetype. In modern literature the trickster survives as a character archetype, not necessarily supernatural or divine, sometimes no more than a stock character. Often too, the trickster is distinct in a story by his acting as a sort of catalyst, in that his antics are the cause of other characters' discomfiture, but he himself is left untouched. A once-famous example of this was the character Froggy the Gremlin on the early children's television show \"Andy's Gang\". A cigar-puffing puppet, Froggy induced the adult humans around him to engage in ridiculous and self-destructive hi-jinks.\n\nIn later folklore, the trickster/clown is incarnated as a clever, mischievous man or creature, who tries to survive the dangers and challenges of the world using trickery and deceit as a defense. He also is known for entertaining people as a clown does. For example, many typical fairy tales have the king who wants to find the best groom for his daughter by ordering several trials. No brave and valiant prince or knight manages to win them, until a poor and simple peasant comes. With the help of his wits and cleverness, instead of fighting, he evades or fools monsters and villains and dangers with unorthodox manners. Therefore, the most unlikely candidate passes the trials and receives the reward. More modern and obvious examples of that type include Bugs Bunny and Pippi Longstocking.\n\nModern African American literary criticism has turned the trickster figure into an example of how it is possible to overcome a system of oppression from within. For years, African American literature was discounted by the greater community of American literary criticism while its authors were still obligated to use the language and the rhetoric of the very system that relegated African Americans and other minorities to the ostracized position of the cultural \"other.\" The central question became one of how to overcome this system when the only words available were created and defined by the oppressors. As Audre Lorde explained, the problem was that \"the master's tools [would] never dismantle the master's house.\"\n\nIn his writings of the late 1980s, Henry Louis Gates Jr. presents the concept of Signifyin'. Wound up in this theory is the idea that the \"master's house\" can be \"dismantled\" using his \"tools\" if the tools are used in a new or unconventional way. To demonstrate this process, Gates cites the interactions found in African American narrative poetry between the trickster, the Signifying Monkey, and his oppressor, the Lion. According to Gates, the \"Signifying Monkey\" is the \"New World figuration\" and \"functional equivalent\" of the Eshu trickster figure of African Yoruba mythology. The Lion functions as the authoritative figure in his classical role of \"King of the Jungle.\" He is the one who commands the Signifying Monkey's movements. Yet the Monkey is able to outwit the Lion continually in these narratives through his usage of figurative language. According to Gates, \"[T]he Signifying Monkey is able to signify upon the Lion because the Lion does not understand the Monkey's discourse…The monkey speaks figuratively, in a symbolic code; the lion interprets or reads literally and suffers the consequences of his folly...\" In this way, the Monkey uses the same language as the Lion, but he uses it on a level that the Lion cannot comprehend. This usually leads to the Lion's \"trounc[ing]\" at the hands of a third party, the Elephant. The net effect of all of this is \"the reversal of [the Lion's] status as the King of the Jungle.\" In this way, the \"master's house\" is dismantled when his own tools are turned against him.\nFollowing in this tradition, critics since Gates have come to assert that another popular African American folk trickster, Br'er Rabbit (a contraction of \"Brother Rabbit\"), uses clever language to perform the same kind of rebellious societal deconstruction as the Signifying Monkey. Brer Rabbit is the \"creative way that the slave community responded to the oppressor's failure to address them as human beings created in the image of God.\" The figurative representative of this slave community, Brer Rabbit is the hero with a \"fragile body but a deceptively strong mind\" that allows him to \"create [his] own symbols in defiance of the perverted logic of the oppressor.\" By twisting language to create these symbols, Brer Rabbit not only was the \"personification of the ethic of self-preservation\" for the slave community, but also \"an alternative response to their oppressor's false doctrine of anthropology.\" Through his language of trickery, Brer Rabbit outwits his oppressors, deconstructing, in small ways, the hierarchy of subjugation to which his weak body forces him to physically conform.\n\nBefore Gates, there was some precedent for the analysis of African American folk heroes as destructive agents of an oppressive hierarchical system. In the 1920s and 1930s, T. S. Eliot and Ezra Pound engaged in an epistolary correspondence. Both writers signed the letters with pseudonyms adopted from the Uncle Remus tales; Eliot was \"Possum;\" Pound was \"Tar Baby.\" Pound and Eliot wrote in the same \"African slave\" dialect of the tales. Pound, writing later of the series of letters, distinguished the language from \"the Queen's English, the language of public propriety.\" This rebellion against proper language came as part of \"collaboration\" between Pound and Eliot \"against the London literary establishment and the language that it used.\" Although Pound and Eliot were not attempting to overthrow an establishment as expansive as the one oppressing the African American slave community, they were actively trying to establish for themselves a new kind of literary freedom. In their usage of the Uncle Remus trickster figures' names and dialects, they display an early understanding of the way in which cleverly manipulated language can dismantle a restrictive hierarchy.\n\nAfrican American literary criticism and folktales are not the only place in the American literary tradition that tricksters are to be found combating subjugation from within an oppressive system. In \"When Brer Rabbit Meets Coyote\", the argument is posited that the Brer Rabbit stories were derived from a mixture of African and Native American mythology, thus attributing part of the credit for the formation of the tales and wiles of Brer Rabbit to \"Indian captivity narratives\" and the rabbit trickster found in Cherokee mythology. In arguing for a merged \"African–Native American folklore\", the idea is forwarded that certain shared \"cultural affinities\" between African Americans and Native Americans allowed both groups \"through the trickster tales…survive[d] European American cultural and political domination.\"\n\nWhile the trickster crosses various cultural traditions, there are significant differences between tricksters in the traditions of different parts of the world:\n\nMany native traditions held clowns and tricksters as essential to any contact with the sacred. People could not pray until they had laughed, because laughter opens and frees from rigid preconception. Humans had to have tricksters within the most sacred ceremonies for fear that they forget the sacred comes through upset, reversal, surprise. The trickster in most native traditions is essential to creation, to birth.\n\nNative American tricksters should not be confused with the European fictional picaro. One of the most important distinctions is that \"we can see in the Native American trickster an openness to life's multiplicity and paradoxes largely missing in the modern Euro-American moral tradition\". In some stories the Native American trickster is foolish and other times wise. He can be a hero in one tale and a villain in the next.\n\nIn many Native American and First Nations mythologies, the Coyote spirit (Southwestern United States) or Raven spirit (Pacific Northwest) stole fire from the gods (stars, moon, and/or sun). Both are usually seen as jokesters and pranksters. In Native American creation stories, when Coyote teaches humans how to catch salmon, he makes the first fish weir out of logs and branches.\n\nWakdjunga in Winnebago mythology is an example of the trickster archetype.\n\nThe Coyote mythos is one of the most popular among western Native American cultures, especially among indigenous peoples of California and the Great Basin.\n\nAccording to Crow (and other Plains) tradition, Old Man Coyote impersonates the Creator: \"Old Man Coyote took up a handful of mud and out of it made people\". He also bestowed names on buffalo, deer, elk, antelopes, and bear. According to A. Hultkranz, the impersonation of Coyote as Creator is a result of a taboo, a mythic substitute to the religious notion of the Great Spirit whose name was too dangerous and/or sacred to use apart from at special ceremonies.\n\nIn Chelan myths, Coyote belongs to the animal people but he is at the same time \"a power just like the Creator, the head of all the creatures.\" while still being a subject of the Creator who can punish him or remove his powers. In the Pacific Northwest tradition, Coyote is mostly mentioned as a messenger, or minor power.\n\nAs the culture hero, Coyote appears in various mythic traditions, but generally with the same magical powers of transformation, resurrection, and \"medicine\". He is engaged in changing the ways of rivers, creating new landscapes and getting sacred things for people. Of mention is the tradition of Coyote fighting against monsters. According to Wasco tradition, Coyote was the hero to fight and kill Thunderbird, the killer of people, but he could do that not because of his personal power, but due to the help of the Spirit Chief. In some stories, Multnomah Falls came to be by Coyote's efforts; in others, it is done by Raven.\n\nMore often than not Coyote is a trickster, but always different. In some stories, he is a noble trickster: \"Coyote takes water from the Frog people... because it is not right that one people have all the water.\" In others, he is malicious: \"Coyote determined to bring harm to Duck. He took Duck's wife and children, whom he treated badly.\"\n\nIn online environments there has been a link between the trickster and Internet trolling. Some have said that a trickster is a type of online community character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79452", "title": "Viruses of the Mind", "text": "Viruses of the Mind\n\n\"Viruses of the Mind\" is an essay by British evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, first published in the book \"Dennett and His Critics: Demystifying Mind\" (1993). Dawkins originally wrote the essay in 1991 and delivered it as a Voltaire Lecture on 6 November 1992 at the Conway Hall Humanist Centre. The essay discusses how religion can be viewed as a meme, an idea previously expressed by Dawkins in \"The Selfish Gene\" (1976). Dawkins analyzes the propagation of religious ideas and behaviors as a memetic virus, analogous to how biological and computer viruses spread. The essay was later published in \"A Devil's Chaplain\" (2003) and its ideas are further explored in the television programme, \"The Root of All Evil?\" (2006).\n\nDawkins defines the \"symptoms\" of being infected by the \"virus of religion\", providing examples for most of them, and tries to define a connection between the elements of religion and its survival value (invoking Zahavi's handicap principle of sexual selection, applied to believers of a religion). Dawkins also describes religious beliefs as \"mind-parasites\", and as \"gangs <nowiki>[that]</nowiki> will come to constitute a package, which may be sufficiently stable to deserve a collective name such as Roman Catholicism ... or ... component parts to a single virus\".\n\nDawkins suggests that religious belief in the \"faith-sufferer\" typically shows the following elements:\n\nDawkins stresses his claim that religious beliefs do not spread as a result of evidence in their support, but typically by cultural transmission, in most cases from parents or from charismatic individuals. He refers to this as involving \"epidemiology, not evidence\". Further Dawkins distinguishes this process from the spread of scientific ideas, which, he suggests, is constrained by the requirement to conform with certain virtues of standard methodology: \"testability, evidential support, precision, quantifiability, consistency, intersubjectivity, repeatability, universality, progressiveness, independence of cultural milieu, and so on\". He points out that faith \"spreads despite a total lack of every single one of these virtues\".\n\nAlister McGrath, a Christian theologian, has also commented critically on Dawkins' analysis, suggesting that \"memes have no place in serious scientific reflection\", that there is strong evidence that such ideas are not spread by random processes, but by deliberate intentional actions, that \"evolution\" of ideas is more Lamarckian than Darwinian, and suggests there is no evidence that epidemiological models usefully explain the spread of religious ideas. McGrath also cites a metareview of 100 studies and argues that \"If religion is reported as having a positive effect on human well-being by 79% of recent studies in the field, how can it conceivably be regarded as analogous to a virus?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8136204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8136204", "title": "Vriksasana", "text": "Vriksasana\n\nVrikshasana ( ; ; IAST: \"vṛkṣāsana\") or Tree Pose is an asana.\n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"vriksa\" or \"vriksha\" (वृक्ष, vṛkṣa) meaning \"tree\", and \"asana\" (आसन) meaning \"posture\".\n\nFrom Tadasana, weight is not good shifted to one leg, for example, starting with the left leg. The entire sole of the foot remains in contact with the floor. The right knee is bent and the right foot placed on the left inner thigh, or in half lotus position. In either foot placement, the hips should be open, with the right knee pointing towards the right, not forward. With the toes of the right foot pointing directly down, the left foot, center of the pelvis, shoulders and head are all vertically aligned. Hands are typically held above the head either pointed directly upwards and unclasped, or clasped together in anjali mudra.\n\nThe asana is typically held for 20 to 60 seconds to stretch the spine, returning to tadasana while exhaling, then repeating standing on the opposite leg.\n\nThis asana improves:\n\nFocus the gaze on a small specific point, known in yoga as a drishti. This is ideally something directly ahead which does not move. Engage the standing foot by lifting the arch and pressing down through the lateral edge. Check that weight is distributed through the ball of the large toe, the ball of the small toe, and the heel. Draw in the navel to improve core stability and posture. Faults include leaning to one side, twisting, pushing one hip out; bending or rotating the supporting knee outwards; looking downwards and lacking concentration.\n\n\n\n\n"}
