{"id": "44018253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44018253", "title": "BWF World Junior Ranking", "text": "BWF World Junior Ranking\n\nThe BWF World Junior Ranking is the official ranking of the Badminton World Federation, introduced since January 2011. Players must be under 19 years of age to be eligible in the World Junior Rankings. Players will be removed from the World Junior Ranking once they have reached 19 years of age on 1 January. In doubles, players will be ranked as individuals and not as pairs.\n\nBadminton Asia Confederation may select up to two tournaments to upgrade to European Junior Championships level and up to three tournaments to the upgraded Asian and European Tournaments level as stated in World Junior ranking table below. Badminton Europe can select up to three tournaments to upgrade to the upgraded Asian and European International Tournaments level. Points are awarded according to the following table:\n\nThe following is a list of players who have achieved the number one position since 29 December 2011 (current number one players are marked in bold):\n\n\"Last update: 29 November 2018\"\n"}
{"id": "57444168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57444168", "title": "Brussels effect", "text": "Brussels effect\n\nThe Brussels effect is the process of unilateral regulatory globalisation caused by the European Union de facto (but not necessarily de jure) externalising its laws outside its borders through market mechanisms.\n\nThe combination of market size, market importance, relatively stringent standards and regulatory capacity of the European Union can have the effect that firms trading internationally find that it is not economically, legally or technically practical to maintain lower standards in non-EU markets. Non-EU companies exporting globally can find that it is beneficial to adopt standards set in Brussels uniformly throughout their business. \n\nThe term Brussels effect was coined in 2012 by Professor Anu Bradford of Columbia Law School and named after the similar California effect that can be seen within the United States.\n\nThe California effect and the Brussels effect are a form of ‘race to the top’ where the most stringent standard has an appeal to companies operating across multiple regulatory environments as it makes global production and exports easier. The effects are the opposite of the \"Delaware effect\", a race to the bottom where jurisdictions can purposely choose to lower its regulatory requirements in an attempt to attract businesses looking for the least stringent standard. \n\nThe October 2000 $42 billion proposed acquisition of US-based Honeywell International by US-based General Electric was blocked by the EU antitrust authorities on the grounds of risking a horizontal monopoly in jet engines. The merger could not proceed because, despite the American Department of Justice having already approved the merger between these two US based entities, it was not legally possible to let the acquisition proceed in one important market, but not in another. \n\nUS-based multinational Dow Chemical announced in 2006 it would comply with the EU's Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation for the production and use of chemical substances across its global operation.\n\nIn 2012 the EU included aviation into its existing Emission Trading Scheme. This means that any airline, regardless of their country of origin, has to purchase emissions permits for any flights within the European Economic Area. The cost of complying with EU aviation emission regulation puts pressure on manufacturers to design airplanes with improved efficiency and reduced emissions. As major airlines would not likely purchase airplanes specifically to fly outside the EEA, the EU’s stricter aviation standards have an impact on global airplane fleets, regardless of the jurisdiction of the airline.\n\nWith the introduction of theData Protection Directive in 1995 the EU had opted for a strict top-down approach to data privacy. Its successor, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), was adopted on 14 April 2016 and had a global effect . In 2017, during negotiations for a new Japan-EU trade deal, Japan set up an independent agency to handle privacy complaints to conform with the EU's new privacy regulation.\nFacebook announced in April 2018 that it would implement parts of the GDPR globally, Sonos announced in April 2018 that it would implement the GDPR globally and Microsoft announced in May 2018 that it would implement GDPR compliance for all its customers globally.\n\n"}
{"id": "23773961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23773961", "title": "Common heritage of mankind", "text": "Common heritage of mankind\n\nCommon heritage of mankind (also termed the common heritage of humanity, common heritage of humankind or common heritage principle) is a principle of international law which holds that defined territorial areas and elements of humanity's common heritage (cultural and natural) should be held in trust for future generations and be protected from exploitation by individual nation states or corporations.\n\nIn his essay \"Toward Perpetual Peace\", Immanuel Kant claimed that the expansion of hospitality with regard to \"use of the right to the earth's surface which belongs to the human race in common\" would \"finally bring the human race ever closer to a cosmopolitan constitution\". The concept of \"Common Heritage of Mankind\", however, was first mentioned in the preamble to the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. \n\nThe concept of 'Mankind' is also mentioned in outer space treaties. 'Mankind' as a subject in international law also appears in the Preamble of the United Nations Charter, the Preamble of the North Atlantic Treaty (1949) and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (1968).\n\nIn 1970, United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2749, the \"Declaration of Principles Governing the Seabed and Ocean Floor\", was adopted by 108 nation states and stated that the deep seabed should be preserved for peaceful purposes and is the \"Common Heritage of Mankind.\"\n\nIn 1982, the Common Heritage of Mankind concept was stated to relate to \"the seabed and ocean floor and subsoil thereof, beyond the limits of national jurisdiction\" under Article 136 of the United Nations Law of the Sea Treaty (UNCLOS).\n\nPayoyo argues that the \"common heritage of humanity\" principle in Part XI of the Law of the Sea Treaty should favour developing states (who were the voice of conscience in establishing it), and not merely in some transient 'affirmative action' manner. He claims, however, that the 1994 \"Implementation Agreement\" facilitated control by industrialised countries of the International Seabed Authority (ISA), allowing access by the private sector to the deep sea bed and inhibiting constructive dialogue on sustainable development.\n\nMaltese Ambassador Arvid Pardo, one of the founders of the \"common heritage of humanity\" concept under international law, has claimed that it challenges the \"structural relationship between rich and poor countries\" and amounts to a \"revolution not merely in the law of the sea, but also in international relations\". One of the main architects of the principle under international space law has claimed that it is \"the most important legal principle achieved by man throughout thousands of years during which law has existed as the regulating element of social exchange\". This praise relates to the fact that international law in the \"common heritage of humanity\" principle is seeking to protect, respect and fulfill the interests of human beings independently of any politically motivated sovereign state; the concept covering all humans wherever they are living, as well as future generations.\n\nFrakes has identified five core components of the Common Heritage of Humanity concept. First, there can be no private or public appropriation; no one legally owns common heritage spaces. Second, representatives from all nations must manage resources contained in such a territorial or conceptual area on behalf of all since a commons area is considered to belong to everyone; this practically necessitating a special agency to coordinate shared management. Third, all nations must actively share with each other the benefits acquired from exploitation of the resources from the commons heritage region, this requiring restraint on the profit-making activities of private corporate entities; this linking the concept to that of global public good. Fourth, there can be no weaponry or military installations established in territorial commons areas. Fifth, the commons should be preserved for the benefit of future generations, and to avoid a \"tragedy of the commons\" scenario. Academic claims have been made that where the principle requires the establishment of an international resource management regime, prior to establishment of such a regime a moratorium on resource exploitation should be enforced. Such a position does not appear to have been supported by most states during the respective drafting negotiations.\n\nA similar principle of international law holds that the world's cultural and natural heritage (as nominated for listing by nation states) must be protected by states parties to the UNESCO World Heritage Convention.\n\nA case study in the use of these provisions was provided by the Franklin Dam non-violent protest campaign against the construction of a dam of Australia's last wild river; they being held by the Australian High Court to provide a valid basis for legislation protecting the Franklin River. Justice Lionel Murphy wrote in that case (\"Commonwealth v Tasmania\") about the Common Heritage of Humanity principle: \"The preservation of the world's heritage must not be looked at in isolation but as part of the co-operation between nations which is calculated to achieve intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind and so reinforce the bonds between people which promote peace and displace those of narrow nationalism and alienation which promote war ... [t]he encouragement of people to think internationally, to regard the culture of their own country as part of world culture, to conceive a physical, spiritual and intellectual world heritage, is important in the endeavour to avoid the destruction of humanity.\"\n\nThe UNESCO \"Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights\" declares in Article 1 that: \"The human genome underlies the fundamental unity of all members of the human family, as well as the recognition of their inherent dignity and diversity. In a symbolic sense, it is the heritage of humanity.\" Article 4 states: \"The human genome in its natural state shall not give rise to financial gains.\" Such Declarations do not create binding obligations under international law (unless over time there is sufficient opinio juris and state practise to make them part of international customary law) so the impact of such principles of commercialisation of the human genome will be problematic. Whether the principle prohibits the patenting of the human genome is contested by the corporate sector.\n\nProclaimed on November 12, 1997, the UNESCO \"Declaration on the Responsibilities of the Present Generations Towards Future Generations\" is an international agreement (potentially part of international customary law) which includes provisions related to the \"common heritage of mankind\".\n\nIt was argued at the World Summit on the Information Society and has been advocated by academics that global communication between individuals over the internet should be regarded as part of the Common Heritage of Mankind. From a spiritual or natural law perspective, it has been argued that for world peace to be achieved, laws and government policies should create the social preconditions whereby conscience, properly understood, can be delinked from (often destructive) fundamentalist religious ideologies, and associated with a universal consciousness, access to which is the Common Heritage of Humanity. Such thinking with associated implications about how a sustainable world in the future should be regulated is common to members of the Global Ecovillage Network. Equatorial countries have proposed that the geostationary orbit over the high seas should be declared the \"common heritage of mankind\". It has been argued that a World government would manage common heritage areas according to principles of \"planetary democracy\". The international law concept of common heritage of humanity has also been linked with cosmopolitanism. Common heritage of humanity as a concept of international law is supported by many of the principles in the Earth Charter civil society Initiative\n\nKemal Baslar has stated that the Common Heritage of Mankind principle \"is a philosophical idea that questions the regimes of globally important resources regardless of their situation, and requires major changes in the world to apply its provisions. In other words, the application and enforcement of the common heritage of mankind require a critical reexamination of many well-established principles and doctrines of classical international law, such as acquisition of territory, consent-based sources of international law, sovereignty, equality, resource allocation and international personality.\"\n\nThe \"common heritage of humanity\" principle in international law has been viewed as one solution to the tragedy of the commons dilemma described in an influential article by that name written by Garrett Hardin in the journal \"Science\" in 1968. The article critically analyzes a dilemma in which multiple individuals, acting independently after rationally consulting self-interest, ultimately destroy a shared limited resource even when each acknowledges that outcome is not in anyone's long-term interest. Hardin's conclusion that commons areas are practicably achievable only in conditions of low population density and so their continuance requires state restriction on the freedom to breed, created controversy particularly through his deprecation of the role of conscience in achieving justice and equality in society. Hardin's views have been noted by scholars and policy-makers supporting privatization of common spaces and suggesting economic rationalism on such social and ecosystems. Though there are many that point out that as what we are seeking is a social contract, privatisation would actually annihilate any possibility of rational use - the land would simply be in enclosure. Hardin's views are based on Malthusian ideas of competition and over population, we have now accepted that it is the nature of man's consumption (not his numbers) that is causing the destruction of the environment.\n\nThe extent to which the Common Heritage of Mankind principle does or should control the activities of private multinational corporations as well as nation states, particularly with regard to mining activities, remains controversial. Underdeveloped nations often see the principle as a means of protecting critical resources from exploitation by capitalist nations and their corporations. As world oil, coal and mineral reserves are depleted there will be increasing pressure to commercially exploit Common Heritage of Mankind areas. It appears at the present time that exploration of outer space is unlikely to initially proceed under the jurisdiction of a supranational organization, but rather through the coordination of national space programs. It has been argued that photosynthesis in its natural or artificial forms should be considered the common heritage of humanity.\n\n"}
{"id": "4561442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561442", "title": "Cosmopolitan distribution", "text": "Cosmopolitan distribution\n\nIn biogeography, a taxon is said to have a cosmopolitan distribution if its range extends across all or most of the world in appropriate habitats. Such a taxon is said to exhibit cosmopolitanism or cosmopolitism. The opposite extreme is endemism.\n\nThe term pandemism also is in use, but not all authors are consistent in the sense in which they use the term; some speak of pandemism mainly in referring to diseases and pandemics, and some as a term intermediate between endemism and cosmopolitanism, in effect regarding pandemism as subcosmopolitanism. This means near cosmopolitanism, but with major gaps in the distribution, say, complete absence from Australia. Terminology varies, and there is some debate whether the true opposite of endemism is pandemism or cosmopolitism.\n\nThe term \"cosmopolitan distribution\" usually should not be taken literally, because it often is applied loosely in various contexts. Commonly the intention is not to include polar regions, extreme altitudes, oceans, deserts, or small, isolated islands. For example, the housefly is nearly as cosmopolitan as any animal species, but it is neither oceanic nor polar in its distribution. Similarly, the term \"cosmopolitan weed\" implies no more than that the plant in question occurs on all continents except Antarctica; it is not meant to suggest that the species is present in all regions of every continent.\n\nAnother concept in biogeography is that of oceanic cosmopolitanism and endemism. Although there is a temptation to regard the World Ocean as a medium without biological boundaries, this is far from reality; many physical and biological barriers interfere with either the spread or continued residence of many species. For example, temperature gradients prevent free migration of tropical species between the Atlantic and Indian-plus-Pacific oceans, even though there is open passage past continental masses such as the Americas and Africa/Eurasia. Again, as far as many species are concerned, the Southern Ocean and the Northern marine regions are completely isolated from each other by the intolerable temperatures of the tropical regions. In the light of such considerations, it is no surprise to find that endemism and cosmopolitanism are quite as marked in the oceans as on land.\n\nAnother aspect of cosmopolitanism is that of ecological limitations. A species that is apparently cosmopolitan because it occurs in all oceans might in fact occupy only littoral zones, or only particular ranges of depths, or only estuaries, for example. Analogously, terrestrial species might be present only in forests, or mountainous regions, or sandy arid regions or the like. Such distributions might be patchy, or extended, but narrow. Factors of such a nature are taken widely for granted, so they seldom are mentioned explicitly in mentioning cosmopolitan distributions.\n\nCosmopolitanism of a particular species or variety should not be confused with cosmopolitanism of higher taxa. For example, the family Myrmeleontidae is cosmopolitan in the sense that every continent except Antarctica is home to some indigenous species within the Myrmeleontidae, but nonetheless no one species, nor even genus, of the Myrmeleontidae is cosmopolitan. Conversely, partly as a result of human introduction of unnatural apiculture to the New World, \"Apis mellifera\" probably is the only cosmopolitan member of its family; the rest of the family Apidae have modest distributions.\n\nEven where a cosmopolitan population is recognised as a single species, such as indeed \"Apis mellifera\", there generally will be variation between regional sub-populations. Such variation commonly is at the level of subspecies, varieties or morphs, whereas some variation is too slight or inconsistent for formal recognition.\n\nFor an example of subspecific variation, consider the so-called \"African killer bee\", which is the subspecies \"Apis mellifera scutellata\", and the Cape bee, which is the subspecies \"Apis mellifera capensis\"; both of them are in the same cosmopolitan species \"Apis mellifera\", but their ranges barely overlap.\n\nOther cosmopolitan species, such as the osprey and house sparrow, present similar examples, but in yet other species there are less familiar complications: some migratory birds such as the Arctic tern occur from the Arctic to the Southern Ocean, but at any one season of the year they are likely to be largely in passage or concentrated at only one end of the range. Also, some such species breed only at one end of the range. Seen purely as an aspect of cosmopolitanism, such distributions could be seen as temporal, seasonal variations.\n\nOther complications of cosmopolitanism on a planet too large for local populations to interbreed routinely with each other, lead to genetic effects such as ring species, for example in the \"Larus\" gulls. They also lead to the formation of clines such as in Drosophila.\n\nCosmopolitan distributions can be observed both in extinct and extant species. For example, \"Lystrosaurus\" was cosmopolitan in the Early Triassic after a mass extinction.\n\nIn the modern world, the killer whale has a cosmopolitan distribution, extending over most of the Earth's oceans. The wasp \"Copidosoma floridanum\" is another example, as it is found around the world. Other examples include humans, cats, dogs, orchids, the foliose lichen \"Parmelia sulcata\", and the mollusc genus \"Mytilus\". The term can also apply to some diseases. It may result from a broad range of environmental tolerances or from rapid dispersal compared to the time needed for evolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "6049076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6049076", "title": "Downward harmonization", "text": "Downward harmonization\n\nDownward harmonization is an econo-political term describing the act of adapting the trade laws of a country with an established economy \"downward\" to the trade laws of the country with a developing economy. This \"harmonizing\" may affect labor laws, human rights laws, minimum-wage, industry standards, quality control, anti-terrorism, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "37063005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37063005", "title": "Effects of global warming on human health", "text": "Effects of global warming on human health\n\nThe effects of global warming include its effects on human health. The observed and projected increased frequency and severity of climate related impacts will further exacerbate the effects on human health. This article describes some of those effects on individuals and populations.\n\nA good example of the impact of global warming on health can be seen in the disease erythromelalgia. This is a vascular disease that is commonly triggered by the involvement of change in temperature, which leads to syndromes including (first and second degree) burning pain, increased temperature, erythema and swelling, of mainly the hands and feet that are affected.\n\nIn a Chinese study, epidemic Erythromelalgia appears quite common in southern China, most likely due to a sharp decline in temperature following by a rapid increase of temperature and the effects this has on the body. The acral small superficial arteries intensely constrict and dilate during the sharp decline of temperature, whereas a sharp increase of temperature, the intense expansion of capillaries irritate the nerve endings around, and thus lead to symptoms including burning pain, increased temperature, erythema and swelling.\nAs climate change proceeds, more Erythromelalgia outbreaks may occur because of the extreme weather events that are projected to increase in coming decades.\n\nWarming oceans and a changing climate are resulting in extreme weather patterns which have brought about an increase of infectious diseases—both new and re-emerging. These extreme weather patterns are creating extended rainy seasons in some areas, and extended periods of drought in others, as well as introducing new climates to different regions. These extended seasons are creating climates that are able to sustain vectors for longer periods of time, allowing them to multiply rapidly, and also creating climates that are allowing the introduction and survival of new vectors.\n\nMosquito-borne diseases are probably the greatest threat to humans as they include malaria, elephantiasis, Rift Valley fever, yellow fever, and dengue fever. Studies are showing higher prevalence of these diseases in areas that have experienced extreme flooding and drought. Flooding creates more standing water for mosquitoes to breed; as well, shown that these vectors are able to feed more and grow faster in warmer climates. As the climate warms over the oceans and coastal regions, warmer temperatures are also creeping up to higher elevations allowing mosquitoes to survive in areas they had never been able to before. As the climate continues to warm there is a risk that malaria will make a return to the developed world.\n\nTicks are also thriving in the warmer temperatures allowing them to feed and grow at a faster rate. The black legged tick, a carrier of Lyme disease, when not feeding, spends its time burrowed in soil absorbing moisture. Ticks die when the climate either becomes too cold or when the climate becomes too dry, causing the ticks to dry out. The natural environmental controls that used to keep the tick populations in check are disappearing, and warmer and wetter climates are allowing the ticks to breed and grow at an alarming rate, resulting in an increase in Lyme disease, both in existing areas and in areas where it has not been seen before.\n\nAnother impact that the warming global temperature has had is on the frequency and severity of heat waves. In addition to dehydration and heat stroke, these heat waves have also resulted in epidemics of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). Recent studies have shown that prolonged heat exposure, physical exertion, and dehydration are sufficient factors to developing CKD. These cases are occurring across the world congruently with heat stress nephropathy.\n\nOther diseases on the rise due to extreme weather include hantavirus, schistosomiasis, onchocerciasis (river blindness), and tuberculosis. It also causes the rise in hay fever, as when the weather gets warmer there is a rise in pollen levels in the air.\n\nProjected increases in temperature would make parts of southwest Asia uninhabitable, when temperature combined with high humidity reaches a wet-bulb temperature of 35 °C, the threshold for a fit human to survive in well-ventilated conditions.\n\nWarmer temperatures may also lead an increase in aggression levels. Research has shows links between higher temperatures and increased aggressive and criminal behaviour. Which can be seen by the rise in the rate of criminality during the warmer summer months.\n\nThe warming oceans are becoming a breeding ground for toxic algae blooms (also known as red tides) and cholera. As the nitrogen and phosphorus levels in the oceans increase, the cholera bacteria that lives within zooplankton emerge from their dormant state. The changing winds and changing ocean currents push the zooplankton toward the coastline, carrying the cholera bacteria, which then contaminate drinking water, causing cholera outbreaks. As flooding increases there is also an increase in cholera epidemics as the flood waters that are carrying the bacteria are infiltrating the drinking water supply. El Nino has also been linked with cholera outbreaks because this weather pattern warms the shoreline waters, causing the cholera bacteria to multiply rapidly.\n\nMalaria is a mosquito-borne parasitic disease that infects humans and other animals caused by microorganisms in the Plasmodium family. It begins with a bite from an infected female mosquito, which introduces the parasite through its saliva and into the infected host's circulatory system. It then travels through the bloodstream into the liver where it can mature and reproduce. The disease causes symptoms that typically include fever, headache, shaking chills, anemia, and in severe cases can progress to coma or death.\n\n'About 3.2 billion people – nearly half of the world's population – are at risk of malaria. In 2015, there were roughly 214 million malaria cases and an estimated 438,000 malaria deaths.' \n\nClimate is an influential driving force of vector-borne diseases such as malaria. Malaria is especially susceptible to the effects of climate change because mosquitoes lack the mechanisms to regulate their internal temperature. This implies that there is a limited range of climatic conditions within which the pathogen (malaria) and vector (a mosquito) can survive, reproduce and infect hosts. Vector-borne diseases, such as malaria, have distinctive characteristics that determine pathogenicity. These include the survival and reproduction rate of the vector, the level of vector activity (i.e. the biting or feeding rate), and the development and reproduction rate of the pathogen within the vector or host. Changes in climate factors substantially affect reproduction, development, distribution and seasonal transmissions of malaria.\n\nMosquitoes have a small window for preferential conditions for breeding and maturation. The ultimate breeding and maturing temperature for mosquitoes range from sixteen to eighteen degrees Celsius. If the temperature is decreased by two degrees, most of the insects will succumb to death. This is why malaria is unsustainable in places with cool winters. If a climate with an average of approximately 16 degrees Celsius experiences an increase of about two degrees, the mature bugs and the larvae flourish. Female mosquitoes will need more food (human/animal blood) to sustain life and to stimulate production of eggs. This increases the chance of spread of malaria due to more human contact and a higher number of the blood sucking insects surviving and living longer. Mosquitoes are also highly sensitive to changes in precipitation and humidity. Increased precipitation can increase mosquito population indirectly by expanding larval habitat and food supply. These prime temperatures are creating large breeding grounds for the insects and places for the larvae to mature. Increased temperature is causing snow to melt and stagnant pools of water to become more common. Bugs that are already carrying the disease are more likely to multiply and infect other mosquitoes causing a dangerous spread of the deadly disease.\n\nClimate change has a direct impact on people's health in places where Malaria is not prevalent. In communities of higher altitudes in Africa and South America, people are at higher risk for developing malaria in recent years because of an increase temperature. Mosquitos are sensitive to temperature changes and the warming of their environment will boost their rates of production. A fluctuation of two or three degrees is creating exceptional breeding grounds for mosquitoes, for larvae to grow and mature mosquitoes carrying the virus to infect people that have never been exposed before. This is a severe problem because people in these communities have never been exposed to this disease causing an increased risk for complications from malaria such as cerebral malaria (a type of malaria that causes mental disability, paralysis and has a high mortality rate) and death by the disease. Residents of these communities are being hit hard by malaria because they are unfamiliar with it; they do not know the signs and symptoms and have little to no immunity.\n\nThe population at risk of malaria in the absence of climate change is projected to double between 1990 and 2080 to 8820 million, however; unmitigated climate change would, by the 2080s, further increase the population at risk of malaria by another 257 to 323 million. Therefore, reducing the effects of climate change in the present would reduce the total by about 3.5%, saving tens of thousands of lives worldwide.\n\nIf there is a slight discrepancy in the normal temperature, the perfect conditions for the insects to multiply are created. People that have never been infected before are unknowingly at risk for this deadly disease and do not have the immunity to combat it. An increase in temperature has the potential to cause a widespread epidemic of the disease that has the capacity to wipe out entire populations of people. It is important to track the prevalence, species and number of insects carrying the disease as well as the number of humans infected in countries and places that have never seen malaria before. It is simple for the slightest of fluctuation in temperature to cause a catastrophic epidemic that has the possibility to end the lives of many innocent and unsuspecting people.\n\nDengue fever is an infectious disease caused by dengue viruses known to be in the tropical regions. It is transmitted by the mosquito Aedes, or A. aegypti.\n\nThe cases of dengue fever have increased dramatically since the 1970s and it continues to become more prevalent. The greater incidence of this disease is believed to be due to a combination of urbanization, population growth, increased international travel, and global warming. The same trends also led to the spread of different serotypes of the disease to new areas, and to the emergence of dengue hemorrhagic fever. There are four different types of viruses in dengue fever. If someone is infected with one type of dengue virus, he or she will have permanent immunity to that type of dengue virus, but will have short term immunity to the other type of dengue fever. Some of the symptoms of dengue fever are fever, headache, muscle and joint pains and skin rash. There is no vaccine for dengue fever right now and there is no true treatment to get rid of it, but there are treatments to assist with some of the work of dengue, such as the use of oral or intravenous fluids for rehydration.\n\nDengue fever used to be considered a tropical disease, but climate change is causing dengue fever to spread. Dengue fever is transmitted by certain types of mosquitoes, which have been spreading further and further north. This is because some of the climate changes that are occurring are increased heat, precipitation and humidity which create prime breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The hotter and wetter a climate is, the faster the mosquitoes can mature and the faster the disease can develop. Another influence is the changing El Nino effects that are affecting the climate to change in different areas of the world, causing dengue fever to be able to spread.\n\nThere are many things that can be done, both on a governmental level and on an individual basis. One improvement would be having a better system of detecting when dengue outbreaks may happen. This can be done by monitoring environments, such as temperatures, rainfall and humidity that would be attractive to these types of mosquitoes and help them to flourish. Another useful plan is to educate the public by letting them know when a dengue outbreak is occurring and what they can do to protect themselves. For example, people should create a living environment that is not attractive to mosquitoes (no standing water), dress in appropriate clothing (light colours, long sleeves), and wear insect repellent.\n\nA high humidity of greater than 85% is the best condition for a tick to start and finish its life cycle. Studies have indicated that temperature and vapor play a significant role in determining the range for tick population. More specifically, maximum temperature has been found to play the most influential variable in sustaining tick populations. Higher temperatures augment both hatching and developmental rates while hindering overall survival. Temperature is so important to overall survival that an average monthly minimum temperature of below -7°C in the winter can prevent an area from maintaining established populations.\n\nThe effect of climate on the tick life cycle is one of the more difficult projections to make in relation to climate and vector-borne disease. Unlike other vectors, tick life cycles span multiple seasons as they mature from larva to nymph to adult. Further, infection and spread of diseases such as Lyme disease happens across the multiple stages adding additional variables to consider. Infection of ticks happen in the larval/nymph stage (after the first blood meal) when they are exposed to borrelia burgdorferi (the spirochete responsible for Lyme disease), but transmission to humans doesn’t occur until the adult stages. \n\nThe expansion of tick populations are concurrent with global climatic change. Species distribution models of recent years indicate that the deer tick, known as \"I. scapularis,\" is pushing its distribution to higher latitudes of the Northeastern United States and Canada, as well as pushing and maintaining populations in the South Central and Northern Midwest regions of the United States. Climate models project further expansion of tick habit north into Canada as progressing Northwest from the Northeastern United States. Additionally, however, tick populations are expected to retreat from the Southeastern coast of the U.S., but this has not yet been observed. It's estimated that coinciding with this expansion, increased average temperatures may double tick populations by 2020 as well as bring an earlier start to the tick exposure season.\n\nTick populations are not only spreading wider, but moving to higher elevations. In Colorado, the Rocky Mountain wood tick known as \"D. andersoni\" is found along the front range and is want to feed, and consequently infect, human populations with tularemia (\"Francisella tularensis\"), Rocky Mountain spotted fever (\"Rickettsia rickettsii\"), and Colorado tick fever (CTF virus). A case study testing climatic interaction affecting tick vector (\"D. andersoni\") populations in Larimer County, Colorado indicated that an estimated increase of 1.2–2.0 °C in summer temperatures would increase tick populations moving 100m upwards in elevation, increasing the range and susceptibility of tick-borne illnesses along the front range.\n\nInitial symptoms of tick-borne infections are generally quite similar to that of other viral illnesses. This includes fever, headache, fatigue, and general malaise. This group of diseases can further be difficult to distinguish early on in the disease process due to these general symptoms in addition to most people (reported around 75%) not realizing they have been bitten or exposed to the tick vector. Unique to early Lyme disease is the development of the classic erythema migrans skin rash, also known as the “bull’s eye” or “target” rash, which occurs in about 80% of people diagnosed with Lyme disease. This symptom can be an important distinguishing factor helping to make the diagnosis early. If Lyme disease is unrecognized, misdiagnosed, or improperly treated it can lead to much more severe and serious consequences with the spread of the spirochete to joints, heart, and nervous system causing arthritis, carditis, cranial nerve palsies or encephalopathy and cognitive dysfunction.\n\nRegardless of the specific diagnosis (Lyme, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Colorado Tick Fever, Babesiosis etc.) the key to management and prevention of sequelae is early identification of disease and initiation of appropriate antibiotic therapy. With regard to the effects of a warming world and the expansion of tick populations to previously unexposed areas, adaptive keys to prevention will include expansion of health care infrastructure and pharmacologic availability, as well as education of people and providers as to the risks of disease and preventative measures they can take.\n\nIn the face of these expanding threats, strong collaboration between government officials and environmental scientists is necessary for advancing preventative and reactive response measures. Without acknowledging the climate changes that make environments more habitable for disease carriers, policy and infrastructure will lag behind vector borne disease spread. The human cost associated with denying climate change science is one that concerns many governments. In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is conducting a grant program called Building Resilience Against Climate Effects (BRACE) which details a 5 step process for combating climate effects like tick borne disease spread. As is the case when responding to other vectors and effects of climate change, vulnerable populations including children and the elderly will need to be prioritized by any intervention. Productive policies in the U.S. and the world need to accurately model changes in vector populations as well as the burden of disease, educate the public on ways to mitigate infection, and prepare health systems for the increasing disease load.\n\nWhile the physical health impacts of climate change are well known, the impact on mental health has only begun to be recognized in the last decade. According to 2011 in \"American Psychologist\" Clayton & Doherty, concluded that global climate change is bound to have substantial negative impacts on mental health and wellbeing, effects which will primarily be felt by vulnerable populations and those with pre-existing serious mental illness. Research done by Berry, Bowen, and Kjellstrom in 2008 found that climate change exposes populations to trauma, which negatively impacts mental health in very serious ways.\nBoth the Clayton study and the Berry study identify three classes of psychological impacts from global climate change: direct, indirect, and psychosocial. The Clayton study claims that in order to appreciate these impacts on psychological wellbeing, a basic understanding of certain aspects is required. One must recognize the multiple meanings and cultural narratives associated with climate change, as well as how climate change, global phenomena like increased population, are interrelated. Climate change does not impact everyone equally; those of lower economic and social status are at greater risk and experience more devastating impacts. A 2018 study of CDC data connected temperature rise to increased numbers of suicides. The study revealed that hotter days could increase suicide rates and could cause approximately 26,000 more suicides in the U.S. by 2050.\n\nDirect impacts on mental health happen when a community experiences extreme weather and changed environment. \nDirect impacts like landscape changes, impaired place attachment, and psychological trauma are all immediate and localized problems resulting from extreme weather events and environmental changes. Extreme weather events cause negative changes to landscape and agriculture. This leads to communities facing economic aspects, especially for communities that use agriculture as a main source of income. After economic fall, communities face loss of livelihoods and poverty. Many communities will also face isolation, alienation, grief, bereavement, and displacement from these effects. Individuals will have an increased rate of anxiety and emotional stress. The rate of effects on mental health increases in already-vulnerable communities. Clayton reinforces that the more powerful the extreme weather event, and the more frequent these weather events are, the more damage is done to the mental health of the community.\nSome of the extreme weather events responsible for these mental health changes include wildfires, earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, and extreme heat.\n\nIndirect impacts on mental health occur via impacts on physical health and community wellbeing. Physical health and mental health have a reciprocal relationship. If the physical health of an individual is negatively impacted, the decline in mental health will soon follow. These impacts are more gradual and cumulative. They are threats to emotional wellbeing through concern and uncertainly about future risks. They are also large-scale community and social effects, like conflicts related to migration and subsequent shortages or adjustment after a disaster. Extreme weather events play a major role here; their impacts can be indirect, not just direct. This is due to the effect on physical health from extreme weather events. Each extreme weather event effects humans in different ways, but they all lead to the decline of mental health.\nHeat indirectly causes mental health issues through physical health issues. The World Health Organization presents the fact that high extreme heat is directly related to certain ailments like cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, and asthma. One piece of their evidence is that in summer 2003, during Europe's big heat wave, there were 70,000 recorded deaths related to the heat. Heat exhaustion also occurs during extreme heat. As climate change continues, heat will continue to rise and these problems will exacerbate. These physical problems lead to mental health problems. As physical health worsens and is less curable, mental stability starts to deteriorate.\n\nAs extreme heat makes landscapes dry, nature is more prone to fire. Research shows that rising heat due to climate change has caused an increase in fires around the United States. Burns and smoke inhalation from the increasing number of fires lead to a decline in physical health, which leads to mental health problems. Deaths of family and friends cause individuals to suffer from stress and other conditions. Many suffering from loss of family and friends will internalize their emotions, feel extreme guilt and helplessness, and become paranoid. Others will develop fear of future loss and have an overall displacement of feelings that could last for years. Anderson published research in the American Psychological Association that shows the increase in murders in the United States directly correlates with the temperature increase. For every one-degree Fahrenheit, there will be nine more murders in the country, which leads to an additional 24,000 murders or assaults per year in the United States.\n\nThere is also an increased risk in suicide in communities that suffer from extreme weather events. Studies show that suicide rates increase after extreme weather events. This is evidence for the decline in mental health. The increased suicide risk has been demonstrated in Australia, where drought has resulted in crop failures and despair to the Australian countryside. After the event, farmers were left with almost nothing. They were forced to sell their belongings, reduce their stock, and borrow large sums of money to plant crops at the start of the next season. These consequences have caused a growing increase in depression, domestic violence, and suicide. More than one hundred farmers in the Australian countryside had committed suicide by 2007. An individual's suicide often leads to mental health problems of loved ones. They face issues like those who have lost loved ones due to fire: grief, sadness, anger, paranoia, and others.\n\nSome impacts pertaining to mental health are even more gradual and cumulative than the others, like social interaction, media, and communication. The social interaction between communities and within communities is greatly affected by migration. Communities choose to migrate, or are forced to migrate, due to stressors on limited resources. This is worsened by extreme weather events caused by climate change. Common mental health conditions associated indirectly from these extreme weather events include acute traumatic stress, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, complicated grief, anxiety disorders, sleep difficulties, and sexual dysfunction. Drug abuse and alcohol abuse are also common aftereffects, and can lead to both physical and mental issues, addiction and substance reliance being the most common.\n\nThe effects of Hurricane Katrina, a past extreme weather event in New Orleans, lead to a variety of mental health problems due to the destruction of resources Many people impacted by Hurricane Katrina were left homeless, disenfranchised, stressed, and suffering physical illness. This strain on the public health system decreased access and availability of medical resources. Some climate change adaptation measures may prevent the need for displacement. However, some communities may be unable to implement adaptation strategies, and this will create added stress, further exacerbating already existing mental health issues. Extreme weather events and population displacement lead to limited availability of medications, one of the primary resources required to meet psychological and physical needs of those affected by such events. Less medication and medical resources means fewer people can get the help they need to recover. Slowed recovery and lack of recovery worsen overall mental health.\n\nPsychological impacts are the effects that heat, drought, migrations, and climate-related conflicts have on social life and community life. This includes post-disaster adjustment. Most of these effects are indirect instead of direct, but Clayton and Berry place them in a separate category because they deal with the relationships within a community. Many of the results are from how people use and occupy territory. Human migration of large communities causes discord within those communities because the already scarce resources are even more limited during migration. Agriculture and aquaculture are severely impacted by the extreme weather events of climate change, the suitability of territory being the most notable kind of change. During and after migration, the geographical distribution of populations is altered. Children and parents may be separated at these times. The early separation of kids from their parents can cause symptoms of grieving, depression, and detachment in both the young and old. The loss in resources can also lead to inter-community violence and aggression. Two groups may fight over remaining natural resources. A community may choose to migrate to find better resources, and encroach on another community's territory, either accidentally or purposefully. Civil unrest can occur when governments fail to adequately protect communities against the extreme weather events that cause these effects. When this happens, individuals lose confidence and trust in their government. A loss in trust can be the beginning of oncoming mental health problems. The disruption of a community when they are forced to relocate results in the deterioration of geographic and social connections. This leads to grief, anxiety, and an overall sense of loss.\n\nPermafrost is an important part of our environment and plays an important role in maintaining the stability of many ecosystems around the world. \nPermafrost is integral to soil stability in arctic regions. Melting permafrost causes the surrounding soil to become unstable and settle. Settlement of surface soil associated with melting permafrost leads to significant infrastructure instability and damage to roads, bridges, buildings, homes, pipelines and airstrips in affected areas.\n\nIn rural Africa and the Middle East, when droughts dry up the regular water supply, rural and impoverished families are forced to resort to drinking the dirty, sediment-and-parasite-laden water that sits in puddles and small pools on the surface of the earth. Many are aware of the presence of contamination, but will drink from these sources nonetheless in order to avoid dying of dehydration. It has been estimated that up to 80% of human illness in the world can be attributed to contaminated water.\n\nWhen there is an adequate amount of drinking water, humans drink from different sources than their livestock. However, when drought occurs and drinking water slowly disappears, catchment areas such as streams and depressions in the ground where water gathers are often shared between people and the livestock they depend on for financial and nutritional support, and this is when humans can fall seriously ill. Although some diseases that are transferred to humans can be prevented by boiling the water, many people, living on just a litre or two of water per day, refuse to boil, as it loses a certain percentage of the water to steam.\n\nThe sharing of water between livestock and humans is one of the most common factors in the transmission of non-tuberulosis mycobacteria (NTM). NTM is carried in cattle and pig feces, and if this contaminates the drinking water supply, it can result in pulmonary disease, disseminated disease or localized lesions in humans with both compromised and competent immune systems. During drought, water supplies are even more susceptible to harmful algal blooms and microorganisms. Algal blooms increase water turbidity, suffocating aquatic plants, and can deplete oxygen, killing fish. Some kinds of blue-green algae create neurotoxins, hepatoxins, cytotoxins or endotoxins that can cause serious and sometimes fatal neurological, liver and digestive diseases in humans. Cyanobacteria grow best in warmer temperatures (especially above 25 degrees Celsius), and so areas of the world that are experiencing general warming as a result of climate change are also experiencing harmful algal blooms more frequently and for longer periods of time. During times of intense precipitation (such as during the “wet season” in much of the tropical and sub-tropical world, including Australia and Panama), nutrients that cyanobacteria depend on are carried from groundwater and the earth's surface into bodies of water. As drought begins and these bodies gradually dry up, the nutrients are concentrated, providing the perfect opportunity for algal blooms.\n\nAs the climate warms, it changes the nature of global rainfall, evaporation, snow, stream flow and other factors that affect water supply and quality. Freshwater resources are highly sensitive to variations in weather and climate. Climate change is projected to affect water availability. In areas where the amount of water in rivers and streams depends on snow melting, warmer temperatures increase the fraction of precipitation falling as rain rather than as snow, causing the annual spring peak in water runoff to occur earlier in the year. This can lead to an increased likelihood of winter flooding and reduced late summer river flows. Rising sea levels cause saltwater to enter into fresh underground water and freshwater streams. This reduces the amount of freshwater available for drinking and farming. Warmer water temperatures also affect water quality and accelerate water pollution.\n\nClimate change is beginning to lead the global population into a food shortage, greatly affecting our livestock supply. Although the change in our climate is causing us to lose food, these sources are also contributing to climate change, essentially, creating a feedback loop. Greenhouse gases, specifically from livestock, are one of the leading sources furthering global warming; these emissions, which drastically effect climatic change, are also beginning to harm our livestock in ways we could never imagine.\n\nOur agricultural food system is responsible for a significant amount of the greenhouse-gas emissions that are produced.\n\nAccording to the IPCC, it makes up between, at least, 10-12% of the emissions, and when there are changes in land due to the agriculture, it can even rise as high as 17%. More specifically, emissions from farms, such as nitrous oxide, methane and carbon dioxide, are the main culprits, and can be held accountable for up to half of the greenhouse-gases produced by the overall food industry, or 80% of all emissions just within agriculture.\n\nThe types of farm animals, as well as the food they supply can be put into two categories: monogastric and ruminant. Typically, beef and dairy, in other words, ruminant products, rank high in greenhouse-gas emissions; monogastric, or pigs and poultry-related foods, are low. The consumption of the monogastric types, therefore, yield less emissions. This is due to the fact that these types of animals have a higher feed-conversion efficiency, and also do not produce any methane.\n\nAs lower-income countries begin, and continue, to develop, the necessity for a consistent meat supply will increase. This means the cattle population will be required to grow in order to keep up with the demand, producing the highest possible rate of greenhouse-gas emissions.\n\nThere are many strategies that can be used to help soften the effects, and the further production of greenhouse-gas emissions. Some of these strategies include a higher efficiency in livestock farming, which includes management, as well as technology; a more effective process of managing manure; a lower dependence upon fossil-fuels and nonrenewable resources; a variation in the animals' eating and drinking duration, time and location; and a cutback in both the production and consumption of animal-sourced foods.\n\nHeat stress on livestock has a devastating effect on not only their growth and reproduction, but their food intake and production of dairy and meat. Cattle require a temperature range of 5-15 degrees Celsius, but upwards to 25 °C, to live comfortably, and once climate change increases the temperature, the chance of these changes occurring increases. Once the high temperatures hit, the livestock struggle to keep up their metabolism, resulting in decreased food intake, lowered activity rate, and a drop in weight. This causes a decline in livestock productivity and can be detrimental to the farmers and consumers. Obviously, the location and species of the livestock varies and therefore the effects of heat vary between them. This is noted in livestock at a higher elevation and in the tropics, of which have a generally increased effect from climate change. Livestock in a higher elevation are very vulnerable to high heat and are not well adapted to those changes.\n\nClimate change has many potential impacts on the production of food crops—from food scarcity and nutrient deficiency to possible increased food production because of elevated carbon dioxide () levels—all of which directly affect human health. Part of this variability in possible outcomes is from the various climate change models used to project potential impacts; each model takes into account different factors and so come out with a slightly different result. A second problem comes from the fact that projections are made based on historical data which is not necessarily helpful in accurate forecasting as changes are occurring exponentially. As such, there are many different possible impacts—both positive and negative—that may result from climate change affecting global regions in different ways.\n\nFood scarcity is a major key for many populations and is one of the prominent concerns with the changing climate. Currently, 1/6 of the global population are without adequate food supply. By 2050, the global population is projected to reach 9 billion requiring global food productions to increase by 50% to meet population demand. In short, food scarcity is a growing concern that, according to many researchers, is projected to worsen with climate change because of a number of factors including extreme weather events and an increase in pests and pathogens.\n\nAs the temperature changes and weather patterns become more extreme, areas which were historically good for farmland will no longer be as amicable. The current prediction is for temperature increase and precipitation decrease for major arid and semi-arid regions (Middle East, Africa, Australia, Southwest United States, and Southern Europe). In addition, crop yields in tropical regions will be negatively affected by the projected moderate increase in temperature (1-2 °C) expected to occur during the first half of the century. During the second half of the century, further warming is projected to decrease crop yields in all regions including Canada and Northern United States. Many staple crops are extremely sensitive to heat and when temperatures rise over 36 °C, soybean seedlings are killed and corn pollen loses its vitality. Scientists project that an annual increase of 1 °C will in turn decrease wheat, rice and corn yields by 10%.\n\nThere are, however, some positive possible aspects to climate change as well. The projected increase in temperature during the first half of the century (1-3 °C) is expected to benefit crop and pasture yields in the temperate regions. This will lead to higher winter temperatures and more frost-free days in these regions; resulting in a longer growing season, increased thermal resources and accelerated maturation. If the climate scenario results in mild and wet weather, some areas and crops will suffer, but many may benefit from this.\n\nExtreme weather conditions continue to decrease crop yields in the form of droughts and floods. While these weather events are becoming more common, there is still uncertainty and therefore a lack of preparedness as to when and where they will take place. In extreme cases, floods destroy crops, disrupting agricultural activities and rendering workers jobless and eliminating food supply. On the opposite end of the spectrum, droughts can also wipe out crops. It is estimated that 35-50% of the world's crops are at risk of drought. Australia has been experiencing severe, recurrent droughts for a number of years, bringing serious despair to its farmers. The country's rates of depression and domestic violence are increasing and as of 2007, more than one hundred farmers had committed suicide as their thirsty crops slipped away. Drought is even more disastrous in the developing world, exacerbating the pre-existing poverty and fostering famine and malnutrition.\n\nDroughts can cause farmers to rely more heavily on irrigation; this has downsides for both the individual farmers and the consumers. The equipment is expensive to install and some farmers may not have the financial ability to purchase it. The water itself must come from somewhere and if the area has been in a drought for any length of time, the rivers may be dry and the water must be transported from further distances. With 70% of “blue water” currently being used for global agriculture, any need over and above this could potentiate a water crisis. In Sub-Saharan Africa, water is used to flood rice fields to control the weed population; with the projection of less precipitation for this area, this historical method of weed control will no longer be possible.\n\nWith more costs to the farmer, some will no longer find it financially feasible to farm. Agriculture employs the majority of the population in most low-income countries and increased costs can result in worker layoffs or pay cuts. Other farmers will respond by raising their food prices; a cost which is directly passed on to the consumer and impacts the affordability of food. Some farms do not export their goods and their function is to feed a direct family or community; without that food, people will not have enough to eat. This results in decreased production, increased food prices, and potential starvation in parts of the world.\n\nSome research suggests that initially climate change will help developing nations because some regions will be experiencing more negative climate change effects which will result in increased demand for food leading to higher prices and increased wages. However, many of the projected climate scenarios suggest a huge financial burden. For example, the heat wave that passed through Europe in 2003 cost 13 billion euros in uninsured agriculture losses. In addition, during El Nino weather conditions, the chance of the Australian farmer's income falling below average increased by 75%, greatly impacting the country's GDP. The agriculture industry in India makes up 52% of their employment and the Canadian Prairies supply 51% of Canadian agriculture; any changes in the production of food crops from these areas could have profound effects on the economy. This could negatively affect the affordability of food and the subsequent health of the population.\n\nCurrently, levels are 40% higher than they were in pre-industrial times. This diminishes nutritional content for both human and insect consumption. Studies have shown that when levels rise, soybean leaves are less nutritious; therefore plant-eating beetles have to eat more to get their required nutrients. In addition, soybeans are less capable of defending themselves against the predatory insects under high . The diminishes the plant's jasmonic acid production, an insect-killing poison that is excreted when the plant senses it's being attacked. Without this protection, beetles are able to eat the soybean leaves freely, resulting in a lower crop yield. This is not a problem unique to soybeans, and many plant species’ defense mechanisms are impaired in a high environment.\n\nCurrently, pathogens take 10-16% of the global harvest and this level is likely to rise as plants are at an ever-increasing risk of exposure to pests and pathogens. Historically, cold temperatures at night and in the winter months would kill off insects, bacteria and fungi. The warmer, wetter winters are promoting fungal plant diseases like soybean rust to travel northward. Soybean rust is a vicious plant pathogen that can kill off entire fields in a matter of days, devastating farmers and costing billions in agricultural losses. Another example is the Mountain Pine Beetle epidemic in BC, Canada which killed millions of pine trees because the winters were not cold enough to slow or kill the growing beetle larvae. The increasing incidence of flooding and heavy rains also promotes the growth of various other plant pests and diseases. On the opposite end of the spectrum, drought conditions favour different kinds of pests like aphids, whiteflies and locusts.\n\nThe competitive balance between plants and pests has been relatively stable for the past century, but with the rapidly shifting climate, there is a change in this balance which often favours the more biologically diverse weeds over the monocrops most farms consist of. Currently, weeds claim about one tenth of global crop yields annually as there are about eight to ten weed species in a field competing with crops. Characteristics of weeds such as their genetic diversity, cross-breeding ability, and fast-growth rates put them at an advantage in changing climates as these characteristics allow them to adapt readily in comparison to most farm's uniform crops, and give them a biological advantage. There is also a shift in the distribution of pests as the altered climate makes areas previously uninhabitable more uninviting. Finally, with the increased levels, herbicides will lose their efficiency which in turn increases the tolerance of weeds to herbicides.\n\n Another area of concern is the effect of climate change on the nutritional content of food for human consumption. Studies show that increasing atmospheric levels of have an unfavourable effect on the nutrients in plants. As the carbon concentration in the plant's tissues increase, there is a corresponding decrease in the concentration of elements such as nitrogen, phosphorus, zinc and iodine. Of significant concern is the protein content of plants, which also decreases in relation to elevating carbon content. \nIrakli Loladze explains that the lack of essential nutrients in crops contributes the problem of micronutrient malnutrition in society, commonly known as “hidden hunger”; despite adequate caloric intake, the body still is not nutritionally satisfied and therefore continues to be “hungry”. This problem is aggravated by the rising cost of food, resulting in a global shift towards diets which are less expensive, but high in calories, fats, and animal products. This results in undernutrition and an increase in obesity and diet-related chronic diseases.\nCountries worldwide are already impacted by deficiencies in micronutrients and are seeing the effects in the health of their populations. Iron deficiency affects more than 3.5 billion people; increasing maternal mortality and hindering cognitive development in children, leading to education losses. Iodine deficiency leads to ailments like goitre, brain damage and cretinism and is a problem in at least 130 different countries. Even though these deficiencies are invisible, they have great potential to impact human health on a global scale.\nIt must also be noted that small increases in levels can cause a fertilization effect where the growth and reproduction abilities of C plants such as soybeans and rice are actually enhanced by 10-20% in laboratory experiments. This does not take into account, however, the additional burden of pests, pathogens, nutrients and water affecting the crop yield.\n\nWhile researchers acknowledge there are possible benefits of global warming, most agree that the negative consequences of climate change will outweigh any potential benefits and instead the shifting climate will result in more benefits to developed countries and more detriments to developing countries; exacerbating the discrepancy between wealthy and impoverished nations. By thoughtful and proactive efforts, climate change can be mitigated by addressing these issues with a multidisciplinary approach that works on a global, national and community basis that recognizes the uniqueness of each country's situation. \nAccording to a study of East Africa’s smallholder farms, impacts of climate change on agriculture are already being seen there resulting in changes to farming practices such as intercropping, crop, soil, land, water and livestock management systems, and introduction of new technologies and seed varieties by some of the farmers. Some other suggestions such as eliminating supply chain and household food waste, encouraging diverse and vegetable-rich diets, and providing global access to foods (food aid programs) have been suggested as ways to adapt. Many researchers agree that agricultural innovation is essential to addressing the potential issues of climate change. This includes better management of soil, water-saving technology, matching crops to environments, introducing different crop varieties, crop rotations, appropriate fertilization use, and supporting community-based adaptation strategies. On a government and global level, research and investments into agricultural productivity and infrastructure must be done to get a better picture of the issues involved and the best methods to address them. Government policies and programs must provide environmentally sensitive government subsidies, educational campaigns and economic incentives as well as funds, insurance and safety nets for vulnerable populations. In addition, providing early warning systems, and accurate weather forecasts to poor or remote areas will allow for better preparation; by using and sharing the available technology, the global issue of climate change can be addressed and mitigated by the global community.\n\nPerhaps one of the most recent adverse effects of climate change to be explored is that of ocean acidification. Our oceans cover approximately 71 percent of the Earth's surface and support a diverse range of ecosystems, which are home to over 50 percent of all the species on the planet. Oceans regulate climate and weather as well as providing nutrition for a vast variety of species, humans included. Covering such an extensive part of the planet has allowed the oceans to absorb a large portion of the carbon dioxide () from the atmosphere. This process is part of the carbon cycle in which the fluxes of carbon dioxide () in Earth's atmosphere, biosphere and lithosphere are described. Humans have drastically added to the amount of carbon dioxide () in the atmosphere through the burning of fossil fuels and the process of deforestation. Oceans work as a sink absorbing excess anthropogenic carbon dioxide (). As the oceans absorb anthropogenic carbon dioxide () it breaks down into carbonic acid, a mild acid, this neutralizes the normally alkaline ocean water. As a result, the pH in the oceans is declining. In the research surrounding global climate change we are only just beginning to realize that our oceans can sequester a finite amount of before we start seeing impacts on marine life that could lead to devastating losses. Acidification of our oceans has the potential to drastically alter life as we know it - from extreme weather patterns and food scarcity to a loss of millions of species from the planet - all of these consequences hold the potential to directly affect human health.\n\nWith degradation of protective coral reefs through acidic erosion, bleaching and death, salt water is able to infiltrate fresh ground water supplies that large populations depend on. Nowhere is this more evident than atoll islands. These islands possess limited freshwater supplies, namely ground water lenses and rain fall. When the protective coral reefs surrounding them erodes due to higher temperatures and acidic water chemistry, salt water is able to infiltrate the lens and contaminate the drinking water supply. In coastal Bangladesh it has been demonstrated that seasonal hypertension in pregnant women is connected with such phenomenon due to high sodium intake from drinking water. Reef erosion, coupled with sea level rise, tends to flood low-lying areas more frequently during storm surges and weather events. Warming ocean waters generate larger and more devastating weather events that can decimate coastal populations especially without the protection of coral reefs.\n\nThe health of our oceans has a direct effect on the health humans. According to Small and Nicholls, they estimated that 1.2 billion people worldwide, lived in the near-coastal region (within 100 km and 100m of the shoreline). This data was collected in 1990 and therefore is a conservative estimate in modern terms. In the U.S. alone 53% of the population lives within 50 miles of the coastal shoreline. Humans rely heavily on oceans for food, employment, recreation, weather patterns and transportation. In the U.S. alone the lands adjacent to the oceans contribute over $1 trillion annually through these various activities not to mention pharmaceutical and medicinal discoveries. In all, the oceans are very important for our survival as a species.\n\nOur insatiable appetite for seafood of all types has led to overfishing and has already significantly strained marine food stocks to the point of collapse in many cases. With seafood being a major protein source for so much of the population, there are inherent health risks associated with global warming. As mentioned above increased agricultural runoff and warmer water temperature allows for eutrophication of ocean waters. This increased growth of algae and phytoplankton in turn can have dire consequences. These algal blooms can emit toxic substances that can be harmful to humans if consumed. Organisms, such as shellfish, marine crustaceans and even fish, feed on or near these infected blooms, ingest the toxins and can be consumed unknowingly by humans. One of these toxin producing algae is Pseudo-nitzschia fraudulenta. This species produces a substance called domoic acid which is responsible for amnesic shellfish poisoning. The toxicity of this species has been shown to increase with greater concentrations associated with ocean acidification. Some of the more common illnesses reported from harmful algal blooms include; Ciguatera fish poisoning, paralytic shellfish poisoning, azaspiracid shellfish poisoning, diarrhetic shellfish poisoning, neurotoxic shellfish poisoning and the above-mentioned amnesic shellfish poisoning.\n\nInfectious disease often accompanies extreme weather events, such as floods, earthquakes and drought. These local epidemics occur due to loss of infrastructure, such as hospitals and sanitation services, but also because of changes in local ecology and environment. For example, malaria outbreaks have been strongly associated with the El Niño cycles of a number of countries (India and Venezuela, for example). El Niño can lead to drastic, though temporary, changes in the environment such as temperature fluctuations and flash floods. Because of global warming there has been a marked trend towards more variable and anomalous weather. This has led to an increase in the number and severity of extreme weather events. This trend towards more variability and fluctuation is perhaps more important, in terms of its impact on human health, than that of a gradual and long-term trend towards higher average temperature.\n\nArguably one of the worst effects that drought has directly on human health is the destruction of food supply. Farmers who depend on weather to water their crops lose tons of crops per year due to drought. Plant growth is severely stunted without adequate water, and plant resistance mechanisms to fungi and insects weaken like human immune systems. The expression of genes is altered by increased temperatures, which can also affect a plant's resistance mechanisms. One example is wheat, which has the ability to express genes that make it resistant to leaf and stem rusts, and to the Hessian fly; its resistance declines with increasing temperatures.\nA number of other factors associated with lack of water may actually attract pestilent insects, as well- some studies have shown that many insects are attracted to yellow hues, including the yellowing leaves of drought-stressed plants.\nDuring times of mild drought is when conditions are most suitable to insect infestation in crops; once the plants become too weakened, they lack the nutrients necessary to keep the insects healthy. This means that even a relatively short, mild drought may cause enormous damage- even though the drought on its own may not be enough to kill a significant portion of the crops, once the plants become weakened, they are at higher risk of becoming infested.\n\nThe results of the loss of crop yields affect everyone, but they can be felt most by the poorest people in the world. As supplies of corn, flour and vegetables decline, world food prices are driven up. Malnutrition rates in poor areas of the world skyrocket, and with this, dozens of associated diseases and health problems. Immune function decreases, so mortality rates due to infectious and other diseases climb. For those whose incomes were affected by droughts (namely agriculturalists and pastoralists), and for those who can barely afford the increased food prices, the cost to see a doctor or visit a clinic can simply be out of reach. Without treatment, some of these diseases can hinder one's ability to work, decreasing future opportunities for income and perpetuating the vicious cycle of poverty.\n\nHealth concerns around the world can be linked to floods. With the increase in temperatures worldwide due to climate change the increase in flooding is unavoidable. Floods have short and long term negative implications to peoples' health and well being. Short term implications include mortalities, injuries and diseases, while long term implications include non-communicable diseases and psychosocial health aspects.\n\nMortalities are not uncommon when it comes to floods. The Countries with lower incomes are more likely to have more fatalities, because of the lack of resources they have and the supplies to prepare for a flood. This does depend on the type and properties of the flood. For example, if there is a flash flood it would not matter how prepared you are. Fatalities connected directly to floods are usually caused by drowning; the waters in a flood are very deep and have strong currents. Deaths do not just occur from drowning, deaths are connected with dehydration, heat stroke, heart attack and any other illness that needs medical supplies that cannot be delivered. Due to flooding mud, grit or sand particles can be deposited into the lakes and rivers. These particles cause the water to become dirty and this becomes a problem as the dirty water leads to water related diseases. For example, cholera and guinea worm disease are caused by dirty water.\n\nInjuries can lead to an excessive amount of morbidity when a flood occurs. Victims who already have a chronic illness and then sustain a non-fatal injury are put at a higher risk for that non-fatal injury to become fatal. Injuries are not isolated to just those who were directly in the flood, rescue teams and even people delivering supplies can sustain an injury. Injuries can occur anytime during the flood process; before, during and after. Before the flood people are trying to evacuate as fast as they can, motor vehicle accidents, in this case, are a primary source of injuries obtained post flood. During floods accidents occur with falling debris or any of the many fast moving objects in the water. After the flood rescue attempts are where large numbers injuries can occur.\n\nCommunicable diseases are increased due to many pathogens and bacteria that are being transported by the water. In floods where there are many fatalities in the water there is a hygienic problem with the handling of bodies, due to the panic stricken mode that comes over a town in distress. There are many water contaminated diseases such as cholera, hepatitis A, hepatitis E and diarrheal diseases, to mention a few. There are certain diseases that are directly correlated with floods they include any dermatitis and any wound, nose, throat or ear infection. Gastrointestinal disease and diarrheal diseases are very common due to a lack of clean water during a flood. Most of clean water supplies are contaminated when flooding occurs. Hepatitis A and E are common because of the lack of sanitation in the water and in living quarters depending on where the flood is and how prepared the community is for a flood.\n\nRespiratory diseases are a common after the disaster has occurred. This depends on the amount of water damage and mold that grows after an incident. Vector borne diseases increase as well due to the increase in still water after the floods have settled. The diseases that are vector borne are malaria, dengue, West Nile, and yellow fever.\n\nNon-communicable diseases are a long-term effect of floods. They are either caused by a flood or they are worsened by a flood; they include cancer, lung disease and diabetes. Floods have a huge impact on victims' psychosocial integrity. People suffer from a wide variety of losses and stress. One of the most treated illness in long-term health problems are depression caused by the flood and all the tragedy that flows with one.\n\nAnother result of the warming oceans are stronger hurricanes, which will wreak more havoc on land, and in the oceans, and create more opportunities for vectors to breed and infectious diseases to flourish. Extreme weather also means stronger winds. These winds can carry vectors tens of thousands of kilometers, resulting in an introduction of new infectious agents to regions that have never seen them before, making the humans in these regions even more susceptible.\n\nA glacier is a mass of ice that has originated from snow that has been compacted via pressure and have definite lateral limits and movements in definite directions. They are found in areas where the temperatures do not get warm enough to melt annual snow accumulation, thus resulting in many layers of snow piling up over many years, creating the pressure needed to make a glacier. Global climate change and fluctuation is causing an increasingly exponential melting of Earth's glaciers. These melting glaciers have many social and ecological consequences that directly or indirectly impact the health and well-being of humans. The recession of glaciers change sea salt, sediment, and temperature ratios in the ocean which changes currents, weather patterns, and marine life. The melt also increases ocean levels and decreases the availability of water for human consumption, agriculture, and hydroelectricity. This aggravates and increases the likelihood of issues such as sanitation, world hunger, population shifts, and catastrophic weather such as flooding, drought, and worldwide temperature fluctuations.\n\n“Glacier mass-balances show consistent decreases over the last century in most regions of the world and retreat may be accelerating in many locations\" with an average loss of ten meters per year, nearly twice as fast as ten years ago. Glaciers currently cover ~10% of the Earth's surface, or ~15 million km² and holds ~75% of Earth's fresh water supply. Glacial retreat first gained the attention of alpinists and the tourist industry shortly after 1940 – when the globe warmed ~0.5 °C. Even with 62 years of awareness, climate change is just becoming an issue for some parts of society. Over this time period the cirque and steep alpine glaciers were able to acclimatize to the new temperatures posed by climate change; large valley glaciers have not yet made this adjustment. This means the large valley glaciers are rapidly retreating, as their mass is attempting to achieve equilibrium with the current climate. If regional snow lines stay constant, then the glaciers remain constant. Today this is clearly not the case as global warming is causing mountain snow lines to rapidly retreat. Even the United States’ famous Glacier National Park is receding. More than two-thirds of its glaciers have disappeared and it is expected for them to be nonexistent in the park by the year 2030.\n\nGlacial melt will affect low-lying coastal wetlands via sea level rise, change key drivers of fresh-water ecosystems, shift the timing of snow packs, and alter the unique character of associated fresh water streams off of snow pack. It has also been stated that the sea level will rise 28–43 cm by 2100; if all the ice on Earth melts, it is predicted that the ocean level will increase 75 meters, destroying many coastal cities. In addition, the freshwater swaps in northern areas are already affected by the intrusion of salt water. “Sea level rise will cause a change of state from freshwater to marine or estuarine ecosystems, radically altering the composition of biotic communities\".\n\nNot only are glaciers causing a rise in sea level, they are causing an increase in El Niño Southern Oscillation (ESNO) and global temperature itself. Glacier loss adds to global heat rise through a decrease in what is called ice-albedo feedback. As more ice melts, there is less solar reflectivity and less heat is reflected away from the Earth, causing more heat to be absorbed, and retained in the atmosphere and soil In addition to the El Niño events, glacial melt is contributing to the rapid turnover of sea surface temperatures and ocean salt content by diluting the ocean water and slowing the Atlantic conveyor belt's usually swift dive because of a top layer of buoyant, cold, fresh water that slows the flow of warm water to the north.\n\nFifty percent of the world's fresh water consumption is dependent glacial runoff. Earth's glaciers are expected to melt within the next forty years, greatly decreasing fresh water flow in the hotter times of the year, causing everyone to depend on rainwater, resulting in large shortages and fluctuations in fresh water availability which largely effects agriculture, power supply, and human health and well-being. Many power sources and a large portion of agriculture rely on glacial runoff in the late summer. “In many parts of the world, disappearing mountain glaciers and droughts will make fresh, clean water for drinking, bathing, and other necessary human (and livestock) uses scarce\" and a valuable commodity.\n\nThe upper limit for heat stress humans can adapt to is called into question with a 7 °C temperature rise, quantified by the wet-bulb temperature, regions of Earth would lose their habitability.\n\nEnvironmental changes such as deforestation could increase local temperatures in the highlands thus could enhance the vectorial capacity of the anopheles. Anopheles mosquitoes are responsible for the transmission of a number of diseases in the world, such as, malaria, lymphatic filariasis and viruses that can cause such ailments, like the O'nyong'nyong virus.\nEnvironmental changes, climate variability, and climate change are such factors that could affect biology and ecology of Anophelse vectors and their disease transmission potential. Climate change is expected to lead to latitudinal and altitudinal temperature increases. Global warming projections indicate that the best estimate of surface air warming for a “high scenario” is 4 C, with a likely range of 2.4-6.4 C by 2100. A temperature increase of this size would alter the biology and the ecology of many mosquito vectors and the dynamics of the diseases they transmit such as malaria. Anopheles mosquitoes in highland areas are to experience a larger shift in their metabolic rate due to the climate change. This climate change is due to the deforestation in the highland areas where these mosquitoes dwell. When temperature rises, the larvae take a shorter time to mature and, consequently, there is a greater capacity to produce more offspring. In turn this could potentially lead to an increase in malaria transmission when infected humans are available.\n\nDeforestation is directly linked with a decrease in plant biodiversity. This decrease in biodiversity has several implications for human health. One such implication is the loss of medicinal plants. The use of plants for medicinal purposes is extensive, with ~70 to 80% of individuals worldwide relying solely on plant-based medicine as their primary source of healthcare. This dependency on plants for medicinal purposes is especially rife in developing countries that only consume 15% of manufactured pharmaceutical drugs, many of which are fake. Local knowledge surrounding medicinal plants is useful for screening for new herbal medicines that may be useful for treating disease. Villages and communities which reside continually in a single geographic area over time, create, transmit and apply widespread information surrounding the medicinal resources in the area. Formal scientific methods have been useful in identifying the active ingredients used in ethnopharmacy and applying them to modern medicines. However, it is important that medicinal resources are managed appropriately as they become globally traded in order to prevent species endangerment.\n\nDeforestation is also a primary cause of dislocation and in some cases, extinction of indigenous people. The Malaysian state Sarawak is an example where rampant deforestation has overrun many Dayak groups. The indigenous Sarawakians relied on shifting agriculture, hunting and gathering in order to sustain their relatively low population density. With the advent of modern logging technology the Sarawak forests entered 'mainstream' economic development. This has led to massive forced evacuations and relocation of the Dayak people causing a loss of their traditions and culture.\n\nClimate change and the associated changing weather patterns occurring worldwide have a direct effect on biology, population ecology, and the population of eruptive insects, such as the mountain pine beetle (MPB). This is because temperature is a factor which determines insect development and population success. Mountain Pine Beetle are a species native to Western North America. Prior to climatic and temperature changes, the mountain pine beetle predominately lived and attacked lodgepole and ponderosa pine trees at lower elevations, as the higher elevation Rocky Mountains and Cascades were too cold for their survival. Under normal seasonal freezing weather conditions in the lower elevations, the forest ecosystems that pine beetles inhabit are kept in a balance by factors such as tree defense mechanisms, beetle defense mechanisms, and freezing temperatures. It is a simple relationship between a host (the forest), an agent (the beetle) and the environment (the weather & temperature). However, as climate change causes mountain areas to become warmer and drier, pine beetles have more power to infest and destroy the forest ecosystems, such as the whitebark pine forests of the Rockies. This is a forest so important to forest ecosystems that it is called the “rooftop of the rockies”. Climate change has led to a threatening pine beetle pandemic, causing them to spread far beyond their native habitat. This leads to ecosystem changes, forest fires, floods and hazards to human health.\n\nThe whitebark pine ecosystem in these high elevations plays many essential roles, providing support to plant and animal life. They provide food for grizzly bears and squirrels, as well as shelter and breeding grounds for elk and deer; protects watersheds by sending water to parched foothills and plains; serves as a reservoir by dispensing supplies of water from melted snowpacks that are trapped beneath the shaded areas; and creates new soil which allows for growth of other trees and plant species. Without these pines, animals do not have adequate food, water, or shelter, and the reproductive life cycle, as well as quality of life, is affected as a consequence. Normally, the pine beetle cannot survive in these frigid temperatures and high elevation of the Rocky Mountains. However, warmer temperatures means that the pine beetle can now survive and attack these forests, as it no longer is cold enough to freeze and kill the beetle at such elevations. Increased temperatures also allow the pine beetle to increase their life cycle by 100%: it only takes a single year instead of two for the pine beetle to develop. As the Rockies have not adapted to deal with pine beetle infestations, they lack the defenses to fight the beetles. Warmer weather patterns, drought, and beetle defense mechanisms together dries out sap in pine trees, which is the main mechanism of defense that trees have against the beetle, as it drowns the beetles and their eggs. This makes it easier for the beetle to infest and release chemicals into the tree, luring other beetles in an attempt to overcome the weakened defense system of the pine tree. As a consequence, the host (forest) becomes more vulnerable to the disease-causing agent (the beetle).\n\nThe whitebark forests of the Rockies are not the only forests that have been affected by the mountain pine beetle. Due to temperature changes and wind patterns, the pine beetle has now spread through the Continental Divide of the Rockies and has invaded the fragile boreal forests of Alberta, known as the “lungs of the Earth”. These forests are imperative for producing oxygen through photosynthesis and removing carbon in the atmosphere. But as the forests become infested and die, carbon dioxide is released into the environment, and contributes even more to a warming climate. Ecosystems and humans rely on the supply of oxygen in the environment, and threats to this boreal forest results in severe consequences to our planet and human health. In a forest ravaged by pine beetle, the dead logs and kindle which can easily be ignited by lightning. Forest fires present dangers to the environment, human health and the economy. They are detrimental to air quality and vegetation, releasing toxic and carcinogenic compounds as they burn. Due to human induced deforestation and climate change, along with the pine beetle pandemic, the strength of forest ecosystems decrease. The infestations and resulting diseases can indirectly, but seriously, effect human health. As droughts and temperature increases continue, so does the frequency of devastating forest fires, insect infestations, forest diebacks, acid rain, habitat loss, animal endangerment and threats to safe drinking water.\n\nClimate change increases wildfire potential and activity. Climate change leads to a warmer ground temperature and its effects include earlier snowmelt dates, drier than expected vegetation, increased number of potential fire days, increased occurrence of summer droughts, and a prolonged dry season.\n\nWarming spring and summer temperatures increase flammability of materials that make up the forest floors. Warmer temperatures cause dehydration of these materials, which prevents rain from soaking up and dampening fires. Furthermore, pollution from wildfires can exacerbate climate change by releasing atmospheric aerosols, which modify cloud and precipitation patterns.\n\nWood smoke from wildfires produces particulate matter that has damaging effects to human health. The primary pollutants in wood smoke are carbon monoxide and nitric oxide. Through the destruction of forests and human-designed infrastructure, wildfire smoke releases other toxic and carcinogenic compounds, such as formaldehyde and hydrocarbons. These pollutants damage human health by evading the mucociliary clearance system and depositing in the upper respiratory tract, where they exert toxic effects. Research by Naeher and colleagues. found that physician visits for respiratory diseases increased by 45-80% during wildfire activity in urban British Columbia.\n\nThe health effects of wildfire smoke exposure include exacerbation and development of respiratory illness such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder; increased risk of lung cancer, mesothelioma and tuberculosis; increased airway hyper-responsiveness; changes in levels of inflammatory mediators and coafulation factors; and respiratory tract infection. It may also have intrauterine effects on fetal development, resulting in low birth weight newborns. Because wildfire smoke travels and is often not isolated to a single geographic region, the health effects are widespread among populations.\nThe suppression of wild fires also takes up a large amount of a country's gross domestic product which directly affects the country's economy. In the United States, it was reported that approximately $6 million was spent between 2004-2008 to suppress wildfires in the country.\n\nClimate change causes displacement of people in several ways, the most obvious—and dramatic—being through the increased number and severity of weather-related disasters which destroy homes and habitats causing people to seek shelter or livelihoods elsewhere. Slow onset phenomena, including effects of climate change such as desertification and rising sea levels gradually erode livelihoods and force communities to abandon traditional homelands for more accommodating environments. This is currently happening in areas of Africa's Sahel, the semi-arid belt that spans the continent just below its northern deserts. Deteriorating environments triggered by climate change can also lead to increased conflict over resources which in turn can displace people.\n\nExtreme environmental events are increasingly recognized as a key driver of migration across the world. According to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre, more than 42 million people were displaced in Asia and the Pacific during 2010 and 2011, more than twice the population of Sri Lanka. This figure includes those displaced by storms, floods, and heat and cold waves. Still others were displaced drought and sea-level rise. Most of those compelled to leave their homes eventually returned when conditions improved, but an undetermined number became migrants, usually within their country, but also across national borders.\n\nAsia and the Pacific is the global area most prone to natural disasters, both in terms of the absolute number of disasters and of populations affected. It is highly exposed to climate impacts, and is home to highly vulnerable population groups, who are disproportionately poor and marginalized. A recent Asian Development Bank report highlights “environmental hot spots” that are particular risk of flooding, cyclones, typhoons, and water stress.\n\nTo reduce migration compelled by worsening environmental conditions, and to strengthen resilience of at-risk communities, governments should adopt policies and commit financing to social protection, livelihoods development, basic urban infrastructure\ndevelopment, and disaster risk management. Though every effort should be made to ensure that people can stay where they live, it is also important to recognize that migration can also be a way for people to cope with environmental changes. If properly managed, and efforts made to protect the rights of migrants, migration can provide substantial benefits to both origin and destination areas, as well as to the migrants themselves. However, migrants – particularly low-skilled ones – are among the most vulnerable people in society and are often denied basic protections and access to services.\n\nThe links between the gradual environmental degradation of climate change and displacement are complex: as the decision to migrate is taken at the household level, it is difficult to measure the respective influence of climate change in these decisions with regard to other influencing factors, such as poverty, population growth or employment options. This situates the debate on environmental migration in a highly contested field: the use of the term 'environmental refugee', although commonly used in some contexts, is disrecommended by agencies such as the UNHCR who argue that the term 'refugee' has a strict legal definition which does not apply to environmental migrants. Neither the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change nor the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement on climate change, includes any provisions concerning specific assistance or protection for those who will be directly affected by climate change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1749638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749638", "title": "Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential", "text": "Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\n\nThe Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential is published by the Union of International Associations (UIA). It is available online since 2000, and was previously available as a CD-ROM and as a three-volume book. The online Encyclopedia is currently in a redevelopment phase.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" was started in 1972 and now comprises more than 100,000 entries and 700,000 links, as well as 500 pages of introductory notes and commentaries. The Encyclopedia collects information on problems, strategies, values, concepts of human development, and various intellectual resources.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" is made up from data gathered from many sources. Those data are grouped into various databases which constitute the backbone of the \"Encyclopedia\". The databases are searchable; query results may be seen as lists or as various visualizations.\n\n\n• Basic universal problems include danger, lack of information, social injustice, war, environmental degradation. \n• Cross-sectoral problems include animal suffering, irresponsible nationalism, soil degradation. \n• Detailed problems include detention of mothers, epidemics, white-collar crime.\n• Emanations of other problems include terrorism targeted against tourists, injustice of mass trials, threatened species of Caudata. \n• Fuzzy exceptional problems include blaming victims, pacifism, unconstrained free trade.\n• Very specific problems include blue baby, tomato mottle virus, costly uniforms.\n• Problems under consideration include feminist backlash, mudslide.\n• Suspect problems include threatened species of Zapus hudsonius preblei, uncommitted volunteer workers.\n\n• Abstract fundamental strategies include compromising, transcending, providing.\n• Basic universal strategies include eliminating discrimination, combating desertification, reducing unemployment.\n• Cross-sectoral strategies include orienting economic policy toward social need, managing crises. \n• Detailed strategies include establishing national government NGO departments, using psychological warfare. \n• Emanations of other strategies include lifting restrictions on human rights advocacy, reviewing provisions of the UN Charter. \n• Exceptional strategies include begging, rechanneling expenditures on defence, advocating nihilism.\n• Very specific strategies include working with young people, undertaking public works. \n• Unconfirmed strategies include abolishing zoos, ventilating air through buildings. \n• Provisional strategies include developing chest radiology, preserving internal political borders. \n• Strategy polarities include deepening-shallowing, intuiting-reasoning, supporting-opposing. \n• Strategy roles include advisor, traitor, confessor.\n• Strategy types or complexes include communication, judgement, time.\n\n• Constructive values include peace, harmony, beauty. \n• Destructive values include conflict, depravity, ugliness.\n• Value polarities include agreement-disagreement, freedom-restraint, pleasure-displeasure. \n• Value clusters include feeling complex, interaction complex, communication complex.\n\n• Concepts of human development include vocational training, benevolence, emancipation of the self.\n• Modes of awareness include compassion, sense of shame, conviction, sense of humor.\n\n• Communication: Forms of presentation include animation, statistical indicators, prophecy. \n• Metaphors include ball games, sexual intercourse, personification, stick and carrot processes.\n• Patterns (Christopher Alexander) include encirclement, internal connectedness between domains, partially isolated contexts.\n• Symbols include birds, food-related objects, sacred calendar.\n• Transformative conferencing includes aggressive participant type, lecture, team roles.\n• Transformative metaphors (I Ching) include creativity, receptivity, inexperience. \n\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" online databases consist of over 100,000 entries (also called profiles) and 700,000 links. An entry, for instance War, may include the following elements:\n1) name, alternative names, nature or definition, background or context, incidence (for problems) or implementation (for strategies), claim of importance, counter-claim, quotations or aphorisms (for values);\n2) links to the same database entries that are more general (broader), more specific (narrower), related (in some as yet unspecified manner), preceding (aggravating or reducing problems, constraining or facilitating strategies, prior modes of awareness), following (aggravated or reduced problems, constrained or facilitated strategies, subsequent modes of awareness);\n3) cross-reference links, mainly between entries in the \"Problems\", \"Strategies\", \"Values\", and \"Development\" databases;\n4) links to entries in other UIA databases, mainly the \"International Organizations\" database;\n5) reference links to entries in the \"Bibliography (issues)\" database;\n6) links to relevant websites.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" contains nearly 500 pages of introductory notes and commentaries. Some of them just provide readers with usual information about the work content and its organization. Most of them, however, represent extensive reports on the exploratory work done by the editors in eight projects (also called research areas, or sections). Here are those projects, with illustrative examples of key ideas figuring in the notes and commentaries.\n\nA first objective of the editors in that project is to collect and present information on the following topics: the problems with which humanity perceives itself to be faced; the organizational, human, and intellectual resources it believes it has at its disposal; the values by which it is believed any change should be guided; the concepts of human development considered to be either the means or the end of any such social transformation. A second objective is to clarify the conceptual challenge of interrelating such plentiful and disparate or even contradictory information. A third objective is to enable alternation between viewpoints from different cultures, ideologies, beliefs and even \"facts\", as a way for individuals and societies to become empowered with an appropriate response to the problematic conditions of the moment.\n\nIt is the disagreement amongst the advocates of different approaches to problems or solutions which hinders the formation of any consensual strategy and the mobilization of adequate resources. That is why the \"Encyclopedia\" uses an approach that is as general and minimally structured as is feasible without losing coherence and utility. The intent is first to contribute to clarify the nature, extent, and interrelationships of problems and solutions. Even the distinction between problems and solutions is not always clear. For instance, housing an increasing number of people is a solution that may aggravate the problem of urban overcrowding, and the death of individuals is a problem that contributes to the solution of reducing ecological impact of overpopulation.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" databases are much about how problems, strategies, values, development concepts, and organizations are linked together. As a result, the possibility of focusing on feedback loops has proven to be an important feature of the \"Encyclopedia\", and a program has been carried out to identify \"vicious problem loops\". A vicious problem loop is a chain of problems, each aggravating the next, and with the last looping back to aggravate the first in the chain. Here is an example: Man-made disasters, Vulnerability of ecosystem niches, Natural environment degradation, Shortage of natural resources, Unbridled competition for scarce resources, Man-made disasters. Solutions that focus on only one problem in a chain may fail or even be harmful, because the cycle has the capacity to regenerate itself, and also because several cycles may interlock, forming tangled skeins of interlinked global problems. The loop detection program detected more than 50,000 loops (of up to 9 elements) in more than 12,000 problem profiles. It is thought that a similar work could be done about mutually facilitating or constraining strategy loops, so as to constitute a dynamic response to aggravating or reducing loops of problems through a circle of matching strategies.\n\nThat project endeavors to present all the phenomena in society that are perceived negatively by groups transcending national frontiers. Those phenomena constitute a challenge to creative remedial action. Groups are strongly motivated by the problems that infringe their values and arouse their indignation. As such, problems are a major stimulus driving the development of society. Although there is agreement that problems are numerous and that many are really serious, little effort has been made to determine how many problems there are. Likewise, while it is becoming increasingly evident that problems interact with one another, and constitute complex networks or systems, little effort has been made to map that complexity. The perceptions documented in that project raise useful questions concerning the nature and existence of problems, especially when other groups consider that one perception or another is irrelevant, misleading or misinformed. An aim of that research area, then, is to assemble information whose significance is collectively repressed, displaced onto some less threatening problems, or projected in the form of blame onto some other social group.\n\nViews concerning problems are extremely varied. Several pages in the notes and commentaries deal with that variety. Problems are agenda items for assemblies or conferences; action targets for organizations; issues for political parties or governments; events or topics for the media; markets for businesses; sins for religions; puzzles for sciences. Problems can be viewed as synonymous with chaos and disorder, or as elements in an ordered array; as static or dynamic entities; as discrete or continuous phenomena; as objective things or subjective experiences; as directly experienceable phenomena or as indirect implications of seemingly innocent phenomena; as inherently comprehensible or incomprehensible entities; as the results of due processes or as spontaneous phenomena. For many people in the West problems may be considered as artifacts of concerned minds, about which reason, principles, or history are relevant, while in the East to conceive of life as presenting problems to be solved may be seen as a misconception of life. Other pages of notes and commentaries deal extensively with the variety of points of view under headings such as \"Approaches to problems\", \"Beyond the problem-lobby mindset\", or \"Problem perception and levels of awareness\".\n\nThat project aims at identifying the complete range of strategies perceived by constituencies acting at the international level.\n\nThe conventional way of addressing any problem situation is to elaborate a strategy, but given the number, variety and interrelationships of the problems, it is uncertain whether any conventional strategy could be adequate. In general, many groups have \"answers\" to the current crisis. The proponents of each such answer naturally attach special importance to their own as being of crucial relevance at this time, or even as being the only appropriate basis for a viable world society in the future. However, that focus on \"answer production\", a vital moving force in society, obscures the manner in which such answers, in the absence of integration between them, undermine each other’s significance.\n\nIt appears to the editors that the elements of the strategic challenge at this time include:\nThe strategic problem therefore is how to ensure that the appropriate organizational resources emerge, and are supported with appropriate conceptual tools, in response to emerging problem complexes. But it would seem that this must be achieved without organizing such response – for to the extent that any part of the network is organized, other parts will develop (and probably should develop) which favor alternative approaches. The challenge is therefore to clarify the conditions of a network strategy, i.e. an approach which facilitates or catalyses (rather than organizes) the development of organizational networks in response to problem networks, in the light of values perceived in various parts of the social system.\n\nMany pages of notes and commentaries describe in details various approaches to global strategies, and their limits. Such are \"Strategic ecosystem: beyond \"The Plan\"\", \"Governance\" (a series of pages on reports from the Club of Rome, the Commission on Global Governance, and four others groups), \"Strategic denial: action inhibition\", \"Post-crisis opportunities: range of strategies\", and \"Post-crisis opportunities: strategies in chaos\". A long series of pages explores how to \"move beyond the unimodal answer and recognize that because each form of action has both strengths and weaknesses, the key to a more effectively multimodal answer lies in finding how to interrelate the various unimodal answers so that they correct for each others weaknesses and counteract each others excesses.” But, it must also be asked, is integrated action of any type feasible at this time? The exploration begins with \"Strategic appropriateness: questionable answers\", and finishes with \"Action implications: consensus, uncertainty and action formulation\". Conditions for progress in strategy-making are more explicitly brought up in pages such as \"Strategic ecosystem: integrating constraint and opposition\", and \"Post-crisis opportunities: in quest of radical coherence\".\n\nThat project aims at registering a complete range of values with which people identify, to which they are attracted or which they reject as abhorrent. The notion of wisdom is explored as a way, an art, of dealing with value dilemmas. For instance, \"Complexity: understanding value systems\" is a text that looks at values through a positive interpretation, a negative interpretation, a paradoxical negative interpretation of the positive, and a paradoxical positive interpretation of the negative. Another text, \"Insights: wisdom and requisite variety\", gives a list of several sources of wisdom which, in interrelation, may be required in a value system to ensure the long-term viability of a complex society.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to provide profiles of human development approaches and modes of awareness, and their relationships, as perceived by different beliefs systems, disciplines, religions, and cultures. Much of the material in this section is about the limitations of language in expressing levels of significance beyond that which can be effectively captured by words, so that, seemingly, what we need to understand may only be expressible in a \"language\" that we do not know! That paradox is explored in a page entitled \"Language and the reconstruction of reality\". Other challenges relative to human potential and development are explored in pages such as \"Phases of human development through challenging problems\", or \"Barriers to transcendent insight and social transformation\".\n\nThe purpose of that project is to review the range of communication possibilities of metaphor, pattern and symbol. New conceptual tools are required to configure very large quantities of information into patterns that are both memorable and meaningful, and metaphor is often the only means to deal comprehensibly with complexity. Moreover, exploring “new ways of thinking” in the light of enhanced mental imagery (or mental model) appears indispensable inasmuch as furthering “mobilization of public opinion” and the “political will to change” is dependent upon insights that are too complex to be easily communicable. For instance, limitations of dualistic thinking are well-known and holistic approaches may represent more desirable alternatives, but how is it possible to implement such alternatives? The page \"Challenge: transcending the \"switch\" metaphor\" deals with that question.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to assemble descriptions of the range of conceptual approaches which are considered integrative and which are held by some international constituencies to provide a key for strategic response to the global problematique. Buzzwords like \"global\", \"networking\" and \"systematic\" are often used as magical \"words-of-power\". Nevertheless, in a society characterized by specialization, fragmentation, disparateness, or opposition, integrative approaches until now have proved inadequate or too difficult to implement. In order to go beyond that difficulty, it seems necessary to creatively introduce novelties, such as a science or art of disagreement that could clarify how to \"disagree intelligently\" rather than do so in a mindless manner requiring some form of violent or repressive reaction to eliminate the disagreement as soon as possible. There is a wide variety of initiatives pertaining to integrative knowledge and transdisciplinarity, and a page like \"Significance: previous, parallel or related initiatives\" presents several of them. With regard to interdisciplinary relationships between organizations, problems, strategies, values and human development, there is the \"Integrative Matrix of Human Preoccupations\" which has been developed by the editors and which allows to deal with all those elements in an exploratory fashion.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to provide a context for the presentation of new approaches to the challenges highlighted in the other projects. The emphasis is on configuring information in new ways, through a variety of accessible techniques, so as to allow easier navigation through complexity, and so as to evoke imaginative insights in response to such complexity. The \"Overview\" page presents about forty of those approaches or techniques, including interactive database use, q-analysis, information visualization, confidence artistry, tensegrity organization, I Ching, transformative conferencing, or marriage between poetry and policy-making.\n\nThe project was originally conceived in 1972 by James Wellesley-Wesley, who provided financial support through the foundation Mankind 2000, and Anthony Judge, by whom the work was orchestrated.\n\nWork on the first edition started with funds from Mankind 2000, matching those of the UIA. The publisher Klaus Saur, of Munich, provided funds, in conjunction with those from the UIA, for work on the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th editions. Seed funding for the third volume of the 4th edition was also provided on behalf of Mankind 2000. In the nineties, seed funding was provided, again on behalf of Mankind 2000, for computer equipment which subsequently allowed the UIA to develop a large website and make progressively available for free the \"Encyclopedia\" databases as from the 1994–1995 edition. In turn, this proven knowledge management capacity enabled the UIA, on the initiative of Nadia McLaren, a consultant ecologist who has been a primary editor for the \"Encyclopedia\", to successfully instigate two multi-partner projects funded by the European Union, with matching funds from the UIA. The work done through those two projects, \"Ecolynx: Information Context for Biodiversity Conservation\" (mainly) and \"Interactive Health Ecology Access Links\", eventually resulted in what amounted to a fifth, web-based, edition of the \"Encyclopedia\" in 2000. In their own ways, two other persons in particular effectively supported the project over the years: Robert Jungk of Mankind 2000, and Christian de Laet of the UIA.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" was the fruit of a continuing processing of documents gathered from many of the thousands of the international organizations profiled in the \"Yearbook of International Organizations\". Many such bodies regularly produce a wide range of material on the areas of their concern, many regularly send documents to the UIA, and many, when requested more specifically, supplied documents for the \"Encyclopedia\". The following organizations provided documents in the greatest quantity: FAO, ILO, UNICEF, UNESCO, UNCTD, WHO, Commonwealth Secretariat, Council of Europe, OECD, World Bank group. Furthermore, the United Nations Library in Geneva facilitated access to other material over two decades. The Institute of Cultural Affairs International was contractually associated at one point to the edition and other aspects of the \"Encyclopedia\" project. The \"Goals, Processes and Indicators of Development\" project (led by Johan Galtung) of the United Nations University, in which Anthony Judge participated on behalf of the UIA between 1978 and 1982, was an experience of learning and research that had a significant impact on the editorial content of the \"Encyclopedia\". Another noticeable influence came from futures studies, with which Judge has long been associated. He reports in \"Encyclopedia Illusions\" how the narrow focus of the Club of Rome on a few socio-economic aspects of futures research prompted the much vaster exploration concerning world problems and human potential.\n\nAnthony Judge was the architect and managing editor of the \"Encyclopedia\". He was also the main author of the notes and commentaries. The principal editors over the years have been, for different editions, Jon Jenkins and Maureen Jenkins (who had also worked at the Institute of Cultural Affairs), Owen Victor, Jacqueline Nebel, Nadia McLaren, and Tomáš Fülöpp. There were also enthusiastic editorial contributions from volunteers. All people related to the UIA who worked directly on one or more of the five \"Encyclopedia\" editions figure on a list that can be found online under the heading \"Associates of the Union of Intelligible Associations\". This is because in 2005, following disagreement over the partnership contract, Anthony Judge, as Executive Secretary of Mankind 2000, reframed the \"Encyclopedia\" as having been a strategic initiative of the Union of Intelligible Associations.\nTomáš Fülöpp continued maintaining and improving \"Encyclopedia\" databases at the UIA until January 2012.\n\n\nThere has been several reviews of the \"Encyclopedia\". One of the harshest criticisms came from the American Library Association in 1987: \"The board considers the \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" a problematic monument to idiosyncrasy, confusion, and obfuscation that certainly is not worth purchasing at any price.\" Similarly, The Guardian was extremely critical in a review article published in 1992, to which Anthony Judge recently responded via Transcend Media Service on the occasion of the publication in The Wall Street Journal of a page-one sympathetic review of the \"Encyclopedia\" initiative, in December 2012. The work itself is keen on presenting, in various places, disclaimers, reservations or warning texts that anticipate criticisms and explain the strengths and weaknesses of its approaches, including the failure to advocate a position, or the sometimes excessive complexity in its methods or language. Most reviews are laudatory, however. Richard Slaughter emphasized that the significance of the work is not its size or the scope of its references, impressive though these are. It is rather in the nature of what has been attempted. The accompanying notes and commentaries, he said, are good enough to be published separately because they contain highly cogent observations on the \"global problematique\", commentaries on the work of numerous great thinkers from a wide variety of fields, and an impressive array of insights about the epistemology, symbolism, metaphysics, metaphors and linguistic representations of the subject. As far as practice is concerned, the highest commendation perhaps is to be found in the words of Elise Boulding: \"Any one of us (...) can actively become a part in the world problem solving process by using this encyclopedia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41316536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41316536", "title": "End of history", "text": "End of history\n\nThe end of history is a political and philosophical concept that supposes that a particular political, economic, or social system may develop that would constitute the end-point of humanity's sociocultural evolution and the final form of human government. A variety of authors have argued that a particular system is the \"end of history\" including Thomas More in \"Utopia\", Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Karl Marx, Vladimir Solovyov, Alexandre Kojève and Francis Fukuyama in the 1992 book, \"The End of History and the Last Man\".\n\nThe concept of an end of history differs from ideas of an end of the world as expressed in various religions, which may forecast a complete destruction of the Earth or of life on Earth, and the end of the human race as we know it. The end of history instead proposes a state in which human life continues indefinitely into the future without any further major changes in society, system of governance, or economics.\n\nThe phrase, 'the end of history' was first used by French philosopher and mathematician Antoine Augustin Cournot in 1861 \"to refer to the end of the historical dynamic with the perfection of civil society\". \"Arnold Gehlen adopted it in 1952 and it has been taken up more recently by Heidegger and Vattimo\".\n\nThe formal development of an idea of an \"end of history\" is most closely associated with Hegel, although Hegel discussed the idea in ambiguous terms, making it unclear whether he thought such a thing was a certainty or a mere possibility.\n\nA postmodern understanding of the term differs in that \"The idea of an 'end of history' does not imply that nothing more will ever happen. Rather, what the postmodern sense of an end of history tends to signify is, in the words of contemporary historian Keith Jenkins, the idea that 'the peculiar ways in which the past was historicized (was conceptualized in modernist, linear and essentially metanarrative forms) has now come to an end of its productive life; the all-encompassing \"experiment of modernity\" ... is passing away into our postmodern condition'.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50816353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50816353", "title": "Environmental globalization", "text": "Environmental globalization\n\nEnvironmental globalization refers to the internationally coordinated practices and regulations (often in the form of international treaties) regarding environmental protection. An example of environmental globalization would be the series of International Tropical Timber Agreement treaties (1983, 1994, 2006), establishing International Tropical Timber Organization and promoting sustainable management of tropical forests. Environmental globalization is usually supported by non-governmental organizations and governments of developed countries, but opposed by governments of developing countries which see pro-environmental initiatives as hindering their economic development.\n\nKarl S. Zimmerer defined it as \"the increased role of globally organized management institutions, knowledge systems and monitoring, and coordinated strategies aimed at resource, energy, and conservation issues.\" Alan Grainger in turn wrote that it can be understood as \"an increasing spatial uniformity and contentedness in regular environmental management practices\". Steven Yearley has referred to this concept as \"globalization of environmental concern\". Grainger also cited a study by Clark (2000), which he noted was an early treatment of the concept, and distinguished three aspects of environmental globalization: \"global flows of energy, materials and organisms; formulation and global acceptance of ideas about global environment; and environmental governance\" (a growing web of institutions concerned with global environment).\n\nEnvironmental globalization is related to economic globalization, as economic development on a global scale has environmental impacts on such scale, which is of concern to numerous organizations and individuals. While economic globalization has environmental impacts, those impacts should not be confused with the concept of environmental globalization. In some regards, environmental globalization is in direct opposition to economic globalization, particularly when the latter is described as encouraging trade, and the former, as promoting pro-environment initiatives that are an impediment to trade. For that reason, an environmental activist might be opposed to economic globalization, but advocate environmental globalization.\n\nGrainger has discussed that environmental globalization in the context of international agreements on pro-environmental initiatives. According to him, precursors to modern environmental globalization can be found in the colonial era scientific forestry (research into how to create and restore forests). Modern initiatives contributing to environmental globalization include the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, came from the World Bank 1980s requirements that development projects need to protect indigenous peoples and conserve biodiversity. Other examples of such initiative include treaties such as the series of International Tropical Timber Agreement treaties (1983, 1994, 2006). Therefore, unlike other main forms of globalization economic, political and cultural which were already strong in the 19th century, environmental globalization is a more recent phenomena, one that begun in earnest only in the later half of the 20th century. Similarly, Steven Yearley states that it was around that time that the environmental movement started to organize on the international scale focus on the global dimension of the issues (the first Earth Day was celebrated on 1970).\n\nAccording to Grainger, environmental globalization (in the form of pro-environmental international initiatives) is usually supported by various non-governmental organizations and governments of developed countries, and opposed by governments of developing countries (Group of 77), which see pro-environmental initiatives as hindering their economic development. Governmental resistance to environmental globalization takes form or policy ambiguity (exemplified by countries which sign international pro-environmental treaties and pass domestic pro-environmental laws, but then proceed to not enforce them) and collective resistance in forums such as United Nations to projects that would introduce stronger regulations or new institutions policing environmental issues worldwide (such as opposition to the forest-protection agreement during the Earth Summit in 1992, which was eventually downgraded from a binding to a non-binding set of Forest Principles).\n\nWorld Trade Organization has also been criticized as focused on economic globalization (liberalizing trade) over concerns of environmental protection, which are seen as impeding the trade. Steven Yearley states that WTO should not be described as \"anti-environmental\", but its decisions have major impact on environment worldwide, and they are based primarily on economic concerns, with environmental concerns being given secondary weight.\n\n"}
{"id": "55855321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55855321", "title": "FIBA Women's World Ranking", "text": "FIBA Women's World Ranking\n\nThe FIBA Women's World Ranking is the FIBA's rankings of national women's basketball teams. FIBA ranks women's national teams in both senior and junior competitions. It also publishes combined rankings for all competitions involving both sexes.\n\nFIBA still uses the competition-based system to determine its women's rankings. As noted above, this system was also used to determine men's rankings prior to 2017. FIBA has announced that it will introduce a game-based ranking procedure similar to that currently used for men's rankings in the indeterminate future.\n\nFIBA uses a weighted arithmetic mean to determine the statistical weight of each of the tournaments. Each event is assigned point weight that is based partly on how competitive the tournament is and partly on which national teams are participating:\n\nAs opposed to football tournaments, teams still have to go through a series of consolation and classification rounds even if they've been eliminated from title contention, so that a complete ranking of the teams will be possible.\n\nThe calculations are done after the tournaments stated above in a group of two Olympic cycles (8 years). The oldest tournament outside the 8-year period is discarded and replaced with the newest competition.\n\nThis means that in every computation, there are:\n\nThe ' 1000.0 points were calculated by this method:\nAfter the conclusion of the 2017 continental championships, the points gained from the 2009 continental championships were replaced with those gained from the 2017 editions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2224906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224906", "title": "GMA Pinoy TV", "text": "GMA Pinoy TV\n\nGMA Pinoy TV is a Filipino television channel incorporated in February 2004 by GMA Network and its subsidiaries, GMA International and GMA Worldwide Inc. It was launched in 2005, primarily in Japan and the USA, as a 24-hour international Filipino television station. The channel is targeted towards overseas Filipinos and their families in the Philippines. The network airs shows produced by GMA Network. Drawing on programming from its flagship station in the Philippines, the network's programs can be seen worldwide.\n\nThe programming of GMA Pinoy TV consists mostly of from the Philippines from GMA Network as well as previously aired shows, documentaries, films, and sports events from the Philippines. The delay of GMA Pinoy TV's dramas all air on one-episode delay basis. Most weekend shows are up to date, with the exception of some shows that air on a one-episode delay basis.\n\nGMA Pinoy TV was first launched in Japan on March 2005. It was later launched in several parts of the United States in the same year, such as San Francisco, Los Angeles, and the states of the East Coast. The official GMA Pinoy TV launch in America happened in San Francisco on 23 July 2005 and was aired on \"SOP\" the following Sunday, 31 July 2005.\n\nIn 2006, the so-called Filipino colors—red, blue and yellow—were used for the graphics and since December 2006, the on-screen graphics of GMA Pinoy TV is being changed every Christmas season.\n\nIn 2008, GMA Pinoy TV was also known for the program Dyesebel. Due to the success of the program, GMA Pinoy TV launched a billboard in Daly City, which was there for the entirety of the show.\n\nThe logo also was seen in the upper right and left corners at varied times. It was settled in 2007 that the logo will be seen in the upper right corner. In 2007, GMA Pinoy TV became a huge success and was known better known because of \"Marimar\". Due to the success of the program, GMA Pinoy TV once changed graphics, which has been used from 2007 to October 2010.\n\nAn associated second channel, GMA Life TV, was successfully launched in March 2008 and soon grew to 109,000 subscribers. GMA Pinoy TV had 225,000 subscribers as of September 2009. The percent of subscribers has gone up 34% according to GMA New Media, Inc.\n\nIn 2010, an amount of PhP253 million for the 1st Quarter of 2010's revenues was posted in the Annual Stockholders Meeting of GMA Network for GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV. In May 2010, GMA and GMA Network were acclaimed for their performance of covering the elections. The said election coverage was aired live on GMA Pinoy TV on 9 May until the Election ended. Based on the September 2010 report posted by the Corporate Communications Department of GMA Network, GMA Pinoy TV had a total of 256,000 subscribers while its sister channel, GMA Life TV had 122,000 subscribers. On 10 October 2010 (otherwise known was 10-10-10), GMA Pinoy TV changed graphics with a theme that recognizes and is towards Pinoys all over the world. It also has a globe symbolizing how far GMA Pinoy TV has gone since the start. On Christmas 2010, GMA Pinoy TV used the slogan \"Isang Maligayang at Masaganang Paskong Pinoy, Kapuso.\" This was the first time that GMA Pinoy TV used another Christmas slogan besides the GMA Network Christmas 2010 slogan, \"Isang Pagkilala sa Puso ng Pilipino Ngayong Pasko.\" As for the 3rd Quarter of 2010, GMA Pinoy TV had around 261,000 subscribers posted. As of December 2010, GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV has expanded into the following: Chicago, Illinois (via Comcast Chicago); New York (via Time Warner New York); Washington, D.C., Maryland, Alabama, Virginia (via Comcast); Vancouver, British Columbia (via Telus Canada); and Italy, London, and the rest of UK and rest of Europe (via Infinity IPTV). In a report published showing GMA Network's revenues for 2010 with a total of PhP 14.299 billion, GMA Life TV has 125,000 subscribers (an estimated 800,000 viewers count) while GMA Pinoy TV has an accounted 274,000 subscribers (around 1.8 million viewers).\n\nIn 2011, the delays of the shows on GMA Pinoy TV receded from months of delay to two days delay for primetime shows and three days delay for afternoon dramas. On the first quarter of 2011, GMA Pinoy TV and its home network in the Philippines revealed a new logo with minor changes. The \"GMA\" letters part is seen to be more embossed and the logo has a \"glow\" effect. On 28 February 2011 for the first time in GMA International's history, two programs that started airing on GMA Pinoy TV that were still running with new episodes were switched over to GMA Life TV, where it will then air its new episodes to occupy free time slots. This then led to replays of other Kapuso shows. The shows included \"Pinoy MD\" and \"Love ni Mister, Love ni Misis\". All this will be straightened out once GMA News TV starts its international operations sometime 2nd to 3rd quarter of 2011.\n\nOn 10 March 2011 GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV expanded even more in the United States in Florida. The Florida counties that are part of the extension include Brevard, Flagler, Lake, Marion, Orange, Osceola, Seminole, Sumter and Volusia. On 5 April 2011, though already launched in the Philippines on 27 March 2011, GMA Pinoy TV officially launched the 2011 summer slogan of GMA \"Halo-Halo Ang Summer Saya\". This took some time to launch on GMA Pinoy TV because significant edits were made in which some of the programs on the original version were not slated to air on GMA Pinoy TV like \"Man vs. Beast\" but beside that, the international version of the station ID still included planned shows of Summer 2011. Also in April 2011, GMA Pinoy TV is now being broadcast by COX Communications in Arizona, areas like Tucson and Arizona, on Channel 482. In a report dated 16 May 2011 regarding the consolidated gross revenues of GMA Network, Inc. in the 1st quarter of 2011, it is noted that GMA Pinoy TV's subscriptions grew by 10 percent (approximately 300,000 subscribers) and GMA Life TV's subscriptions grew by 2 percent (approximately 128,000). This consisted of PhP 230 million worth of advertising and subscription revenues. In another recent report with regards to GMA Network's consolidated revenues in the 2nd quarter of 2011, GMA Pinoy TV's subscribers grew to 279,000 from 274,000 (actual count) and an estimated number of 1.85 million viewers and GMA Life TV's subscribers grew as well, an estimated 1 million viewers. Also, GMA Network recently launched GMA News TV in the past month and will be made available to all areas where GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV reaches by 3rd Quarter of 2011. GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV were further made to subscribers in key Filipino-American areas in the US, namely New Jersey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Maryland and Washington D.C. They were also launched in many parts of Detroit, Hawaii and upstate New York and New England. The channels were also launched by additional carriers in Australia and Papua New Guinea.\n\nOn 5 October 2011, GMA Pinoy TV accepted two awards from the National Association for Multi-Ethnicity in Communications (NAMIC) in New York for 2011 Excellence in Multicultural Marketing Awards. On 4 November 2011, GMA Pinoy TV launched GMA's 2011 Christmas Station ID in several parts with each cast of most Kapuso shows and it was usually during the show and one right after the show ended. On 24 November 2011, Thanksgiving Day in the US, GMA Pinoy TV launched the Christmas-themed graphics for 2011, which also included the upper-right logo being converted to a Christmas-themed one. This was also the same date that GMA Network revamped its websites, with new features and a new look.\nOn December 2011, GMA Pinoy TV’s subscriber count closed at 291,309, a 7% increase over the 2010 closing subscriber number of 273,317. Because of this, revenues grew by 8% year-on-year and are expected to grow at that rate 2012 onwards.\n\nOn 2012, \"My Beloved\" became is the first primetime TV Drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere on GMA Pinoy TV. On 15 March 2012, GMA Pinoy TV updated its on-screen graphics, replacing the 2010 version of approximately 30 seconds to one that is approximately 15 seconds.\n\nIn a press statement released by GMA Network, Inc., it was stated that GMA Pinoy TV, as of 1st Quarter of 2012, has approximately 303,000 subscribers, which numbers nearly 2 million viewers.\n\nOn 18 May 2012, GMA Pinoy TV released on-air alternate versions of its \"Up Next\" and \"You're Watching\" bumpers; they were much shorter and instead of clips of the shows, they featured the stars of the respective shows. On 5 June 2012, GMA Pinoy TV began experiencing audio issues with its broadcast, audio that is not so typical of High-Definition, High-Resolution cameras tha GMA uses. On 21 June 2012, the issue was resolved and the original audio type was restored. For the first time in GMA history, \"Idol sa Kusina\", a program originally aired on QTV then GMA News TV and simulcast on GMA Life TV moved to GMA Pinoy TV on 14 July 2012. In September 2012, for the first time in GMA Pinoy TV's history, \"24 Oras\", the network's flagship newscast program will had a four-hour-delayed telecast, meaning in the US, the show aired 7:30am (US-PST), 10:30am (US-EST), and 4:30am (Hawaii). This is the first time the network has placed \"24 Oras\" right after \"Unang Hirit\", which also changed timeslots to give way for 24 Oras.\n\nAs of 30 October 2012, four drama series were premiered that were one-day delayed: \"My Beloved\", \"One True Love\", \"Coffee Prince\", and \"Temptation of Wife\". This is part of GMA Pinoy TV's promise to its viewers to lessen airing delays and more original programming being shown. On 30 November 2012, GMA Pinoy TV updated its upper-right corner logo once more to a Christmas-themed one and one that celebrates GMA Pinoy TV's 7th anniversary and the version of the letters \"GMA\" are the more current one used by GMA. The on-air Christmas graphics which has been annually seen on GMA Pinoy TV was subsequently launched on 1 December 2012 and will last until the first week of January 2013. On 31 December 2012, GMA Pinoy TV aired \"Win na Win sa 2013: The GMA New Year Countdown\" live, making it the third time that GMA aired its New Year countdown live worldwide (previously in 2008 and 2011).\n\nOn 2013, \"Indio\" and \"Mundo Mo'y Akin\" became the fifth and sixth TV Drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere on GMA Pinoy TV. This makes all the current and future primetime dramas of GMA to air on a one-day episode delay basis, compared to previously where it started first as long as three-weeks delay to as short as two-days delay. For the first time on GMA Pinoy TV, copyrighted material created and produced by another company, National Geographic Channel, was aired on GMA Pinoy TV on 7 April 2013. The copyrighted material aired under license is the National Geographic Channel Documentary entitled \"Inside Malacanang Palace\", which aired on March 2012, is a special documentary that takes the audience to an exclusive guided tour of the Malacanang Palace of the Philippines.\n\nOn the first quarter of 2013, GMA Pinoy TV had a total of 333,000 subscribers while its sister channel, GMA Life TV had 125,000 subscribers. This is based on a report that the Corporate Communications Department of GMA Network has posted. Overall, in 2012 and Q1 of 2013, subscription to GMA International channels increased by 7 percent. On June 2013, SingTel relaunched this channel together with GMA Life TV and in the new Fiesta Pack as well after 2 months of hiatus of this channel.\n\n\"Anna Karenina\" and \"My Husband's Lover\" became the seventh and eighth primetime TV drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere. On 27 August 2013, \"\" started airing and was the first GMA Afternoon Prime drama series to be on only a one-episode delay basis, as for previous years, GMA Afternoon Prime dramas have been noted to be two to even four episodes delayed. On 10 September 2013, \"Akin Pa Rin ang Bukas\" became the ninth primetime TV drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere on GMA Pinoy TV.\n\nOn 17 September 2013, GMA Pinoy TV had experienced technical problems and thus a three-hour delay was caused in its programming schedule, which received negative feedback from the viewers as they were not warned beforehand. The management had appealed to the viewers by saying that such was not intentional and was accidental because of technical/conversion issues. The following day, 18 September 2013, the programming staff of GMA Pinoy TV was prompted to change the programming schedule, effectively removing the airings of Eat Bulaga! and 24 Oras just a few hours after its original broadcast. Viewers are still hoping for the programming of GMA Pinoy TV to revert to its original state, which most viewers preferred.\n\nOn 29 September 2013, a fire hit the basement of GMA Network's Building. The fire was put out in less than 50 minutes as the fire correspondents responded immediately. The fire affected the power supply of GMA Network and thus further affected the normal operations of GMA Network, including the operations of GMA Pinoy TV as well as GMA Life TV and GMA News TV International. During the fire, temporary programming was aired consisting of replays of shows from the weekend. The fire had caused disappointment and inconvenience on the part of the viewers/subscribers. However, the management of GMA International assured its subscribers that indeed the appropriate measures are being taken and that normal operations are hoped to be restored at the soonest possible time. On 1 October 2013, programming had slowly been restored. Subscribers reported \"Unang Hirit\", \"24 Oras\", \"The Ryzza Mae Show\" and \"Eat Bulaga!\" among others to be updated and though slightly off their appropriate timeslot, still was managed to be aired over on GMA Pinoy TV. Also, \"My Husband's Lover\" aired back-to-back episodes and thus only on 1 October did it become the first TV series of GMA Drama to air the same episode that aired in the Philippines on the same day that it aired on GMA Pinoy TV. \"Akin Pa Rin ang Bukas\" and \"Kahit Nasaan Ka Man\" followed and also had back-to-back episodes aired; these \"back-to-back\" episode appeared to the viewers as hints that the primetime dramas will begin to air on same-day episode basis. However, this idea was dismissed on 2 October 2013 when these shows had re-aired the \"catch up\" episodes and thus, the primetime dramas were confirmed to be on a one-episode delay basis again. The network's afternoon dramas, \"Prinsesa ng Buhay Ko\", \"Magkano Ba ang Pag-ibig?\" and \"\", are still airing on a one-episode delay basis and were not affected by the \"catching up\" that happened on 1 October. The only afternoon drama left airing on a two-episode delay basis is \"Mga Basang Sisiw\".\n\nOn 5 October 2013, GMA Pinoy TV updated its on-air title screen, in celebration of its \"8 Years of Bringing Global Pinoys Closer to Home.\" On 30 November 2013, GMA Pinoy TV updated its upper-right logo to a Christmas-themed one, alongside GMA's Christmas Theme for 2013, \"Sundan Natin ang Bituin Pabalik sa Kanyang Piling\". The following day, 1 December 2013, the on-air title screen and graphics were updated.\n\nOn 17 December 2013, \"The Ryzza Mae Show\" and \"Eat Bulaga!\" were restored to their late night timeslots in the North American feed. It was noted that subscribers continually pleaded GMA Pinoy TV to restore these shows to their late night timeslots as this is convenient for many working subscribers who are only able to watch at that time. After three months and a day of requests, the management finally granted such and the shows were restored to their respective and consecutive late night timeslots. In addition to their restored timeslots, the two shows air as well right after their restored timeslots and so, overall, \"The Ryzza Mae Show\" and \"Eat Bulaga\" air four times on GMA Pinoy TV daily. The New Year Countdown aired on a three-hour delay basis on GMA Pinoy TV on 31 December 2013. From 31 December 2013 to 13 January 2014, GMA Pinoy TV had a special airing of \"Titser\". This was in the timeslot previously occupied by \"Genesis\" and \"Akin Pa Rin Ang Bukas\", as in the Philippines the timeslots of the two shows were replaced by Hollywood blockbusters.\n\nThe GMA Pinoy TV on-screen graphics and logo returned to its regular version on 5 January 2014, marking the end of the Christmas season. GMA Pinoy TV began inserting English subtitles in certain shows like \"Wish Ko Lang\", \"Pepito Manaloto: Ang Tunay na Kuwento\" and \"Magpakailanman\" on Saturday, 11 January 2014. This is part of GMA Pinoy TV's efforts to expand its audience reach so that not only those who can speak and understand Tagalog can watch GMA Pinoy TV but also those who cannot.\n\nOn 22 April 2014, GMA Pinoy TV began to air \"Full House\", the first Tagalog-dubbed Koreanovela aired on this channel. The shows with English subtitles are noted in the next section \"currently broadcast\". \"Basta Every Day, Happy!\" was supposed to premiere on 12 May 2014 (in some territories like the US on the evening of 11 May 2014) and air throughout its entire duration on GMA Pinoy TV but the programming department of GMA International, GMA's international subsidiary, decided to move the show over to GMA Life TV as it adheres more to GMA Life TV's overall theme as a lifestyle channel as well as the show is a replacement for \"\", so the programming department had seen that the move was done rightfully so.\n\nOn 26 May 2014, GMA Pinoy TV began to air \"Niño\" with no episode delay whatsoever, thus premiering on the same day. This is a historical event for GMA Pinoy TV, as GMA drama series have never aired without episode delays. The nearest to not having a delay was the one-episode\ndelay policy that was established on 14 February 2012 with the premiere of \"My Beloved\". What is going to happen is in the North American feed as well as on the Australian feed, the premiere of \"Niño\" and subsequent new episodes on same-day airing will take place on the evening telecast and replays in the afternoon telecasts while in other feeds, particularly, the Middle East and North Africa, Asia Pacific and European feeds, the premiere and subsequent new episodes will take place in the afternoon telecasts and replays on evening telecasts, thus because these telecasts will take place in the afternoon, such is still not considered delayed, as a new episode of the show still has not premiered. This similar framework followed with \"Ang Dalawang Mrs. Real\", which premiered on 2 June airing on same-day basis as well along with \"Strawberry Lane\" on 15 September and \"Hiram na Alaala\" on 22 September. \"Ilustrado\", the first BayaniSerye on Philippine Primetime, had a world premiere on all feeds of GMA Pinoy TV on 20 October 2014; this was simultaneous with the premiere in the Philippines and this is the first time such has happened in GMA Pinoy TV history.\n\nOn December 2014, GMA Pinoy TV updated its on-air title screen and graphics and upper-right logo to a Christmas-themed one, alongside GMA's Christmas theme for 2014, \"Share the Love\". On December 31, 2014, \"Countdown to 2015: The GMA New Year Countdown Special\" aired live on GMA Pinoy TV.\n\nThe GMA Pinoy TV on-screen graphics and logo returned to its regular version on 4 January 2015, marking the end of the Christmas season. In the 1st quarter of 2015, in response to viewers' requests and to remain competitive in the international market, GMA Pinoy TV began to increase the number of shows with English subtitles, now including daily dramas like \"Let the Love Begin\" and \"The Rich Man's Daughter\".\n\nOn May 10, 2015, Willie Revillame's \"Wowowin\" premiered on GMA Network and on GMA Pinoy TV, serving as his return to the Kapuso Network. It is noted that Revillame's popular \"Wowowee\" aired for five years on GMA and GMA Pinoy TV's rival stations.\n\nOn July 27, 2015, the sixth and final State of the Nation Address of President Benigno S. Aquino II aired live in the Asia Pacific and aired on a delay basis in North America, North Africa, the Middle East and Europe.\n\nIn mid-2015 GMA's programming changed from news to other programs to four-five hours programming of Pinoy Telenovela block starting with its AfternoonPrime to GMA telebabad Programming with some programs one day delayed however, has caught up throughout with its future schedules. Eat Bulaga airs its initial programming, and Wowowin, Daily news as well and other programming.\n\nOn May to June 2011, GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV sent many of its artists to various places worldwide, it's the first time that Kapuso artists were sent almost consecutively, to celebrate Philippine Independence Day, Filipino Culture Fiestas and to promote GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV and its shows. They consisted of Iza Calzado & Dennis Trillo who went to Hawaii on 7 May 2011, then on 28 May 2011, Jolina Magdangal and JayR visited National City in San Diego, CA. On the 113th Philippine Independence Day proper, Dennis Trillo & Iza Calzado were sent this time to Hong Kong to represent GMA Pinoy TV and perform there and in Singapore, Dingdong Dantes and Rachel Ann Go were present. And on 25 June 2011, Carla Abellana, JayR and Frencheska Farr along with Arnel Ignacio are heading off to Toronto, Canada to be a part of the Pinoy Fiesta Trade Show there. A day after, 26 June 2011, Aljur Abrenica, Jennylyn Mercado, Iza Calzado and Mark Bautista will be sent to be part of Philippine-American Friendship Day in Jersey City, New Jersey.\nOn 2 October 2011, Heart Evangelista, Daniel Matsunaga, and former \"Eat Bulaga\" host, Kim Idol graced an event in Australia celebrating the launch of GMA News TV International as well as the strengthening presence of GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV.\n\nOn 16 September 2012, in celebration of GMA Pinoy TV's 7th anniversary, \"Manny Many Prizes' held a special event at Universal Studios Hollywood. The live show featured the show's cast plus Dingdong Dantes, Solenn Heussaff, Julie Anne San Jose, Elmo Magalona and Rochelle Pangilinan.\n\nTo celebrate GMA Pinoy TV's 10th anniversary, GMA Pinoy TV rolled out a series of concerts, entitled \"Kapusong Pinoy\" followed by the name of the place as well as appearances at Filipino cultural events throughout the world, mainly in June and July to celebrate the Philippines' 117th Independence Day. GMA Pinoy TV used the hashtag #Sampuso to celebrate and highlight its 10th year of bringing Filipinos closer to home. The first two concerts were originally supposed to include GMA's Primetime Queen Marian Rivera-Dantes but because of her pregnancy, she chose to withdraw from the concerts for her and her child's safety and AiAi delas Alas served as her replacement in the first two concerts. The first Sampuso concert was on May 29, 2015 (originally slated for April 24, 2015), at the Orpheum Theater in Vancouver, Canada, featuring AiAi delas Alas, Christian Bautista, Jonalyn Viray, Alden Richards, and Betong Sumaya as Antonietta of Bubble Gang. The second Sampuso concert was on May 31, 2015 (originally slated for April 26, 2015), at the City National Grove of Anaheim, California, featuring AiAi delas Alas, Christian Bautista, Jonalyn Viray, Alden Richards, and Betong Sumaya as Antonietta of Bubble Gang.\n\nGMA announced a third concert in celebration of GMA Pinoy TV's 10th anniversary. The concert took place in New York at the Town Hall on September 5, 2015, featuring Primetime King Dingdong Dantes, AiAi delas Alas, Julie Anne San Jose, Christian Bautista, and Betong Sumaya as Antonietta of Bubble Gang. There are more concerts in celebration of GMA Pinoy TV's 10th Anniversary slated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1366094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1366094", "title": "Glenn Hauser", "text": "Glenn Hauser\n\nGlenn Hauser (born April 12, 1945 in Berkeley, California) is an internationally known American DXer and radio host from Enid, Oklahoma. He produces and presents a weekly 30-minute program, \"World Of Radio\", heard on a number of non-commercial AM and FM stations throughout the U.S. and worldwide on shortwave.\n\nHauser began his broadcasting career on Radio Canada International during the late 1970s, providing DX tips on Sunday nights, and his tips also appeared on Radio Nederland's \"DX Juke Box\" program. He wrote for \"Popular Electronics\" and \"Modern Electronics\", and published \"Review of International Broadcasting\".\n\n\"World Of Radio\" debuted in 1980 on WUOT-FM in Knoxville, Tennessee, moving to shortwave two years later. The half-hour program consists of Hauser reading news about radio around the world in a characteristic monotone. Although \"World of Radio\" focuses on shortwave news, it covers all aspects of broadcasting. Most items are contributed by listeners to the program or DX publications.\n\nHauser also produced \"Mundo Radial\", a Spanish edition of \"World of Radio\", from January 2002 to November 2007.\n\nHauser introduced \"Review of International Broadcasting\" in February 1977. The magazine published 154 issues, with columns such as \"Listener Insights on Programming,\" \"Radio Equipment Forum,\" \"DX Listening Digest,\" \"The Media Mind\" and \"Satellite Watch.\" Contributors included David Newkirk, Loren Cox and Juan Carlos Codina, and \"RIB\" also featured columns from the BBC, John Norfolk and Alan Roe. It was published monthly during the 1970s and 1980s, later decreasing to quarterly and semiannually before ceasing publication in October 1997. \"RIB\"s successor, \"DX Listening Digest\", went online in 1999.\n\nHauser is a political liberal and an agnostic, which occasionally puts him at odds with the fundamentalist-dominated American shortwave scene which carries \"World of Radio\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36988620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36988620", "title": "Global Alliance to Prevent Prematurity and Stillbirth", "text": "Global Alliance to Prevent Prematurity and Stillbirth\n\nThe Global Alliance to Prevent Prematurity and Stillbirth (GAPPS) was founded in 2007 as an initiative of Seattle Children’s. GAPPS’ mission is to lead a collaborative, global effort to increase awareness and accelerate innovative research and interventions that will improve maternal, newborn and child health outcomes around the world, with a focus on preterm birth and stillbirth.\n\nThe GAPPS Repository is a biobank of pregnancy specimens matched with data from patient questionnaires. It supports research on normal and abnormal pregnancies, including how pregnancy affects maternal and child health after delivery. The Repository is also available to researchers to study the fetal origins of persistent health problems like diabetes, obesity, and hypertension.\n\nIn November 2011 the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation provided $20 million to GAPPS for the Preventing Preterm Birth initiative, part of the foundation's Grand Challenges in Global Health. The Preventing Preterm Birth initiative focuses on finding new interventions to prevent premature birth and stillbirth by limiting infection and improving nutrition.\n"}
{"id": "6716259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6716259", "title": "Global Burden of Disease Study", "text": "Global Burden of Disease Study\n\nThe Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) is a comprehensive regional and global research program of disease burden that assesses mortality and disability from major diseases, injuries, and risk factors. GBD is a collaboration of over 1,800 researchers from 127 countries. Under principal investigator Christopher J.L. Murray, GBD is based out of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington and funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nThe Global Burden of Disease Study began in 1990 as a single World Bank-commissioned study, now called GBD 1990. The original project quantified the health effects of more than 100 diseases and injuries for eight regions of the world, giving estimates of morbidity and mortality by age, sex, and region. It also introduced the disability-adjusted life year (DALY) as a new metric to quantify the burden of diseases, injuries, and risk factors, to aid comparisons. GBD 1990 was \"institutionalized\" at the World Health Organization (WHO) and the research was \"conducted mainly by researchers at Harvard and WHO\".\n\nIn 2000–2002, the 1990 study was updated by WHO to include a more extensive analysis using a framework known as \"comparative risk factor assessment\".\n\nThe WHO estimates were again updated for 2004 in \"The global burden of disease: 2004 update\" (published in 2008) and in \"Global health risks\" (published in 2009).\n\nOfficial DALY estimates had not been updated by WHO since 2004 until the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2010 (GBD 2010), also known as the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010, was published in December 2012. The work quantified the burdens of 291 major causes of death and disability and 67 risk factors disaggregated by 21 geographic regions and various age–sex groups. GBD 2010 had the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation as its coordinating center, but was a collaboration between several institutions including WHO and the Harvard School of Public Health. The work was funded by the Gates Foundation. The GBD 2010 estimates contributed to WHO's own estimates published in 2013, although WHO did not acknowledge the GBD 2010 estimates.\n\nThe Global Burden of Disease Study 2013 (GBD 2013) was published in 2014. The first installment, \"Smoking Prevalence and Cigarette Consumption in 187 Countries, 1980–2012\", was published in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" in January, and further installments were published throughout the year. IHME continued to act as the coordinating center for the work.\n\nIn October 2016, Global Burden of Disease Study 2015 (GBD 2015) was published. The work was still coordinated at IHME.\n\nThe following table summarizes GBD's growth over the years.\n\nThe GBD has three specific aims:\n\n\nThe burden of disease can be viewed as the gap between current health status and an ideal situation in which everyone lives into old age free of disease and disability. Causes of the gap are premature mortality, disability and exposure to certain risk factors that contribute to illness.\n\nThe 2013 report showed that global life expectancy for both sexes increased from 65.3 years in 1990, to 71.5 years in 2013, while the number of deaths increased from 47.5 million to 54.9 million over the same interval. Progress varied widely across demographic and national groups. Reductions in age-standardised death rates for cardiovascular diseases and cancers in high-income regions, and reductions in child deaths from diarrhoea, lower respiratory infections and neonatal causes in low-income regions drove the changes. HIV/AIDS reduced life expectancy in southern sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nFor most communicable causes of death both numbers of deaths and age-standardised death rates fell, while for most non-communicable causes, demographic shifts increased numbers of deaths but decreased age-standardised death rates.\n\nGlobal deaths from injury increased by 10.7%, from 4.3 million deaths in 1990 to 4.8 million in 2013; but age-standardised rates declined over the same period by 21%. For some causes of more than 100,000 deaths per year in 2013, age-standardised death rates increased between 1990 and 2013, including HIV/AIDS, pancreatic cancer, atrial fibrillation and flutter, drug use disorders, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and sickle-cell anaemias. Diarrhoeal diseases, lower respiratory infections, neonatal causes and malaria remain in the top five causes of death in children younger than 5 years. The most important pathogens are rotavirus for diarrhoea and pneumococcus for lower respiratory infections.\n\nGBD 2015 found that for the first time, annual deaths from measles had fallen below 100,000 in 2013 and 2015. It also found that the global annual rate of new HIV infections has largely stayed the same during the past 10 years.\n\nGBD 2015 also introduced the Socio-demographic Index (SDI) as a measure of a location's socio-demographic development that takes into account average income per person, educational attainment, and total fertility rate.\n\nThe results of the Global Burden of Disease Study have been cited by \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", Vox, and \"The Atlantic\".\n\nThe World Health Organization did not acknowledge the GBD 2010 estimates.\n\nThe following is a table of GBD publications .\n\n\"GBD 2010\" proper means the paper was published as part of the original triple issue in \"The Lancet\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19574596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574596", "title": "Global Handwashing Day", "text": "Global Handwashing Day\n\nGlobal Handwashing Day (GHD) is a campaign to motivate and mobilize people around the world to improve their handwashing habits. Washing hands at critical points during the day and washing with soap are both important. \n\nGlobal Handwashing Day occurs on 15 October of each year. The global campaign is dedicated to raising awareness of handwashing with soap as a key factor in disease prevention. Respiratory and intestinal diseases can be reduced by 25-50%.\n\nThe Global Handwashing Partnership (GHP) (formerly called \"Public Private Partnership for Handwashing\" (PPPHW)) established Global Handwashing Day in 2008 as a way to promote a global and local vision of handwashing with soap.\n\nSteering Committee members of the GHP include Colgate-Palmolive; FHI 360; The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; Procter & Gamble; UNICEF; Unilever; University at Buffalo; USAID; the Water and Sanitation Programme at the World Bank; and the Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council.\n\nContinued research on handwashing habits and practices is commissioned in conjunction with GHD. In 2011, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SCA), sponsored a study to assess the handwashing habits of American and Canadian adults, finding that many were not using soap when washing their hands.\n\nThe aims of Global Handwashing Day are to:\n\nEach year, over 200 million people celebrate Global Handwashing Day.\n\n\nGlobal Handwashing Day was initiated by the Global Handwashing Partnership (GHP) in August 2008 at the annual World Water Week in Stockholm, Sweden. This means that the first Global Handwashing Day took place on 15 October 2008. The date was appointed by the UN General Assembly. The year 2008 was also the International Year of Sanitation. The founding bodies in 2008 included: FHI360 (a nonprofit human development organization based in the US), US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Procter & Gamble, UNICEF, Unilever, World Bank Water & Sanitation Program and the United States Agency for International Development.\n\n\nTheme for Global Handwashing Day 2018: Clean Hands- a recipe for health\n\nThe campaign was initiated to reduce childhood mortality rates and related respiratory and diarrheal diseases by introducing simple behavioral changes, such as handwashing with soap. This simple action can reduce the mortality rate of respiratory disease by 25%. Death from diarrheal diseases can be reduced by 50%. Across the world, more than 60 percent of health workers do not adhere to proper hand hygiene. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, US health care providers, on average, wash their hands less than half of the time they should. On any given day, one in 25 US hospital patients has at least one health care-associated infection.\n\nHandwashing with soap is very effective and the least expensive way to prevent diarrhea and acute respiratory infections. Pneumonia, a major ARI (acute respiratory infection), is the number one cause of mortality among children under five years old, killing an estimated 1.8 million children per year. Diarrhea and pneumonia together account for almost 3.5 million child deaths annually. Handwashing with soap is estimated to reduce cases of diarrhea by 30% and respiratory infections by 21% in children under the age of five.\n\nIt is important to make handwashing into a habit. Good handwashing with soap before eating and after using the toilet into a regular habit can save more lives than any single vaccine or medical intervention, cutting deaths from diarrhea by almost half and deaths from acute respiratory infections by one-quarter.\n\nHandwashing is usually done together with other sanitation interventions as part of water, sanitation and hygiene WASH programmes.\n\nThe Global Handwashing Day helps raise awareness of the importance of washing with soap, but it also makes it fun for children to get involved.\n\nProper hygiene requires that individuals know the importance of good hygiene and develop the habits to carry it out. There are people with plenty of money but nonetheless, they lack the important habits of timely handwashing with soap, and thereby unknowingly endanger themselves and others around them.\n\nPeer influence is significant to seeing increased handwashing among students. In a study conducted in Kenya, researchers found that students were much more likely to wash their hands when another student is present. Peer influence is only successful, however, when students know that handwashing is a desirable action.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) celebrates a World Hand Hygiene Day on 5 May. In 2018 the theme was prevention of sepsis in health care. The theme of the year before was to combat antibiotic resistance (AMR).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13305402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305402", "title": "Global brain", "text": "Global brain\n\nThe global brain is a neuroscience-inspired and futurological vision of the planetary information and communications technology network that interconnects all humans and their technological artifacts. As this network stores ever more information, takes over ever more functions of coordination and communication from traditional organizations, and becomes increasingly intelligent, it increasingly plays the role of a brain for the planet Earth.\n\nProponents of the global brain hypothesis claim that the Internet increasingly ties its users together into a single information processing system that functions as part of the collective nervous system of the planet. The intelligence of this network is collective or distributed: it is not centralized or localized in any particular individual, organization or computer system. Therefore, no one can command or control it. Rather, it self-organizes or emerges from the dynamic networks of interactions between its components. This is a property typical of complex adaptive systems.\n\nThe World-wide web in particular resembles the organization of a brain with its webpages (playing a role similar to neurons) connected by hyperlinks (playing a role similar to synapses), together forming an associative network along which information propagates. This analogy becomes stronger with the rise of social media, such as Facebook, where links between personal pages represent relationships in a social network along which information propagates from person to person.\nSuch propagation is similar to the spreading activation that neural networks in the brain use to process information in a parallel, distributed manner.\n\nAlthough some of the underlying ideas were already expressed by Nikola Tesla in the late 19th century and were written about by many others before him, the term “global brain” was coined in 1982 by Peter Russell in his book \"The Global Brain\". How the Internet might be developed to achieve this was set out in 1986. The first peer-reviewed article on the subject was published by Gottfried Mayer-Kress in 1995, while the first algorithms that could turn the world-wide web into a collectively intelligent network were proposed by Francis Heylighen and Johan Bollen in 1996.\n\nReviewing the strands of intellectual history that contributed to the global brain hypothesis, Francis Heylighen distinguishes four perspectives: \"“organicism”\", \"“encyclopedism”\", \"“emergentism”\" and \"“evolutionary cybernetics”\". He asserts that these developed in relative independence but now are converging in his own scientific re-formulation.\n\nIn the 19th century, the sociologist Herbert Spencer saw society as a social organism and reflected about its need for a nervous system. Entomologist William Wheeler developed the concept of the ant colony as a spatially extended organism, and in the 1930s he coined the term superorganism to describe such an entity. This concept was later adopted by thinkers such as Gregory Stock in his book Metaman and Joel de Rosnay to describe planetary society as a superorganism.\n\nThe mental aspects of such an organic system at the planetary level were perhaps first broadly elaborated by palaeontologist and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. In 1945, he described a coming “planetisation” of humanity, which he saw as the next phase of accelerating human “socialisation”. Teilhard described both socialization and planetization as irreversible, irresistible processes of \"macrobiological development\" culminating in the emergence of a noosphere, or global mind (see Emergentism below).\n\nThe more recent living systems theory describes both organisms and social systems in terms of the \"critical subsystems\" (\"organs\") they need to contain in order to survive, such as an internal transport system, a resource reserve, and a decision-making system. This theory has inspired several thinkers, including Peter Russell and Francis Heylighen to define the global brain as the network of information processing subsystems for the planetary social system.\n\nIn the perspective of encyclopedism, the emphasis is on developing a universal knowledge network. The first systematic attempt to create such an integrated system of the world's knowledge was the 18th century \"Encyclopédie\" of Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert. However, by the end of the 19th century, the amount of knowledge had become too large to be published in a single synthetic volume. To tackle this problem, Paul Otlet founded the science of documentation, now called information science. In the 1930s he envisaged a World Wide Web-like system of associations between documents and telecommunication links that would make all the world's knowledge available immediately to anybody. H. G. Wells proposed a similar vision of a collaboratively developed world encyclopedia that would be constantly updated by a global university-like institution. He called this a World Brain, as it would function as a continuously updated memory for the planet, although the image of humanity acting informally as a more organic global brain is a recurring motif in other of his works.\n\nTim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, too, was inspired by the free-associative possibilities of the brain for his invention. The brain can link different kinds of information without any apparent link otherwise; Berners-Lee thought that computers could become much more powerful if they could imitate this functioning, i.e. make links between any arbitrary piece of information. The most powerful implementation of encyclopedism to date is Wikipedia, which integrates the associative powers of the world-wide-web with the collective intelligence of its millions of contributors, approaching the ideal of a global memory. The Semantic web, also first proposed by Berners-Lee, is a system of protocols to make the pieces of knowledge and their links readable by machines, so that they could be used to make automatic inferences, thus providing this brain-like network with some capacity for autonomous \"thinking\" or reflection.\n\nThis approach focuses on the emergent aspects of the evolution and development of complexity, including the spiritual, psychological, and moral-ethical aspects of the global brain, and is at present the most speculative approach. The global brain is here seen as a natural and emergent process of planetary evolutionary development. Here again Pierre Teilhard de Chardin attempted a synthesis of science, social values, and religion in his The Phenomenon of Man, which argues that the \"telos\" (drive, purpose) of universal evolutionary process is the development of greater levels of both complexity and consciousness. Teilhard proposed that if life persists then planetization, as a biological process producing a global brain, would necessarily also produce a global mind, a new level of planetary consciousness and a technologically supported network of thoughts which he called the \"noosphere\". Teilhard's proposed technological layer for the noosphere can be interpreted as an early anticipation of the Internet and the Web.\n\nPhysicist and philosopher Peter Russell elaborates a similar view, and stresses the importance of personal spiritual growth, in order to build and to achieve synergy with the spiritual dimension of the emerging superorganism. This approach is most popular in New Age circles, which emphasize growth in consciousness rather than scientific modelling or the implementation of technological and social systems.\n\nSystems theorists and cyberneticists commonly describe the emergence of a higher order system in evolutionary development as a “metasystem transition” (a concept introduced by Valentin Turchin) or a “major evolutionary transition”. Such a metasystem consists of a group of subsystems that work together in a coordinated, goal-directed manner. It is as such much more powerful and intelligent than its constituent systems. Francis Heylighen has argued that the global brain is an emerging metasystem with respect to the level of individual human intelligence, and investigated the specific evolutionary mechanisms that promote this transition\n\nIn this scenario, the Internet fulfils the role of the network of “nerves” that interconnect the subsystems and thus coordinates their activity. The cybernetic approach makes it possible to develop mathematical models and simulations of the processes of self-organization through which such coordination and collective intelligence emerges.\n\nIn 1994 Kevin Kelly, in his popular book \"\", posited the emergence of a \"hive mind\" from a discussion of cybernetics and evolutionary biology.\n\nIn 1996, Francis Heylighen and Ben Goertzel founded the Global Brain group, a discussion forum grouping most of the researchers that had been working on the subject of the global brain to further investigate this phenomenon. The group organized the first international conference on the topic in 2001 at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.\n\nAfter a period of relative neglect, the Global Brain idea has recently seen a resurgence in interest, in part due to talks given on the topic by Tim O'Reilly, the Internet forecaster who popularized the term Web 2.0, and Yuri Milner, the social media investor. In January 2012, the Global Brain Institute (GBI) was founded at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel to develop a mathematical theory of the “brainlike” propagation of information across the Internet. In the same year, Thomas W. Malone and collaborators from the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence have started to explore how the global brain could be “programmed” to work more effectively, using mechanisms of collective intelligence. The complexity scientist Dirk Helbing and his NervousNet group have recently started developing a \"Planetary Nervous System\", which includes a \"Global Participatory Platform\", as part of the large-scale FuturICT project, thus preparing some of the groundwork for a Global Brain.\n\nIn July 2017 Elon Musk founded the company Neuralink, which aims to create a Neural Lace, which is a concept invented by the novelist Iain M. Banks and basically refers to a machine interface woven into the brain, to allow the user to access all available human information. A core driver behind this business idea is Mr Musk’s argument, that human beings soon have to embrace brain implants to stay relevant in a world which, he believes, will soon be dominated by artificial intelligence. The firm raised $27m from 12 Investors in 2017 .\n\nA common criticism of the idea that humanity would become directed by a global brain is that this would reduce individual diversity and freedom, and lead to mass surveillance. This criticism is inspired by totalitarian forms of government, as exemplified by George Orwell's character of \"Big Brother\". It is also inspired by the analogy between collective intelligence or swarm intelligence and insect societies, such as beehives and ant colonies, in which individuals are essentially interchangeable. In a more extreme view, the global brain has been compared with the Borg, the race of collectively thinking cyborgs conceived by the Star Trek science fiction franchise.\n\nGlobal brain theorists reply that the emergence of distributed intelligence would lead to the exact opposite of this vision. The reason is that effective collective intelligence requires diversity of opinion, decentralization and individual independence, as demonstrated by James Surowiecki in his book The Wisdom of Crowds. Moreover, a more distributed form of decision-making would decrease the power of governments, corporations or political leaders, thus increasing democratic participation and reducing the dangers of totalitarian control.\n\n\n\n\nFor more references, check the GBI bibliography:\n\n"}
{"id": "13312969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13312969", "title": "Global mental health", "text": "Global mental health\n\nGlobal mental health is the international perspective on different aspects of mental health. It is 'the area of study, research and practice that places a priority on improving mental health and achieving equity in mental health for all people worldwide'. There is a growing body of criticism of the global mental health movement, and has been widely criticised as a neo-colonial or \"missionary\" project and as primarily a front for pharmaceutical companies seeking new clients for psychiatric drugs.\n\nIn theory, taking into account cultural differences and country-specific conditions, it deals with the epidemiology of mental disorders in different countries, their treatment options, mental health education, political and financial aspects, the structure of mental health care systems, human resources in mental health, and human rights issues among others.\n\nThe overall aim of the field of global mental health is to strengthen mental health all over the world by providing information about the mental health situation in all countries, and identifying mental health care needs in order to develop cost-effective interventions to meet those specific needs.\n\nMental, neurological, and substance use disorders make a substantial contribution to the global burden of disease (GBD). This is a global measure of so-called disability-adjusted life years (DALY's) assigned to a certain disease/disorder, which is a sum of the years lived with disability and years of life lost due to this disease within the total population. Neuropsychiatric conditions account for 14% of the global burden of disease. Among non-communicable diseases, they account for 28% of the DALY's – more than cardiovascular disease or cancer. However, it is estimated that the real contribution of mental disorders to the global burden of disease is even higher, due to the complex interactions and co-morbidity of physical and mental illness.\n\nAround the world, almost one million people die due to suicide every year, and it is the third leading cause of death among young people. The most important causes of disability due to health-related conditions worldwide include unipolar depression, alcoholism, schizophrenia, bipolar depression and dementia. In low- and middle-income countries, these conditions represent a total of 19.1% of all disability related to health conditions.\n\nIt is estimated that one in four people in the world will be affected by mental or neurological disorders at some point in their lives. Although many effective interventions for the treatment of mental disorders are known, and awareness of the need for treatment of people with mental disorders has risen, the proportion of those who need mental health care but who do not receive it remains very high. This so-called \"treatment gap\" is estimated to reach between 76–85% for low- and middle-income countries, and 35–50% for high-income countries.\n\nDespite the acknowledged need, for the most part there have not been substantial changes in mental health care delivery during the past years. Main reasons for this problem are public health priorities, lack of a mental health policy and legislation in many countries, a lack of resources – financial and human resources – as well as inefficient resource allocation.\n\nIn 2011, the World Health Organization estimated a shortage of 1.18 million mental health professionals, including 55,000 psychiatrists, 628,000\nnurses in mental health settings, and 493,000 psychosocial care providers needed to treat mental disorders in 144 low- and middle-income countries. The annual wage bill to remove this health workforce shortage was estimated at about US$4.4 billion.\n\nInformation and evidence about cost-effective interventions to provide better mental health care are available. Although most of the research (80%) has been carried out in high-income countries, there is also strong evidence from low- and middle-income countries that pharmacological and psychosocial interventions are effective ways to treat mental disorders, with the strongest evidence for depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and hazardous alcohol use.\n\nRecommendations to strengthen mental health systems around the world have been first mentioned in the WHO's \"World Health Report 2001\", which focused on mental health:\n\n\nBased on the data of 12 countries, assessed by the \"WHO Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems\" (WHO-AIMS), the costs of scaling up mental health services by providing a core treatment package for schizophrenia, bipolar affective disorder, depressive episodes and hazardous alcohol use have been estimated. Structural changes in mental health systems according to the WHO recommendations have been taken into account.\n\nFor most countries, this model suggests an initial period of investment of US$0.30 – 0.50 per person per year. The total expenditure on mental health would have to rise at least ten-fold in low-income countries. In those countries, additional financial resources will be needed, while in middle- and high-income countries the main challenge will be the reallocation of resources within the health system to provide better mental health service.\n\nPrevention is beginning to appear in mental health strategies, including the 2004 WHO report \"Prevention of Mental Disorders\", the 2008 EU \"Pact for Mental Health\" and the 2011 US National Prevention Strategy. NIMH or the National Institute of Mental Health has over 400 grants.\n\nTwo of WHO's core programmes for mental health are WHO MIND (Mental health improvements for Nations Development) and Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP).\n\nWHO MIND focuses on 5 areas of action to ensure concrete changes in people's daily lives. These are:\n\nMental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP) is WHO’s action plan to scale up services for mental, neurological and substance use disorders for countries especially with low and lower middle incomes. The aim of mhGAP is to build partnerships for collective action and to reinforce the commitment of governments, international organizations and other stakeholders.\n\nThe mhGAP Intervention Guide (mhGAP-IG) was launched in October 2010. It is a technical tool for the management of mental, neurological and substance use disorders in non-specialist health settings. The priority conditions included are: depression, psychosis, bipolar disorders, epilepsy, developmental and behavioural disorders in children and adolescents, dementia, alcohol use disorders, drug use disorders, self-harm/suicide and other significant emotional or medically unexplained complaints.\n\nOne of the most prominent critics of the Movement for Global Mental Health has been China Mills, author of the book \"Decolonizing Global Mental Health: The Psychiatrization of the Majority World\".\n\nMills writes that:\n\nAnother prominent critic is Ethan Watters, author of \"Crazy Like Us: The Globalization of the American Psyche\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3102356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3102356", "title": "Global politics", "text": "Global politics\n\nGlobal politics, also known as world politics, names both the discipline that studies the political and economical patterns of the world and the field that is being studied. At the centre of that field are the different processes of political globalization in relation to questions of social power.\n\nThe discipline studies the relationships between cities, nation-states, shell-states, multinational corporations, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. Current areas of discussion include national and ethnic conflict regulation, democracy and the politics of national self-determination, globalization and its relationship to democracy, conflict and peace studies, comparative politics, political economy, and the international political economy of the environment. One important area of global politics is contestation in the global political sphere over legitimacy.\n\nGlobal politics is said by some to be distinct from the field of international politics (commonly seen as a branch of international relations), as it \"does not stress the primacy of intergovernmental relations and transactions\". This distinction however has not always been held among authors and political scientists, who often use the term \"international politics\" to mean global politics.\n\nBeginning in the late nineteenth century, several groups extended the definition of the political community beyond nation-states to include much, if not all, of humanity. These \"internationalists\" include Marxists, human rights advocates, environmentalists, peace activists, feminists, and dalits. This was the general direction of thinking on global politics, though the term was not used as such.\n\nThe modern \"world politics perspective\" is often identified with the works of Joseph Nye and Robert Keohane, in particular their 1972 work \"Transnational Relations and World Politics\". Here, the authors argued that state-centric views of international relations were inadequate frameworks to utilize in political science or international relations studies due to the increased globalization. Today, the practices of global politics are defined by values: norms of human rights, ideas of human development, and beliefs such as Internationalism or cosmopolitanism about how we should relate to each. Over the last couple of decades cosmopolitanism has become one of the key contested ideologies of global politics:\n\nThe intensification of globalization led some writers to suggest that states were no longer relevant to global politics. This view has been subject to debate:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46900125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46900125", "title": "Global production network", "text": "Global production network\n\nGlobal Production Networks (GPN) is a concept in developmental literature which refers to \"the nexus of interconnected functions, operations and transactions through which a specific product or service is produced, distributed and consumed.\"\n\nA global production network is one whose interconnected nodes and links extend spatially across national boundaries and, in so doing, integrates parts of disparate national and subnational territories\". GPN frameworks combines the insights from the global value chain analysis, actor–network theory and literature on Varieties of Capitalism. GPN provides a relational framework that aims to encompass all the relevant actors in the production systems. GPN framework provides analytical platform that relates sub-national regional development with clustering dynamics.\n\nIn 1990s the concept of value chain gained its credit among economists and business scholars. (Its prominent developer Michael Porter). The concept combined sequenced and interconnected activities in the process of value creation. Value chain concept focused on business activities, but not on the corporate power and institutional context. In 1994 Garry Gereffi, together with Miguel Korzeniewicz introduced the concept of Global Commodity Chains (GCC):\n\nAt the beginning of 2000s a group of authors Jeffrey Henderson, Peter Dicken, Martin Hess, Neil Coe and Henry Wai-Chung Yeung, introduced GPN framework, that builds on the development of previous approaches to international production processes. At the same time it expands beyond the linearity of GCC approach to incorporate all kinds of network configuration. Adopting clear network perspective allows to embrace the complexity of multidimensional layers of production moving beyond the \"linear progression of the product or service\"\n\nAnalysis of the global production networks relies on the use of the input-output tables that links firms through the transactions involved in the product creation. Commodity chain literature considers firms as the nodes in a number of chains that transform inputs into outputs through a series of interconnected stages of production, later linked to distribution and consumption activities. Andersen and Christensen define five major types of connective nodes in supply networks: Local integrator, Export base, Import base, International spanner and Global integrator Hobday et al. argue that the core capability of the firms stem from their ability to manage network of components and subsystem suppliers.\n\nTo capture both vertical and horizontal links across the sequence of production process, Lazzarini introduced the concept of Netchain: \"a set of networks horizontal ties between firms within a particular industry or group, which are sequentially arranged based on vertical ties between firms in different layers ... Netchain analysis explicitly differentiates between horizontal (transactions in the same layer) and vertical ties (transactions between layers), mapping how agents in each layer are related to each other and to agents in other layers\". Critical studies have explored production networks in the domain of ethics of production, for instance focusing on local effects or labor relations.\n"}
{"id": "2596739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2596739", "title": "Health geography", "text": "Health geography\n\nHealth geography is the application of geographical information, perspectives, and methods to the study of health, disease, and health care.\n\nThe study of health geography has been influenced by repositioning medical geography within the field of social geography due to a shift towards a social model in health care, rather than a medical model. This advocates for the redefinition of health and health care away from prevention and treatment of illness only to one of promoting well-being in general. Under this model, some previous illnesses (e.g., mental ill health) are recognized as behavior disturbances only, and other types of medicine (e.g., complementary or alternative medicine and traditional medicine) are studied by the medicine researchers, sometimes with the aid of health geographers without medical education. This shift changes the definition of care, no longer limiting it to spaces such as hospitals or doctor's offices. Also, the social model gives priority to the intimate encounters performed at non-traditional spaces of medicine and healthcare as well as to the individuals as health consumers.\n\nThis alternative methodological approach means that medical geography is broadened to incorporate philosophies such as Marxian political economy, structuralism, social interactionism, humanism, feminism and queer theory.\n\nThe relationship between space and health dates back to Hippocrates, who stated that \"airs, waters, places\" all played significant roles impacting human health and history. A classic piece of research in health geography was done in 1854 as a cholera outbreak gripped a neighborhood in London. Death tolls rang around the clock and the people feared that they were being infected by vapors coming from the ground. John Snow predicted that if he could locate the source of the disease, it could be contained. He drew maps demonstrating the homes of people who had died of cholera and the locations of water pumps. He found that one pump, the public pump on Broad Street, was central to most of the victims. He concluded that infected water from the pump was the culprit. He instructed the authorities to remove the handle to the pump, making it unusable. As a result, the number of new cholera cases decreased.\n\nHealth geography is considered to be divided into two distinct elements. The first of which is focused on geographies of disease and ill health, involving descriptive research quantifying disease frequencies and distributions, and analytic research concerned with finding what characteristics make an individual or population susceptible to disease. This requires an understanding of epidemiology. The second component of health geography is the geography of health care, primarily facility location, accessibility, and utilization. This requires the use of spatial analysis and often borrows from behavioral economics.\n\nHsenting health risks, from natural disasters, to interpersonal violence, stress, and other potential dangers.\n\nAlthough healthcare is a public good, it is not equally available to all individuals. Demand for public services is continuously increasing. People need advance knowledge and the latest prediction technology, that health geography offers. The latest example of such technology is Telemedicine. Many people in the United States are not able to access proper healthcare because of inequality in health insurance and the means to afford medical care.\n\nMobility and Disease Tracking\n\nWith the advent of mobile technology and its spread, it is now possible to track individual mobility. By correlating the movement of individuals through tracking the devices using access towers or other tracking systems, it is now possible to determine and even control disease spread. While privacy laws question the legality of tracking individuals, the commercial mobile service providers are using covert techniques or obtaining government waivers to allow permission to track people .\n\nNotable health geographers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50503576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50503576", "title": "Indiana University School of Public Health-Bloomington", "text": "Indiana University School of Public Health-Bloomington\n\nThe IU School of Public Health-Bloomington is an undergraduate and graduate school at Indiana University Bloomington. Until 2012, it was the School of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (HPER). Now, the School of Public Health on IU's Bloomington campus is the largest school of public health in the Big 10. With 2,790 undergraduate and graduate students, it offers 34 different degrees. It has five academic departments.\n\nThe mission of the Indiana University School of Public Health-Bloomington is to promote health among individuals and communities in Indiana, the nation, and the world through integrated multidisciplinary approaches to research and creative activities, teaching, and community engagement.\n\nThe precursor to the School of Public Health-Bloomington, the School of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, was founded in 1946. In 2012, the school became the School of Public Health-Bloomington. The school earned accreditation from the Council on Education for Public Health in 2015. It has the oldest Master of Public Health program, established in 1969, in the state of Indiana.\n\nA history book, titled \"A Legacy Transformed\", about the school's origins and transformation into the IU School of Public Health-Bloomington, was published in 2016.\n\nThe school offers a variety of undergraduate and graduate degrees, all with various concentrations:\n\n\nThe Master of Public Health Program (MPH) offers eight degree fields of study:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27308924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27308924", "title": "Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation", "text": "Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation\n\nThe Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) is a research institute working in the area of global health statistics and impact evaluation at the University of Washington in Seattle. The Institute is headed by Dr. Christopher J.L. Murray, a physician and health economist, and professor at the University of Washington Department of Global Health, which is part of the School of Medicine. IHME's goal, as stated on the Institute's website, is \"to identify the best strategies to build a healthier world. By measuring health, tracking program performance, finding ways to maximize health system impact, and developing innovative measurement systems, IHME provides a foundation for informed decision-making that ultimately will lead to better health globally\" IHME (2011). IHME conducts research and trains scientists, policymakers, and the public in health metrics concepts, methods, and tools. Its mission includes judging the effectiveness and efficacy of health initiatives and national health systems. IHME's work seeks to be complementary to the United Nations' work in the World Health Organization in that it shares many tasks but is independent from member countries.\n\nIHME gathers health-related data from all available sources. It develops innovative analytical tools to track trends in mortality, diseases, and risk factors, and capsulizes many of its research findings in data visualizations. It evaluates interventions such as vaccines, malaria control policies, cancer screenings, and birth care. To enable researchers to replicate IHME's work and to foster new research, IHME created the Global Health Data Exchange (GHDx) where methods and results are cataloged and freely accessible. IHME is also committed to expanding the field of health metrics by training students at the post-baccalaureate and post-graduate levels.\n\nIHME was launched in June 2007 based on a core grant of $105 million primarily funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Among its earliest projects was to produce new estimates of mortality rates, which were published in \"The Lancet\" in September 2007. The Institute updated these in 2010\nand again in 2014. Maternal, child, and adult mortality estimates have been published, as well.\nFounding board members included Chair Julio Frenk, Dean of the Harvard School of Public Health; Harvey Fineberg, President of the Institute of Medicine; Gro Harlem Brundtland, former Prime Minister of Norway; Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the Minister of Health for Ethiopia; K. Srinath Reddy, President of the Public Health Foundation of India; Tomris Turmen, President of the International Children's Center and Head of the Department of Pediatrics/Newborn Medicine at the University of Ankara Medical School in Ankara, Turkey; Lincoln Chen, President of the China Medical Board; Jane Halton, who has served as Secretary of the Department of Health and Ageing in Australia, as well as the Department of Finance; and David Roux, Co-Chief Executive of Silver Lake Partners.\n\nCurrent board members are Frenk; Fineberg; Chen; Halton; and Roux, in addition to Stephen J. Cucchiaro, Chief Investment Officer of Windhaven Investment Management; Sally Davies, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for England; and John W. Stanton, managing director of Trilogy Partnership.\n\nIn 2011, IHME co-sponsored the first Global Health Metrics & Evaluation conference in Seattle with \"The Lancet\", London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Harvard School of Public Health, and University of Queensland School of Population Health.\n\nIn 2017, the Gates Foundation provided IHME with another $279 million grant.\n\nIHME also has launched policy reports on a wide range of topics, including a June 2010 report on child and maternal mortality. The findings were updated in 2014. In 2009, IHME launched its series of Financing Global Health policy reports. The initial report led to meetings with staff from the US House Foreign Affairs Committee and with a task force appointed by US President Barack Obama to guide the funding of his new Global Health Initiative. Annual updates have been published since then.\n\nRecent publications have included estimations of causes of death worldwide, the incidence of HIV, TB, and malaria, as well as obesity, cigarette smoking, heart disease, and small area estimation of diabetes rates in the United States. IHME has also worked with other organizations on projects. For example, IHME researchers helped create the 2010 WHO World Malaria Report, generating all the estimates for insecticide-treated nets. IHME has also collaborated on country-level research projects, including a partnership with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to help create a health surveillance system to track disease trends and inform policy. \nThere is a list of publications at IHME's website.\n\nIn the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors (GBD) Study 2010, a worldwide consortium of 500 researchers, coordinated by IHME measured the impact of more than 290 health conditions and 67 health risk factors worldwide. The GBD enterprise produced estimates in 21 regions around the world for disability-adjusted life years by age and sex for the past two decades. Part of this research has involved conducting in-person surveys in several countries and gathering health information through a website survey. The team created a cause of death database that includes 60 years of data, or almost 800 million deaths. To illustrate the findings, IHME released a suite of interactive data visualizations, which are available to the public.\n\nThe aim is to allow policymakers and other decision-makers to \"compare the effects of different diseases – such as cancer versus depression – that kill people prematurely and cause ill health,\" to show disease trends over time, and to inform policy, IHME states on its website.\n\nIt has been labeled \"the most comprehensive review of the state of humanity's health ever undertaken.\"\n\nThe UK and China are among the countries working with IHME to generate subnational burden of disease estimates at the county and province levels.\n\nIn January 2014, IHME began releasing updates to the work, called the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors (GBD) Study 2013. The work generated over 1 billion estimates of health outcomes. GBD estimates are now being updated annually.\n\nSome of the findings have been controversial. In 2012, IHME researchers estimated 1.2 million people died from malaria in 2010, double the WHO's estimate.\n\nThe Disease Control Priorities Network project generates cost-effectiveness estimates for a range of health interventions. A team of demographers, statisticians, economists, and other experts are studying how to improve the allocation of resources among interventions, technologies, hospitals, and other service delivery platforms. They are working in multiple countries, including the US, India, and South Africa.\nTheir cost-effectiveness work has revealed some hidden connections. For example, a 2010 report showed improving girls' education in poor countries is the most effective way to reduce child mortality, which was a surprise for some people.\n\nAn effort launched in 2011 called Access, Bottlenecks, Costs, and Equity (ABCE) involves collecting evidence and analyzing data to improve the cost-effectiveness and equity of health systems in Colombia, Ghana, India, Kenya, Lebanon, Uganda, and Zambia. The project examines four components that affect health care delivery: access (to health facilities), bottlenecks (limitations on the supply side), costs, and equity (across populations). The work includes in-depth facility surveys and inventories across a range of service delivery platforms; additional data is collected in countries with high HIV/AIDS burdens through exit interviews and chart extraction.\n\nA 2013 report concluded that neonatal and maternal mortality in Ghana could be best improved not with sophisticated maternity care but with better transportation infrastructure.\n\nThe Population Health Metrics Research Consortium created new methods for tracking health intervention coverage in low-resource settings. The methods have been used to measure mortality, causes of death, and incidence of major illnesses where data are incomplete. Researchers collected data in India, Mexico, the Philippines, and Tanzania.\n\nIHME's work on estimating mortality has been at times controversial. In 2009, IHME published a study on maternal mortality which some advocacy groups tried to suppress – worried that results showing a decline in mortality would make it harder to fund-raise. The WHO also initially disagreed with the new results, but later revised their estimates in agreement with those of IHME.\n\nThe Malaria Control Policy Assessment project evaluates the effectiveness of malaria-control interventions in Uganda and Zambia by analyzing their effect on child mortality and producing estimates at the national and local levels.\n\nIHME conducts US research, including estimates of mortality, life expectancy, risk factors, health disparities, and disease prevalence. IHME has compiled national and local health trends and integrated multiple data sources to monitor disparities in chronic diseases.\n\nA 2013 report, the State of US Health, looked at trends in premature deaths due to injury or disease, and demonstrated the major health threat stemming from behavioral risk factors such as poor diet and sedentary lifestyles. It concluded that dietary factors cause more deaths each year than cancer or smoking. The results included life expectancy trends broken down by state and county.\n\nFirst Lady Michelle Obama cited the research in her campaign to improve Americans' diets and increase their level of physical activity.\n\nA paper published in the journal Population Health Metrics in June 2011 showed that life expectancy was rising in some poorer US counties – especially in the South – a surprising result which was widely discussed.\n\nOther research projects include the Salud Mesoamérica 2015 Initiative, which focuses on inequalities in health outcomes and access in southern Mexico and Central America; Gavi Full Country Evaluations, which evaluates immunization programs in Bangladesh, India, Mozambique, Uganda and Zambia; and HealthRise, a partnership with Medtronic Philanthropy to evaluate programs targeting diabetes and heart disease, and sponsor small grants to make improvements.\n\nIn 2014, IHME announced the establishment of the University of Washington Center for Demography and Economics of Aging, funded by the National Institute on Aging (NIA). It is one of 14 NIA Demography Centers at leading universities and policy organizations around the United States.\n\nIn March 2011, IHME launched the Global Health Data Exchange (or GHDx), which indexes and hosts information about microdata, aggregated data, and research results with a focus on health-related and demographic datasets. At launch, the site listed about 1,000 datasets; as of 2015, there are more than 30,000. As part of a partnership with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), GHDx includes 35 years of CDC data on child and maternal health. GHDx uses the Drupal 7 open source content management system and Apache SOLR for search. The site includes visualization and GIS tools, and has been noted by the health and global health communities.\n\nIHME offers two types of global health fellowships, plus master's degrees and PhD programs.\n\nIHME receives core grant funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the state of Washington. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Inter-American Development Bank; Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute; Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health; Medtronic Philanthropy; and the National Institute on Aging have also contributed funding through project grants and contracts.\n\nInitially, some within the World Health Organization had criticized IHME for trying to do the work that WHO already does. There had also been tension between UNICEF and IHME because a report from the latter showed \"lackluster progress\" on child death rates.\n\nThe 2010 Global Burden of Disease report was criticized for its lack of transparency of methods and data as well as its use of complex statistical methods to fill in data gaps when reliable statistics were unavailable. Thomas Bollyky, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, called for more transparency. The report was also criticized for its use of verbal autopsies because many diseases have similar symptoms, leading to potential mistakes.\n\nIgor Rudan and Kit Yee Chan argue that the emergence of IHME introduced competition to the field of global health metrics, which was previously a field where WHO maintained a monopoly: \"The GBD initiative has emerged as a well-organised and rapidly growing collaboration that is now seriously challenging WHO's role in generating global health estimates\".\n\nRudan and Chan also note that IHME \"struggled to generate support, legitimacy, and acceptable for their findings\" after publishing the 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study, due to concerns of lack of transparency, as well as the existence of parallel estimates of disease burden from WHO.\n\nThe World Health Organization did not acknowledge the GBD 2010 estimates.\n\nThe Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2013 expanded collaboration and increased transparency but \"[fell] short of allowing full independent replication of all results\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29526346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29526346", "title": "International Anti-Corruption Academy", "text": "International Anti-Corruption Academy\n\nThe International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) is an international organization based in Laxenburg, Austria that teaches government and other officials about anti-corruption measures. \nIACA was launched in 2010 by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Interpol, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), the Republic of Austria, and other stake-holders to help implement the UN Convention against Corruption. As fo 2013, 61 countries had signed the IACA membership agreement, and 38 of those had ratified it. There was no fee for membership. IACA started its first Masters program in February 2013; at that time the tuition was 24,700 euros and the coursework was run in seven twelve-day blocks, taken over two years.\n\nThe Austrian news magazine, \"News\", reported that IACA posted a budget of €12.98 million for the 2014 financial year and a budget of €13.24M for 2015; while noting that the actual revenues for 2013 were €2.3M and expenditures were around €2.1M. IACA told the \"News\" that the higher numbers were based on their fund-raising goals. At the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016 IACA underwent a turnover in staff.\n\nIACA's relations with Azerbaijan and the Russian Federation were criticized after IACA held its 2014 annual conference in Baku at the time of a governmental crackdown on non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and anti-corruption activists. According to Correctiv, one of the students at IACA was an Azerbaijani public prosecutor, who worked for the investigating authority that was prosecuting the Azerbaijani anti-corruption activist and journalist Khadija Ismayilova.\n"}
{"id": "21106773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21106773", "title": "International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations", "text": "International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations\n\nThe International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations (ISCSC) is an international scholarly organization dedicated to the interdisciplinary study of civilizations. Based at Western Michigan University in the United States, the ISCSC holds an annual conference and publishes the journal \"Comparative Civilizations Review\".\n\nIn October 1961, in Salzburg, Austria, an extraordinary group of scholars gathered to create the International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations. Among the 26 founding members from Austria, Germany, France, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Spain, Italy, England, Russia, the United States, China and Japan were such luminaries as Pitirim Sorokin and Arnold Toynbee. For six days, the participants debated such topics as the definition of “civilization,” problems in the analysis of complex cultures, civilizational encounters in the past, the Orient versus the Occident, problems of universal history, theories of historiography, and the role of the “human sciences” in “globalization.” The meeting was funded by the Austrian government, in cooperation with UNESCO, and received considerable press coverage. Sorokin was elected the Society’s first president. After several meetings in Europe, the advancing age of its founding members and the declining health of then president, Othmar F. Anderle, were important factors in the decision to transfer the Society to the United States. Between 1968 and 1970 Roger Williams Wescott of Drew University facilitated that transition. In 1971, the first annual meeting of the ISCSC (US) was held in Philadelphia. Important participants in that meeting and in the Society’s activities during the next years included Benjamin Nelson (the Society’s first American president), Roger Wescott, Vytautas Kavolis, Matthew Melko, David Wilkinson, Rushton Coulborn and C.P. Wolf. In 1974, the Salzburg branch was formally dissolved, and from that year to the present there has been only one International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations (ISCSC). \n\nThe ISCSC is a multidisciplinary scholarly organization that has connections with comparative studies programs throughout the world. The society holds an annual conference, often with the cooperation of other scholarly organizations based in the conference locale. One example of this is the 1998 conference held at Reitaku University in Japan together with the Japan Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations; the two organizations continue to have a close relationship.\n\nThe ISCSC publishes the bi-annual 'Comparative Civilizations Review', a peer-reviewed journal. The blog Civilitas: https://civilitasblog.blogspot.com/ has been active since 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43179449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43179449", "title": "International Society of Drug Bulletins", "text": "International Society of Drug Bulletins\n\nThe International Society of Drug Bulletins works to increase the sharing of high quality information on medical treatments and medication between countries. It was started in 1986 and is supported by the World Health Organization.\n\nTo be a member publishers must have a certain level of independence from conflicts of interest and publish at least quarterly.\n\nMembers include: Australian Prescriber, La revue Prescrire, Drug and Therapeutics Bulletin, Therapeutics Initiative, Worst Pills Best Pills and Arzneiverordnung in der Praxis among others.\n"}
{"id": "343555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343555", "title": "Interval signal", "text": "Interval signal\n\nAn interval signal, or tuning signal, is a characteristic sound or musical phrase used in international broadcasting, numbers stations, and by some domestic broadcasters, played before commencement or during breaks in transmission, but most commonly between programmes in different languages. It serves several purposes:\n\nThe practice began in Europe in the 1920s and 1930s and was carried over into shortwave broadcasts. The use of interval signals has declined with the advent of digital tuning systems, but has not vanished. Interval signals were not required on commercial channels in the USA, where jingles were used as identification.\n\n « \\relative c { g4 g4. e8 g f d g a8. g16 g2 \\fermata \\bar \"|.\"\n } \\\\ \\relative c\" {\\partial 4 \n\n\n\nClassical Radio Station WQXR-FM in New York City, during its ownership by The New York Times Company, played different variations of a classical infused gong with the ID read at the same time as \"The Classical Station of the New York Times, WQXR, New York (And WQXR.com 2000-2009) \n\nNumbers stations are often named after their interval signals, such as The Lincolnshire Poacher or Magnetic Fields after \"Magnetic Fields Part 1\" by Jean-Michel Jarre.\n\n"}
{"id": "53825654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53825654", "title": "Jeremy Lent", "text": "Jeremy Lent\n\nJeremy Lent (born 1960) is an author whose writings investigate the patterns of thought that have led civilization to its current crisis of sustainability. He is the founder of the non-profit Liology Institute, which is dedicated to a worldview that could enable humanity to thrive sustainably. He is the author of \"The Patterning Instinct\" and \"Requiem of the Human Soul\". Earlier in his career, Lent was the founder, chairman and CEO of the internet company NextCard.\n\nLent was born and raised in London. He graduated from the University College School and earned an undergraduate degree in English Literature at Emmanuel College, Cambridge University in 1981. Lent left the UK to live in the United States. In 1986, he earned an MBA from the University of Chicago. He is married and currently lives in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nIn addition to his writing, Lent is a practitioner of meditation, Qigong, and Tai Chi. He is a Level II certified teacher of Radiant Heart Qigong.\n\nLent joined Strategic Planning Associates, a strategy consulting company based in Washington, D.C. In 1989, he joined First Deposit Corporation (later renamed Providian), a direct mail credit card company in San Francisco. Lent was named Chief Financial Officer of Providian in 1991 and left the company in 1994.\n\nIn 1996, Lent founded NextCard, an internet financial services company. NextCard was the first company to enable consumers to apply for a credit card over the internet and be approved in real time and the first company to offer consumers the ability to design their own card by uploading a personalized image during the application process.\n\nAs chairman and CEO, Lent took NextCard public in 1999 and led a secondary offering in 2000. However, due to his first wife’s illness, Lent stepped down as CEO later in 2000, to care for her. After Lent’s departure, NextCard suffered serious setbacks. It was announced in late 2001, that the company was undercapitalized, and it was taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) in 2002. Along with the other board members, Lent was involved for several years in shareholder lawsuits and investigations by the FDIC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These were eventually settled, and in 2005 the SEC dismissed fraud charges that it had levied against Lent.\n\n\"The Patterning Instinct: A Cultural History of Humanity’s Search for Meaning\" (Prometheus Books, May 2017) is a cognitive history of humanity, tracing how different cultures patterned meaning into the universe and how that has affected history. The result of ten years of research, the book offers a thesis that “culture shapes values and those values shape history.”\n\nThis approach is in contrast to the predominant geographic determinist approach to history, exemplified by historians such as Jared Diamond, Ian Morris and Kenneth Pomeranz. Lent argues that “The cognitive frames through which different cultures perceive reality have had a profound effect on their historical direction. The worldview of a given civilization—the implicit beliefs and values that create a pattern of meaning in people’s lives—has, in my opinion, been a significant driver of the historical path each civilization has taken.”\n\nThe book conducts what Lent calls an “archaeological exploration of the mind,” using findings from cognitive science and systems theory to reveal the implicit layers of values that form cultural norms. In a departure from the mainstream science-religion debate, \"The Patterning Instinct\" shows how medieval Christian rationalism acted as an incubator for scientific thought, which in turn, shaped the modern vision of the “conquest of nature.” Evaluating the sustainability crisis, Lent argues that it is culturally driven: a product of particular patterns that could be reshaped.\n\nThe book concludes by exploring scenarios for humanity’s future, foreseeing a coming struggle between two contrasting views: one driving to a technological world of artificially enhanced humans, the other enabling a sustainable future arising from intrinsic connectedness among people and to the natural world.\n\n\"The Patterning Instinct\" contains a foreword by Fritjof Capra. Prior to publication, the book received favorable endorsements from notables such as Paul Ehrlich, Thom Hartmann, Rick Hanson, J. R. McNeill, and Jonathon Porritt. Guardian journalist, George Monbiot, has called it \"the most profound and far-reaching book I have ever read.\" The book received a Silver Award from Nautilus Book Awards in April, 2018 in the Social Sciences & Education category.\n\nBeginning around 2005, Lent began an inquiry into the various constructions of meaning formed by cultures around the world and throughout history. The first expression of this investigation was his science fiction novel, \"Requiem of the Human Soul\" (Libros Libertad, 2009)..\n\nThe novel is set in the late 22nd century when most people are genetically enhanced. The minority that remains genetically unadulterated, known as Primals, consists mostly of the impoverished global underclass. The UN is holding a hearing in New York to consider whether to make the Primals extinct. The novel is written from the viewpoint of a Primal, Eusebio, who has been picked to represent his race in a last-ditch legal effort to save the Primals from extinction.\n\nThe novel raises questions about spirituality, history and global politics: Can the human race enhance itself to a higher plane? At what cost and benefit? If some “essence” of humanity was lost as a result, would that be so bad, given our sordid and shameful history? On the other hand, is there something special—a human soul—worth keeping at any price? Ultimately, the novel invites the reader to grapple with a fundamental question: what does it mean to be human?\n\nLent founded the nonprofit Liology Institute in 2012, with the aim of fostering a worldview that could enable humanity to thrive sustainably. The institute, according to its website, “is dedicated to fostering a worldview in which the human discovery and experience of meaning in our lives is compatible with the findings of scientific investigation, offering a deeply integrated and coherent understanding of humanity’s place in our cosmos which could enable us to thrive on our planet harmoniously and sustainably.”\n\nLent coined the term \"liology\" from the Chinese word \"li,\" meaning organizing principles of the universe, and “ology” of Greek etymology meaning “the study of.” The institute is intended to integrate traditional East Asian practices with the findings of modern systems science.\n\nIts stated objectives are to:\nIn 2014, the institute began an annual series of workshops, exploring how the values and insights of Liology apply to people’s everyday lives.\n\nLent asserts that humanity is entering a period of transformation, of a scale that has occurred twice before in history: the Agricultural Revolution twelve thousand years ago, and the Scientific and Industrial Revolutions several hundred years ago. The trajectories he consider include a collapse of civilization, a posthuman techno society and sustainable human flourishing (a \"Great Transformation\").\n\nLent claims that, to secure the latter humanity needs a new suite of values based on a sense of intrinsic connectedness. These values emphasize:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6860191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6860191", "title": "Language localisation", "text": "Language localisation\n\nLanguage localisation (or localization, see spelling-differences) is the process of adapting a product that has been previously translated into multiple languages to a specific country or region (from Latin \"locus\" (place) and the English term \"locale\", \"a place where something happens or is set\"). It is the second phase of a larger process of product translation and cultural adaptation (for specific countries, regions, or groups) to account for differences in distinct markets, a process known as internationalisation and localisation.\nLanguage localisation differs from translation activity because it involves a comprehensive study of the target culture in order to correctly adapt the product to local needs. Localisation can be referred to by the numeronym L10N (as in: \"L\", followed by ten more letters, and then \"N\").\n\nThe localisation process is most generally related to the cultural adaptation and translation of software, video games, and websites, as well as audio/voiceover, video, or other multimedia content, and less frequently to any written translation (which may also involve cultural adaptation processes). Localisation can be done for regions or countries where people speak different languages or where the same language is spoken. For instance, different dialects of German, with different idioms, are spoken in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Belgium.\n\nThe former Localization Industry Standards Association (LISA) said that globalisation \"can best be thought of as a cycle rather than a single process\". To \"globalise\" is to plan the design and development methods for a product in advance, keeping in mind a multicultural audience, in order to avoid increased costs and quality problems, save time, and smooth the localising effort for each region or country. Localisation is an integral part of the overall process called globalisation.\n\nThere are two primary technical processes that comprise globalisation: internationalisation and localisation.\n\nThe first phase, internationalisation, encompasses the planning and preparation stages for a product that is built by design to support global markets. This process removes all cultural assumptions, and any country- or language-specific content is stored so that it can be easily adapted. If this content is not separated during this phase, it must be fixed during localisation, adding time and expense to the project. In extreme cases, products that were not internationalised may not be localisable.\n\nThe second phase, localisation, refers to the actual adaptation of the product for a specific market. The localisation phase involves, among other things, the four issues LISA describes as \"linguistic\", \"physical\", \"business and cultural\", and \"technical\" issues.\n\nAt the end of each phase, testing (including quality assurance) is performed to ensure that the product works properly and meets the client's quality expectations.\n\nThough it is sometimes difficult to draw the limits between translation and localisation, in general localisation addresses significant, non-textual components of products or services. In addition to translation (and, therefore, grammar and spelling issues that vary from place to place where the same language is spoken), the localisation process might include adapting graphics; adopting local currencies; using proper format for date and time, addresses, and phone numbers applicable to the location; the choices of colours; cultural references; and many other details, including rethinking the physical structure of a product. All these changes aim to recognise local sensitivities, avoid conflict with local culture, customs, common habits, and enter the local market by merging into its needs and desires. For example, localisation aims to offer country-specific websites of the same company or different editions of a book depending on where it is published. It must be kept in mind that a political entity such as a country is not the same as a language or culture; even in countries where there exists a substantially identical relationship between a language and a political entity, there are almost certainly multiple cultures and multiple minority languages even if the minority languages are spoken by transient populations. For instance, Japan's national language is Japanese and is the primary language for over 99% of the population, but the country also recognises 11 languages officially, others are spoken by transient populations, and others are spoken as second or other languages.\n\nWhereas localisation is the process of adapting one product to a particular locale, globalisation designs the product to minimise the extra work required for each localisation.\n\nSuppose that a company operating exclusively in Germany chooses to open a major office in Russia and needs a Russian-language website. The company offers the same products and services in both countries with minor differences, but perhaps some elements that appeared in the original website intended for a German audience are offensive or upsetting in Russia (use of flags, colours, nationalistic images, songs, etc.). Thus, that company might lose a potential market because of small details of presentation.\n\nFurthermore, this company might need to adapt the product to its new buyers; video games are the best example.\n\nNow, suppose instead that this company has major offices in a dozen countries and needs a specifically designed website in each of these countries. Before deciding how to localise the website and the products offered in any given country, a professional in the area might advise the company to create an overall strategy: to globalise the way the organisation does business. The company might want to design a framework to codify and support this global strategy. The globalisation strategy and the globalisation framework would provide uniform guidance for the twelve separate localisation efforts.\n\nGlobalisation is especially important in mitigating extra work involved in the long-term cycle of localisation. Because localisation is a cycle and not a one-time project, there will always be new texts, updates, and projects to localise. For example, as the original website is updated over time, each of the localised websites already translated will also need to be updated. This cycle of work is continuous as long as the original project continues to evolve. It is therefore important for globalisation processes to be created and streamlined in order to implement ongoing changes. \n\nTranslation memory (TM) technology that exists in various translation software platforms can aid in this specific aspect of the globalisation process.\n\nLanguage codes are closely related to the localising process because they indicate the locales involved in the translation and adaptation of the product. They are used in various contexts; for example, they might be informally used in a document published by the European Union or they might be introduced in HTML element under the lang attribute. In the case of the European Union style guide, the language codes are based on the ISO 639-1 alpha-2 code; in HTML, the language tags are generally defined within the Internet Engineering Task Force's \"Best Current Practice\" (BCP) 47. The decision to use one type of code or tag versus another depends upon the nature of the project and any requirements set out for the localisation specialist.\n\nMost frequently, there is a primary sub-code that identifies the language (e.g., \"en\"), and an optional sub-code in capital letters that specifies the national variety (e.g., \"GB\" or \"US\" according to ISO 3166-2). The sub-codes are typically linked with a hyphen, though in some contexts it's necessary to substitute this with an underscore.\n\nThere are multiple language tag systems available for language codification. For example, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) specifies both two- and three-letter codes to represent languages in standards ISO 639-1 and ISO 639-2, respectively.\n\n\nthailand\n\n"}
{"id": "46383774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46383774", "title": "List of Madonna records and achievements", "text": "List of Madonna records and achievements\n\nAmerican singer Madonna, throughout her career, spanning three decades, has obtained a remarkable series of statistical achievements, setting and breaking several world records with her participation in entrepreneurial activities, of acting and her performance in the musical scene for her videos, singles, albums, and tours.\n\nHer first appearance in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" was in 1986 with her third studio album, \"True Blue\". Since then, she has earned multiple appearances, some 20 at least in February 2012, including her insigne record title as the top-selling female recording artist of all time. Madonna's commerciality has achieved scrutiny studies and analysis from different point of view in the academia world or by marketers, through her marketing strategies, controversies and reinvention, surpassing to others new or contemporary artists. In popular culture, many international artists have been called \"Madonna\", many times, by their impact and success in their respective countries or genres. Also, her presence in popular culture, has been led to create world records about Madonna. Dubbed as the most successful and most influential female artist of all time,\n\nWhen she reached number one with \"Music\" in 2000 at Billboard Hot 100, it made Madonna the second artist to achieve number one hits on the Hot 100 in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. Also, when she released \"Who's That Girl\" in 1987 it became Madonna's sixth number-one single in the United States, making her the first artist to accumulate six number-one singles in the 1980s, and the first female performer to get that many number-ones as a solo act. In 2012, with \"Give Me All Your Luvin'\" she became the second female with highest number of \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles by female artists, only behind Aretha Franklin. The song is her 56th appearance on the chart. In 1991, with \"Rescue Me\" when it debuted at No. 15 on the March 2, 1991 Hot 100 chart, it marked the highest-ever bow for a single by a woman. Further, it was —at the time— one of only four titles to debut in the top 20. Madonna is the third oldest female to place a number one at the Billboard Hot 100. The single \"Music\" reached the number-one spot when Madonna was forty-two years one month old (September 2000). She holds the record with 38 singles within the Top 10, most for any artist.\n\nShe has 46 number-one songs in the chart —the most for any artist. Also, is the only active artist to chart continuously since 1982, spanning four decades. \"Billboard\" said: \"comparing her chart champs by decade, Madonna scored nine Dance/Club Songs No. 1s in the '80s and 13 in the '90s. Since 2000, she has almost doubled her total, adding 18 No. 1s in that span\". In 2012, when she release \"Girl Gone Wild\", became her 42nd No. 1 on the record chart, \"Billboard\" said that she has the quickest span of back-to-back No. 1s. Also, the magazine declared that \"essentially, if Madonna releases a single and it charts on Dance/Club Play Songs, it's a safe bet to assume it'll go to No. 1. Since 2000, she's placed 26 hits on the survey. Of those, all but six have gone all the way to No. 1. Also, Madonna is the only artist in history to achieve seven top-ten hits from one album (\"American Life\") and the only artist ever to achieve seven consecutive number-one hits on this chart twice.\n\n\"Give Me All Your Luvin'\" set a record chart, when it debuted at 24 in the Dance/Club Play Songs chart and rose to 9 the next week, having the fastest rising to the top 10 for a song ever \"Hung Up\" became the most successful dance song of the 2000s in the United States, by topping the Dance/Club Play Songs Decade-end tally and \"Music\" became the second most-successful dance song of decade, reaching number two on the record chart. Furthermore, \"Music\" was also the longest-running number one song on Dance/Club Play Songs in the 2000s, with a longevity of five weeks at number one.\n\nShe is the second female artist with most number ones albums, with 8, behind only Barbra Streisand, who has 10 number one albums. Her other achievements on the record chart, tied with Beyoncé as the female artist with most consecutive number-one albums. Also, in 1984 Madonna was the first female to sell over 5 million albums in the US in a single year with \"Like a Virgin\". Madonna is the artist with most top 10 albums on the Billboard 200, with 21 (20 in 2012, with \"MDNA\") George Strait places second with 17 top 10s, followed by Mariah Carey (16). Also, she is the female artist with most number-two albums on Billboard's Top 200 Albums, with six, tied with The Beatles and behind Frank Sinatra's seven\n\nHer albums \"The Immaculate Collection\", \"Like a Virgin\" and \"True Blue\" are among the top 100 certified albums according to the RIAA, with \"The Immaculate Collection\" and \"Like a Virgin\" becoming in one of the best-selling albums in United States with a diamond status. As of 2015, she is the eighth artist with most number-one albums. However, she has a record for the biggest second week sales drop in history in Nielsen SoundScan era with her twelfth studio album, \"MDNA\".\n\nWhen she released \"Open Your Heart\" in Australia, it reached a peak of number 16, breaking a run of nine consecutive top ten singles for Madonna in that country. She is tied with Australian singer Kylie Minogue, having 10 number one singles.\nShe have debuted her albums at number one for nine occasions, with \"Rebel Heart\" her last album, it became Madonna's 19th week atop the chart, ranking her at number 24 on the list of artists with most accumulated weeks at the top. She has 11 number one albums, tied with U2.\n\nShe has a total of 25 #1 singles in Canada — the most for any artist in spanning four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s. Only two of these number one singles belong to Canadian Hot 100 and the rest of Canadian RPM singles chart. Her 2000 single \"Music\" was the last number one hit on the Canadian RPM singles chart. Also, she has sixty-eight Top 40, fifty-nine Top 20, fifty-one Top 10 and thirty-nine Top 5 singles. \"4 Minutes\" debuted at the top of the Canadian Contemporary Hit Radio chart. This marked the first time any song entered at the top of the CHR chart in BDS history. With \"Music and \"American Pie\" was the first time in Canadian chart history that an artist held the top two positions on the year-end musical charts.\n\nShe has to date, two album with diamond status in Canada with \"True Blue\" (in June 1987) and \"Like a Virgin\" (July 1992). Making her one of the few artists that have this certification. Also, she has 21 albums in the Top 5, with only 3 on the Top 20.\n\nMadonna had only three number one singles in France, but spanning three decades: 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. She has twenty-two Top 10 singles on the French Top 100 Singles charts and forty-nine Top 40, during four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s.\n\nShe has eight number one albums in France. Also, she has three albums with diamond status in France with \"True Blue\" (1,000,000), \"The Immaculate Collection\" (1,000,000) and \"Confessions on a Dancefloor\" (750,000). Also, she has ten albums number-two and three number-three albums. Generally, her albums always topped the Top 10 places in France.\n\nMadonna had four number one singles in Germany, but has fifty-eight Top 40, thirty-seven Top 20, twenty-five Top 10 and nineteen Top 5 singles.\n\nShe has one album in the top 40 best-selling albums ever in Germany, with \"Ray of Light\" sold 1.5 million units. She has number ones albums during four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s\n\nSource: Media Control Charts\n\nShe has a total of twenty-five number ones singles on Italian charts, spanning for three decades: 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. Also she has sixty-eight Top 40, sixty-five Top 20, fifty-six Top 10 and forty-five Top 5 singles.\n\nShe has a total of 15 number-one albums in Italy and 8 albums number two. Most of her albums have entered the top 5, with only two studio albums, topping the two.\n\nIn Japan, she was the only foreign artist with two albums into the best selling of the 1980 decade, with \"Like a Virgin\" (#33) and \"True Blue\" (#36).\n\nShe has a total of twenty-two singles number one and two number-two singles: \"Angel\", \"The Power of Good-Bye\", \"Don't Tell Me\", \"American Life\" and \"Give Me All Your Luvin'\".\n\nShe has ten number one albums in Spain, spanning during four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s. Also, she has twenty Top 5 albums and generally, her albums always topped the Top 20 in Spain.\n\nMadonna has 13 number one hits in United Kingdom, a record for a female recording artist, spanning her number one for three decades: 1980s, 1990s and 2000s\n\nIn 1985, Madonna became the first female artist in UK chart history to hold the top-two positions of the chart simultaneously, with \"Into the Groove\" topping number one and \"Holiday\" the second place By the end of 1985, Madonna achieved up another record with the song, becoming the first female artist to have eight UK top-ten singles in one calendar year. In 1987 when she published \"La Isla Bonita\", she became the female artist with the most number-one singles in the British chart history—a record that has since been maintained by Madonna to date Every single reached the UK Top 20 until 2008's \"Miles Away\". Also, Madonna simultaneously topped the albums and singles charts 4 times in her career, which is unmatched by any other female artist. In 2014, Official Charts Company compiled her Top 40 biggest selling singles, with \"Into the Groove\" in the top with 870,000 copies. Furthermore, Madonna had 71st Top 40 U.K. singles, the most for any female artist. Her others milestones including, eleven Top 2 singles, sixty Top 10 and forty four Top 20 singles.\n\nSource: Official Charts Company \n\nShe has 12 number-one albums with 9 studio albums —the most for any solo artist. Also, she has five number-two albums and twenty Top 5 albums, more than any other female artist. In 1986, \"True Blue\" opened at the top of the UK Albums Chart on July 12, 1986, making it the first album by American artist to debut at number one in British chart history. In 2012, with \"MDNA\" she became the first female in have an album in the number one during the 1980, 1990, 2000 and 2010. Also, Madonna and Kylie Minogue are the only artists ever to have a number-one album and a number-one single in three different decades.\n\nAccording to \"New Musical Express\" her albums \"The Immaculate Collection\" and \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" are one of the 50 fastest selling albums ever in United Kingdom, selling 340,000 and 217,610 respectively. Making in the female artist with most entries. Both Michael Jackson, Madonna had two of the best selling albums of the decade 1980 with \"True Blue\" (#9) and \"Like a Virgin\" (#17). Also during the 2000s, she figured with two albums in the top 100 with \"Music\" and \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" and she topped the UK chart Christmas with \"The Immaculate Collection\", making the first to the decade 1990s and occupied the record number one during nine weeks.\n\nSource: Official Charts Company \n\nIn popular culture, Madonna has generated records titles by others ways in \"Guinness Book of World Records\". They said: You might not be able to run as fast as Michael Johnson, or sell as many records as Madonna.\n\n\n\nGeneral\n\nSpecific\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41677199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41677199", "title": "List of people under Five Eyes surveillance", "text": "List of people under Five Eyes surveillance\n\nThe \"Five Eyes\" (FVEY) refers to an alliance comprising Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. These countries are bound by the multilateral UKUSA Agreement for joint cooperation in signals intelligence, military intelligence, and human intelligence. In recent years, documents of the FVEY have shown that they are intentionally spying on one another's citizens and sharing the collected information with each other in order to circumvent restrictive domestic regulations on spying.\n\nAs the surveillance capabilities of the FVEY continue to increase to keep up to pace with technological advancements, a global surveillance system has been gradually developed to capture the communications of entire populations across national borders. The following list contains a handful of targets of the FVEY who are public figures in various fields. In order for a person to be included in the list, there must be well-documented evidence based on reliable sources, such as leaked or declassified FVEY documents or whistleblower accounts, which demonstrate that the person involved is, or was, intentionally targeted for surveillance.\n\n"}
{"id": "6324816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6324816", "title": "Mutual recognition agreement", "text": "Mutual recognition agreement\n\nA mutual recognition agreement (MRA) is an international agreement by which two or more countries agree to recognize one another's conformity assessments.\nA mutual recognition arrangement is an international arrangement based on such an agreement.\n\nMRAs have become increasingly common since the formation of the World Trade Organization in 1995. They have been forged within and among various trade blocs, including APEC and the European Union.\n\nMRAs are most commonly applied to goods, such as various quality control MRAs. However, the term is sometimes applied to agreements on the recognition of professional qualifications as well.\n\nAccreditation Bodies, under the International Accreditation Forum use the term \"Multilateral Recognition Agreements\" in a similar sense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20842544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20842544", "title": "Official Women's Squash World Ranking", "text": "Official Women's Squash World Ranking\n\nThe Official Women's Squash World Ranking is the official world ranking for women's squash. The ranking is to rate the performance level of female professional squash player. It is also a merit-based method used for determining entry and seeding in women's squash tournaments. The rankings are produced monthly. The current world number one is Nour El Sherbini of Egypt, who replaced Laura Massaro in May 2016.\n\nPlayers competing in PSA tournaments earn ranking points according to how far they get in the draw. The points available depend on the prize money and the draw size. The monthly rankings (issued on the 1st of the month) are used in selecting entries to tournaments and in determining the seeds.\n\nThe total number of points a player earns in a year (52 weeks) is divided by the number of tournaments played (a minimum of eight are required) to give a ranking average. Where a player has played more than 8 tournaments the best scores may be selected (i.e., the lowest are not included).\n\nFor example, a player who has competed in 13 events will have selected her best 10 scores, which will be accumulated and divided by 10.\n\nPlayers competing in PSA World Tour Events earn ranking points according to the prize money, classification of the event, and the final position in the draw the player reaches.\n\nThe total number of points a player accumulates in any year (52-week period) is divided by the number of tournaments played (minimum 8 tournaments in 52 weeks) to give an average score:\n\nNote: The monthly ranking for the women's squash (world ranking) is taken directly from the Professional Squash Association (PSA) official website.\n\nThe following is a list of players who have achieved the world number one position since April 1983 (active players in green):\n\n\"Last update: April, 2017\"\n\nnajmi\n\nNote: \n1) Natalie Grinham changed her nationality in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50561434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50561434", "title": "Participatory poverty assessment", "text": "Participatory poverty assessment\n\nParticipatory poverty assessment (PPA) is the approach to analyzing and reducing poverty by incorporating the views of the poor. PPAs attempt to better understand the poor, to give the poor more influence over decisions that affect their lives, and to increase effectiveness of poverty reduction policies. PPAs are seen as complements to traditional household surveys by helping to interpret survey results, and aim to capture the experiences of the poor by being more open-ended.\n\nBefore the 1990s, household-survey approaches were the main way to measure poverty. This shifted to participatory activities in the 1990s after critiques of these traditional methods.\n\nThe term \"participatory poverty assessment\" was coined within the World Bank in 1992, and was seen as a participatory form of poverty assessments (PAs, i.e. survey-based approaches).\n\nEarly experiences of PPAs were in sub-Saharan Africa in the early 1990s.\n\nBy 1998, 43 PPAs had been conducted: 28 in Africa, 6 in Latin America, 5 in Eastern Europe, and 4 in Asia.\n\nEarly PPAs focused most on making higher quality information available to policy makers, rather than seeing the poor as itself being involved in the process of reducing poverty.\n\nLater in the 1990s, \"second generation\" PPAs appeared, which tried to allow the poor to influence policy decisions.\n\nAs of 2012, the World Bank's Voices of the Poor is the largest PPA ever to have been conducted.\n\nBoth PPAs and traditional surveys contain both quantitative and qualitative information, as well as \"subjective\" and \"objective\" parts, so this is not necessarily a distinguishing feature of PPAs. Rather:\n\nPPAs are also distinguished from anthropological studies because the latter analyze few communities in depth, whereas PPAs analyze various communities of a country. PPAs also focus on policy decisions (which anthropological studies don't need to).\n\nWithin PPAs, various methodologies exist. Some PPAs use more than one methodology.\n\n\nPPAs can last from several weeks to several months.\n\nVarious organizations have used PPAs as part of their work.\n\n\nIn addition, \"secondary stakeholders\" (i.e. organizations that do not conduct PPAs directly, but participate in PPAs) such as UNICEF, various NGOs (e.g. Save the Children and Oxfam), academic institutions, etc., have also participated in PPAs.\n\nParticipatory poverty assessments confirmed the multidimensional nature of poverty (i.e. that the poor deal not just with lack of money, but with various problems like lack of resources, poor health, physical violence, social isolation, etc.) that was seen from traditional household questionnaire-based methods. PPAs have also been able to access information that was not obtained in household surveys by building trust. For instance PPAs have obtained information on sensitive topics such as child prostitution, drug use, and domestic violence in relation to poverty.\n\nIn Zambia, PPAs discovered that the timing of school fees caused economic stress for households, so new legislation to change this timing was proposed.\n\nIn Niger, a PPA found that the poor see education only as a seventh priority for poverty reduction due to \"the concern that what children learn had little relevance to getting people out of poverty\". As a result of this PPA, food security was prioritized.\n\nPPAs have also informed World Bank's World Development Reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "28072640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28072640", "title": "Political globalization", "text": "Political globalization\n\nPolitical globalization refers to the growth of the worldwide political system, both in size and complexity. That system includes national governments, their governmental and intergovernmental organizations as well as government-independent elements of global civil society such as international non-governmental organizations and social movement organizations. One of the key aspects of the political globalization is the declining importance of the nation-state and the rise of other actors on the political scene. The creation and existence of the United Nations has been called one of the classic examples of political globalization.\n\nPolitical globalization is one of the three main dimensions of globalization commonly found in academic literature, with the two other being economic globalization and cultural globalization.\n\nWilliam R. Thompson has defined it as \"the expansion of a global political system, and its institutions, in which inter-regional transactions (including, but certainly not limited to trade) are managed\". Valentine M. Moghadam defined it as \"an increasing trend toward multilateralism (in which the United Nations plays a key role), toward an emerging 'transnational state apparatus,' and toward the emergence of national and international nongovernmental organizations that act as watchdogs over governments and have increased their activities and influence\". Manfred B. Steger in turn wrote that it \"refers to the intensification and expansion of political interrelations across the globe\". The longer definition by Colin Crouch goes as follows: \"Political globalization refers to the growing power of institutions of global governance such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization (WTO). But it also refers to the spread and influence of international non-governmental organizations, social movement organizations and transnational advocacy networks operating across borders and constituting a kind of global civil society.\" Finally, Gerard Delanty and Chris Rumford define it as \"a tension between three processes which interact to produce the complex field of global politics: global geopolitics, global normative culture and polycentric networks.\"\n\nSalvatore Babones discussing sources used by scholars for studying political globalizations noted the usefulness of Europa World Year Book for data on diplomatic relationships between countries, publications of International Institute for Strategic Studies such as \"The Military Balance\" for matters of military, and US government publication \"Patterns of Global Terrorism\" for matters of terrorism.\n\nPolitical globalization is measured by aggregating and weighting data on the number of embassies and high commissioners in a country, the number of the country's membership in international organization, its participation in the UN peacekeeping missions, and the number of international treaties signed by said country. This measure has been used by Axel Dreher, Noel Gaston, Pim Martens Jeffrey Haynes and is available from the KOF institute at ETH Zurich\n\nLike globalization itself, political globalization has several dimensions and lends itself to a number of interpretations. It has been discussed in the context of new emancipatory possibilities, as well as in the context of loss of autonomy and fragmentation of the social world. Political globalization can be seen in changes such as democratization of the world, creation of the global civil society, and moving beyond the centrality of the nation-state, particularly as the sole actor in the field of politics. Some of the questions central to the discussion of the political globalization are related to the future of the nation-state, whether its importance is diminishing and what are the causes for those changes; and understanding the emergence of the concept of global governance. The creation and existence of the United Nations has been called one of the classic examples of political globalization. Political actions by non-governmental organizations and social movements, concerned about various topics such as environmental protection, is another example.\n\nDavid Held has proposed that continuing political globalization may lead to the creation of a world government-like cosmopolitan democracy, though this vision has also been criticized as too idealistic.\n\nThere is a heated debate over Political Globalization and Nation State. The question arises whether or not political globalization signifies the decline of the nation-state. Hyper globalists argue that globalization has engulfed today's world in such a way that state boundaries are beginning to lose significance. However, skeptics disregard this as naiveté, believing that the nation-state remains the supreme actor in international relations. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51902843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51902843", "title": "Population health policies and interventions", "text": "Population health policies and interventions\n\nPopulation health, a field which focuses on the improvement of the health outcomes for a group of individuals, has been described as consisting of three components: \"health outcomes, patterns of health determinants, and policies and interventions\". Policies and Interventions define the methods in which health outcomes and patterns of health determinants are implemented. Policies which are helpful \"improve the conditions under which people live\". Interventions encourage healthy behaviors for individuals or populations through \"program elements or strategies designed to produce behavior changes or improve health status\".\n\nPolicies and interventions are needed due to the inequalities amongst populations and the inconsistent way care is administered. Policies can include \"necessary community and personal social and health services\" as well as taxes on alcohol and soft drinks and implement smoking cessation policies. Interventions can include therapeutic or preventative health care and may also include actions taken by the individual or by someone on behalf of the individual. The application of population health is determined by the policies and interventions which can be implemented within an organization, city, state or country.\n\nCountries, states, provinces and providers across the globe are shifting towards better systems to respond to inconsistent health outcomes, mitigate decreasing margins and replace outdated methods such as fee-for-service health delivery. Payment model reforms, including the Accountable Care Organization (ACO), provide roadmaps for healthcare reform and drive many of its constituents towards more effective and innovative means for improving health outcomes. Population health management is a common approach for resolving these challenges but it involves new methods, tools, systems and implementations to correct inefficiencies and improve health outcomes.\n\nPopulation health tools and computer systems include data exchange, large datasets, and advanced software which are used to supply data scientists and research teams with appropriate information which can then be used by policy makers and change agents. This method helps to set policies around population health as well as intervention strategies which are then used to respond to the needs of a population.\n\nPolicy for population health \"sets priorities\" and are a \"guide to action to change what would otherwise occur\". Policies are based on \"social sciences of sociology, economics, demography, public health, anthropology, and epidemiology\" and determine how outcomes can be accomplished are implemented at various levels. Such guides determine laws, policies, and ordinances and are defined by policymakers. Examples of policies include \"smoking bans, excise taxes on cigarettes and alcohol, seat belt laws, water fluoridation, and restaurant menu labeling\". They may be applied to a commercial establishment such as a restaurant, business workplace or within a city or state level. Policies should be evidence based and require academic studies or research to support the approach. This will assure that the appropriate measures needed for each demographic are promoted to encourage the necessary intervention practices which can be applied to each population or to the nation as a whole.\n\nPolicymakers can be classified as both private and public and are defined as someone who is in a position of authority to implement health policies. A public policy maker could be a government official and a private policymaker could be a business owner or administrator. Policymakers are influenced by, and can also be, change agents. Change agents include \"legislators in Washington, an attorney general, regulators at the FDA, an advocacy group or other organizations that clearly have influence\".\n\nThe goal for any political strategies surrounding population health is to \"improve chances of success for policy adoption and implementation\". Such strategies include the creation of funds to support initiatives and the construction of strategies which limit conflicts of interest in the implementation of public policy.\n\nA political strategy implemented to limit the sale and exposure to tobacco products and restrict the tobacco company's ability to benefit politically from charitable donations is the creation of the World Health Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) treaty. The legally binding document is supported by numerous countries, government/nongovernment agencies and provides the necessary power to prevent negative influences on population health policies.\n\nInterventions in population health \"shift the distribution of health risk by addressing the underlying social, economic and environmental conditions\" and are implemented through \"programs or policies designed and developed in the health sector, but they are more likely to be in sectors elsewhere, such as education, housing or employment\". They are aimed at reducing such things as childhood obesity, cardiovascular disease, smoking and mental health issues throughout society. The means in which interventions are devised is through extensive research and contributions from medical scientists, researchers, and medical professionals. They are implemented by but are not limited to educators, practicing physicians, business administrators and mental health professionals.\n\nA typical approach includes assessing the conditions and possible improvements which can be made within the social determinants that have been identified. Each approach is handled at a state or health plan level.\n\nOne example was a workplace in China which implemented policies and interventions for their staff to fight depression. By recognizing the importance of mental health, they were able to reduce depression and improve job satisfaction across the company. The company published its research and findings to promote \"enterprises taking more responsibility for the provision of mental health services to their employees\".\n\nAnother example was the implementation of a smoking cessation program to the province of Ontario. Studies were performed on weekly visit rates to psychiatric emergency departments before and after the implementation. The result was a \"15.5% reduction in patient visits for patients with a primary diagnosis of psychotic disorder\".\n\nAs is the common understanding of population health, health inequalities, defined as a \"generic term used to designate differences, variations, and disparities in the health achievements of individuals and groups\", must be considered to correctly implement the most effective policies and interventions. Based on a population and its socioeconomic, geographic, ethnicity and other factors, policies and interventions may vary. Policies implemented for one population may be less effective and more costly than it would be for another similar population. For example, US policies tend to be more costly than European and have less impact. Research has shown that in some instances, \"Americans had worse outcomes than their international peers\" and also had \"the lowest life expectancy at birth of the countries studied\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13139823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13139823", "title": "Post-classical history", "text": "Post-classical history\n\n\"For more maps, images and other media please see * \"\n\nPost-classical history (also called the Post-Antiquity era, Post-Ancient Era, or Pre-Modern Era) is a periodization commonly used by the school of \"world history\" instead of Middle Ages (Medieval), which is roughly synonymous. The period runs from about AD 500 to 1450 though there may be regional differences and debates. The era was globally characterized by the expansion of civilizations geographically, the development of three of the great world religions (Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism), and development of networks of trade between civilizations.\n\nIn Asia, the spread of Islam created a new empire and Islamic Golden Age with trade between the Asian, African and European continents, and advances in science in the medieval Islamic world. East Asia experienced the full establishment of power of Imperial China, which established several prosperous dynasties influencing Korea, Vietnam, and Japan. Religions such as Buddhism and Neo-Confucianism spread. Gunpowder was originally developed in China during the post-classical era. The Mongol Empire connected Europe and Asia creating safe trade and stability between the two regions. In total the population of the world doubled in the time period from approximately 210 million in AD 500 to 461 million in 1500. Population generally grew steadily throughout the period but endured some incidental declines in events including the Plague of Justinian, The Mongol Invasions and the Black Death.\n\n'Post-classical history' is a periodization used by historians employing a \"world history\" approach to history, specifically the school developed during the late 20th and early 21st centuries. Outside of world history, the term is also sometimes used to avoid erroneous pre-conceptions around the terms \"Middle Ages\", \"Medieval\" and \"Dark Ages\" (see medievalism).\n\nThe post-classical period corresponds roughly to the period from 500 to 1450 CE. Beginning and ending dates might vary depending on the region, with the period beginning at the end of the previous classical period: Han China (ending in 220), the Western Roman Empire (in 476), the Gupta Empire (in the 550s), and the Sasanian Empire (in 651).\n\nThe post-classical period is one of the five or six major periods world historians use: (1) early civilization; (2) classical societies; (3) post-classical; (4) early modern; (5) long nineteenth century; and (6) contemporary or modern era. (Sometimes the nineteenth century and modern are combined.) Although \"post-classical\" is synonymous with the Middle Ages of Western Europe, the term \"post-classical\" is not necessarily a member of the traditional tripartite periodisation of Western European history into 'classical', 'middle' and 'modern'.\n\nThe historical field of world history, which looks at common themes occurring across multiple cultures and regions, has enjoyed extensive development since the 1980s. However, World History research has tended to focus on early modern globalization (beginning around 1500) and subsequent developments, and views post-classical history as mainly pertaining to Afro-Eurasia. Historians recognize the difficulties of creating a periodization and identifying common themes that include not only this region but also, for example, the Americas, since they had little contact with Afro-Eurasia before the Columbian Exchange. Thus recent research has emphasised that 'a global history of the period between 500 and 1500 is still wanting' and that 'historians have only just begun to embark on a global history of the Middle Ages'.\n\nFor many regions of the world, there are well established histories. Although Medieval Studies in Europe tended in the nineteenth century to focus on creating histories for individual nation-states, much twentieth-century research focused, successfully, on creating an integrated history of medieval Europe. The Islamicate world likewise has a rich regional historiography, ranging from the fourteenth-century Ibn Khaldun to the twentieth-century Marshall Hodgson and beyond. Correspondingly, research into the network of commercial hubs which enabled goods and ideas to move between China in the East and the Atlantic islands in the West—which can be called the early history of globalisation—is fairly advanced; one key historian in this field is Janet Abu-Lughod. Understanding of communication within sub-saharan Africa or the Americas is, by contrast, far more limited.\n\nRecent history-writing, therefore, has begun to explore how it might be possible meaningfully to write history that spans the Old World, where human activities were fairly interconnected, and establishes its relationship with other worlds, such as the Americas and Oceania. In the assessment of James Belich, John Darwin, Margret Frenz, and Chris Wickham,\nGlobal history may be boundless, but global historians are not. Global history cannot usefully mean the history of everything, everywhere, all the time. [...] Three approaches [...] seem to us to have real promise. One is global history as the pursuit of significant historical problems across time, space, and specialism. This can sometimes be characterized as ‘comparative’ history. [...] Another is connectedness, including transnational relationships. [...] The third approach is the study of globalization [...]. Globalization is a term that needs to be rescued from the present, and salvaged for the past. To define it as always encompassing the whole planet is to mistake the current outcome for a very ancient process.\nA number of commentators have pointed to the history of the earth's climate as a useful approach to World History in the Middle Ages, noting that certain climate events had effects on all human populations.\n\nThe Post-classical era saw several common developments or themes. There was the expansion and growth of civilization into new geographic areas; the rise and/or spread of the three major world, or missionary, religions; and a period of rapidly expanding trade and trade networks.\n\nFirst was the expansion and growth of civilization into new geographic areas across Asia, Africa, Europe, Mesoamerica, and western South America. However, as noted by world historian Peter N. Stearns, there were no common global political trends during the post-classical period, rather it was a period of loosely organized states and other developments, but no common political patterns emerged. In Asia, China continued its historic dynastic cycle and became more complex, improving its bureaucracy. The creation of the Islamic Empires established a new power in the Middle East, North Africa, and Central Asia. Africa created the Songhai and Mali kingdoms in the West. The fall of Roman civilization not only left a power vacuum for the Mediterranean and Europe, but forced certain areas to build what some historians might call new civilizations entirely. An entirely different political system was applied in Western Europe (i.e. feudalism), as well as a different society (i.e. manorialism). But the once East Roman Empire, Byzantium, retained many features of old Rome, as well as Greek and Persian similarities. Kiev Rus' and subsequently Russia began development in Eastern Europe as well. In the isolated Americas, Mesoamerica saw the building of the Aztec Empire, while the Andean region of South America saw the establishment of the Inca Empire.\n\nReligion that envisaged the possibility that all humans could be included in a universal order had emerged already in the first millennium BC, particularly with Buddhism. In the following millennium, Buddhism was joined by two other major, universalising, missionary religions, both developing from Judaism: Christianity and Islam. By the end of the period, these three religions were between them widespread, and often politically dominant, across the Old World.\n\nFinally, communication and trade across Afro-Eurasia increased rapidly. The Silk Road continued to spread cultures and ideas through trade and throughout Europe, Asia, and Africa. Trade networks were established between West Europe, Byzantium, early Russia, the Islamic Empires, and the Far Eastern civilizations. In Africa the earlier introduction of the Camel allowed for a new and eventually large Trans-Saharan trade which connected Sub-Saharan West Africa to Eurasia. The Islamic Empires adopted many Greek, Roman, and Indian advances and spread them through the Islamic sphere of influence, allowing these developments to reach Europe, North and West Africa, and Central Asia. Islamic sea trade helped connect these areas, including those in the Indian Ocean and in the Mediterranean, replacing Byzantium in the latter region. The Christian Crusades into the Middle East (as well as Muslim Spain and Sicily) brought Islamic science, technology, and goods to Western Europe. Western trade into East Asia was pioneered by Marco Polo. Importantly, China began the sinicization (or Chinese influence) of regions like Japan, Korea, and Vietnam through trade and conquest. Finally, the growth of the Mongol Empire in Central Asia established safe trade such as to allow goods, cultures, ideas, and disease to spread between Asia, Europe, and Africa.\n\nThe Americas had their own trade network, however theirs was limited by the lack of draft animals and the wheel. In Oceania some of the island chains of Polynesia and Micronesia also engaged in trade with one another.\n\nDuring Post-Classical times, there is evidence that many regions of the world were affected similarly by global climate conditions however, direct effects in temperature and precipitation varied by region. According to Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change changes did not all occur sanctimoniously at once. Generally however studies found that temperatures were relatively warmer, in the eleventh century, but colder by the early seventeenth century. It is uncertain the degree of climate change which occurred in all regions across the world, and whether such changes were all part of a global trend. Climate trends seemed to be more recognizable along the Northern Hemisphere than the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nThere are climate periods that could be roughly said to account for large scale climate trends in the Post Classical Period. These include the Late Antique Little Ice Age, the Medieval Warm Period and the Little Ice Age. The Extreme Weather Events of 536–537 were likely initiated by the eruption of the Lake llopango caldera in El Salvador. Sulfate emitted into the air initiated global cooling, migrations and crop failures worldwide possibly intensifying an already cooler time period. Records show that the world's temperature remained colder on average for at least a century afterwards.\n\nThe Medieval Warming Period from 950–1250 occurred mostly throughout the northern hemisphere causing many areas to have warmer summers, the high temperatures would only be surpassed by the Global Warming of the 20th/21st centuries. It has been hypothesized that the warm of temperatures allowed the Norse to colonize Greenland, due to ice-free waters at the time. Outside of Europe there is evidence of warming conditions, including higher temperatures in China and major North American droughts which adversely effected numerous cultures.\n\nAfter 1250, glaciers began to expand in Greenland effecting its Thermohaline circulation, cooling the entire North Atlantic. In the 14th century, the growing season in Europe became unreliable, meanwhile in China the cultivation of Oranges were driven southward by colder temperatures. Especially in Europe, the Little Ice Age had large cultural ramifications. The Little Ice Age would persist until the industrial revolution, far beyond the time-frame of the Post Classical Period. The causes for the little Ice-Age are unclear, possible explanations include sunspots, orbital cycles of the Earth, volcanic activity, ocean circulation, and man made population decline.\n\nThis timetable gives a basic overview of states, cultures and events which transpired roughly between the years 400 and 1500. Sections are broken by political and geographic location.\n\nIn Europe, Western civilization reconstituted after the Fall of the Western Roman Empire into the period now known as the Early Middle Ages (500–1000), during which the Catholic Church unified the region. The Early Middle Ages saw a continuation of trends begun in Late Antiquity: depopulation, deurbanization, and increased barbarian invasion.\n\nFrom the 7th until the 11th centuries Arabs, Magyars and Norse were all threats to the Christian Kingdoms that killed thousands of people over centuries. Raiders however, also created new trading networks. In western Europe the Frankish king Charlemagne attempted to kindle the rise of culture and science in the Carolingian Renaissance. In the year 800 Charlemagne founded the Holy Roman Empire in attempt to resurrect Classical Rome. The reign of Charlemange attempted to kindle a rise of learning and literacy in what has become known as the Carolingian Renaissance\n\nIn Eastern Europe, the Eastern Roman Empire survived in what is now called the Byzantine Empire which created the Code of Justinian that inspired the legal structures of modern European states. Ruled by religious Christian Orthodox emperors the Byzantine Eastern Orthodox Church Christianized the Kieven Rus, who were the foundation of modern-day Russia and Ukraine. Byzantium flourished as the leading power and trade center in its region in the Macedonian Renaissance until it was overshadowed by Italian City States and the Islamic Ottoman Empire near the end of the Middle Ages.\nLater in the period, the creation of the feudal system allowed greater degrees of military and agricultural organization. There was sustained urbanization in northern and western Europe. Later developments were marked by manorialism and feudalism, and evolved into the prosperous High Middle Ages. After 1000 the Christian kingdoms that had emerged from Rome's collapse changed dramatically in their cultural and societal character.\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages (c. 1000–1300), Christian-oriented art and architecture flourished and the Crusades were mounted to recapture the Holy Land from Muslim control. The influence of the emerging nation-state was tempered by the ideal of an international Christendom and the presence of the Roman Catholic Church in all western kingdoms. The codes of chivalry and courtly love set rules for proper behavior, while the Scholastic philosophers attempted to reconcile faith and reason. The age of Feudalism would be dramatically transformed by the cataclysm of the Black Death and its aftermath. This time would be a major underlying cause for the Renaissance. By the turn of the 16th century European or Western Civilization would be engaging in the Age of Discovery.\n\nThe term \"Middle Ages\" first appears in Latin in the 15th century and reflects the view that this period was a deviation from the path of classical learning, a path supposedly reconnected by Renaissance scholarship.\n\nThe Arabian peninsula and the surrounding Middle East and Near East regions saw dramatic change during the Postclassical Era caused primarily by the spread of Islam and the establishment of the Arabian Empires.\n\nIn the 5th century, the Middle East was separated by empires and their spheres of influence; the two most prominent were the Sasanian Empire of the Persians in what is now Iran and Iraq, and the Byzantine Empire in Anatolia (modern-day Turkey). The Byzantines and Sasanians fought with each other continually, a reflection of the rivalry between the Roman Empire and the Persian Empire seen during the previous five hundred years. The fighting weakened both states, leaving the stage open to a new power. Meanwhile, the nomadic Bedouin tribes who dominated the Arabian desert saw a period of tribal stability, greater trade networking and a familiarity with Abrahamic religions or monotheism.\n\nWhile the Byzantine Roman and Sassanid Persian empires were both weakened by the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628, a new power in the form of Islam grew in the Middle East under Muhammad in Medina. In a series of rapid Muslim conquests, the Rashidun army, led by the Caliphs and skilled military commanders such as Khalid ibn al-Walid, swept through most of the Middle East, taking more than half of Byzantine territory in the Arab–Byzantine wars and completely engulfing Persia in the Muslim conquest of Persia. It would be the Arab Caliphates of the Middle Ages that would first unify the entire Middle East as a distinct region and create the dominant ethnic identity that persists today. These Caliphates included the Rashidun Caliphate, Umayyad Caliphate, Abbasid Caliphate, and later the Turkic-based Seljuq Empire.\nAfter Muhammad introduced Islam, it jump-started Middle Eastern culture into an Islamic Golden Age, inspiring achievements in architecture, the revival of old advances in science and technology, and the formation of a distinct way of life. Muslims saved and spread Greek advances in medicine, algebra, geometry, astronomy, anatomy, and ethics that would later finds it way back to Western Europe.\n\nThe dominance of the Arabs came to a sudden end in the mid-11th century with the arrival of the Seljuq Turks, migrating south from the Turkic homelands in Central Asia. They conquered Persia, Iraq (capturing Baghdad in 1055), Syria, Palestine, and the Hejaz. This was followed by a series of Christian Western Europe invasions. The fragmentation of the Middle East allowed joint European forces mainly from England, France, and the emerging Holy Roman Empire, to enter the region. In 1099 the knights of the First Crusade captured Jerusalem and founded the Kingdom of Jerusalem, which survived until 1187, when Saladin retook the city. Smaller crusader fiefdoms survived until 1291. In the early 13th century, a new wave of invaders, the armies of the Mongol Empire, swept through the region, sacking Baghdad in the Siege of Baghdad (1258) and advancing as far south as the border of Egypt in what became known as the Mongol conquests. The Mongols eventually retreated in 1335, but the chaos that ensued throughout the empire deposed the Seljuq Turks. In 1401, the region was further plagued by the Turko-Mongol, Timur, and his ferocious raids. By then, another group of Turks had arisen as well, the Ottomans.\n\nDuring the Postclassical Era, Africa was both culturally and politically affected by the introduction of Islam and the Arabic empires. This was especially true in the north, the Sudan region, and the east coast. However, this conversion was not complete nor uniform among different areas, and the low-level classes hardly changed their beliefs at all. Prior to the migration and conquest of Muslims into Africa, much of the continent was dominated by diverse societies of varying sizes and complexities. These were ruled by kings or councils of elders who would control their constituents in a variety of ways. Most of these peoples practiced spiritual, animistic religions. Africa was culturally separated between Saharan Africa (which consisted of North Africa and the Sahara Desert) and Sub-Saharan Africa (everything south of the Sahara). Sub-Saharan Africa was further divided into the Sudan, which covered everything north of Central Africa, including West Africa. The area south of the Sudan was primarily occupied by the Bantu peoples who spoke the Bantu language. From 1100 onward Christian Europe and the Islamic World became dependent on Africa for gold.\n\nSub Saharan Africa\n\nAfter 650 approximately urbanization expanded for the first time beyond the ancient kingdoms Aksum and Nubia. The Precolonial civilizations of African Civilization can be divided into three categories based on religion. (1) Christian Civilizations on the Horn of Africa (2) Islamic Civilizations which formed in the Niger River valley in West Africa, and on the coast of East Africa and (3) Traditional Societies which adhered to native African Religions. South of the Sahara African kingdoms developed based on continental trade with one another through land based routes and generally avoided sea trade.\n\nSub Saharan Africa was part of two large, separate trading networks, the Trans Saharan trade which bridged commerce between West and North Africa. Due to the huge profits from trade native African Islamic empires arose, including those of Ghana, Mali and Songhay. In the 14th century, Mana Masua king of Mali may have been the wealthiest person of his time. Within Mali, the city of Timbuktu was an international center of science and well known throughout the Islamic World, particularly from the University of Sankore.\nEast Africa was part of the Indian Ocean trade network, which included both Arab ruled Islamic cities on the East African Coast such as Mombasa and Traditional cities such as Great Zimbabwe which exported gold, copper and ivory to markets in the Middle East, South Asia, and Southeast Asia.\n\nThere has been difficulty applying the word 'medieval' or 'post classical' to the history of South Asia. This section follows historian Stein Burton's definition that corresponds from the 8th century to the 16th century, more of less following the same time frame of the Post Classical Period and the European Middle Ages.\n\nUntil the 13th century, there was no less than 20 to 40 different states on the Indian Subcontinent which hosted a variety of cultures, languages, writing systems and religions. In the beginning of the time period Buddhism was predominant throughout the area with the short lived Pala Empire on the Indo Gangetic Plain sponsoring the faith's institutions. One such institution was the Buddhist Nalanda University in modern-day Bihar, India was a center of scholarship and brought a divided South Asia onto the global intellectual stage. Classical India was unique for being the only country to mine gems before modern times, and to have a discipline for eye surgery. Another accomplishment was the invention of the \"Chaturanga\" game which later was exported to Europe and became Chess.\nIn Southern India, the Hindu Kingdom of Chola gained prominence with an overseas empire that controlled parts of modern-day Sri Lanka, Malaysia, and Indonesia as oversees territories and helped spread Hinduism into the historic culture of these places. In this time period, neighboring areas such as Afghanistan, Tibet, Southeast Asia were under South Asian influence.\n\nFrom 1206 onward a series of Turkic Islamic invasions based from modern day Afghanistan and Iran conquered massive portions of Northern India, founding the Delhi Sultante which remained supreme until the 16th century. The Delhi Sultanate introduced Islam to the conquered populations for the first time. Native religions fared differently, Buddhism declined in South Asia vanishing in many areas but Hinduism survived and reinforced itself in areas conquered by Muslims. In the far South the Kingdom of Vijanyagar was not conquered by any Muslim state in the period. The turn of the 16th century would see the rise of a new Islamic Empire – the Mughals and the establishment of European trade posts by the Portuguese.\n\nFrom the 8th century onward Southeast Asia stood to benefit from the trade taking place between South and East Asia, numerous kingdoms arose in the region due to the flow of wealth passing through the Strait of Malacca. While Southeast Asia had numerous outside influences India was the greatest source of inspiration for the region. North Vietnam as an exception was culturally closer to China for centuries due to conquest.\n\nSince rule from the third century BC North Vietnam continued to be subjugated by Chinese states, although they continually resisted periodically. There were three periods of Chinese Domination that spanned near 1100 years. Vietnam gained long lasting independence in the 10th century when China was divided. Nonetheless even as an independent state a sort of begrudging sinicization occurred. By the end of the Postclassical Era, Vietnam would be in control of its own Nguyễn dynasty. South Vietnam was governed by the ancient Hindu Champa Kingdom but was annexed by Vietnamese invaders in the 15th century.\n\nThe spread of Hinduism, Buddhism and maritime trade between China and South Asia created the foundation for Southeast Asia's first major empires; including the Khmer Empire from Cambodia and Sri Vijaya from Indonesia. During the Khmer Empire's height in the 12th century the city of Angkor Thom was among the largest of the pre-modern world due to its water management. King Jayavarman II constructed over a hundred hospitals throughout his realm. Nearby rose the Pagan Empire in modern-day Burma, using elephants as military might. The construction of the Buddhist Shwezigon Pagoda and its tolerance for believers of older polytheistic gods helped Theravada Buddhism become supreme in the region.\n\nIn Indonesia, Srivijaya from the 7th through 14th century was a Thalassocracy that focused on maritime city states and trade. Controlling the vital choke points of the Sunda and Malacca straits it became rich from trade ranging from Japan through Arabia. Gold, Ivory and Ceramics were all major commodities traveling through port cities. The Empire was also responsible for the construction of wonders such as Borobudur. During this time Indonesian sailors crossed the Indian Ocean; evidence suggests that they may have colonized Madagascar. Indian culture spread to the Philippines, likely through Indonesian trade resulting in the first documented use of writing in the archipelago and Indianized kingdoms.\n\nOver time changing economic and political conditions else where and wars weakened the traditional empires of South East Asia. While the Mongol Invasions did not directly annex Southeast Asia the war-time devastation paved way for the rise of new nations. In the 15th century the Khmer Empire was supplanted by the Thai Ayutthaya Kingdom and Sri Vijaya was overtaken by the Majapahit and later the Islamic Malacca Sultanate by 1450.\n\n The time fame of 500–1500 in East Asia's history and China in particular has been proposed as an accurate classification for the region's history within the context of global Post-classical history. There has been an attempt made in college courses to adapt the Post-Classical concept to Chinese terms.\n\nDuring this period the Eastern world empires continued to expand through trade, migration and conquests of neighboring areas. Japan and Korea went under the process of voluntary sinicization, or the impression of Chinese cultural and political ideas.\n\nKorea and Japan sinicized because their ruling class were largely impressed by China's bureaucracy. The major influences China had on these countries were the spread of Confucianism, the spread of Buddhism, and the establishment of centralized governance. In the times of the Sui, Tang and Song dynasties (581–1279), China remained the world's largest economy and most technologically advanced society. Inventions such as gunpowder, woodblock printing and the magnetic compass were improved upon. China stood in contrast to other areas at the time as the imperial governments exhibited concentrated central authority instead of feudalism.\n\nChina exhibited much interest in foreign affairs, during the Tang and Song dynasties. From the 7th through the 10th Tang China was focused on securing the Silk Road as the sell of its goods westwards was central to the nation's economy. For a time China, successfully secured its frontiers by integrating their nomadic neighbors such as the Gokturks into their civilization. The Tang dynasty expanded into Central Asia and received tribute from Eastern Iran. Western expansion ended with wars with the Umayyad Caliphate and the deadly An Lushan Rebellion which resulted in an deadly but uncertain death toll of millions.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Tang dynasty and subsequent civil wars came the second phase of Chinese interest in foreign relations. Unlike the Tang, the Song specialized in overseas trade and peacefully created a maritime network and China's population became concentrated in the south.. Chinese merchant ships reached Indonesia, India and Arabia. Southeast Asia's economy flourished from trade with Song China.With the country's emphasis on trade and economic growth, Song China's economy began to use machines to manufacture goods and coal as a source of energy. The advances of the Song in the 11th/12th centuries have been considered an early industrial revolution. Economic advancements came at the cost of military affairs and the Song became open to invasions from the north. China became divided as Song's northern lands were conquered by the Jurchen people. By 1200 there were five Chinese kingdoms stretching from modern day Turkestan to the Sea of Japan including the Western Liao, Western Xia, Jin, Southern Song and Dali. Because these states competed with each other they all were eventually annexed by the rising Mongol Empire before 1279.\n\nAfter seventy years of conquest, the Mongols proclaimed the Yuan dynasty and also annexed Korea; they failed to conquer Japan. Mongol conquerors also made China accessible to European travelers such as Marco Polo. The Mongol era was short lived due to plagues and famine. After revolution in 1368 the succeeding Ming dynasty ushered in a period of prosperity and brief foreign expeditions before isolating itself from global affairs for centuries.\n\nKorea and Japan however continued to have relations with China and with other Asian countries. In the 15th century Sejong the Great of Korea cemented his country's identity by creating the Hangul Writing system to replace use of Chinese Characters. Meanwhile, in Japan fell under military rule of the Kamakura and later Ashikaga Shogunate dominated by Samauri warriors.\n\nThis section explains events and trends which affected the geographic area of Eurasia. The civilizations within this area while being distinct from one another endured shared experiences.\n\nThe Mongol Empire which existed during the 13th and 14th centuries, was the largest continuous land empire in history. Originating in the steppes of Central Asia, the Mongol Empire eventually stretched from Central Europe to the Sea of Japan, extending northwards into Siberia, eastwards and southwards into the Indian subcontinent, Indochina, and the Iranian plateau, and westwards as far as the Levant and Arabia.\n\nThe Mongol Empire emerged from the unification of nomadic tribes in the Mongolia homeland under the leadership of Genghis Khan, who was proclaimed ruler of all Mongols in 1206. The empire grew rapidly under his rule and then under his descendants, who sent invasions in every direction. The vast transcontinental empire connected the east with the west with an enforced \"Pax Mongolica\" allowing trade, technologies, commodities, and ideologies to be disseminated and exchanged across Eurasia.\n\nThe empire began to split due to wars over succession, as the grandchildren of Genghis Khan disputed whether the royal line should follow from his son and initial heir Ögedei, or one of his other sons such as Tolui, Chagatai, or Jochi. After Möngke Khan died, rival \"kurultai\" councils simultaneously elected different successors, the brothers Ariq Böke and Kublai Khan, who then not only fought each other in the Toluid Civil War, but also dealt with challenges from descendants of other sons of Genghis. Kublai successfully took power, but civil war ensued as Kublai sought unsuccessfully to regain control of the Chagatayid and Ögedeid families.\n\nThe Battle of Ain Jalut in 1260 marked the high-water point of the Mongol conquests and was the first time a Mongol advance had ever been beaten back in direct combat on the battlefield. Though the Mongols launched many more invasions into the Levant, briefly occupying it and raiding as far as Gaza after a decisive victory at the Battle of Wadi al-Khazandar in 1299, they withdrew due to various geopolitical factors.\n\nBy the time of Kublai's death in 1294, the Mongol Empire had fractured into four separate khanates or empires, each pursuing its own separate interests and objectives: the Golden Horde khanate in the northwest; the Chagatai Khanate in the west; the Ilkhanate in the southwest; and the Yuan dynasty based in modern-day Beijing. In 1304, the three western khanates briefly accepted the nominal suzerainty of the Yuan dynasty, but it was later overthrown by the Han Chinese Ming dynasty in 1368. The Genghisid rulers returned to Mongolia homeland and continued rule in the Northern Yuan dynasty. All of the original Mongol Khanates collapsed by 1500, but smaller successor states remained independent until the 1700s. Descendants of Chagatai Khan created the Mughal Empire that ruled much of India in early modern times.\n\nThe Silk Road was a Eurasian trade route that played a large role in global communication and interaction. It stimulated cultural exchange; encouraged the learning of new languages; resulted in the trade of many goods, such as silk, gold, and spices; and also spread religion and disease. It is even claimed by some historians – such as Andre Gunder Frank, William Hardy McNeill, Jerry H. Bentley, and Marshall Hodgson – that the Afro-Eurasian world was loosely united culturally, and that the Silk Road was fundamental to this unity. This major trade route began with the Han dynasty of China, connecting it to the Roman Empire and any regions in between or nearby. At this time, Central Asia exported horses, wool, and jade into China for the latter's silk; the Romans would trade for the Chinese commodity as well, offering wine in return. The Silk Road would often decline and rise again in trade from the Iron Age to the Postclassical Era. Following one such decline, it was reopened in Central Asia by Han Dynasty General Ban Chao during the 1st century.\n\nThe Silk Road was also a major factor in spreading religion across Afro-Eurasia. Muslim teachings from Arabia and Persia reached East Asia. Buddhism spread from India, to China, to Central Asia. One significant development in the spread of Buddhism was the carving of the Gandhara School in the cities of ancient Taxila and the Peshwar, allegedly in the mid 1st century.\n\nThe route was vulnerable to spreading plague. The Plague of Justinian originated in East Asia and had a major outbreak in Europe in 542 causing the deaths of a quarter of the Mediterranean's population. Trade between Europe, Africa and Asia along the route was at least partially responsible for spreading the plague. There is a popular theory that the Black Death was caused by the Mongol conquests. The claim is that the direct link that it opened between the East and West provided the path for rats and fleas that carried the disease. Although there is no concrete historical evidence to this theory, the plague is considered endemic on the steppe.\n\nThere were vulnerabilities as well to changing political situations. The rise of Islam changed the Silk Road, because Muslim rulers generally closed the Silk Road to Christian Europe to an extent Europe would be cut off from Asia for centuries. Specifically, the political developments that affected the Silk Road included the emergence of the Turks, the political movements of the Sasanian and Byzantine empires, and the rise of the Arabs, among others.\nThe Silk Road flourished again in the 13th century during the reign of the Mongol Empire, which through conquest had brought stability in Central Asia comparable to the Pax Romana. It was claimed by a Muslim historian that Central Asia was peaceful and safe to transverse \"(Central Asia) enjoyed such a peace that a man might have journeyed from the land of sunrise to the land of sunset with a golden platter upon his head without suffering the least violence from anyone.\" \n\nAs such, trade and communication between Europe, East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East required little effort. Handicraft production, art, and scholarship prospered, and wealthy merchants enjoyed cosmopolitan cities.\n\nThe Silk Road trade played a role in spreading the infamous Black Death. Originating in China, the bubonic plague was spread by Mongol warriors catapulting diseased corpses into enemy towns in the Crimea. The disease, spread by rats, was carried by merchant ships sailing across the Mediterranean that brought the plague back to Sicily, causing an epidemic in 1347. Nevertheless, after the 15th century, the Silk Road disappeared from regular use. This was primarily a result from the growing sea travel pioneered by Europeans, which allowed the trade of goods by sailing around the southern tip of Africa and into the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe term \"Post Classical Science\" is often used in Academic Circles and in college courses to combine the study of Medieval European Science and Medieval Islamic Science due to their interactions with one another. However Science from Eastern Eurasia, particularly from China was spread westward by Arabs due to both war and trade. The Islamic World also benefited from medical knowledge from South Asia.\n\nIn the case of the Western World and in Islamic realms much emphasis was placed on preserving the rationalist Greek Tradition of figures such as Aristotle. In the context of science within Islam there is a debate as to whether Islamic Scientists simply preserved accomplishments from Antiquity or built upon earlier Greek advances. Regardless, Classical European Science was brought back to the Christian Kingdoms due to the experience of the Crusades.\n\nAs a result of Persian trade in China, and the battle of the Talas River, Chinese innovations entered the Islamic Intellectual World. These include advances in astronomy and in paper-making.\n\nPaper making spread through the Islamic World as far west as Islamic Spain, before paper-making was acquired for Europe by the Reconquista. There is a debate on the transmission of gunpowder on whether the Mongols introduced Chinese gunpoweder weapons to Europe or if separate gunpowder weapons were invented in Europe independently.\n\nWithin Eurasia, there were four major civilization groups that had literate cultures and created literature and arts. These include Europe, The Middle East, South Asia and East\nAsia. Southeast Asia could be a possible fifth category but was influenced heavily from both South and East Asia literal cultures. All four cultures in Post-Classical Times used poetry, drama and prose. Throughout the period and until the 19th century poetry was the dominant form of literary expression. In the Middle East, South Asia, Europe and China great poetic works often used figurative language. Examples include, the Sanskrit \"Shakuntala\", the Arabic \"Thousand and one nights\", Old English \"Beowulf \" and works by the Chinese Du Fu. In Japan, prose uniquely thrived more than in other geographic areas. The \"Tale of Genji\" is considered the world's first realistic novel written in the 9th century.\n\nMusically, most regions of the world only used melodies as opposed to harmony. Medieval Europe was the lone exception to this rule, developing harmonic music in the 14th/15th century as musical culture transitioned form sacred music (meant for the church) to secular music. South Asian and Mid-Eastern music were similar to each other for their use of microtone. East-Asian music shared some similarities with European Music for using a pentatnotic scale.\n\nThe Postclassical Era of the Americas can be considered set at a different time span from that of Afro-Eurasia. As the developments of Mesoamerican and Andean civilization differ greatly from that of the Old World, as well as the speed at which it developed, the Postclassical Era in the traditional sense does not take place until near the end of the Medieval Age in Afro-Eurasia. As such, for the purposes of this article, the Classic stage of the Americas will be discussed here, which takes place from about 400 to 1400. For the technical Postclassical stage in American development, see Post-Classic stage.\n\nAs a continent there was little unified trade or communication. Advances in agriculture spread northward from Measoamerica indirectly through trade. Major cultural areas however still developed independently of each other.\n\nWhile there was little regular contact between the Americas and the Old World the Norse Vikings explored and even colonized Greenland and Canada as early as 1000. None of these settlements survived past Medieval Times. Outside of Scandinavia knowledge of the discovery of the Americas was interpreted as a remote island or the North Pole.\n\nThe Norse arriving from Greenland settled Greenland from approximately 980 to 1450. The Norse arrived in southern Greenland prior to the 13th century approach of Inuit Thule people in the area. The extent of the interaction between the Norse and Thule is unclear. Greenland was valuable to the Norse due to trade of ivory that came from the tusks of walruses. The Little Ice Age adversely effected the colonies and they vanished. Greenland would be lost to Europeans until Danish Colonization in the 18th century.\n\nThe Norse also explored and colonized farther south in Newfoundland Canada at L'Anse aux Meadows referred to by the Norse as \"Vinland\". The colony at most existed for twenty years and resulted in no known transmission of diereses or technology to the First Nations. To the Norse \"Vinland\" was known for plentiful grape vines to make superior wine. One reason for the colony's failure was constant violence with the native Beothuk tribe who the Norse referred to as Skraeling.\n\nAfter initial expeditions there is a possibility that the Norse continued to visit modern day Canada. Surviving records from Medieval Iceland indicate some sporadic voyages to a land called \"Markland\" possibly the coast of Labrador, Canada as late as the 1347 presumably to collect wood for deforested Greenland.\n\nIn northern North America, many hunter-gatherer and agricultural societies thrived in the diverse region. Native American tribes varied greatly in characteristics; some, including the Mississippian culture and the Ancestral Puebloans were complex chiefdoms. Other nations which inhabited the states of the modern northern United States and Canada had less complexity and did not follow technological changes as quickly. Approximately around the year 500 during the Woodland period , Native Americans began to transition to bows and arrows from spears for hunting and warfare. Technological advancement however was uneven. During the 12th century was the widespread adoption of Corn as a staple crop in the Eastern United States. Corn would continue to be the staple crop of natives in the Eastern United States and Canada until the Colombian Exchange.\nIn The Eastern United States rivers were the medium of trade and communication. Cahokia located in the modern U.S State of Illinois was among the most significant within the Mississippi Culture. Focused around Monks Mound archeology indicates the population increased exponentially after 1000 because it manufactured important tools for agriculture and cultural attractions. Around 1350 Cahokia was abandoned, environmental factors have been proposed for the city's decline.\n\nAt the same time Ancestral Puebloans constructed clusters of buildings in the Chaco Canyon site located in the State of New Mexico. Individual houses may have been occupied by more than 600 residents at any one time. Chaco Canyon was the only pre-Columbian site in the United States to build paved roads.\nPottery indicates asociety that was becoming more complex, Turkeys for the first time in the continental United States were also domesticated.\nAround 1150 the structures of Chaco Canyon were abandoned, likely as a result of severe drought. There were also other Pueblo complexes in the Southwestern United States. After reaching climaxes native complex societies in the United States declined and did not entirely recover before the arrival of European Explorers.\n\nAt the beginning of the global Post Classic Period, the city of Teotihuacan was at its zenith, housing over 125,000 people, at 450 A.D it was the sixth largest city in the world at the time. The city's residents built the Pyramid of the Sun the third largest pyramid of the world, oriented to follow astronomical events. Suddenly in the 6th and 7th centuries, the city suddenly declined possibly as a result of severe environmental damage caused by extreme weather events of 535–536. There is evidence that large parts of the city were burned, possibly in a domestic rebellion. The city's legacy would inspire all future civilizations in the region.\n\nFollowing Teotihuacan came the Classic Age of the Mayan Civilization clustered in dozens of city states on the Yucatán and modern day Guatemala. The most significant of these cities were Chichen Itza which often fiercely competed with its neighbors to be the dominant economic influence in the region. The Mayans had an upper caste of priests, who were well versed in astronomy, mathematics and writing. The Mayan developed the concept of zero, and a 365-day calendar which possibly per-dates its creation in Old-World societies. After 900, many Mayan cities suddenly declined in a period of drought.\n\nThe Toltec Empire arose the from the Toltec culture, and were remembered as wise and benevolent leaders. One priest-king called Ce Acatl Topiltzin advocated against human sacrifice. After his death in 947, civil wars of religious character broke out between those who supported and opposed Topiltzin's teachings. Modern historians however are skeptical of the extent of Toltec and influence and believe that much of the information known about the Toltecs was created by the later Aztecs as an inspiration myth.\n\nIn the 1300s, a small band of violent, religious radicals called the Aztecs began minor raids throughout the area. Eventually they began to claim connections with the Toltec civilization, and insisted they were the rightful successors. They began to grow in numbers and conquer large areas of land. Fundamental to their conquest, was the use of political terror in the sense that the Aztec leaders and priests would command the human sacrifice of their subjugated people as means of humility and coercion. Most of the Mesoamerican region would eventually fall under the Aztec Empire. On the Yucatán Peninsula most of the Mayan People continued to be independent of the Aztecs but their traditional civilization declined. Aztec developments expanded cultivation, applying the use of chinampas, irrigation, and terrace agriculture; important crops included maize, sweet potatoes, and avocados.\n\nIn 1430 the city of Tenochtitlan allied with other powerful Nahuatl speaking cities- Texcoco and Tlacopan to create the Aztec Empire otherwise known as Triple-Alliance. Though referred to as an empire the Aztec Empire functioned as a system of tribute collection with Tenochtitlan at its center. By the turn of the 16h century \"flower wars\" between the Aztecs and rival states such as Tlaxcala had continued for over fifty years.\n\nSouth American civilization was concentrated in the Andean region which had already hosted complex cultures since 2,500 BC. East of the Andean region, the natives were generally semi nomadic. Discoveries on the Amazon River Basin indicate the region likely had a pre-contact population of five million people and hosted complex societies. Around the continent numerous agricultural peoples from Colombia to Argentina steadily advanced until European contact.\n\nDuring Ancient times the Andean Region had developed civilizations independent of outside influences including that of Mesoamerica. Through the Post Classical era a cycle of civilizations continued until Spanish Contact. Collectively Andean societies lacked currency, a written language and solid draft animals enjoyed by old world civilizations. Instead Andeans developed other methods to foster their growth, including use of the quipu system to communicate messages, lamas to carry smaller loads and an economy based on reciprocity. Societies were often based on strict social hierarchies and economic redistribution from the ruling class.\n\nIn the first half of the Post Classical Period the Andean Region was dominated by two almost equally powerful states. In the North of Peru was the Wari Empire and in the South of Peru and Bolivia was there is the Tiwanaku empire both of whom were inspired by the earlier Moche People. While the extent of their relationship to each other known, it is believed that they were in a Cold-War with one another, competing but avoiding direct conflict to avoid mutual assured destruction. Without war there was prosperity and around the year 700 Tiwanaku city hosted a population of 1.4. million. After the 8th century both states declined due to changing environmental conditions, laying the ground work for the Incas to emerge as a distinct culture centuries later.\n\nIn the 15th century the Inca Empire rose to annex all other nations in the area. Led by their, sun-god king, Sapa Inca, they slowly conquered what is now Peru, and built their society throughout the Andes cultural region. The Incas spoke the Quechua languages The Incas used the advances created by earlier Andean societies .Incas have been known to have used abacuses to calculate mathematics. The Inca Empire is known for some of its magnificent structures, such as Machu Picchu in the Cusco region. The empire expanded quickly northwards to Ecuador, Southwards to central Chile. To the north of the Inca Empire remained the independent Tairona and Musica Confederation who practiced agriculture and gold metallurgy.\n\nSeparate from developments in Afro-Eurasia and the Americas the region of greater Oceania continued to develop independently of the outside world. In Australia, the society of Aborigines and Melanesia changed little through the Post Classical Period, they had first arrived in the area from Africa around 50,000 BC. The only outside contact were encounters with fishermen of Indonesian origin. Polynesian and Micronesian Peoples are rooted from Taiwan and Southeast Asia and began their migration into the Pacific Ocean from 3000–1500 BC.\n\nDuring Post-classical Times the Micronesian and the Polynesian peoples constructed cities in some areas such as Nan Madol and Mu'a. Around 1200 AD the Tu'i Tonga Empire spread its influence far and wide throughout the South Pacific Islands, being described by academics as a maritime chiefdom which used trade networks to keep power centralized around the king's capital. Polynesians on outrigger canoes discovered and colonized some of the last uninhabited islands of earth. Hawaii, New Zealand and Easter Island were among the final places to be reached, settlers discovering pristine lands. Oral Tradition claimed that navigator Ui-te-Rangiora discovered icebergs in the Southern Ocean. In exploring and settling, Polynesian settlers did not strike at random but used their knowledge of wind and water currents to reach their destinations.\nThere is a hypothesis that Pre-Columbian contact took place between Polynesians and South America but this is in dispute. Traces of Sweet Potatoes native to South America have been discovered on the Cook Islands to 1000, but this may have occurred without human facilitation. There is also evidence Polynesian Chickens in Peru radiocarbon dated to the 14th/15th centuries, but the origins of the chickens were later stated to come from Eurasia. Linguistic evidence involving similarities of certain words for Axe and Sweet Potato appear to substantiate sporadic contact according to linguists.On the islands they settled some Polynesian groups became distinct from one another a significant example being the Maori of New Zealand, others island systems kept in contact with each other such has Hawaii and the Society Islands. Ecologically, Polynesians had the challenge of sustaining themselves within limited environments. Some settlements caused mass extinctions of some native plant and animal species over time by hunting species such as the Moa and introducing the Polynesian Rat. Easter Island settlers engaged in complete ecological destruction of their habtiat and their population crashed afterwards possibly due to the construction of the Easter Island Statues. Other colonizing groups adapted to accommodate to the ecology of specific islands such as the Moriori of the Chatham Islands.\n\nEuropeans on their voyages visited many Pacific Islands in the 16th and 17th century, but most areas of Oceania were not colonized until after the voyages of British explorer James Cook in the 1780s.\n\nAs the postclassical era drew to a close in the 15th century, many of the empires established throughout the period were in decline. The Byzantine Empire would soon be overshadowed in the Mediterranean by Italian city states such as Venice and Genoa and the Ottoman Turks. The Byzantines faced repeated attacks from eastern and western powers during the Fourth Crusade, and declined further until the loss of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks in 1453.\n\nThe largest change came in terms of trade and technology. The global significance of the fall of the Byzantines was the disruption of overland routes between Asia and Europe. Traditional dominance of Nomadism in Eurasia declined and the Pax Mongolia which had allowed for interactions between different civilizations was no longer available. China, which had previously engaged in expansion and innovation became isolationist in the 14th century under the Ming and would remain so until the Industrial Revolution. Western Asia and South Asia were conquered by Gunpowder Empires which successfully utilized advances in military technology but closed the Silk Road.\nEuropeans – specifically the Kingdom of Portugal and various Italian explorers – intended to replace land travel with sea travel. Originally European exploration merely looked for new routes to reach known destinations. Portuguese Explorer Vasco De Gama traveled to India by sea in 1498 by circumnavigating Africa around the Cape of Good Hope. India and the coast of Africa were already known to Europeans but none had attempted a large trading mission prior to that time. Due to navigation advances Portugal would create a global colonial empire beginning with the conquest of Malacca in modern-day Malaysia from 1511.\n\nOther Explorers such as the Spanish sponsored Italian Christopher Columbus intended to engage in trade by traveling on unfamiliar routes west from Europe. The subsequent European discovery of the Americas in 1492 resulted in the Colombian exchange and the world's first globalization. Spanish Explorer Ferdinand Magellan performed the first known circumnavigation of Earth in 1521. The transfer of goods and diseases across oceans was unprecedented in creating a more connected world. From developments in navigation and trade modern history began.\n\n\n\"The History of the Medieval World: From the Conversion of Constantine to the First Crusade\" by Susan Wise Bauer\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38878700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38878700", "title": "Revolutions of 1917–1923", "text": "Revolutions of 1917–1923\n\nThe Revolutions of 1917–1923 were a period of political unrest and revolts around the world inspired by the success of the Russian Revolution and the disorder created by the aftermath of World War I. The uprisings were mainly socialist or anti-colonial in nature and were mostly short-lived, failing to have a long-term impact. Out of all the revolutionary activity of the era, the revolutionary wave of 1917–1923 mainly refers to the unrest caused by World War I in Europe.\n\nIn war-torn Imperial Russia, the liberal February Revolution toppled the monarchy. It was unstable and the Bolsheviks seized power in the October Revolution. The ascendant communist party soon withdrew from the war with some territorial concessions by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. It then battled its political rivals in the Russian Civil War, including invading forces from the Allied Powers. In response to Lenin, the Bolshevik Party and the emerging Soviet Union, anti-communists from a broad assortment of ideological factions fought against them, particularly through the counter-revolutionary White movement and the peasant Green Army, the various nationalist movements in Ukraine after the Russian Revolution and other would-be new states like those in Soviet Transcaucasia and Soviet Central Asia, through the anarchist-inspired Third Russian Revolution and Tambov Rebellion.\n\nBy 1921, due to exhaustion, the collapse of transportation and markets, and threats of starvation, even dissident elements of the Red Army itself were in revolt against the communist state, as shown by the Kronstadt rebellion. However, the multiple anti-Bolshevik forces were uncoordinated and disorganized, and in every case operated on the periphery. The Red Army, operating at the center, defeated them one by one and regained control. The complete failure of Comintern-inspired revolutions was a sobering experience in Moscow, and the Bolsheviks moved from world revolution to the theme of socialism in one country, Russia. Lenin moved to open trade relations with Britain, Germany, and other major countries. Most dramatically, in 1921, Lenin introduced a sort of small-scale capitalism with his New Economic Policy (or NEP). In this process of revolution and counter-revolution the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) was officially born in 1922.\n\nThe Leninist victories also inspired a surge by the world Communist movement: the larger German Revolution and its offspring, like the Bavarian Soviet Republic, as well as the neighboring Hungarian Revolution, and the Biennio Rosso in Italy in addition to various smaller uprisings, protests and strikes, all proved abortive.\n\nThe Bolsheviks sought to coordinate this new wave of revolution in the Soviet-led Communist International, while new communist parties separated from their former socialist organizations and the older, more moderate Second International. Despite ambitions for world revolution, the far-flung Comintern movement had more setbacks than successes through the next generation, and it was abolished in 1943. After the Second World War when the Red Army occupied most of Eastern Europe, Communists would come to power in the Baltic states, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, and East Germany.\n\nIn Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom, the nationalist Easter Rising of 1916 anticipated the Irish War of Independence (1919–1921) within the same historical period as this first wave of communist revolution. The Irish republican movement of the time was predominantly nationalist and populist, and although it had left-wing positions and included socialists and communists, it was not Communist. The Irish and Soviet Russian Republics nevertheless found common ground in their opposition to British interests, and established a trading relationship.\n\nThe same was true of the Mexican Revolution (1910–1920), which had broken out in 1910 but had devolved into factional fighting among the rebels by 1915, as the more radical forces of Emiliano Zapata and Pancho Villa lost ground to the more conservative \"Sonoran oligarchy\" and its Constitutional Army. The Felicistas, the last major group of counterrevolutionaries, abandoned their armed campaign in 1920, and the internecine power struggles abated for a time after revolutionary General Álvaro Obregón had bribed or slain his former allies and rivals alike, but the following decade witnessed the assassination of Obregon and several others, abortive military coup attempts and a massive right-wing uprising, the Cristero War, due to religious persecution of Roman Catholics.\n\nThe Sette Giugno of 1919 was a revolt characterised by a series of riots and protests by the Maltese population, initially as a reaction to the rise in the cost of living in the aftermath of World War I, and the sacking of hundreds of workers from the dockyard. This coincided with popular demands for self-government, which resulted in a National Assembly being formed in Valletta at the same time of the riots. This dramatically boosted the uprising, as many people headed to Valletta to show their support for the Assembly. This led to the British forces firing into the crowd, killing four local men. The cost of living increased dramatically after the war. Imports were limited, and as food became scarce prices rose; this made the fortune of farmers and merchants with surpluses to trade.\n\nThe Egyptian Revolution of 1919 was a countrywide revolution against the British occupation of Egypt and Sudan. It was carried out by Egyptians and Sudanese from different walks of life in the wake of the British-ordered exile of revolutionary leader Saad Zaghloul, and other members of the Wafd Party in 1919. The revolution led to Britain's recognition of Egyptian independence in 1922, and the implementation of a new constitution in 1923. Britain, however, continued in control of what was renamed the Kingdom of Egypt. British guided the king and retained control of the Canal Zone, Sudan and Egypt's external and military affairs. King Fuad died in 1936 and Farouk inherited the throne at the age of sixteen. Alarmed by the Second Italo-Abyssinian War when Italy invaded Ethiopia, he signed the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty, requiring Britain to withdraw all troops from Egypt by 1949, except at the Suez Canal. During World War II, British troops used Egypt as a major base for its operations throughout the region. British troops were withdrawn to the Suez Canal area in 1947, but nationalist, anti-British feelings continued to grow after the war.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161657", "title": "Soft power", "text": "Soft power\n\nSoft power is the ability to attract and co-opt, rather than coerce (hard power). Soft power is the ability to shape the preferences of others through appeal and attraction. A defining feature of soft power is that it is non-coercive; the currency of soft power is culture, political values, and foreign policies. Recently, the term has also been used in changing and influencing social and public opinion through relatively less transparent channels and lobbying through powerful political and non-political organizations. In 2012, Joseph Nye of Harvard University explained that with soft power, \"the best propaganda is not propaganda\", further explaining that during the Information Age, \"credibility is the scarcest resource.\"\n\nNye coined the term in a 1990 book, \"Bound to Lead: The Changing Nature of American Power\". In this book, he wrote: “when one country gets other countries to want what it wants-might be called co-optive or soft power in contrast with the hard or command power of ordering others to do what it wants.” He further developed the concept in his 2004 book, \"Soft Power: The Means to Success in World Politics\". The term is now widely used in international affairs by analysts and statesmen. For example, US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates spoke of the need to enhance American soft power by \"a dramatic increase in spending on the civilian instruments of national security – diplomacy, strategic communications, foreign assistance, civic action and economic reconstruction and development.\" In 2011, Xi Jinping was preparing to take power from General Secretary Hu Jintao, the 17th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party devoted a whole plenary session to the issue of culture, with the final Communiqué declaring that it was a national goal to \"build our country into a socialist cultural superpower.\" And in 2014, Xi announced, \"We should increase China's soft power, give a good Chinese narrative, and better communicate China's messages to the world.\"\n\nAccording to the Soft Power 30, an annual index published by Portland Communications and the USC Center on Public Diplomacy for 2018, the United Kingdom is the leading sovereign state in soft power. Other leading countries in soft power include France, Germany, the United States, Canada, Japan, Switzerland, Australia, Sweden, and the Netherlands. According to the 2016/17 \"Monocle\" Soft Power Survey, ranks the United States as the leading country in soft power. The Elcano Global Presence Report scores the European Union highest for soft presence when considered as a whole, and ranks the United States first among sovereign states.\n\nJoseph Nye introduced the concept of \"soft power\" in the late 1980s. For Nye, power is the ability to influence the behavior of others to get the outcomes you want. There are several ways one can achieve this: you can coerce them with threats; you can induce them with payments; or you can attract and co-opt them to want what you want. This soft power – getting others to want the outcomes you want – co-opts people rather than coerces them.\n\nIt can be contrasted with 'hard power', which is the use of coercion and payment. Soft power can be wielded not just by states but also by all actors in international politics, such as NGOs or international institutions. It is also considered the \"second face of power\" that indirectly allows you to obtain the outcomes you want. A country's soft power, according to Nye, rests on three resources: \"its culture (in places where it is attractive to others), its political values (when it lives up to them at home and abroad), and its foreign policies (when others see them as legitimate and having moral authority).\"\n\nSoft power resources are the assets that produce attraction which often leads to acquiescence. Nye asserts that, \"Seduction is always more effective than coercion, and many values like democracy, human rights, and individual opportunities are deeply seductive.\" Angelo Codevilla observed that an often overlooked essential aspect of soft power is that different parts of populations are attracted or repelled by different things, ideas, images, or prospects. Soft power is hampered when policies, culture, or values repel others instead of attracting them.\n\nIn his book, Nye argues that soft power is a more difficult instrument for governments to wield than hard power for two reasons: many of its critical resources are outside the control of governments, and soft power tends to \"work indirectly by shaping the environment for policy, and sometimes takes years to produce the desired outcomes.\" The book identifies three broad categories of soft power: \"culture\", \"political values\", and \"policies.\"\n\nIn \"The Future of Power\" (2011), Nye reiterates that soft power is a descriptive, rather than a normative, concept. Therefore, soft power can be wielded for nefarious purposes. \"Hitler, Stalin, and Mao all possessed a great deal of soft power in the eyes of their acolytes, but that did not make it good. It is not necessarily better to twist minds than to twist arms.\" Nye also claims that soft power does not contradict the international relations theory of realism. \"Soft power is not a form of idealism or liberalism. It is simply a form of power, one way of getting desired outcomes.\"\n\nSoft power has been criticized as being ineffective by authors such as Niall Ferguson in the preface to \"Colossus\". Neorealist and other rationalist and neorationalist authors (with the exception of Stephen Walt) dismiss soft power out of hand as they assert that actors in international relations respond to only two types of incentives: economic incentives and force.\n\nAs a concept, it can be difficult to distinguish between soft power from hard power. For example, Janice Bially Mattern argues that George W. Bush's use of the phrase \"you are either with us or with the terrorists\" was in fact an exercise of hard power. Though military and economic force was not used to pressure other states to join its coalition, a kind of force – representational force – was used. This kind of force threatens the identity of its partners, forcing them to comply or risk being labelled as evil. This being the case, soft power is therefore not so soft. However, rationalist authors would merely see this as an 'implied threat', and that direct economic or military sanctions would likely follow from being 'against us'.\n\nThe first attempt to measure soft power through a composite index was created and published by the Institute for Government and the media company \"Monocle\" in 2010. The IfG-Monocle Soft Power Index combined a range of statistical metrics and subjective panel scores to measure the soft power resources of 26 countries. The metrics were organized according to a framework of five sub-indices including culture, diplomacy, education, business/innovation, and government. The index is said to measure the soft power resources of countries, and does not translate directly into ability influence. \"Monocle\" has published an annual \"Soft Power Survey\" since then. As of 2016/17, the list is calculated using around 50 factors that indicate the use of soft power, including the number of cultural missions (primarily language schools), Olympic medals, the quality of a country's architecture and business brands.\n\n\"The Soft Power 30\", which includes a foreword by Joseph Nye, is a ranking of countries' soft power produced and published by the media company \"Portland\" in 2015. The ranking is based on \"the quality of a country’s political institutions, the extent of their cultural appeal, the strength of their diplomatic network, the global reputation of their higher education system, the attractiveness of their economic model, and a country’s digital engagement with the world.\"\n\nThe \"Elcano Global Presence Report\" scores the European Union first for soft presence when its member states are excluded and the EU is considered as a whole.\n\nSoft power, then, represents the third behavioral way of getting the outcomes you want. Soft power is contrasted with hard power, which has historically been the predominant realist measure of national power, through quantitative metrics such as population size, concrete military assets, or a nation's gross domestic product. But having such resources does not always produce the desired outcomes, as the United States discovered in the Vietnam War. The extent of attraction can be measured by public opinion polls, by elite interviews, and case studies.\n\nNye argues that soft power is more than influence, since influence can also rest on the hard power of threats or payments. And soft power is more than just persuasion or the ability to move people by argument, though that is an important part of it. It is also the ability to attract, and attraction often leads to acquiescence.\n\nIn international relations, soft power is generated only in part by what the government does through its policies and public diplomacy. The generation of soft power is also affected in positive (and negative) ways by a host of non-state actors within and outside the country. Those actors affect both the general public and governing elites in other countries, and create an enabling or disabling environment for government policies.\n\nIn some cases, soft power enhances the probability of other elites adopting policies that allow one to achieve preferred outcomes. In other cases, where being seen as friendly to another country is seen as a local political kiss of death, the decline or absence of soft power will prevent a government from obtaining particular goals. But even in such instances, the interactions of civil societies and non-state actors may help to further general milieu goals such as democracy, liberty, and development. Soft power is not the possession of any one country or actor.\n\nThe success of soft power heavily depends on the actor's reputation within the international community, as well as the flow of information between actors. Thus, soft power is often associated with the rise of globalization and neoliberal international relations theory. Popular culture and mass media are regularly identified as a source of soft power, as is the spread of a national language or a particular set of normative structures; a nation with a large amount of soft power and the good will that engenders it inspire others to acculturate, avoiding the need for expensive hard power expenditures. More particularly, international news was found crucial in shaping the image and reputation of foreign countries. The high prominence of the US in international news, for example, has been linked to its soft power. Positive news coverage was associated with positive international views, while negative news coverage with negative views.\n\nBecause soft power has appeared as an alternative to raw power politics, it is often embraced by ethically-minded scholars and policymakers. But soft power is a descriptive rather than a normative concept. Like any form of power, it can be wielded for good or bad purposes. While soft power can be used with bad intentions and wreak horrible consequences, it differs in terms of means. It is on this dimension that one might construct a normative preference for greater use of soft power.\n\nAcademics have engaged in several debates around soft power. These have included:\n\nOne study finds that a state's soft power has a measurable effect on its exports. Countries that are admired for their positive global influence export more, holding other things constant.\n\nThe Soviet Union competed with the U.S. for influence throughout the Cold War. The Soviets were engaged in a broad campaign to convince the world of the attractiveness of its Communist system. In 1945, the Soviet Union was very effective in attracting many in Europe from its resistance to Hitler, and in colonized areas around the world because of its opposition to European imperialism. The Soviets also employed a substantially large public diplomacy program that included: promoting their high culture, broadcasting, disseminating disinformation about the West, and sponsoring nuclear protests, peace movements, and youth organizations. Despite all of this, the Soviets' closed system and lack of popular culture impeded the ability of the Soviet Union to compete with the U.S. in terms of soft power.\n\nA number of non-democratic governments have attempted to use migration as an instrument of soft power: Egypt under the rule of Gamal Abdel Nasser trained and dispatched thousands of teachers across the Arab world in an effort to spread ideas of anti-colonialism and anti-Zionism. In Cuba, the Fidel Castro regime's medical internationalism programme has dispatched thousands of medical professionals abroad for cultural diplomacy purposes. The Chinese-sponsored Confucius Institutes across the world rely on Chinese teachers in order to strengthen the country's soft power abroad. More recently, Turkey's migration diplomacy involves sponsoring the short-term emigration of imams across Europe and North America. \n\nAfter Pope John Paul II visited Poland in 1979, some political commentators said his visit influenced events against Poland's communist government, the Soviet Union, and ultimately communism, which promoted atheism.\n\nBesides the Pope's visit, American-government broadcasting and propaganda into Soviet-occupied Europe, particularly Poland, contributed to the rise of the Solidarity movement and to the collapse of the Soviet-backed governments there and in the rest of the Warsaw Pact alliance.\n\nThe United States and Europe have consistently been sources of influence and soft power. European culture's art, literature, music, design, fashion, and even food have been global magnets for some time. Europe and the U.S. have often claimed to support human rights and international law throughout the world. Unlike the U.S., Europeans' love of football enhances their soft power globally, whereas the primary sports of the U.S. such as American football and baseball are largely unpopular on the world stage. In 2012, the European Union was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize \"for over six decades [it has] contributed to the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in Europe.\" The U.S. has the largest diplomatic network in the world, the largest number of foreign journalists based in the country, and is the most popular destination for international students. American films, among other influences, have contributed to the Americanization of other cultures.\n\nAsia and more recently China have been working to use the potential soft power assets that are present in the admiration of their ancient cultures, arts, fashion and cuisine. China is presenting itself as a defender of national sovereignty, which became an issue after the NATO air campaign to oust Colonel Muammar Gaddafi and NATO's support of the rebels in Libya. The Chinese are also competing with the United States to gain influence throughout the South Pacific, however some commentators have said their recent assertiveness in this region has created an appeal for nations in this region to align with the United States thus increasing U.S. soft power in this area.\n\nSoft power extends beyond the operations of government, to the activities of the private sector and to society and culture at large. Soft power has gained more influence because it addresses the underlying dispositions of the people who have increasingly become more active in their governments. This is true even in authoritarian countries where people and institutions are increasingly able to shape the debate.\n\nThe information age has also led to the rise of soft power resources for non-state actors, Primarily, through the use of global media, and to a greater extent the internet using tools such as the World Wide Web, non-state actors have been able to increase their soft power and put pressure on governments that can ultimately affect policy outcomes. Instead of front organizations, non-state actors can create cyber advocacy organizations to recruit members and project their voice on the global stage.\n\nChina's traditional culture has been a source of attraction, building on which it has created several hundred Confucius Institutes around the world to teach its language and culture. The enrollment of foreign students in China has increased from 36,000 a decade before to at least 240,000 in 2010. China's Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has attracted many western countries to join. In 2017, China had the second largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nA spring 2014 Global Attitudes survey from Pew Research Center states China receives mostly positive reviews in the sub-Saharan African nations polled, although South Africans are closely divided (45% favorable, 40% unfavorable). China's increasing soft power can be explained by looking at China's economic growth and regarding economic engagement with many African countries. China's expansion of trade and investment on the African continent and the spread of Chinese-led infrastructure projects gives positive impressions of China to people in Africa. China's economic engagement in African countries is considered as much more pragmatic and in consistency with the priorities of many African countries. Moreover, China's increasing role as a global superpower seems appealing and this drives a desire to tie African economies more closely to China's economy.\n\nChina has made a systematic effort to expand and give greater profile to its soft-power policies in Africa ever since the first Forum on China-Africa Cooperation in 2000. The commitments of China's soft power ranges from health, humanitarian assistance to academic, professional and cultural exchange. China's assistance to Africa, however, is not near the U.S. assistance in Africa.\n\nCultural exchange between China and Africa can be a representative example of how China has been spreading its soft power.\nIn 2005, the first Confucius Institute was established in Africa. The institute is funded by the Chinese government and it provides Chinese language and cultural programming to the public. There are 19 institutes today in Africa and China has planned to spend 20 million renminbi for education projects in South Africa, including the teaching of Mandarin in 50 local high schools.\n\nFurthermore, there is an increasing support for cultural visitors programs which gained momentum in 2004 when the African Cultural Visitors Program was established. There is a rising number of African entrepreneurs who choose to move to China and there are also diaspora communities in many Chinese cities that have been found.\n\nOutside of Africa, Chinese soft power extends to countries like Barbados. Barbadian Prime Minister David Thompson expressed admiration for the Chinese economic model and sought to emulate the way Chinese state controlled banks guided development.\n\nFrance has long exerted a great amount of soft power. The country and its culture have for centuries been admired in many parts of the world; so much so that Thomas Jefferson is famously quoted as saying \"Every man has two countries, his own and France.\" The very term \"culture\" comes from France. In 2017, France had the third largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nFrance was a focal point of the Age of Enlightenment; its attachment to the ideals of liberty, equality, tolerance and reason was notably embodied in the writing and publishing of the \"Encyclopédie\". The French Revolution was one of the most significant events in European and world history. France has since then been instrumental in spreading Republican ideals. The Napoleonic Code, which influenced much of the rest of Europe and beyond, is regarded as one of the most important law document of the modern era.\n\nThe French language has for centuries been an important diplomatic language. For example, French has to be used – on par with English – for all documents issued by the United Nations Treaty Series, ensuring that all UN treaties are equally valid in their English and French versions.\n\nFrance has also followed for decades a very active diplomatic and cultural policy. The \"Alliance Française\", whose aim is to promote the French language and French culture, was created as early as 1883. In \"Monocle\"'s 2015 \"Soft Power 30\" report, France was ranked first in the \"engagement\" criteria, which is intended to measure \"the reach of states’ diplomatic network and their commitment to major challenges like development and the environment.\" \"Monocle\" further noted that \"In terms of influential reach, France is the best networked state in the world and is member of more multi-lateral organisations than any other country.\" Overall, France ranked fourth in that study.\n\nFrance's laïcité, secularism, policy has inspired some countries over time. For instance, France was Atatürk's main role model for Westernization as part of the major reform efforts that he spearheaded when he was President of Turkey.\n\nFrance, and in particular Paris, has long been considered one of the most romantic places to be. France was in 2014 the most visited country in the world.\n\nThe annual soft power rankings by \"Monocle\" magazine and the Institute for Government ranks 30 countries which “best attract favor from other nations through culture, sport, cuisine, design, diplomacy and beyond.”\n\"Monocle\" magazine said: “Merkel may be painted as a stern taskmaster but it seems she has a softer side, or the country she leads does.”\nIt said Germany’s rise as a soft power should not come as a surprise.\n“The country is traditionally excellent at pursuing its ideas, values and aims using diplomatic, cultural and economic tools,\" it said. “By quietly doing the simple things well it is a country that has become a global power and the rest of us can feel comfortable with that.”\nGermans had been understandably wary about depicting a dominant image abroad, the magazine added, but it said that the country’s rise should not make everyone else feel uncomfortable. In 2017, Germany had the eighth largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nThe famous elements of Italian soft culture are its art, music, fashion, and iconic food. Italy was the birthplace of opera, and for generations the language of opera was Italian, irrespective of the nationality of the composer. Popular tastes in drama in Italy have long favored comedy; the improvisational style known as the \"Commedia dell'arte\" began in Italy in the mid-16th century and is still performed today. Before being exported to France, the famous Ballet dance genre also originated in Italy.\nThe country boasts several world-famous cities. Rome was the ancient capital of the Roman Empire and seat of the Pope of the Catholic Church. Florence was the heart of the Renaissance, a period of great achievements in the arts that ended the Dark Ages. Other important cities include Turin, which used to be the capital of Italy, and is now one of the world's great centers of automobile engineering. Milan is a fashion capital of the World. Venice, with its intricate canal system, attracts tourists from all over the world especially during the Venetian Carnival and the Biennale.\nItaly is home to the greatest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites (51) to date, and according to one estimate the country is home to half the world's great art treasures. The nation has, overall, an estimated 100,000 monuments of any sort (churches, cathedrals, archaeological sites, houses and statues).\n\nItaly is considered the birthplace of Western civilization and a cultural superpower. In 2017, Italy had the eleventh largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\n\"Cool Japan\" is a concept coined in 2002 as an expression of Japan’s popular culture. The concept has been adopted by the Japanese government as well as trade bodies seeking to exploit the commercial capital of the country’s culture industry. It has been described as a form of soft power, \"the ability to indirectly influence behavior or interests through cultural or ideological means.\"\nIn a 2002 article in the journal \"Foreign Policy\" titled “Japan’s Gross National Cool”, Douglas McGray wrote of Japan “reinventing superpower” as its cultural influence expanded internationally despite the economic and political problems of the “lost decade.” Surveying youth culture and the role of J-pop, manga, anime, fashion, film, consumer electronics, architecture, and cuisine, McGray highlighted Japan’s considerable soft power, posing the question of what message the country might project. He also argued that Japan’s recession may even have boosted its national cool, due to the partial discrediting of erstwhile rigid social hierarchies and big-business career paths. In 2017, Japan had the fifth largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nRussia has been developing its soft power by investing in various public diplomacy instruments throughout the 2000s but the term was first used in an official document in 2010 as President Medvedev approved an Addendum to the national Foreign Policy Concept. The term was not defined but it was described as related to cultural diplomacy. In 2013, the term appeared in a new version of the Foreign Policy Concept where the soft power was defined as \"a comprehensive toolkit for achieving foreign policy objectives building on civil society potential, information, cultural and other methods and technologies alternative to traditional diplomacy.\" In 2007, Russian President Vladimir Putin was named \"Time\" Person of the Year. In 2013, he was named most powerful person by Forbes magazine. In 2015, Russia led the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union. In 2017, Russia had the fourth largest diplomatic network in the world. In the wake of the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal in 2018, the BBC reported that \"Its extensive diplomatic network reflects both its imperial history as a great power in the 19th Century, as well as its Cold War posture. It has a multitude of posts in Eastern Europe and former communist allies including China, Vietnam, Cuba and Angola, as well as legacies of the former USSR in Africa and Asia. The size of its network reflects the extent of its undiminished global ambition.\"\n\n\"Hallyu\", also known as the \"Korean Wave\", is a neologism referring to the spread of South Korean culture since the late 1990s. According to a \"Washington Post\" reporter, the spread of South Korean entertainment has led to higher sales of other goods and services such as food, clothing, and Korean language classes. Besides increasing the amount of exports, the \"Korean Wave\" is used by the government as a soft power tool to engage with the masses of young people all over the world, and to try reduce anti-Korean sentiment.\n\nIn 2012, the BBC's country rating poll revealed that public opinion of South Korea has been improving every year since the first rating poll for the country was conducted in 2009. In several countries such as Russia, India, China and France, public opinion of South Korea turned from slightly negative to generally positive. The report cited culture and tradition as among the most important factors contributing to positive perceptions of South Korea. This comes alongside a rapid growth in the total value of cultural exports which rose to US$4.2 billion in 2011.\n\nFirst driven by the spread of Korean dramas televised across East, South and Southeast Asia during its initial stages, the \"Korean Wave\" evolved from a regional development into a global phenomenon due to the proliferation of Korean pop (K-pop) music videos on YouTube. Currently, the spread of the \"Korean Wave\" to other regions of the world is most visibly seen among teenagers and young adults in Latin America, the Middle East, North Africa, and immigrant enclaves of the Western world.\n\nSince the period of \"Pax Britannica\" the United Kingdom has held significant soft power. Today it remains one of the most influential countries in the world, coming first in the 2015 Portland Group, Comres, Facebook report, and the \"Monocle\" survey of global soft power in 2012.\n\nThe UK has strong diplomatic relations with countries around the world, particularly countries in the Commonwealth of Nations and many others in Europe, Asia, the Middle-east, Africa and the United States. Diplomatic missions between Commonwealth countries are known as High Commissions rather than Embassies to indicate the closeness of the relationship. The UK exerts influence on countries within the European Union, and has the seventh largest global network of diplomatic missions as of 2017. Many countries around the world use the British form of democracy and government known as the Westminster system.\n\nThe influence of British culture and sports are widespread, particularly notable during the British Invasion, Cool Britannia, and more recently the Diamond Jubilee and 2012 Summer Olympics. The opening and closing ceremonies celebrated British culture and achievements with the world. London was the first city to host the modern Olympics three times. British media is broadcast internationally, notably the \"BBC World Service\", \"BBC World News\" and \"The Economist\" magazine. British film and literature have international appeal, and British theatre helps make London one of the most visited cities in the world. Schools and universities in Britain are popular destinations for students of other nations.\n\nAlongside the English language, English contract law is the most important and most used contract law in international business. London is the headquarters for four of the world's six largest law firms. The UK and more specifically London is a centre of international finance where foreign participants in financial markets come to deal with one another. It is headquarters for major international corporations, many of which choose to be listed on the London Stock Exchange.\n\nFollowing the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal in 2018, the UK responded with bilateral and multilateral diplomatic efforts that led to nations around the world expelling one hundred and fifty Russian diplomats, described by CNN as a \"remarkable diplomatic coup for Britain\". British prime minister Theresa May stated in parliament that the coordinated global response was the \"largest collective expulsion of Russian intelligence officers in history.\" Subsequently, Russia attempted to attribute some of the influence to the United States, this was denied by the various states as well as the entirety of the European Union.\n\nThe United States has long had a great deal of soft power. Examples include Franklin D. Roosevelt's four freedoms in Europe at the end of World War II, young people behind the Iron Curtain listening to the government's foreign propaganda arm Radio Free Europe, Chinese students symbolizing their protests in Tiananmen Square by creating a replica of the Statue of Liberty that they called \"Goddess of Democracy\", newly liberated Afghans in 2001 asking for a copy of the Bill of Rights and young Iranians today surreptitiously watching banned American videos and satellite television broadcasts in the privacy of their homes. America's early commitment to religious toleration, for example, was a powerful element of its overall appeal to potential immigrants; and American aid in the reconstruction of Europe after World War II was a propaganda victory to show off the prosperity and the generosity of the people of the United States.\n\nStudies of American broadcasting into the Soviet bloc, and testimonials from Czech President Václav Havel, Polish President Lech Wałęsa, and Russian President Boris Yeltsin support that soft power efforts of the United States and its allies during the Cold War were ultimately successful in creating the favorable conditions that led to the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43150808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43150808", "title": "Spy Booth", "text": "Spy Booth\n\nSpy Booth was an artwork by Banksy in Cheltenham, England. The piece has been seen as a critique of the global surveillance disclosures of 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Robin Barton and Bankrobber London helped with the preservation of the artwork, and attempted to broker the removal and sale of the piece. However the artwork was painted onto a Grade II listed building - 153-159 Fairview Road - and the council prevented it from being removed, giving it retrospective listed building consent in 2015 and affording it some protection from removal. Despite this, the artwork was either removed or destroyed in August 2016.\n\nThe GCHQ has used the picture on its website as a symbolic image for its \"what we do\" page.\n"}
{"id": "17652930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17652930", "title": "Stand Up to Cancer", "text": "Stand Up to Cancer\n\nStand Up To Cancer (SU2C) is a charitable program of the Entertainment Industry Foundation (EIF). SU2C aims to raise significant funds for translational cancer research through online and televised efforts. Central to the program is a telethon that was first televised by four major broadcast networks (ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX) in over 170 countries on September 5, 2008. SU2C raised over $100 million after that evening's broadcast. Funds collected by Stand Up To Cancer are then distributed by the American Association for Cancer Research.\n\nStand Up To Cancer was conceived of in autumn 2007, by a group of women who had been affected by cancer and believe that by merging the recourse of the media and entertainment industries into a single operation they would be able to fight against this disease in a more profound way.\n\nStand Up To Cancer was formally launched on May 27, 2008. Current members of the SU2C Council of Founders and Advisors (CFA) include Katie Couric, Sherry Lansing, Kathleen Lobb, Lisa Paulsen, Rusty Robertson, Sue Schwartz, Pamela Oas Williams, and Ellen Ziffren. All current members of the CFA were co-producers of the 2012 televised special. The late co-founder Laura Ziskin executive produced both the September 5, 2008 and September 10, 2010 broadcasts. Sung Poblete, Ph.D., R.N., has served as SU2C’s president and CEO since 2011. In the United Kingdom, Channel 4, along with Cancer Research UK, launched its own version of \"Stand Up To Cancer\" in October 2012, which has continued every year since.\n\nStand Up To Cancer aims to raise awareness and bring about an understanding that everyone is connected by cancer. The statistic used most often by SU2C is from the American Cancer Society: one out of every two men and one out of every three women will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime, meaning everyone is affected in some way, or will be.\n\nThe campaign has featured televised moments during World Series baseball games where fans literally \"stand up to cancer\" by rising and holding signs inscribed with the names of friends and loved ones who have struggled with the disease. \nSU2C has donated hundreds of millions of dollars since the first \"Dream Team\" was organized in 2009. The \"Dream Teams\" funded by SU2C brings researchers together from institutions and universities across the world and have been among the most productive collaborations in getting new drugs to market and many teams are funded jointly with other cancer research organizations. The research is required to be translational and include laboratory and clinical members and cannot involve more than one principal investigator from each institution. Many of these dream teams are co-sponsored by other cancer-related foundations. \n\n\nResearch led by these teams has contributed to the development of two FDA-approved treatments; palbociclib (Breast Cancer Dream Team), and abraxane plus gemcitabine (Pancreatic Cancer Dream Team). \n\nSix telethons have been broadcast in the United States and are made available to more than 190 countries. To date, more than $603 million has been pledged to support SU2C’s innovative cancer research programs. \n\nThe first Stand Up To Cancer event was held on September 5, 2008, raising over $100 million. The second was held on 10 September 2010. The third was held on 7 September 2012, and the fourth was held on 5 September 2014, presented by Gwyneth Paltrow and Katie Couric from Los Angeles. The fifth was held on 9 September 2016. The averaged combined ratings for the 2014 telethon were 1.8 from 2.1 in 2012. The sixth was broadcast on 7 September 2018.\n\nIn Canada, the 2014 telethon aired September 5, 2014 in simultaneous substitution (in many areas) with the American telethon, simultaneously on English language networks CBC Television, City, CTV and Global, as well as CHCH-DT in Hamilton, Ontario, CHEK-DT Victoria, British Columbia, and specialty channels TLN, Fight Network, Gusto TV, AMI-TV and the Hollywood Suite channels. The Canadian broadcast of the telethon benefits EIF Canada, the Canadian arm of the Entertainment Industry Foundation, with all donations benefiting cancer research in Canada.\n\nOn 19 October 2012, the Channel 4 network in the United Kingdom aired their first telethon for Stand Up To Cancer hosted by Davina McCall and Alan Carr along with Dr. Christian Jessen. A second telethon was broadcast on 17 October 2014, again hosted by McCall and Carr along with Dr. Jessen. Subsequent UK telethons, again on Channel 4, followed in 2016 and 2018.\n\nStand Up To Cancer's fundraising activities in the UK include the London 3 Peaks Challenge, which involves participants running up the stairs of Heron Tower, 30 St Mary Axe and 200 Aldersgate before abseiling down the outside of 200 Aldersgate.\n\n"}
{"id": "48702480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48702480", "title": "Technoscape", "text": "Technoscape\n\nTechnoscape is a term coined by Arjun Appadurai in order to describe one of the five dimensions of global cultural flows. The five dimensions consist of ethnoscapes, mediascapes, technoscapes, financescapes, and ideoscapes. The suffix -scape denotes that these terms are perspectival constructs inflected by the historical, linguistic, and political situatedness of different kinds of actors: \"nation-states, multinationals, diasporic communities, as well as subnational groupings and movements\". This can either be religious, political, or economic. In a more specific scope, Technoscape is the movement of technology (mechanical and informational) and the ability to move such technology at rapid speeds. This is due to the physical boundaries technology is able to maneuver around.\n"}
{"id": "46883959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46883959", "title": "Too connected to fail", "text": "Too connected to fail\n\nThe \"too connected to fail\" (TCTF) concept refers to a financial institution which is so connected to other institutions that its failure would probably lead to a huge turnover in the whole system. Contrary to the \"too big to fail\" theory, this approach takes into consideration the highly connected network feature of the financial system rather than the absolute size of one particular institution.\n\nThe 2007/2008 financial crisis highlighted that a small turmoil can cause a big fallback in the financial system – mainly because financial institutions form a highly interconnected network. From a network science point of view this means that some nodes (institutions) have very high degree, i.e. they are linked to many other nodes. As a consequence, they play a central role in the system, which can be highly important in the case of disturbances. Recognition of this effect led to the revival of macroprudential regulation.\n\nDetermining which institute is TCTF is not as straightforward as in the case of the \"too big to fail\" theory. In this case one doesn't have easily measurable metrics like assets’ value or the volume of financial services. However, there are some approaches trying to establish a clear method in order to identify the key institutions in the network.\n\nNacaskul posits that a financial institution is systemically important if it is highly connected (e.g. via interbank lending market/money market channel) to systemically important banks. Those, in turn, are systemically important if they are highly connnected to systemically important banks, and so on. The recursive definition is equivalent to performing eigendecomposition of a matrix of connectivity weights and assigning systemic importance in proportion to the values of the principal eigenvector. The \"entropic\" factor correction is introduced therein to correct for the possibility that performing eigendecomposition on weighted connectivity matrices may occasionally yield \"degenerate\" systemic importance scores (all financial institutions identical in terms of systemic importance). Nacaskul & Sabborriboon then extends the Systemic Importance Analysis (SIA) above, which focuses on systemic leverage each individual financial institution exerts on the overall system, to Systemic Vulnerability Analysis (SVA), whereby the overall system is assessed as to how vulnerable it is to disproportionate systemic leverages exerted by individual financial institutions, and applied the methodology to Thai interbank money-market funding matrix.\n\nIf one defines the links connecting the different nodes in the network, then the TCTF feature of a certain node can be examined using network science methodology. The most simple way of thinking about the role of an institution is the number of connections it has, which is called the degree of the node. Depending on the type of the network one can define in and out-degree. Knowing the key players one can test the risk involved in the network by simulating targeted attacks (shocks).\n\nOne example for this method is the paper of León et al., which analyzed the systemic risk within Colombia’s financial market. They defined an institution's in-degree as its share in total traded value, and the out-degree as its share of total number of connections based on transactions in the paying system. Using these metrics they constructed an index of centrality that let them identify the key institutions in the system, and made it possible to test the network's resistance to shocks.\n\nAnother way to measure the TCTF feature of an institution is based on the concept of feedback centrality. One example for this is the DebtRank introduced in the paper of Battiston et al. The authors defined financial institutions as nodes and directed edges as lending relations weighted by the amount of outstanding debt. Then, they computed the DebtRank for every node, which measures that in the case of the distress of the particular node what fraction of the total economic value is potentially affected. By doing this they identified the key financial institutions in the US between 2008 and 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6629974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6629974", "title": "WHO Collaborating Centres", "text": "WHO Collaborating Centres\n\nWorld Health Organization Collaborating Centres are institutions such as research institutes, parts of universities or academies from \"over 700 institutions in 80 countries\" that work with WHO in disciplines such as occupational health, food safety, and communicable disease prevention. The participating institutions partner with WHO to perform research, provide training, or offer other services in furthering the WHO health agenda. These partners are designated by the WHO director-general as a part of a collaborative network. By using networks of established organizations, WHO is able to strengthen the scientific validity of its work and lower the costs of research.\n\nThe World Health Organization has established networks related to a variety of health topics. For example, WHO has put in place centres focused on organ transplants, hearing loss prevention, hepatitis, leprosy, ethics, and maternal health. To move the work forward, WHO has numerous designated centres in each inhabited continent. The network of centres for reference and research on influenza draws upon resources from Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia. The network of WHO collaborating centres in occupational health is chaired by Dr. John Howard, director of the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, and contains more than 60 designated organizations from across the globe.\n"}
{"id": "24353287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24353287", "title": "WHO collaborating centres in occupational health", "text": "WHO collaborating centres in occupational health\n\nThe WHO collaborating centres in occupational health constitute a network of institutions put in place by the World Health Organization to extend availability of occupational health coverage in both developed and undeveloped countries. The effort includes 64 collaborating centres that have been designated as such by the WHO director-general. The centres in the network meet triennially to develop work plans for advancing occupational health in key areas. The 2009-2012 work plan includes 220 projects, which relate to 5 objectives and 14 priorities as outlined by a global plan of action for workers' health. \n\nAs director of the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, John Howard is the chairman of the WHO Global Network of Collaborating Centres in Occupational Health. Within the network, activity area managers plan day-to-day activities within projects adopted by the network. Deputy managers monitor activities and evaluate progress of the involved centres.\n\nThe global plan of action sets forth five major objectives:\nUsing these key goals, the activity area managers have set priorities for specific areas of occupational health.\n\nCentres in the network are designated by the WHO director-general. Seven organizations constitute the network's advisory committee:\n\nOther participants working with the centres include the International Labour Organization (ILO), the International Commission on Occupational Health (ICOH), the International Occupational Hygiene Association (IOHA), and the International Ergonomics Association (IEA).\n\nThe collaborating centres have participated in a number of conferences, provided research on occupational safety and health topics, and engaged in varied campaigns and activities such as an inititiative promoting global road safety for workers.\n"}
{"id": "1582335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582335", "title": "World-systems theory", "text": "World-systems theory\n\nWorld-systems theory (also known as world-systems analysis or the world-systems perspective) is a multidisciplinary, macro-scale approach to world history and social change which emphasizes the world-system (and not nation states) as the primary (but not exclusive) unit of social analysis.\n\n\"World-system\" refers to the inter-regional and transnational division of labor, which divides the world into core countries, semi-periphery countries, and the periphery countries. Core countries focus on higher skill, capital-intensive production, and the rest of the world focuses on low-skill, labor-intensive production and extraction of raw materials. This constantly reinforces the dominance of the core countries. Nonetheless, the system has dynamic characteristics, in part as a result of revolutions in transport technology, and individual states can gain or lose their core (semi-periphery, periphery) status over time. This structure is unified by the division of labour. It is a world-economy rooted in a capitalist economy. For a time, certain countries become the world hegemon; during the last few centuries, as the world-system has extended geographically and intensified economically, this status has passed from the Netherlands, to the United Kingdom and (most recently) to the United States.\n\nImmanuel Wallerstein has developed the best-known version of world-systems analysis, beginning in the 1970s. Wallerstein traces the rise of the capitalist world-economy from the \"long\" 16th century (c. 1450–1640). The rise of capitalism, in his view, was an accidental outcome of the protracted crisis of feudalism (c. 1290–1450). Europe (the West) used its advantages and gained control over most of the world economy and presided over the development and spread of industrialization and capitalist economy, indirectly resulting in unequal development.\n\nThough other commentators refer to Wallerstein's project as world-systems \"theory\", he consistently rejects that term. For Wallerstein, world-systems analysis is a mode of analysis that aims to transcend the structures of knowledge inherited from the 19th century, especially the definition of capitalism, the divisions within the social sciences, and those between the social sciences and history. For Wallerstein, then, world-systems analysis is a \"knowledge movement\" that seeks to discern the \"totality of what has been paraded under the labels of the... human sciences and indeed well beyond\". \"We must invent a new language,\" Wallerstein insists, to transcend the illusions of the \"three supposedly distinctive arenas\" of society, economy and politics. The trinitarian structure of knowledge is grounded in another, even grander, modernist architecture, the distinction of biophysical worlds (including those within bodies) from social ones: \"One question, therefore, is whether we will be able to justify something called social science in the twenty-first century as a separate sphere of knowledge.\" Many other scholars have contributed significant work in this \"knowledge movement\".\n\nWorld-systems theory traces emerged in the 1970s. Its roots can be found in sociology, but it has developed into a highly interdisciplinary field.\nWorld-systems theory was aiming to replace modernization theory, which Wallerstein criticised for three reasons:\n\nThere are three major predecessors of world-systems theory: the Annales school, the Marxist tradition, and the dependence theory. The Annales School tradition (represented most notably by Fernand Braudel) influenced Wallerstein to focusing on long-term processes and geo-ecological regions as unit of analysis. Marxism added a stress on social conflict, a focus on the capital accumulation process and competitive class struggles, a focus on a relevant totality, the transitory nature of social forms and a dialectical sense of motion through conflict and contradiction.\n\nWorld-systems theory was also significantly influenced by dependency theory, a neo-Marxist explanation of development processes.\n\nOther influences on the world-systems theory come from scholars such as Karl Polanyi, Nikolai Kondratiev and Joseph Schumpeter (particularly their research on business cycles and the concepts of three basic modes of economic organization: reciprocal, redistributive, and market modes, which Wallerstein reframed into a discussion of mini systems, world empires, and world economies).\n\nWallerstein sees the development of the capitalist world economy as detrimental to a large proportion of the world's population. Wallerstein views the period since the 1970s as an \"age of transition\" that will give way to a future world system (or world systems) whose configuration cannot be determined in advance.\n\nWorld-systems thinkers include Samir Amin, Giovanni Arrighi, Andre Gunder Frank, and Immanuel Wallerstein, with major contributions by Christopher Chase-Dunn, Beverly Silver, Volker Bornschier, Janet Abu Lughod, Thomas D. Hall, Kunibert Raffer, Theotonio dos Santos, Dale Tomich, Jason W. Moore and others. In sociology, a primary alternative perspective is World Polity Theory, as formulated by John W. Meyer.\n\nWorld-systems analysis builds upon but also differs fundamentally from dependency theory. While accepting world inequality, the world market and imperialism as fundamental features of historical capitalism, Wallerstein broke with orthodox dependency theory's central proposition. For Wallerstein, core countries do not exploit poor countries for two basic reasons.\n\nFirstly, core capitalists exploit workers in all zones of the capitalist world economy (not just the periphery) and therefore, the crucial redistribution between core and periphery is surplus value, not \"wealth\" or \"resources\" abstractly conceived. Secondly, core states do not exploit poor states, as dependency theory proposes, because capitalism is organised around an inter-regional and transnational division of labor rather than an international division of labour.\n\nDuring the Industrial Revolution, for example, English capitalists exploited slaves (unfree workers) in the cotton zones of the American South, a peripheral region within a semiperipheral country, United States.\n\nFrom a largely Weberian perspective, Fernando Henrique Cardoso described the main tenets of dependency theory as follows:\n\n\nDependency and world system theory propose that the poverty and backwardness of poor countries are caused by their peripheral position in the international division of labor. Since the capitalist world system evolved, the distinction between the central and the peripheral nations has grown and diverged. In recognizing a tripartite pattern in division of labor, world-systems analysis criticized dependency theory with its bimodal system of only cores and peripheries.\n\nThe best-known version of the world-systems approach was developed by Immanuel Wallerstein. Wallerstein notes that world-systems analysis calls for an unidisciplinary historical social science and contends that the modern disciplines, products of the 19th century, are deeply flawed because they are not separate logics, as is manifest for example in the \"de facto\" overlap of analysis among scholars of the disciplines. Wallerstein offers several definitions of a world-system, defining it in 1974 briefly:\n\nHe also offered a longer definition:\n\nIn 1987, Wallerstein again defined it:\n\nWallerstein characterises the world system as a set of mechanisms, which redistributes surplus value from the \"periphery\" to the \"core\". In his terminology, the \"core\" is the developed, industrialized part of the world, and the \"periphery\" is the \"underdeveloped\", typically raw materials-exporting, poor part of the world; the \"market\" being the means by which the \"core\" exploits the \"periphery\".\n\nApart from them, Wallerstein defines four temporal features of the world system. \"Cyclical rhythms\" represent the short-term fluctuation of economy, and \"secular trends\" mean deeper long run tendencies, such as general economic growth or decline. The term \"contradiction\" means a general controversy in the system, usually concerning some short term versus long term tradeoffs. For example, the problem of underconsumption, wherein the driving down of wages increases the profit for capitalists in the short term, but in the long term, the decreasing of wages may have a crucially harmful effect by reducing the demand for the product. The last temporal feature is the \"crisis\": a crisis occurs if a constellation of circumstances brings about the end of the system.\n\nIn Wallerstein's view, there have been three kinds of historical systems across human history: \"mini-systems\" or what anthropologists call bands, tribes, and small chiefdoms, and two types of world systems, one that is politically unified and the other is not (single state world empires and multi-polity world economies). World systems are larger, and are ethnically diverse. Modernity is unique in being the first and only fully capitalist world economy to have emerged around 1450 to 1550 and to have geographically expanded across the entire planet, by about 1900. Not being political unified, many political units are included within the world system loosely tied together in an interstate system. Efficient division of labor is the unifying element of the different units, and it is also a function of capitalism, a system based on competition between free producers using free labor with free commodities, 'free' meaning available for sale and purchase on a market. More specifically, it can be described as focusing on endless accumulation of capital; in other words, accumulation of capital in order to accumulate more capital. Such capitalism has a mutually dependent relationship with the world economy since it provides the efficient division of labour, the unifying element of the world economy, through the process of accumulating wealth. Likewise, such capitalism is dependent on the world economy since the latter provides a large market and a multiplicity of states, enabling capitalists to choose to work with states helping their interests.\n\nWorld-systems theory asks several key questions:\n\n\nSome questions are more specific to certain subfields; for example, Marxists would concern themselves whether world-systems theory is a useful or unhelpful development of Marxist theories.\n\nWorld-systems analysis argues that capitalism, as a historical system, has always integrated a variety of labor forms within a functioning division of labor (world economy). Countries do not have economies but are part of the world economy. Far from being separate societies or worlds, the world economy manifests a tripartite division of labor, with core, semiperipheral and peripheral zones. In the core zones, businesses, with the support of states they operate within, monopolise the most profitable activities of the division of labor.\n\nThere are many ways to attribute a specific country to the core, semi-periphery, or periphery. Using an empirically based sharp formal definition of \"domination\" in a two-country relationship, Piana in 2004 defined the \"core\" as made up of \"free countries\" dominating others without being dominated, the \"semi-periphery\" as the countries that are dominated (usually, but not necessarily, by core countries) but at the same time dominating others (usually in the periphery) and \"periphery\" as the countries dominated. Based on 1998 data, the full list of countries in the three regions, together with a discussion of methodology, can be found.\n\nThe late 18th and early 19th centuries marked a great turning point in the development of capitalism in that capitalists achieved state society power in the key states, which furthered the industrial revolution marking the rise of capitalism. World-systems analysis contends that capitalism as a historical system formed earlier and that countries do not \"develop\" in stages, but the system does, and events have a different meaning as a phase in the development of historical capitalism, the emergence of the three ideologies of the national developmental mythology (the idea that countries can develop through stages if they pursue the right set of policies): conservatism, liberalism, and radicalism.\n\nProponents of world-systems analysis see the world stratification system the same way Karl Marx viewed class (ownership versus nonownership of the means of production) and Max Weber viewed class (which, in addition to ownership, stressed occupational skill level in the production process). The core nations primarily own and control the major means of production in the world and perform the higher-level production tasks. The periphery nations own very little of the world's means of production (even when they are located in periphery nations) and provide less-skilled labour. Like a class system with a nation, class positions in the world economy result in an unequal distribution of rewards or resources. The core nations receive the greatest share of surplus production, and periphery nations receive the smallest share. Furthermore, core nations are usually able to purchase raw materials and other goods from non-core nations at low prices and demand higher prices for their exports to non-core nations. Chirot (1986) lists the five most important benefits coming to core nations from their domination of periphery nations:\n\n\nAccording to Wallerstein, the unique qualities of the modern world system include its capitalistic nature, its truly global nature, and the fact that it is a world economy that has not become politically unified into a world empire.\n\n\nThroughout the history of the modern world system, there has been a group of core nations competing with one another for access to the world's resources, economic dominance and hegemony over periphery nations. Occasionally, there has been one core nation with clear dominance over others. According to Immanuel Wallerstein, a core nation is dominant over all the others when it has a lead in three forms of economic dominance over a period of time:\n\n\nMilitary dominance is also likely after a nation reaches these three rankings. However, it has been posited that throughout the modern world system, no nation has been able to use its military to gain economic dominance. Each of the past dominant nations became dominant with fairly small levels of military spending and began to lose economic dominance with military expansion later on. Historically, cores were found in Northwestern Europe (England, France, Netherlands) but were later in other parts of the world (such as the United States, Canada, and Australia).\n\n\nHistorically, peripheries were found outside Europe, such as in Latin America and today in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nSemi-peripheral nations are those that are midway between the core and periphery. Thus, they have to keep themselves from falling into the category of peripheral nations and at the same time, they strive to join the category of core nations. Therefore, they tend to apply protectionist policies most aggressively among the three categories of nations. They tend to be countries moving towards industrialization and more diversified economies. These regions often have relatively developed and diversified economies but are not dominant in international trade. They tend to export more to peripheral nations and import more from core nations in trade. According to some scholars, such as Chirot, they are not as subject to outside manipulation as peripheral societies; but according to others (Barfield), they have \"periperial-like\" relations to the core. While in the sphere of influence of some cores, semiperipheries also tend to exert their own control over some peripheries. Further, semi-peripheries act as buffers between cores and peripheries and thus \"...partially deflect the political pressures which groups primarily located in peripheral areas might otherwise direct against core-states\" and stabilise the world system.\n\nSemi-peripheries can come into existence from developing peripheries and declining cores. Historically, two examples of semiperipheral nations would be Spain and Portugal, which fell from their early core positions but still managed to retain influence in Latin America. Those countries imported silver and gold from their American colonies but then had to use it to pay for manufactured goods from core countries such as England and France. In the 20th century, nations like the \"settler colonies\" of Australia, Canada and New Zealand had a semiperipheral status. In the 21st century, nations like Brazil, Russia, India, Israel, China, South Korea and South Africa (BRICS) are usually considered semiperipheral.\n\nExternal areas are those that maintain socially necessary divisions of labor independent of the capitalist world economy.\n\nBefore the 16th century, Europe was dominated by feudal economies. European economies grew from mid-12th to 14th century but from 14th to mid 15th century, they suffered from a major crisis. Wallerstein explains this crisis as caused by the following:\n\nAs a response to the failure of the feudal system, Europe embraced the capitalist system. Europeans were motivated to develop technology to explore and trade around the world, using their superior military to take control of the trade routes. Europeans exploited their initial small advantages, which led to an accelerating process of accumulation of wealth and power in Europe.\n\nWallerstein notes that never before had an economic system encompassed that much of the world, with trade links crossing so many political boundaries. In the past, geographically large economic systems existed but were mostly limited to spheres of domination of large empires (such as the Roman Empire); development of capitalism enabled the world economy to extend beyond individual states. International division of labor was crucial in deciding what relationships exists between different regions, their labor conditions and political systems. For classification and comparison purposes, Wallerstein introduced the categories of core, semi-periphery, periphery, and external countries. Cores monopolized the capital-intensive production, and the rest of the world could provide only workforce and raw resources. The resulting inequality reinforced existing unequal development.\n\nAccording to Wallerstein there have only been three periods in which a core nation dominated in the modern world-system, with each lasting less than one hundred years. In the initial centuries of the rise of Europe, Northwestern Europe constituted the core, Mediterranean Europe the semiperiphery, and Eastern Europe and the Western hemisphere (and parts of Asia) the periphery. Around 1450, Spain and Portugal took the early lead when conditions became right for a capitalist world-economy. They led the way in establishing overseas colonies. However, Portugal and Spain lost their lead, primarily by becoming overextended with empire-building. It became too expensive to dominate and protect so many colonial territories around the world.\nThe first nation to gain clear dominance was the Netherlands in the 17th century, after its revolution led to a new financial system that many historians consider revolutionary. An impressive shipbuilding industry also contributed to their economic dominance through more exports to other countries. Eventually, other countries began to copy the financial methods and efficient production created by the Dutch. After the Dutch gained their dominant status, the standard of living rose, pushing up production costs.\n\nDutch bankers began to go outside of the country seeking profitable investments, and the flow of capital moved, especially to England. By the end of the 17th century, conflict among core nations increased as a result of the economic decline of the Dutch. Dutch financial investment helped England gain productivity and trade dominance, and Dutch military support helped England to defeat France, the other country competing for dominance at the time.\nIn the 19th century, Britain replaced the Netherlands as the hegemon. As a result of the new British dominance, the world system became relatively stable again during the 19th century. The British began to expand globally, with many colonies in the New World, Africa, and Asia. The colonial system began to place a strain on the British military and, along with other factors, led to an economic decline. Again there was a great deal of core conflict after the British lost their clear dominance. This time it was Germany, and later Italy and Japan that provided the new threat.\n\nIndustrialization was another ongoing process during British dominance, resulting in the diminishing importance of the agricultural sector. In the 18th century, Britain was Europe's leading industrial and agricultural producer; by 1900, only 10% of England's population was working in the agricultural sector.\n\nBy 1900, the modern world system appeared very different from that of a century earlier in that most of the periphery societies had already been colonised by one of the older core nations. In 1800, the old European core claimed 35% of the world's territory, but by 1914, it claimed 85% of the world's territory, with the Scramble for Africa closing out the imperial era. If a core nation wanted periphery areas to exploit as had done the Dutch and British, these periphery areas had to be taken from another core nation, which the US did by way of the Spanish–American War, and Germany, and then Japan and Italy, attempted to do in the leadup to World War II. The modern world system was thus geographically global, and even the most remote regions of the world had all been integrated into the global economy.\n\nAs countries vied for core status, so did the United States. The American Civil War led to more power for the Northern industrial elites, who were now better able to pressure the government for policies helping industrial expansion. Like the Dutch bankers, British bankers were putting more investment toward the United States. The US had a small military budget compared to other industrial nations at the time.\n\nThe US began to take the place of the British as a new dominant nation after World War I. With Japan and Europe in ruins after World War II, the US was able to dominate the modern world system more than any other country in history, while the USSR and to a lesser extent China were viewed as primary threats. At its height, US economic reach accounted for over half of the world's industrial production, owned two thirds of the gold reserves in the world and supplied one third of the world's exports.\n\nHowever, since the end of the Cold War, the future of US hegemony has been questioned by some scholars, as its hegemonic position has been in decline for a few decades. By the end of the 20th century, the core of the wealthy industrialized countries was composed of Western Europe, the United States, Japan and a rather limited selection of other countries. The semiperiphery was typically composed of independent states that had not achieved Western levels of influence, while poor former colonies of the West formed most of the periphery.\n\nWorld-systems theory has attracted criticisms from its rivals; notably for being too focused on economy and not enough on culture and for being too core-centric and state-centric. William I. Robinson has criticized world-systems theory for its nation-state centrism, state-structuralist approach, and its inability to conceptualize the rise of globalization. Robinson suggests that world-systems theory doesn't account for emerging transnational social forces and the relationships forged between them and global institutions serving their interests. These forces operate on a global, rather than state system and cannot be understood by Wallerstein's nation-centered approach.\n\nAccording to Wallerstein himself, critique of the world-systems approach comes from four directions: the positivists, the orthodox Marxists, the state autonomists, and the culturalists. The positivists criticise the approach as too prone to generalization, lacking quantitative data and failing to put forth a falsifiable proposition. Orthodox Marxists find the world-systems approach deviating too far from orthodox Marxist principles, such as by not giving enough weight to the concept of social class. The state autonomists criticize the theory for blurring the boundaries between state and businesses. Further, the positivists and the state autonomists argue that state should be the central unit of analysis. Finally, the culturalists argue that world-systems theory puts too much importance on the economy and not enough on the culture. In Wallerstein's own words:\n\nOne of the fundamental conceptual problems of the world-system theory is that the assumptions that define its actual conceptual units are social systems. The assumptions, which define them, need to be examined as well as how they are related to each other and how one changes into another. The essential argument of the world-system theory is that in the 16th century a capitalist world economy developed, which could be described as a world system. The following is a theoretical critique concerned with the basic claims of world-system theory:\n\"There are today no socialist systems in the world-economy any more than there are feudal systems because there is only one world system. It is a world-economy and it is by definition capitalist in form.\" (Wallerstein 1979)\n\nRobert Brenner has pointed out that the prioritization of the world market means the neglect of local class structures and class struggles:\n\"They fail to take into account either the way in which these class structures themselves emerge as the outcome of class struggles whose results are incomprehensible in terms merely of market forces.\" (Brenner 1982) Robert Brenner: Director of the Center for Social Theory and Comparative History at UCLA\n\nAnother criticism is that of reductionism made by Theda Skocpol: she believes the interstate system is far from being a simple superstructure of the capitalist world economy:\n\"The international states system as a transnational structure of military competition was not originally created by capitalism. Throughout modern world history, it represents an analytically autonomous level [... of] world capitalism, but [is] not reducible to it.\" (Skocpol 1979)\n\nA concept that we can perceive as critique and mostly as renewal is the concept of coloniality (Anibal Quijano, 2000, Nepantla, Coloniality of power, eurocentrism and Latin America ). Issued from the think tank of the group \"modernity/coloniality\" () in Latin America, it re-uses the concept of world working division and core/periphery system in its system of coloniality. But criticizing the \"core-centric\" origin of World-system and its only economical development, \"coloniality\" allows further conception of how power still processes in a colonial way over worldwide populations (Ramon Grosfogel, \"the epistemic decolonial turn\" 2007 ):\" by \"colonial situations\" I mean the cultural, political, sexual, spiritual, epistemic and economic oppression/exploitation of subordinate racialized/ethnic groups by dominant racialized/ethnic groups with or without the existence of colonial administration\". Coloniality covers, so far, several fields such as coloniality of gender (Maria Lugones), coloniality of \"being\" (Maldonado Torres), coloniality of knowledge (Walter Mignolo) and Coloniality of power (Anibal Quijano).\n\nNew developments in world systems research include studies on the cyclical processes. More specifically, it refers to the cycle of leading industries or products (ones that are new and have an important share of the overall world market for commodities), which is equal to dissolution of quasi-monopolies or other forms of partial monopolies achieved by core nations. Such forms of partial monopolies are achievable through ownership of leading industries or products, which require technological capabilities, patents, restrictions on imports and/or exports, government subsidies, etc. Such capabilities are most often found in core nations, which accumulate capital through achieving such quasi-monopolies with leading industries or products.\n\nAs capital is accumulated, employment and wage also increase, creating a sense of prosperity. This leads to increased production, and sometimes even overproduction, causing price competition to arise. To lower production costs, production processes of the leading industries or products are relocated to semi-peripheral nations. When competition increases and quasi-monopolies cease to exist, their owners, often core nations, move on to other new leading industries or products, and the cycle continues.\n\nOther new developments include the consequences of the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the roles of gender and the culture, studies of slavery and incorporation of new regions into the world system and the precapitalist world systems. Arguably, the greatest source of renewal in world-systems analysis since 2000 has been the synthesis of world-system and environmental approaches. Key figures in the \"greening\" of world-systems analysis include Minqi Li, Jason W. Moore, Andreas Malm, Stephen Bunker, Alf Hornborg, and Richard York.\n\nWallerstein traces the origin of today's world-system to the \"long 16th century\" (a period that began with the discovery of the Americas by Western European sailors and ended with the English Revolution of 1640). And, according to Wallerstein, globalization, or the becoming of the world's system, is a process coterminous with the spread and development of capitalism over the past 500 years.\n\nJanet Abu Lughod argues that a pre-modern world system extensive across Eurasia existed in the 13th century prior to the formation of the modern world-system identified by Wallerstein. Janet Abu Lughod contends that the Mongol Empire played an important role in stitching together the Chinese, Indian, Muslim and European regions in the 13th century, before the rise of the modern world system. In debates, Wallerstein contends that Lughod's system was not a \"world-system\" because it did not entail integrated production networks, but it was instead a vast trading network.\n\nAndre Gunder Frank goes further and claims that a global world system that includes Asia, Europe and Africa has existed since the 4th millennium BCE. The centre of this system was in Asia, specifically China. Andrey Korotayev goes even further than Frank and dates the beginning of the world system formation to the 10th millennium BCE and connects it with the start of the Neolithic Revolution in the Middle East. According to him, the centre of this system was originally in Western Asia.\n\nWallerstein's theories are widely recognized throughout the world. In the United States, one of the hubs of world-systems research is at the Fernand Braudel Center for the Study of Economies, Historical Systems and Civilizations, at Binghamton University. Among the most important related periodicals are the \"Journal of World-Systems Research\", published by the American Sociological Association's Section on the Political Economy of the World System (PEWS), and the \"Review\", published the Braudel Center. \n\nEdythe E. Weeks asserts the proposition that it may be possible to consider, and apply critical insights, to prevent future patterns from emerging in ways to repeat outcomes harmful to humanity. (See \"Outer Space Development, Space Law and International Relations: A Method for Elucidating Seeds\" (Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2012)). Her current research, as a Fulbright Specialist, further suggests that new territories such as the Antarctic Peninsula, Antarctica, the Arctic and various regions of outer space, including low Earth orbit, the geostationary orbit, Near Earth orbit are currently in the process of colonization. By applying lessons learned from our past, we can change the future towards a direction less likely to be widely criticized.\n\nMuhammed Asadi suggests that the modern World System is highly militarized and a counterpart of the US permanent war economy where a global division of labor based on military Keynesian stabilization exists concomitant with economic accumulation. He calls these countries, militarized states, whose superior economic growth stabilizes the World System run by the command states (counterpart to Wallerstein's Core but includes military and political domination in addition to financial and trade domination) just like military spending in the US stabilizes the US economy. Militarization and wars are therefore encouraged by the Command States and facilitated by them. Militarized States have a life cycle in which destruction is almost inevitable and since their economic growth stabilizes the dominant economies it seldom translates into personal economic development \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26512994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26512994", "title": "World Trade Report", "text": "World Trade Report\n\nThe World Trade Report (WTR) is the annual report published since 2003 by the World Trade Organization. Each WTR provides an in-depth analysis of an aspect of trends in international trade, trade policy issues and the multilateral trading system.\n\nThe 2016 World Trade Report examines the participation of Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in international trade, how the international trade landscape is changing for SMEs, and what the multilateral trading system does and can do to encourage more widespread and inclusive SME participation in global markets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9058630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9058630", "title": "World energy consumption", "text": "World energy consumption\n\nWorld energy consumption is the total energy used by the entire human civilization. Typically measured per year, it involves all energy harnessed from every energy source applied towards humanity's endeavours across every single industrial and technological sector, across every country. It does not include energy from food, and the extent to which direct biomass burning has been accounted for is poorly documented. Being the power source metric of civilization, World Energy Consumption has deep implications for humanity's socio-economic-political sphere.\n\nInstitutions such as the International Energy Agency (IEA), the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), and the European Environment Agency (EEA) record and publish energy data periodically. Improved data and understanding of World Energy Consumption may reveal systemic trends and patterns, which could help frame current energy issues and encourage movement towards collectively useful solutions.\n\nClosely related to energy consumption is the concept of total primary energy supply (TPES), which - on a global level - is the sum of energy production minus storage changes. Since changes of energy storage over the year are minor, TPES values can be used as an estimator for energy consumption. However, TPES ignores conversion efficiency, overstating forms of energy with poor conversion efficiency (e.g. coal, gas and nuclear) and understating forms already accounted for in converted forms (e.g. photovoltaic or hydroelectricity). The IEA estimates that, in 2013, total primary energy supply (TPES) was 1.575 × 10 Wh (= 157.5 PWh, 157,500 TWh, 5.67 × 10 joules, or 13,541 Mtoe) or about 18 TW-year. From 2000–2012 coal was the source of energy with the largest growth. The use of oil and natural gas also had considerable growth, followed by hydropower and renewable energy. Renewable energy grew at a rate faster than any other time in history during this period. The demand for nuclear energy decreased, in part due to nuclear disasters (e.g. Three Mile Island 1979, Chernobyl 1986, and Fukushima 2011).\n\nIn 2011, expenditures on energy totalled over 6 trillion USD, or about 10% of the world gross domestic product (GDP). Europe spends close to one-quarter of the world's energy expenditures, North America close to 20%, and Japan 6%.\nWorld total primary energy supply (TPES), or \"primary energy\" differs from the world final energy consumption because much of the energy that is acquired by humans is lost as other forms of energy during the process of its refinement into usable forms of energy and its transport from its initial place of supply to consumers. For instance, when oil is extracted from the ground it must be refined into gasoline, so that it can be used in a car, and transported over long distances to gas stations where it can be used by consumers. World final energy consumption refers to the fraction of the world's primary energy that is used in its final form by humanity.\n\nAlso, one needs to bear in mind that there are different qualities of energy. Heat, especially at a relatively low temperature, is low-quality energy, whereas electricity is high-quality energy. It takes around 3 kWh of heat to produce 1 kWh of electricity. But by the same token, a kilowatt-hour of this high-quality electricity can be used to pump several kilowatt-hours of heat into a building using a heat pump. And electricity can be used in many ways in which heat cannot. So the \"loss\" of energy incurred when generating electricity is not the same as a loss due, say, to resistance in power lines\n\nIn 2014, world primary energy supply amounted to 155,481 terawatt-hour (TWh) or 13,541 Mtoe, while the world final energy consumption was 109,613 TWh or about 29.5% less than the total supply. World final energy consumption includes products as lubricants, asphalt and petrochemicals which have chemical energy content but are not used as fuel. This non-energy use amounted to \n9,723 TWh (836 Mtoe) in 2015.\n\nThe United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) regularly publishes a report on world consumption for most types of primary energy resources. For 2013, estimated world energy consumption was 5.67 × 10 joules, or 157,481 TWh. According to the IEA the total world energy consumption in past years was 143,851 TWh in 2008, 133,602 TWh in 2005, 117,687 TWh in 2000, and 102,569 TWh in 1990. In 2012 approximately 22% of world energy was consumed in North America, 5% was consumed South and Central America, 23% was consumed in Europe and Eurasia, 3% was consumed in Africa, and 40% was consumed in the Asia Pacific region.\n\nThe total amount of electricity consumed worldwide was 19,504 TWh in 2013, 16,503 TWh in 2008, 15,105 TWh in 2005, and 12,116 TWh in 2000. \nBy the end of 2014, the total installed electricity generating capacity worldwide was nearly 6.142 TW (million MW) which only includes generation connected to local electricity grids. \nIn addition there is an unknown amount of heat and electricity consumed off-grid by isolated villages and industries. \nIn 2014, the share of world energy consumption for electricity generation by source was coal at 40.8%, natural gas at 21.6%, nuclear at 10.6%, hydro at 16.4%, other sources (solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, etc.) at 6.3% and oil at 4.3%. \nCoal and natural gas were the most used energy fuels for generating electricity. \nThe world's electricity consumption was 18,608 TWh in 2012. \nThis figure is about 18% smaller than the generated electricity, due to grid losses, storage losses, and self-consumption from power plants (gross generation). \nCogeneration (CHP) power stations use some of the heat that is otherwise wasted for use in buildings or in industrial processes.\n\nIn 2016 while total world energy came from 80% fossil fuels, 10% biofuels, 5% nuclear and 5% renewable (hydro, wind, solar, geothermal), only 18% of that total world energy was in the form of electricity. Most of the other 82% was used for heat and transportation.\n\nRecently there has been a large increase in international agreements and national Energy Action Plans, such as the EU 2009 Renewable Energy Directive, to increase the use of renewable energy due to the growing concerns about pollution from energy sources that come from fossil fuels such as oil, coal, and natural gas. One such initiative was the United Nations Development Programme's World Energy Assessment in 2000 that highlighted many challenges humanity would have to overcome in order to shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. From 2000–2012 renewable energy grew at a rate higher than any other point in history, with a consumption increase of 176.5 million tonnes of oil. During this period, oil, coal, and natural gas continued to grow and had increases that were much higher than the increase in renewable energy. The following figures illustrate the growth in consumption of fossil fuels such as oil, coal, and natural gas as well as renewable sources of energy during this period.\n\nThe energy consumption growth in the G20 slowed down to 2% in 2011, after the strong increase of 2010. The economic crisis is largely responsible for this slow growth. For several years now, the world energy demand is characterized by the bullish Chinese and Indian markets, while developed countries struggle with stagnant economies, high oil prices, resulting in stable or decreasing energy consumption.\n\nAccording to IEA data from 1990 to 2008, the average energy use per person increased 10% while world population increased 27%. Regional energy use also grew from 1990 to 2008: the Middle East increased by 170%, China by 146%, India by 91%, Africa by 70%, Latin America by 66%, the USA by 20%, the EU-27 block by 7%, and world overall grew by 39%.\n\nIn 2008, total worldwide primary energy consumption was 132,000 terawatt-hours (TWh) or 474 exajoules (EJ). In 2012, primary energy demand increased to 158,000 TWh (567 EJ).\n\nEnergy consumption in the G20 increased by more than 5% in 2010 after a slight decline of 2009. In 2009, world energy consumption decreased for the first time in 30 years by 1.1%, or about 130 million tonnes of oil equivalent (Mtoe), as a result of the financial and economic crisis, which reduced world GDP by 0.6% in 2009.\n\nThis evolution is the result of two contrasting trends: Energy consumption growth remained vigorous in several developing countries, specifically in Asia (+4%). Conversely, in OECD, consumption was severely cut by 4.7% in 2009 and was thus almost down to its 2000 levels. In North America, Europe and the CIS, consumptions shrank by 4.5%, 5% and 8.5% respectively due to the slowdown in economic activity. China became the world's largest energy consumer (18% of the total) since its consumption surged by 8% during 2009 (up from 4% in 2008). Oil remained the largest energy source (33%) despite the fact that its share has been decreasing over time. Coal posted a growing role in the world's energy consumption: in 2009, it accounted for 27% of the total.\n\nMost energy is used in the country of origin, since it is cheaper to transport final products than raw materials. In 2008, the share export of the total energy production by fuel was: oil 50% (1,952/3,941 Mt), gas 25% (800/3,149 bcm) and hard coal 14% (793/5,845 Mt).\n\nMost of the world's high energy resources are from the conversion of the sun's rays to other energy forms after being incident upon the planet. Some of that energy has been preserved as fossil energy, some is directly or indirectly usable; for example, via solar PV/thermal, wind, hydro- or wave power. The total solar irradiance is measured by satellite to be roughly 1361 watts per square meter \"(see solar constant)\", though it fluctuates by about 6.9% during the year due to the Earth's varying distance from the sun. This value, after multiplication by the cross-sectional area intercepted by the Earth, is the total rate of solar energy received by the planet; about half, 89,000 TW, reaches the Earth's surface.\n\nThe estimates of remaining non-renewable worldwide energy resources vary, with the remaining fossil fuels totaling an estimated 0.4  yottajoule (YJ) or 4 × 10 joules, and the available nuclear fuel such as uranium exceeding 2.5 YJ. Fossil fuels range from 0.6 to 3 YJ if estimates of reserves of methane clathrates are accurate and become technically extractable. The total power flux from the sun intercepting the Earth is 5.5 YJ per year, though not all of this is available for human consumption. The IEA estimates for the world to meet global energy demand for the two decades from 2015 to 2035 it will require investment of $48 trillion and \"credible policy frameworks.\"\n\nAccording to IEA (2012) the goal of limiting warming to 2 °C is becoming more difficult and costly with each year that passes. If action is not taken before 2017, CO emissions would be locked-in by energy infrastructure existing in 2017. Fossil fuels are dominant in the global energy mix, supported by $523 billion subsidies in 2011, up almost 30% on 2010 and six times more than subsidies to renewables.\n\nGlobal warming emissions resulting from energy production are an environmental problem. Efforts to resolve this include the Kyoto Protocol (1997) and the Paris Agreement (2015), international governmental agreements aiming to reduce harmful climate impacts, which a number of nations have signed. Limiting global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius, thought to be a risk by the SEI, is now doubtful.\n\nTo limit global temperature to a hypothetical 2 degrees Celsius rise would demand a 75% decline in carbon emissions in industrial countries by 2050, if the population is 10 billion in 2050. Across 40 years, this averages to a 2% decrease every year. In 2011, the emissions of energy production continued rising regardless of the consensus of the basic problem. Hypothetically, according to Robert Engelman (Worldwatch institute), in order to prevent collapse, human civilization would have to stop increasing emissions within a decade regardless of the economy or population (2009).\n\nGreenhouse gases are not the only emissions of energy production and consumption. Large amounts of pollutants such as sulphurous oxides (SO), nitrous oxides (NO), and particulate matter (PM) are produced from the combustion of fossil fuels and biomass; the World Health Organization estimates that 7 million premature deaths are caused each year by air pollution. Biomass combustion is a major contributor. In addition to producing air pollution like fossil fuel combustion, most biomass has high CO emissions.\n\nThe twentieth century saw a rapid twenty-fold increase in the use of fossil fuels. Between 1980 and 2006, the worldwide annual growth rate was 2%. According to the US Energy Information Administration's 2006 estimate, the estimated 471.8 EJ total consumption in 2004, was divided as given in the table above, with fossil fuels supplying 86% of the world's energy:\n\nIn 2000, China accounted for 28% of world coal consumption, other Asia consumed 19%, North America 25% and the EU 14%. The single greatest coal-consuming country is China. Its share of the world coal production was 28% in 2000 and rose to 48% in 2009. In contrast to China's ~70% increase in coal consumption, world coal use increased 48% from 2000 to 2009. In practice, the majority of this growth occurred in China and the rest in other Asia. China's energy consumption is mostly driven by the industry sector, the majority of which comes from coal consumption.\n\nWorld annual coal production increased 1,905 Mt or 32% in 6 years in 2011 compared to 2005, of which over 70% was in China and 8% in India. Coal production was in 2011 7,783 Mt, and 2009 6,903 Mt, equal to 12.7% production increase in two years.\n\nIf production and consumption of coal continue at the rate as in 2008, proven and economically recoverable world reserves of coal would last for about 150 years. This is much more than needed for an irreversible climate catastrophe. Coal is the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions in the world. According to James Hansen the single most important action needed to tackle the climate crisis is to reduce CO emissions from coal. Indonesia and Australia exported together 57.1% of the world coal export in 2011. China, Japan, South Korea, India and Taiwan had 65% share of all the world coal import in 2011.\n\nCoal fueled the industrial revolution in the 18th and 19th century. With the advent of the automobile, aeroplanes and the spreading use of electricity, oil became the dominant fuel during the twentieth century. The growth of oil as the largest fossil fuel was further enabled by steadily dropping prices from 1920 until 1973. After the oil shocks of 1973 and 1979, during which the price of oil increased from 5 to 45 US dollars per barrel, there was a shift away from oil. Coal, natural gas, and nuclear became the fuels of choice for electricity generation and conservation measures increased energy efficiency. In the U.S. the average car more than doubled the number of miles per gallon. Japan, which bore the brunt of the oil shocks, made spectacular improvements and now has the highest energy efficiency in the world. From 1965 to 2008, the use of fossil fuels has continued to grow and their share of the energy supply has increased. From 2003 to 2008, coal was the fastest growing fossil fuel.\n\nIt is estimated that between 100 and 135 billion tonnes of oil has been consumed between 1850 and the present.\n\nIn 2009, the world use of natural gas grew 31% compared to 2000. 66% of this growth was outside EU, North America, Latin America, and Russia. Others include the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. The gas supply increased also in the previous regions: 8.6% in the EU and 16% in the North America 2000–2009.\n\nAs of 1 July 2016, the world had 444 operable grid-electric nuclear power reactors with 62 others under construction. Since commercial nuclear energy began in the mid 1950s, 2008 was the first year that no new nuclear power plant was connected to the grid, although two were connected in 2009.\n\nAnnual generation of nuclear power has been on a slight downward trend since 2007, decreasing 1.8% in 2009 to 2558 TWh, and another 1.6% in 2011 to 2518 TWh, despite increases in production from most countries worldwide, because those increases were more than offset by decreases in Germany and Japan. Nuclear power met 11.7% of the world's electricity demand in 2011. Source: IEA/OECD\n\nRenewable energy is generally defined as energy that comes from resources that are not significantly depleted by their use, such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves and geothermal heat. Renewable energy is gradually replacing conventional fuels in four distinct areas: electricity generation, hot water/space heating, motor fuels, and rural (off-grid) energy services.\n\nBased on REN21's 2014 report, renewables contributed 19 percent to our energy consumption and 22 percent to our electricity generation in 2012 and 2013, respectively. This energy consumption is divided as 9% coming from traditional biomass, 4.2% as heat energy (non-biomass), 3.8% hydro electricity and 2% electricity from wind, solar, geothermal, and biomass. Worldwide investments in renewable technologies amounted to more than US$214 billion in 2013, with countries like China and the United States heavily investing in wind, hydro, solar and biofuels. Renewable energy resources exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries. Rapid deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency is resulting in significant energy security, climate change mitigation, and economic benefits. In international public opinion surveys there is strong support for promoting renewable sources such as solar power and wind power. At the national level, at least 30 nations around the world already have renewable energy contributing more than 20 percent of energy supply. National renewable energy markets are projected to continue to grow strongly in the coming decade and beyond.\n\nThe following table shows increasing nameplate capacity, and has capacity factors that range from 11% for solar, to 40% for hydropower.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2013 the total renewable energy use has increased 6,450 TWh and total energy use 40,500 TWh.\n\nHydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower; the production of electrical power through the use of the kinetic energy of falling or flowing water. In 2015 hydropower generated 16.6% of the world's total electricity and 70% of all renewable electricity, which continues the rapid rate of increase experienced between 2003 and 2009. Hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010. China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with of production in 2010, representing around 17% of domestic electricity use. There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW: the Three Gorges Dam in China, Itaipu Dam in Brazil, and Guri Dam in Venezuela. Nine of the worlds top 10 renewable electricity producers are primarily hydroelectric, one is wind.\n\nMarine energy, also known as \"ocean energy\" and \"marine and hydrokinetic energy\" (MHK) includes tidal and wave power and is a relatively new sector of renewable energy, with most projects still in the pilot phase, but the theoretical potential is equivalent to 4–18 million tonne of oil equivalent (toe). MHK development in U.S. and international waters includes projects using devices such as, wave energy converters in open coastal areas with significant waves, tidal turbines placed in coastal and estuarine areas, in-stream turbines in fast-moving rivers, ocean current turbines in areas of strong marine currents, and ocean thermal energy converters in deep tropical waters.\n\nWind power is growing at the rate of 17% annually, with a worldwide installed capacity of 432,883 megawatts (MW) at the end of 2015, and is widely used in Europe, Asia, and the United States. Several countries have achieved relatively high levels of wind power penetration, such as 21% of stationary electricity production in Denmark, 18% in Portugal, 16% in Spain, 14% in Ireland and 9% in Germany in 2010. As of 2011, 83 countries around the world are using wind power on a commercial basis. Continuing strong growth, by 2016 wind generated 3% of global power annually.\n\nSolar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies. Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, concentrated solar power and solar architecture, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent problems the world now faces. The International Energy Agency projected that solar power could provide \"a third of the global final energy demand after 2060, while CO emissions would be reduced to very low levels.\" Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy. Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic systems and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy. Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air. From 2012 to 2016 solar capacity tripled and now provides 1.3% of global energy.\n\nGeothermal energy is used commercially in over 70 countries. In 2004, of electricity was generated from geothermal resources, and an additional of geothermal energy was used directly, mostly for space heating. In 2007, the world had a global capacity for of electricity generation and an additional of direct heating, including extraction by geothermal heat pumps. Heat pumps are small and widely distributed, so estimates of their total capacity are uncertain and range up to .\n\nUntil the beginning of the nineteenth century biomass was the predominant fuel, today it has only a small share of the overall energy supply. Electricity produced from biomass sources was estimated at 44 GW for 2005. Biomass electricity generation increased by over 100% in Germany, Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland, and Spain. A further 220 GW was used for heating (in 2004), bringing the total energy consumed from biomass to around 264 GW. The use of biomass fires for cooking is excluded. World production of bioethanol increased by 8% in 2005 to reach , with most of the increase in the United States, bringing it level to the levels of consumption in Brazil. Biodiesel increased by 85% to , making it the fastest growing renewable energy source in 2005. Over 50% is produced in Germany.\n\nEnergy consumption is loosely correlated with gross national product and climate, but there is a large difference even between the most highly developed countries, such as Japan and Germany with an energy consumption rate of 6 kW per person and the United States with an energy consumption rate of 11.4 kW per person. In developing countries, particularly those that are sub-tropical or tropical such as India, the per person energy use rate is closer to 0.7 kW. Bangladesh has the lowest consumption rate with 0.2 kW per person.\n\nThe US consumes 25% of the world's energy with a share of global GDP at 22% and a share of the world population at 4.59%. The most significant growth of energy consumption is currently taking place in China, which has been growing at 5.5% per year over the last 25 years. Its population of 1.3 billion people (19.6% of the world population) is consuming energy at a rate of 1.6 kW per person.\n\nOne measurement of efficiency is energy intensity. This is a measure of the amount of energy it takes a country to produce a dollar of gross domestic product.\n\nSaudi Arabia, Russia and the United States accounted for 34% of oil production in 2011. Saudi Arabia, Russia and Nigeria accounted for 36% of oil export in 2011.\n\nThe table to the right shows the amounts of energy consumed worldwide in 2012 by four sectors, according to the Energy Information Administration of the US Department of Energy:\nOf the total 120 PWh () consumed, 19.4 were in the form of electricity, but this electricity required 61.7 PWh to produce. Thus the total energy consumption was around 160 PWh (ca ). The efficiency of a typical existing power plant is around 38%. The new generation of gas-fired plants reaches a substantially higher efficiency of 55%. Coal is the most common fuel for the world's electricity plants.\n\nAnother report gives different values for the sectors, apparently due to different definitions. According to this, total world energy use per sector in 2008 was industry 28%, transport 27% and residential and service 36%. Division was about the same in the year 2000.\n\nThe European Environmental Agency (EEA) measures final energy consumption (does not include energy used in production and lost in transportation) and finds that the transport sector is responsible for 31.8% of final energy consumption, households 26.2%, industry 25.6%, services 13.5% and agriculture 2.9% in 2012. The use of energy is responsible for the majority of greenhouse gas emissions (79%), with the energy sector representing 31%, transport 19%, industry 13%, households 9% and others 7%.\n\nWhile efficient energy use and resource efficiency are growing as public policy issues, more than 70% of coal plants in the European Union are more than 20 years old and operate at an efficiency level of between 32–40%. Technological developments in the 1990s have allowed efficiencies in the range of 40–45% at newer plants. However, according to an impact assessment by the European Commission, this is still below the best available technological (BAT) efficiency levels of 46–49%. With gas-fired power plants the average efficiency is 52% compared to 58–59% with best available technology (BAT), and gas and oil boiler plants operate at average 36% efficiency (BAT delivers 47%). According to that same impact assessment by the European Commission, raising the efficiency of all new plants and the majority of existing plants, through the setting of authorisation and permit conditions, to an average generation efficiency of 51.5% in 2020 would lead to a reduction in annual consumption of of natural gas and of coal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19620245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620245", "title": "Zealandia", "text": "Zealandia\n\nZealandia (), also known as the New Zealand continent or Tasmantis is an almost entirely submerged mass of continental crust that sank after breaking away from Australia 60–85 million years ago, having separated from Antarctica between 85 and 130 million years ago. It has variously been described as a continental fragment, a microcontinent, a submerged continent, and a continent. The name and concept for Zealandia was proposed by Bruce Luyendyk in 1995. Zealandia's status as a continent is not universally accepted, but New Zealand geologist Nick Mortimer has commented that \"if it wasn't for the ocean\" it would have been recognized as such long ago.\n\nThe land mass may have been completely submerged about 23 million years ago, and most of it (93%) remains submerged beneath the Pacific Ocean. With a total area of approximately , it is the world's largest current microcontinent, more than twice the size of the next-largest microcontinent and more than half the size of the Australian continent. As such, and due to other geological considerations, such as crustal thickness and density, it is arguably a continent in its own right. This was the argument which made news in 2017, when geologists from New Zealand, New Caledonia, and Australia concluded that Zealandia fulfills all the requirements to be considered a continent, rather than a microcontinent or continental fragment.\n\nZealandia supports substantial inshore fisheries and contains gas fields, of which the largest known is New Zealand's Maui gas field, near Taranaki. Permits for oil exploration in the Great South Basin were issued in 2007. Offshore mineral resources include iron sands, volcanic massive sulfides and ferromanganese nodule deposits.\n\nZealandia is largely made up of two nearly parallel ridges, separated by a failed rift, where the rift breakup of the continent stops and becomes a filled graben. The ridges rise above the sea floor to heights of , with few rocky islands rising above sea level. The ridges are continental rock, but are lower in elevation than normal continents because their crust is thinner than usual, approximately thick, and consequently they do not float as high above the Earth's mantle.\n\nAbout 25 million years ago, the southern part of Zealandia (on the Pacific Plate) began to shift relative to the northern part (on the Indo-Australian Plate). The resulting displacement by approximately along the Alpine Fault is evident in geological maps. Movement along this plate boundary has also offset the New Caledonia Basin from its previous continuation through the Bounty Trough.\n\nCompression across the boundary has uplifted the Southern Alps, although due to rapid erosion their height reflects only a small fraction of the uplift. Farther north, subduction of the Pacific Plate has led to extensive volcanism, including the Coromandel and Taupo Volcanic Zones. Associated rifting and subsidence has produced the Hauraki Graben and more recently the Whakatane Graben and Wanganui Basin.\n\nVolcanism on Zealandia has also taken place repeatedly in various parts of the continental fragment before, during and after it rifted away from the supercontinent Gondwana. Although Zealandia has shifted approximately to the northwest with respect to the underlying mantle from the time when it rifted from Antarctica, recurring intracontinental volcanism exhibits magma composition similar to that of volcanoes in previously adjacent parts of Antarctica and Australia.\n\nThis volcanism is widespread across Zealandia but generally of low volume apart from the huge mid to late Miocene shield volcanoes that developed the Banks and Otago Peninsulas. In addition, it took place continually in numerous limited regions all through the Late Cretaceous and the Cenozoic. However, its causes are still in dispute. During the Miocene, the northern section of Zealandia (Lord Howe Rise) might have slid over a stationary hotspot, forming the Lord Howe Seamount Chain.\n\nZealandia is occasionally divided by scientists into two regions, North Zealandia (or Western Province) and South Zealandia (or Eastern Province), the latter of which contains most of the Median Batholith crust. These two features are separated by the Alpine Fault and Kermadec Trench and by the wedge-shaped Hikurangi Plateau, and are moving separately to each other.\n\nThe case for Zealandia being a continent in its own right was argued by Nick Mortimer and Hamish Campbell in their book \"Zealandia: Our continent revealed\" in 2014, citing geological and ecological evidence to support the proposal.\n\nIn 2017, a team of eleven geologists from New Zealand, New Caledonia, and Australia concluded that Zealandia fulfills all the requirements to be considered a drowned continent, rather than a microcontinent or continental fragment. This was widely covered by news media.\n\nNew Caledonia lies at the northern end of the ancient continent, while New Zealand rises at the plate boundary that bisects it. These land masses are two outposts of the Antarctic Flora, including Araucarias and Podocarps. At Curio Bay, logs of a fossilized forest closely related to modern Kauri and Norfolk Pine can be seen that grew on Zealandia about 180 million years ago during the Jurassic period, before it split from Gondwana. These were buried by volcanic mud flows and gradually replaced by silica to produce the fossils now exposed by the sea.\n\nDuring glacial periods, more of Zealandia becomes a terrestrial rather than a marine environment. Zealandia was originally thought to have no native land mammal fauna, but the discovery in 2006 of a fossil mammal jaw from the Miocene in the Otago region shows otherwise.\n\nThe total land area (including inland water bodies) of Zealandia is . Of this, New Zealand comprises the majority, at , or 93%) which includes the mainland, nearby islands, and most outlying islands including the Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, Bounty Islands, Campbell Islands, and Chatham Islands (but not the Kermadec Islands or Macquarie Island (Australia), which are part of the rift).\n\nNew Caledonia and the islands surrounding it comprise some or 7%) and the remainder is made up of various territories of Australia including Lord Howe Island Group (New South Wales) at or 0.02%), Norfolk Island at or 0.01%), as well as Elizabeth and Middleton Reefs (Coral Sea Islands Territory) with .\n\nThe total human population of Zealandia today is about 5 million people.\n"}
