{"id": "21538638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538638", "title": "2012 phenomenon", "text": "2012 phenomenon\n\nVarious astronomical alignments and numerological formulae were proposed as pertaining to this date. A New Age interpretation held that the date marked the start of a period during which Earth and its inhabitants would undergo a positive physical or spiritual transformation, and that 21 December 2012 would mark the beginning of a new era. Others suggested that the date marked the end of the world or a similar catastrophe. Scenarios suggested for the end of the world included the arrival of the next solar maximum, an interaction between Earth and the black hole at the center of the galaxy, or Earth's collision with a mythical planet called Nibiru.\n\nScholars from various disciplines quickly dismissed predictions of concomitant cataclysmic events as they arose. Professional Mayanist scholars stated that no extant classic Maya accounts forecast impending doom, and that the idea that the Long Count calendar ends in 2012 misrepresented Maya history and culture, while astronomers rejected the various proposed doomsday scenarios as pseudoscience, easily refuted by elementary astronomical observations.\n\nDecember 2012 marked the conclusion of a \"b'ak'tun\"—a time period in the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar, used in Central America prior to the arrival of Europeans. Although the Long Count was most likely invented by the Olmec, it has become closely associated with the Maya civilization, whose classic period lasted from 250 to 900 AD. The writing system of the classic Maya has been substantially deciphered, meaning that a corpus of their written and inscribed material has survived from before the European conquest.\n\nUnlike the 260-day \"tzolk'in\" still used today among the Maya, the Long Count was linear rather than cyclical, and kept time roughly in units of 20: 20 days made a \"uinal\", 18 uinals (360 days) made a \"tun\", 20 tuns made a \"k'atun\", and 20 k'atuns (144,000 days or roughly 394 years) made up a \"b'ak'tun\". Thus, the Maya date of 8.3.2.10.15 represents 8 b'ak'tuns, 3 k'atuns, 2 tuns, 10 uinals and 15 days.\n\nThere is a strong tradition of \"world ages\" in Maya literature, but the record has been distorted, leaving several possibilities open to interpretation. According to the \"Popol Vuh\", a compilation of the creation accounts of the K'iche' Maya of the Colonial-era highlands, we are living in the fourth world. The \"Popol Vuh\" describes the gods first creating three failed worlds, followed by a successful fourth world in which humanity was placed. In the Maya Long Count, the previous world ended after 13 b'ak'tuns, or roughly 5,125 years. The Long Count's \"zero date\" was set at a point in the past marking the end of the third world and the beginning of the current one, which corresponds to 11 August 3114 BC in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. This means that the fourth world reached the end of its 13th b'ak'tun, or Maya date 13.0.0.0.0, on 21 December 2012. In 1957, Mayanist and astronomer Maud Worcester Makemson wrote that \"the completion of a Great Period of 13 b'ak'tuns would have been of the utmost significance to the Maya.\" In 1966, Michael D. Coe wrote in \"The Maya\" that \"there is a suggestion ... that Armageddon would overtake the degenerate peoples of the world and all creation on the final day of the 13th [b'ak'tun]. Thus ... our present universe [would] be annihilated ... when the Great Cycle of the Long Count reaches completion.\"\n\nCoe's interpretation was repeated by other scholars through the early 1990s. In contrast, later researchers said that, while the end of the 13th b'ak'tun would perhaps be a cause for celebration, it did not mark the end of the calendar. \"There is nothing in the Maya or Aztec or ancient Mesoamerican prophecy to suggest that they prophesied a sudden or major change of any sort in 2012,\" said Mayanist scholar Mark Van Stone. \"The notion of a 'Great Cycle' coming to an end is completely a modern invention.\" In 1990, Mayanist scholars Linda Schele and David Freidel argued that the Maya \"did not conceive this to be the end of creation, as many have suggested\". Susan Milbrath, curator of Latin American Art and Archaeology at the Florida Museum of Natural History, stated that, \"We have no record or knowledge that [the Maya] would think the world would come to an end\" in 2012. Sandra Noble, executive director of the Foundation for the Advancement of Mesoamerican Studies, said, \"For the ancient Maya, it was a huge celebration to make it to the end of a whole cycle,\" and, \"The 2012 phenomenon is a complete fabrication and a chance for a lot of people to cash in.\" \"There will be another cycle,\" said E. Wyllys Andrews V, director of the Tulane University Middle American Research Institute. \"We know the Maya thought there was one before this, and that implies they were comfortable with the idea of another one after this.\" Commenting on the new calendar found at Xultún, one archaeologist said \"The ancient Maya predicted the world would continue – that 7,000 years from now, things would be exactly like this. We keep looking for endings. The Maya were looking for a guarantee that nothing would change. It's an entirely different mindset.\"\n\nSeveral prominent individuals representing Maya of Guatemala decried the suggestion that the world would end with the 13th b'ak'tun. Ricardo Cajas, president of the \"Colectivo de Organizaciones Indígenas de Guatemala\", said the date did not represent an end of humanity but that the new cycle \"supposes changes in human consciousness\". Martín Sacalxot, of the office of the \"Procurador de los Derechos Humanos\" (Guatemala's Human Rights Ombudsman, PDH), said that the end of the calendar has nothing to do with the end of the world or the year 2012.\n\nThe European association of the Maya with eschatology dates back to the time of Christopher Columbus, who was compiling a work called \"Libro de las profecías\" during the voyage in 1502 when he first heard about the \"Maia\" on Guanaja, an island off the north coast of Honduras. Influenced by the writings of Bishop Pierre d'Ailly, Columbus believed that his discovery of \"most distant\" lands (and, by extension, the Maya themselves) was prophesied and would bring about the Apocalypse. End-times fears were widespread during the early years of the Spanish Conquest as the result of popular astrological predictions in Europe of a second Great Flood for the year 1524.\n\nIn the early 1900s, German scholar Ernst Förstemann interpreted the last page of the Dresden Codex as a representation of the end of the world in a cataclysmic flood. He made reference to the destruction of the world and an apocalypse, though he made no reference to the 13th b'ak'tun or 2012 and it was not clear that he was referring to a future event. His ideas were repeated by archaeologist Sylvanus Morley, who directly paraphrased Förstemann and added his own embellishments, writing, \"Finally, on the last page of the manuscript, is depicted the Destruction of the World ... Here, indeed, is portrayed with a graphic touch the final all-engulfing cataclysm\" in the form of a great flood. These comments were later repeated in Morley's book, \"The Ancient Maya\", the first edition of which was published in 1946.\n\nIt is not certain what significance the classic Maya gave to the 13th b'ak'tun. Most classic Maya inscriptions are strictly historical and do not make any prophetic declarations. Two items in the Maya classical corpus, however, do mention the end of the 13th b'ak'tun: Tortuguero Monument 6 and La Corona Hieroglyphic Stairway 12.\n\nThe Tortuguero site, which lies in southernmost Tabasco, Mexico, dates from the 7th century AD and consists of a series of inscriptions mostly in honor of the contemporary ruler Bahlam Ajaw. One inscription, known as Tortuguero Monument 6, is the only inscription known to refer to b'ak'tun 13 in any detail. It has been partially defaced; Sven Gronemeyer and Barbara MacLeod have given this translation:\n\nVery little is known about the god B'olon Yokte'. According to an article by Mayanists Markus Eberl and Christian Prager in \"British Anthropological Reports\", his name is composed of the elements \"nine\", 'OK-te' (the meaning of which is unknown), and \"god\". Confusion in classical period inscriptions suggests that the name was already ancient and unfamiliar to contemporary scribes. He also appears in inscriptions from Palenque, Usumacinta, and La Mar as a god of war, conflict, and the underworld. In one stele he is portrayed with a rope tied around his neck, and in another with an incense bag, together signifying a sacrifice to end a cycle of years.\n\nBased on observations of modern Maya rituals, Gronemeyer and MacLeod claim that the stela refers to a celebration in which a person portraying Bolon Yokte' K'uh was wrapped in ceremonial garments and paraded around the site. They note that the association of Bolon Yokte' K'uh with b'ak'tun 13 appears to be so important on this inscription that it supersedes more typical celebrations such as \"erection of stelae, scattering of incense\" and so forth. Furthermore, they assert that this event was indeed planned for 2012 and not the 7th century. Mayanist scholar Stephen Houston contests this view by arguing that future dates on Maya inscriptions were simply meant to draw parallels with contemporary events, and that the words on the stela describe a contemporary rather than a future scene.\n\nIn April–May 2012, a team of archaeologists unearthed a previously unknown inscription on a stairway at the La Corona site in Guatemala. The inscription, on what is known as Hieroglyphic Stairway 12, describes the establishment of a royal court in Calakmul in 635 AD, and compares the then-recent completion of 13 k'atuns with the future completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. It contains no speculation or prophecy as to what the scribes believed would happen at that time.\n\nMaya inscriptions occasionally mention predicted future events or commemorations that would occur on dates far beyond the completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. Most of these are in the form of \"distance dates\"; Long Count dates together with an additional number, known as a Distance Number, which when added to them makes a future date. On the west panel at the Temple of Inscriptions in Palenque, a section of text projects forward to the 80th 52-year Calendar Round from the coronation of the ruler K'inich Janaab' Pakal. Pakal's accession occurred on 9.9.2.4.8, equivalent to 27 July 615 AD in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. The inscription begins with Pakal's birthdate of 9.8.9.13.0 (24 March, ) and then adds the Distance Number 10.11.10.5.8 to it, arriving at a date of 21 October 4772 AD, more than 4,000 years after Pakal's time.\n\nAnother example is Stela 1 at Coba which marks the date of creation as , or nineteen units above the b'ak'tun. According to Linda Schele, these 13s represent \"the starting point of a huge odometer of time\", with each acting as a zero and resetting to 1 as the numbers increase. Thus this inscription anticipates the current universe lasting at least 20×13×360 days, or roughly 2.687×10 years; a time span equal to 2 quintillion times the age of the universe as determined by cosmologists. Others have suggested, however, that this date marks creation as having occurred after that time span.\n\nIn 2012, researchers announced the discovery of a series of Maya astronomical tables in Xultún, Guatemala which plot the movements of the Moon and other astronomical bodies over the course of 17 b'ak'tuns.\n\nMany assertions about the year 2012 form part of Mayanism, a non-codified collection of New Age beliefs about ancient Maya wisdom and spirituality. The term is distinct from \"Mayanist,\" used to refer to an academic scholar of the Maya. Archaeoastronomer Anthony Aveni says that while the idea of \"balancing the cosmos\" was prominent in ancient Maya literature, the 2012 phenomenon did not draw from those traditions. Instead, it was bound up with American concepts such as the New Age movement, millenarianism, and the belief in secret knowledge from distant times and places. Themes found in 2012 literature included \"suspicion towards mainstream Western culture\", the idea of spiritual evolution, and the possibility of leading the world into the New Age by individual example or by a group's joined consciousness. The general intent of this literature was not to warn of impending doom but \"to foster counter-cultural sympathies and eventually socio-political and 'spiritual' activism\". Aveni, who has studied New Age and search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) communities, describes 2012 narratives as the product of a \"disconnected\" society: \"Unable to find spiritual answers to life's big questions within ourselves, we turn outward to imagined entities that lie far off in space or time—entities that just might be in possession of superior knowledge.\"\n\nIn 1975, the ending of b'ak'tun 13 became the subject of speculation by several New Age authors, who asserted it would correspond with a global \"transformation of consciousness\". In \"Mexico Mystique: The Coming Sixth Age of Consciousness\", Frank Waters tied Coe's original date of 24 December 2011 to astrology and the prophecies of the Hopi, while both José Argüelles (in \"The Transformative Vision\") and Terence McKenna (in \"The Invisible Landscape\") discussed the significance of the year 2012 without mentioning a specific day.\n\nIn 1983, with the publication of Robert J. Sharer's revised table of date correlations in the 4th edition of Morley's \"The Ancient Maya,\" each became convinced that 21 December 2012 had significant meaning. By 1987, the year in which he organized the Harmonic Convergence event, Arguelles was using the date 21 December 2012 in \"The Mayan Factor: Path Beyond Technology\". He claimed that on 13 August 3113 BC the Earth began a passage through a \"galactic synchronization beam\" that emanated from the center of our galaxy, that it would pass through this beam during a period of 5200 \"tuns\" (Maya cycles of 360 days each), and that this beam would result in \"total synchronization\" and \"galactic entrainment\" of individuals \"plugged into the Earth's electromagnetic battery\" by 13.0.0.0.0 (21 December 2012). He believed that the Maya aligned their calendar to correspond to this phenomenon. Anthony Aveni has dismissed all of these ideas.\n\nIn 2006, author Daniel Pinchbeck popularized New Age concepts about this date in his book \"2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl\", linking b'ak'tun 13 to beliefs in crop circles, alien abduction, and personal revelations based on the use of hallucinogenic drugs and mediumship. Pinchbeck claims to discern a \"growing realization that materialism and the rational, empirical worldview that comes with it has reached its expiration date ... [w]e're on the verge of transitioning to a dispensation of consciousness that's more intuitive, mystical and shamanic\".\n\nThere is no significant astronomical event tied to the Long Count's start date. However, its supposed end date was tied to astronomical phenomena by esoteric, fringe, and New Age literature that placed great significance on astrology, especially astrological interpretations associated with the phenomenon of axial precession. Chief among these ideas is the astrological concept of a \"galactic alignment\".\n\nIn the Solar System, the planets and the Sun lie roughly within the same flat plane, known as the plane of the ecliptic. From our perspective on Earth, the ecliptic is the path taken by the Sun across the sky over the course of the year. The twelve constellations that line the ecliptic are known as the zodiacal constellations and, annually, the Sun passes through all of them in turn. Additionally, over time, the Sun's annual cycle appears to recede very slowly backward by one degree every 72 years, or by one constellation approximately every 2,160 years. This backward movement, called \"precession\", is due to a slight wobble in the Earth's axis as it spins, and can be compared to the way a spinning top wobbles as it slows down. Over the course of 25,800 years, a period often called a Great Year, the Sun's path completes a full, 360-degree backward rotation through the zodiac. In Western astrological traditions, precession is measured from the March equinox, one of the two annual points at which the Sun is exactly halfway between its lowest and highest points in the sky. At the end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st, the Sun's March equinox position was in the constellation Pisces moving back into Aquarius. This signaled the end of one astrological age (the Age of Pisces) and the beginning of another (the Age of Aquarius).\n\nSimilarly, the Sun's December solstice position (in the northern hemisphere, the lowest point on its annual path; in the southern hemisphere, the highest) was in the constellation of Sagittarius, one of two constellations in which the zodiac intersects with the Milky Way. Every year, on the December solstice, the Sun and the Milky Way, appear (from the surface of the Earth) to come into alignment, and every year precession caused a slight shift in the Sun's position in the Milky Way. Given that the Milky Way is between 10° and 20° wide, it takes between 700 and 1,400 years for the Sun's December solstice position to precess through it. In 2012 it was about halfway through the Milky Way, crossing the galactic equator. In 2012, the Sun's December solstice fell on 21 December.\n\nMystical speculations about the precession of the equinoxes and the Sun's proximity to the center of the Milky Way appeared in \"Hamlet's Mill\" (1969) by Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Deschend. These were quoted and expanded upon by Terence and Dennis McKenna in \"The Invisible Landscape\" (1975). \n\nAdherents to the idea, following a theory first proposed by Munro Edmonson, alleged that the Maya based their calendar on observations of the Great Rift or Dark Rift, a band of dark dust clouds in the Milky Way, which, according to some scholars, the Maya called the \"Xibalba be\" or \"Black Road\". John Major Jenkins claims that the Maya were aware of where the ecliptic intersected the Black Road and gave this position in the sky a special significance in their cosmology. Jenkins said that precession would align the Sun precisely with the galactic equator at the 2012 winter solstice. Jenkins claimed that the classical Maya anticipated this conjunction and celebrated it as the harbinger of a profound spiritual transition for mankind. New Age proponents of the galactic alignment hypothesis argued that, just as astrology uses the positions of stars and planets to make claims of future events, the Maya plotted their calendars with the objective of preparing for significant world events. Jenkins attributed the insights of ancient Maya shamans about the galactic center to their use of psilocybin mushrooms, psychoactive toads, and other psychedelics. Jenkins also associated the \"Xibalba be\" with a \"world tree\", drawing on studies of contemporary (not ancient) Maya cosmology.\n\nAstronomers such as David Morrison argue that the galactic equator is an entirely arbitrary line and can never be precisely drawn, because it is impossible to determine the Milky Way's exact boundaries, which vary depending on clarity of view. Jenkins claimed he drew his conclusions about the location of the galactic equator from observations taken at above , an altitude that gives a clearer image of the Milky Way than the Maya had access to. Furthermore, since the Sun is half a degree wide, its solstice position takes 36 years to precess its full width. Jenkins himself noted that even given his determined location for the line of the galactic equator, its most precise convergence with the center of the Sun already occurred in 1998, and so asserts that, rather than 2012, the galactic alignment instead focuses on a multi-year period centered in 1998.\n\nThere is no clear evidence that the classic Maya were aware of precession. Some Maya scholars, such as Barbara MacLeod, Michael Grofe, Eva Hunt, Gordon Brotherston, and Anthony Aveni, have suggested that some Mayan holy dates were timed to precessional cycles, but scholarly opinion on the subject remains divided. There is also little evidence, archaeological or historical, that the Maya placed any importance on solstices or equinoxes. It is possible that only the earliest among Mesoamericans observed solstices, but this is also a disputed issue among Mayanists. There is also no evidence that the classic Maya attached any importance to the Milky Way; there is no glyph in their writing system to represent it, and no astronomical or chronological table tied to it.\n\n\"Timewave zero\" is a numerological formula that purports to calculate the ebb and flow of \"novelty\", defined as increase over time in the universe's interconnectedness, or organized complexity. Terence McKenna claimed that the universe has a teleological attractor at the end of time that increases interconnectedness. He believed this which would eventually reach a singularity of infinite complexity in 2012, at which point anything and everything imaginable would occur simultaneously. He conceived this idea over several years in the early to mid-1970s whilst using psilocybin mushrooms and DMT. The scientific community considers novelty theory to be pseudoscience.\n\nMcKenna expressed \"novelty\" in a computer program which produces a waveform known as \"timewave zero\" or the \"timewave\". Based on McKenna's interpretation of the King Wen sequence of the \"I Ching\", an ancient Chinese book on divination, the graph purports to show great periods of novelty corresponding with major shifts in humanity's biological and sociocultural evolution. He believed that the events of any given time are resonantly related to the events of other times, and chose the atomic bombing of Hiroshima as the basis for calculating his end date of November 2012. When he later discovered this date's proximity to the end of the 13th b'ak'tun of the Maya calendar, he revised his hypothesis so that the two dates matched.\n\nThe 1975 first edition of \"The Invisible Landscape\" referred to 2012 (but no specific day during the year) only twice. In the 1993 second edition, McKenna employed Sharer's date of 21 December 2012 throughout.\n\nNovelty theory has been criticized for \"rejecting countless ideas presumed as factual by the scientific community\", depending \"solely on numerous controversial deductions that contradict empirical logic\", and encompassing \"no suitable indication of truth\", with the conclusion that novelty theory is a pseudoscience.\n\nThe idea that the year 2012 presaged a world cataclysm, the end of the world, or the end of human civilization, became a subject of popular media speculation as the date of 21 December 2012 approached. This idea was promulgated by many pages on the Internet, particularly on YouTube. The Discovery Channel was criticized for its \"quasi-documentaries\" about the subject that \"sacrifice[d] accuracy for entertainment\".\n\nSome people interpreted the galactic alignment apocalyptically, claiming that its occurrence would somehow create a combined gravitational effect between the Sun and the supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy (known as Sagittarius A*), creating havoc on Earth. Apart from the \"galactic alignment\" already having happened in 1998, the Sun's apparent path through the zodiac as seen from Earth did not take it near the true galactic center, but rather several degrees above it. Even were this not the case, Sagittarius A* is 30,000 light years from Earth; it would have to have been more than 6 million times closer to cause any gravitational disruption to Earth's Solar System. This reading of the alignment was included on the History Channel documentary \"Decoding the Past\". John Major Jenkins complained that a science fiction writer co-authored the documentary, and he went on to characterize it as \"45 minutes of unabashed doomsday hype and the worst kind of inane sensationalism\".\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday used the term \"galactic alignment\" to describe a different phenomenon proposed by some scientists to explain a pattern in mass extinctions supposedly observed in the fossil record. According to the Shiva Hypothesis, mass extinctions are not random, but recur every 26 million years. To account for this, it was suggested that vertical oscillations made by the Sun on its 250-million-year orbit of the galactic center cause it to regularly pass through the galactic plane. When the Sun's orbit takes it outside the galactic plane which bisects the galactic disc, the influence of the galactic tide is weaker. However, when re-entering the galactic disc—as it does every 20–25 million years—it comes under the influence of the far stronger \"disc tides\", which, according to mathematical models, increase the flux of Oort cloud comets into the inner Solar System by a factor of 4, thus leading to a massive increase in the likelihood of a devastating comet impact. However, this \"alignment\" takes place over tens of millions of years, and could never be timed to an exact date. Evidence shows that the Sun passed through the plane bisecting the galactic disc three million years ago and in 2012 was moving farther above it.\n\nA third suggested alignment was some sort of planetary conjunction occurring on 21 December 2012; however, there was no conjunction on that date. Multi-planet alignments did occur in both 2000 and 2010, each with no ill result for the Earth. Jupiter is the largest planet in the Solar System; larger than all other planets combined. When Jupiter is near opposition, the difference in gravitational force that the Earth experiences is less than 1% of the force that the Earth feels daily from the Moon.\n\nAnother idea tied to 2012 involved a geomagnetic reversal (often referred to as a pole shift by proponents), possibly triggered by a massive solar flare, that would release an energy equal to 100 billion atomic bombs. This belief was supposedly supported by observations that the Earth's magnetic field was weakening, which could precede a reversal of the north and south magnetic poles, and the arrival of the next solar maximum, which was expected sometime around 2012.\n\nMost scientific estimates, however, say that geomagnetic reversals take between 1,000 and 10,000 years to complete, and do not start on any particular date. Furthermore, the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicted that the solar maximum would peak in late 2013 or 2014, and that it would be fairly weak, with a below-average number of sunspots. In any case, there was no scientific evidence linking a solar maximum to a geomagnetic reversal, which is driven by forces entirely within the Earth. Instead, a solar maximum would be mostly notable for its effects on satellite and cellular phone communications. David Morrison attributed the rise of the solar storm idea to physicist and science popularizer Michio Kaku, who claimed in an interview with Fox News that a solar peak in 2012 could be disastrous for orbiting satellites, and to NASA's headlining a 2006 webpage as \"Solar Storm Warning\", a term later repeated on several doomsday pages.\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday claimed that a planet called Planet X, or Nibiru, would collide with or pass by the Earth. This idea, which appeared in various forms since 1995, initially predicted Doomsday in May 2003, but proponents abandoned that date after it passed without incident. The idea originated from claims of channeling alien beings and is widely ridiculed. Astronomers calculated that such an object so close to Earth would be visible to anyone looking up at the night sky.\n\nAuthor Graham Hancock, in his book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\", interpreted Coe's remarks in \"Breaking the Maya Code\" as evidence for the prophecy of a global cataclysm. Filmmaker Roland Emmerich later credited the book with inspiring his 2009 disaster film \"2012\".\n\nOther speculations regarding doomsday in 2012 included predictions by the Web Bot project, a computer program that purports to predict the future by analyzing Internet chatter. However, commentators have rejected claims that the bot is able to predict natural disasters, as opposed to human-caused disasters like stock market crashes.\n\nThe 2012 date was also loosely tied to the long-running concept of the Photon Belt, which predicted a form of interaction between Earth and Alcyone, the largest star of the Pleiades cluster. Critics argued that photons cannot form belts, that the Pleiades, located more than 400 light years away, could have no effect on Earth, and that the Solar System, rather than getting closer to the Pleiades, was in fact moving farther away from it.\n\nSome media outlets tied the fact that the red supergiant star Betelgeuse would undergo a supernova at some point in the future to the 2012 phenomenon. However, while Betelgeuse was certainly in the final stages of its life, and would die as a supernova, there was no way to predict the timing of the event to within 100,000 years. To be a threat to Earth, a supernova would need to be no further than 25 light years from the Solar System. Betelgeuse is roughly 600 light years away, and so its supernova would not affect Earth. In December 2011, NASA's Francis Reddy issued a press release debunking the possibility of a supernova occurring in 2012.\n\nAnother claim involved alien invasion. In December 2010, an article, first published in examiner.com and later referenced in the English-language edition of \"Pravda\" claimed, citing a Second Digitized Sky Survey photograph as evidence, that SETI had detected three large spacecraft due to arrive at Earth in 2012. Astronomer and debunker Phil Plait noted that by using the small-angle formula, one could determine that if the object in the photo were as large as claimed, it would have had to be closer to Earth than the Moon, which would mean it would already have arrived. In January 2011, Seth Shostak, chief astronomer of SETI, issued a press release debunking the claims.\n\nThe phenomenon spread widely after coming to public notice, particularly on the Internet. Hundreds of thousands of websites were posted on the subject. \"Ask an Astrobiologist\", a NASA public outreach website, received over 5,000 questions from the public on the subject from 2007, some asking whether they should kill themselves, their children or their pets. In May 2012, an Ipsos poll of 16,000 adults in 21 countries found that 8 percent had experienced fear or anxiety over the possibility of the world ending in December 2012, while an average of 10 percent agreed with the statement \"the Mayan calendar, which some say 'ends' in 2012, marks the end of the world\", with responses as high as 20 percent in China, 13 percent in Russia, Turkey, Japan and Korea, and 12 percent in the United States. At least one suicide was directly linked to fear of a 2012 apocalypse, with others anecdotally reported. Jared Lee Loughner, the perpetrator of the 2011 Tucson shooting, followed 2012-related predictions. A panel of scientists questioned on the topic at a plenary session at the Astronomical Society of the Pacific contended that the Internet played a substantial role in allowing this doomsday date to gain more traction than previous similar panics.\n\nBeginning in 2000, the small French village of Bugarach, population 189, began receiving visits from \"esoterics\"—mystic believers who had concluded that the local mountain, Pic de Bugarach, was the ideal location to weather the transformative events of 2012. In 2011, the local mayor, Jean-Pierre Delord, began voicing fears to the international press that the small town would be overwhelmed by an influx of thousands of visitors in 2012, even suggesting he might call in the army. \"We've seen a huge rise in visitors\", Delord told \"The Independent\" in March 2012. \"Already this year more than 20,000 people have climbed right to the top, and last year we had 10,000 hikers, which was a significant rise on the previous 12 months. They think Pic de Bugarach is 'un garage à ovnis' [a garage for UFOs]. The villagers are exasperated: the exaggerated importance of something which they see as completely removed from reality is bewildering. After 21 December, this will surely return to normal.\" In December 2012, the French government placed 100 police and firefighters around both Bugarach and Pic de Bugarach, limiting access to potential visitors. Ultimately, only about 1,000 visitors appeared at the height of the \"event\". Two raves were foiled, 12 people had to be turned away from the peak, and 5 people were arrested for carrying weapons. Jean-Pierre Delord was criticised by members of the community for failing to take advantage of the media attention and promote the region.\n\nThe Turkish village of Şirince, near Ephesus, expected to receive over 60,000 visitors on 21 December 2012, as New Age mystics believed its \"positive energy\" would aid in weathering the catastrophe. Only a fraction of that number actually arrived, with a substantial component being police and journalists, and the expected windfall failed to materialise.\n\nSimilarly, the pyramid-like mountain of Rtanj, in the Serbian Carpathians, attracted much apocalyptic attention, as many believed an artificial pyramid structure buried within it would emit a powerful force shield on the day, protecting those within it. Hotels around the base received up to 500 bookings a piece for rooms.\n\nIn Russia, inmates of a women's prison experienced \"a collective mass psychosis\" in the weeks leading up to the supposed doomsday, while residents of a factory town near Moscow reportedly emptied a supermarket of matches, candles, food and other supplies. The Minister of Emergency Situations declared in response that according to \"methods of monitoring what is occurring on the planet Earth\", there would be no apocalypse in December. When asked when the world would end in a press conference, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, \"In about 4.5 billion years.\"\n\nIn December 2012, Vatican astronomer Rev. José Funes wrote in the Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\" that apocalyptic theories around 2012 were \"not even worth discussing\".\n\nIn China, up to one thousand members of the Christian cult Almighty God were arrested after claiming that the end of b'ak'tun 13 marked the end of the world, and that it was time to overthrow Communism. Shoppers were reported to be hoarding supplies of candles in anticipation of coming darkness, while online retailer Taobao sold tickets to board Noah's Ark to customers. Bookings for wedding ceremonies on 21 December 2012 were saturated in several cities. On 14 December 2012, a man in Henan province attacked and wounded twenty-three children with a knife. Authorities suspected the man had been \"influenced\" by the prediction of the upcoming apocalypse. Academics in China attributed the widespread belief in the 2012 doomsday in their country to a lack of scientific literacy and a mistrust of the government-controlled media.\n\nOn 6 December 2012, Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard delivered a hoax speech for the radio station triple J in which she declared \"My dear remaining fellow Australians; the end of the world is coming. Whether the final blow comes from flesh-eating zombies, demonic hell-beasts or from the total triumph of K-Pop, if you know one thing about me it is this – I will always fight for you to the very end.\" Radio announcer Neil Mitchell described the hoax as \"immature\" and pondered whether it demeaned her office.\n\nThose Mesoamerican countries that once formed part of the Maya civilization – Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador – all organized festivities to commemorate the end of b'ak'tun 13 at the largest Maya sites. On 21 December 2011, the Maya town of Tapachula in Chiapas activated an eight-foot digital clock counting down the days until the end of b'ak'tun 13. On 21 December 2012, major events took place at Chichén Itzá in Mexico and Tikal in Guatemala. In El Salvador, the largest event was held at Tazumal, and in Honduras, at Copán. In all of these archaeological sites, Maya rituals were held at dawn led by shamans and Maya priests.\n\nOn the final day of b'ak'tun 13, residents of Yucatán and other regions formerly dominated by the ancient Maya celebrated what they saw as the dawn of a new, better era. According to official figures from Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH), about 50,000 people visited Mexican archaeological sites on 21 December 2012. Of those, 10,000 visited Chichén Itzá in Yucatán, 9,900 visited Tulum in Quintana Roo, and 8,000 visited Palenque in Chiapas. An additional 10,000 people visited Teotihuacan near Mexico City, which is not a Maya site. The main ceremony in Chichén Itzá was held at dawn in the plaza of the Temple of Kukulkán, one of the principal symbols of Maya culture. The archaeological site was opened two hours early to receive thousands of tourists, mostly foreigners who came to participate in events scheduled for the end of b'ak'tun 13.\n\nThe fire ceremony at Tikal was held at dawn in the main plaza of the Temple of the Great Jaguar. The ceremony was led by Guatemalan and foreign priests. The President of Guatemala, Otto Pérez, and of Costa Rica, Laura Chinchilla, participated in the event as special guests. During the ceremony the priests asked for unity, peace and the end of discrimination and racism, with the hope that the start of a new cycle will be a \"new dawn\". About 3,000 people participated in the event.\n\nMost of these events were organized by agencies of the Mexican and Central American governments, and their respective tourism industries expected to attract thousands of visitors. Mexico is visited by about 22 million foreigners in a typical year. However, in 2012, the national tourism agency expected to attract 52 million visitors just to the regions of Chiapas, Yucatán, Quintana Roo, Tabasco and Campeche. A Maya activist group in Guatemala, Oxlaljuj Ajpop, objected to the commercialization of the date. A spokesman from the Conference of Maya Ministers commented that for them the Tikal ceremony is not a show for tourists but something spiritual and personal. The secretary of the Great Council of Ancestral Authorities commented that living Maya felt they were excluded from the activities in Tikal. This group held a parallel ceremony, and complained that the date has been used for commercial gain. In addition, before the main Tikal ceremony, about 200 Maya protested the celebration because they felt excluded. Most modern Maya were indifferent to the ceremonies, and the small number of people still practising ancient rites held solemn, more private ceremonies.\n\nOsvaldo Gomez, a technical advisor to the Tikal site, complained that many visitors during the celebration had illegally climbed the stairs of the Temple of the Masks, causing \"irreparable\" damage.\n\nIn Brazil, Décio Colla, the Mayor of the City of São Francisco de Paula, Rio Grande do Sul, mobilized the population to prepare for the end of the world by stocking up on food and supplies. In the city of Corguinho, in the Mato Grosso do Sul, a colony was built for survivors of the expected tragedy. In Alto Paraíso de Goiás, the hotels also made specific reservations for prophetic dates. On 11 October 2012, in the Brazilian city of Teresina, police interrupted what was believed to have been an attempted mass suicide by up to one hundred members of a cult headed by self-proclaimed prophet Luis Pereira dos Santos, who predicted the end of the world on the feast day of Our Lady of Aparecida. Santos was subsequently arrested.\n\nIn Bolivia, President Evo Morales participated in Quechua and Aymara rituals, organized with government support, to commemorate the Southern solstice that took place in Isla del Sol, in the southern part of Lake Titicaca. During the event, Morales proclaimed the beginning of \"Pachakuti\", meaning the world's wake up to a culture of life and the beginning of the end to wild capitalism, and he proposed to dismantle the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.\n\nOn 21 December 2012, the Uritorco in Córdoba, Argentina was closed, as a mass suicide there had been proposed on Facebook.\n\nIn the United States, sales of private underground blast shelters increased noticeably after 2009, with many construction companies' advertisements calling attention to the 2012 apocalypse. In Michigan, schools were closed for the Christmas holidays two days early, in part because rumours of the 2012 apocalypse were raising fears of repeat shootings similar to that at Sandy Hook. American reality TV stars Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt revealed that they had spent most of their $10 million of accumulated earnings by 2010 because they believed the world would end in 2012.\n\nThe 2012 phenomenon was discussed or referenced in several media. Several TV documentaries, as well as some contemporary fictional references to the year 2012, referred to 21 December as the day of a cataclysmic event.\n\nThe UFO conspiracy TV series \"The X-Files\" cited 22 December 2012 as the date for an alien colonization of the Earth and mentioned the Mayan calendar \"stopping\" on this date. The History Channel aired a handful of special series on doomsday that included analysis of 2012 theories, such as \"Decoding the Past\" (2005–2007), \"2012, End of Days\" (2006), \"Last Days on Earth\" (2006), \"Seven Signs of the Apocalypse\" (2009), and \"Nostradamus 2012\" (2008). The Discovery Channel also aired \"2012 Apocalypse\" in 2009, suggesting that massive solar storms, magnetic pole reversal, earthquakes, supervolcanoes, and other drastic natural events could occur in 2012. In 2012, the National Geographic Channel launched a show called \"Doomsday Preppers\", a documentary series about survivalists preparing for various cataclysms, including the 2012 doomsday.\n\nHundreds of books were published on the topic. The bestselling book of 2009, Dan Brown's \"The Lost Symbol\", featured a coded mock email number (2456282.5) that decoded to the Julian date for 21 December 2012.\n\nIn cinema, the 2009 disaster film \"2012\" was inspired by the phenomenon, and advance promotion prior to its release included a stealth marketing campaign in which TV spots and websites from the fictional \"Institute for Human Continuity\" called on people to prepare for the end of the world. As these promotions did not mention the film itself, many viewers believed them to be real and contacted astronomers in panic. Although the campaign was heavily criticized, the film became one of the most successful of its year, grossing nearly $770 million worldwide. An article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" attributed the widespread fear of the 2012 phenomenon in China to the film, which was a smash hit in that country because it depicted the Chinese building \"survival arks\". Lars von Trier's 2011 film \"Melancholia\" featured a plot in which a planet emerges from behind the Sun on a collision course with Earth. Announcing his company's purchase of the film, the head of Magnolia Pictures said in a press release, \"As the 2012 apocalypse is upon us, it is time to prepare for a cinematic last supper\".\n\nThe phenomenon also inspired several rock and pop music hits. As early as 1997, \"A Certain Shade of Green\" by Incubus referred to the mystical belief that a shift in perception would arrive in 2012 (\"Are you gonna stand around till 2012 A.D.? / What are you waiting for, a certain shade of green?\"). More recent hits include \"2012 (It Ain't the End)\" (2010) performed by Jay Sean and \"Till the World Ends\" (2011) performed by Britney Spears. Towards mid-December 2012, an internet hoax related to South Korean singer Psy being one of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse was widely circulated around social media platforms. The hoax purported that once Psy's \"Gangnam Style\" YouTube video amassed a billion views, the world would end. Indian composer A. R. Rahman, known for \"Slumdog Millionaire\", released his single \"Infinite Love\" to \"instill faith and optimism in people\" prior to the predicted doomsday. The artwork for All Time Low's 2012 album \"Don't Panic\" satirizes various cataclysmic events associated with the world ending on 21 December 2012.\n\nA number of brands ran commercials tied to the 2012 apocalypse in the months and days leading to the date. In February 2012, American automotive company General Motors aired an advertisement during the annual Super Bowl football game in which a group of friends drove Chevrolet Silverados through the ruins of human civilization following the 2012 apocalypse, while on 17 December 2012, Jell-O ran an ad saying that offering Jell-O to the Mayan gods would appease them into sparing the world. John Verret, Professor of Advertising at Boston University, questioned the utility of tying large sums of money to such a unique and short-term event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54129701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54129701", "title": "999 phone charging myth", "text": "999 phone charging myth\n\nThe 999 phone charging myth is an urban myth which claims that if a mobile phone has low battery then dialing 999 (or any regional emergency number) charges the phone so it has more power. This was confirmed as a myth by several British police forces who publicly cited the dangers of making such calls.\n\nThe basis for the myth was a feature of BlackBerry phones: If the battery level was too low, the phone automatically locked down phone features and shut down the phone radio for all calls except to emergency services. People discovered that if they dialed 999 then immediately hung up, it would override the shutdown for a number of minutes so that phone calls could be made.\n\nThe myth is believed to have originated in BlackBerry forums around 2012. In 2013, Derbyshire Constabulary released a press release telling people not to believe the myth that calling 999 charges the battery. They cited that for every silent or aborted 999 call received, the operators have to call the person back to make sure there is no emergency. These hoax calls waste police time that could potentially block responses to real emergencies. Bedfordshire Police also released information asking people not to call 999 except for an emergency as they stated that in the last six months of 2013 they had an increase in hoax 999 calls from people believing the myth. Other sources supplemented these press releases by stating that misusing the 999 number is illegal. They also stated that the police could cut off telephones being used to abuse the 999 service.\n\nA related myth emerged: that when Siri on an iPhone is told, \"Charge my phone to 100%\", the phone would call emergency services as a secret safety code. This was later traced to a bug in Apple programming that was fixed within a day. The myth continued to spread on social media as a prank.\n"}
{"id": "14697061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14697061", "title": "AIDSRide", "text": "AIDSRide\n\nThe AIDSRides were a series of fundraising events organised by Pallotta TeamWorks which raised more than $105 million for critical AIDS services and medical research. About half of the money raised directly benefited AIDS patients.\n\nIn 2001, the San Francisco AIDS Foundation and the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center ended their partnership with the California AIDSRide over concerns that not enough money was going to the charities. They hired Honeycutt Group, a consulting firm started by three former Pallotta TeamWorks employees, to organize AIDS/LifeCycle, a similar event. Dan Pallotta unsuccessfully sued the \"copycat\" event, but the competition and surrounding controversy made 2002 the event's last year.\n\nPallotta TeamWorks has organised several AIDSRides in North America:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30890892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30890892", "title": "Abu Salim prison", "text": "Abu Salim prison\n\nAbu Salim prison () is a maximum security prison in Tripoli, Libya. The prison was notorious during the rule of Muammar Gaddafi for alleged mistreatment and human rights abuses, including a massacre in 1996 in which Human Rights Watch estimated that 1,270 prisoners were killed. \n\nIn 2011, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nAmnesty International has called for an independent inquiry into deaths that occurred there on 29 June 1996, an incident which some have referred to as the Abu Salim prison massacre. Human Rights Watch believes that 1,270 prisoners were killed. HRW also calls the prison a \"site of egregious human rights violations.\" Human Rights Watch also stated in a report that they were unable to independently verify the allegations of a massacre. The claims cited by Human Rights Watch are based on the testimony of a single former inmate, Hussein Al Shafa’i, who stated that he did not witness a prisoner being killed: \"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot...\" The figure of over 1200 killed was arrived at by Al Shafa’i allegedly calculating the number of meals he prepared when he was working in the prison's kitchen. Al Shafa'i stated \"I was asked by the prison guards to wash the watches that were taken from the bodies of the dead prisoners...\"\n\nLibyan Government rejected the allegations about a massacre in Abu Salim. In May 2005, the Internal Security Agency head of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya told Human Rights Watch that the prisoners captured some guards and stole weapons from the prison cache. The prisoners and guards died as security personnel tried to restore order, and the government opened an investigation on the order of the Minister of Justice. The Libyan official stated that more than 400 prisoners escaped Abu Salim in four separate break-outs prior to and after the incident: in July 1995, December 1995, June 1996 and July 2001. Among the escapees were men who then fought with Islamist militant groups in Afghanistan, Iran, and Iraq.\n\nJournalist Lindsey Hilsum explored the topic in her 2012 book \"Sandstorm\". She met with a number of families who claimed their family members had been at the prison. She describes the massacre number as an uncertain estimate for several reasons; the main problem being the government's long term silence about the whereabouts of prisoners and their condition. She also describes eyewitness accounts of a mass shooting.\n\nThe families of the disappeared and killed formed a loose association and held numerous protests in Benghazi. Lawyer Fathi Terbil helped represent them. He was arrested several times for his trouble. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi (son of the dictator) tried to resolve the issue via his Gaddafi International Foundation for Charity Associations circa 2007.\n\nThe Libyan government said in 2009, then controlled by the same people as at the time of the event, that the killings took place amid confrontation between the government and rebels from the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, and that some 200 guards were killed too. In January 2011, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya confirmed that it was carrying out an investigation into the incident along with international investigators. Statements made in an interview with the BBC by the captured Mansour Dhao, a prominent figure in the Gaddafi regime, provides further evidence for the massacre.\n\nWhen the Arab Spring occurred in Tunisia and Egypt, lawyer Fathi Terbil was amongst the first arrested by Libyan authorities trying to stave off a revolution. The Abu Salim families gathered to protest his imprisonment, and this gathering eventually contributed to the revolution in Libya. Abdullah Senussi, Gaddafi's intelligence chief suspected by many to have been involved in the 1996 massacre, reportedly tried to ask Terbil to make the protests stop.\n\nOn 25 September 2011, soon after the previous government had been overthrown, the governing National Transitional Council (NTC) said that a mass grave had been discovered outside the prison. Khalid al-Sherif, a military spokesman for the NTC, said that the grave was located based on information from captured former regime officials. He stated: \"We have discovered the truth about what the Libyan people have been waiting for many years, and it is the bodies and remains of the Abu Salim massacre.\" Ibrahim Abu Shim, a member of the committee looking for mass graves, said that investigators believed 1,270 people were buried in the grave but the NTC needed help from the international community to find and identify the remains as they lacked the sophisticated equipment needed for DNA testing. However, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nBefore the civil war, the lawyer Abdul Hafiz Ghoga took the legal representation for the families of people killed in the massacre and negotiated with Gaddafi about compensations. During the uprise Ghoga became speaker of the National Transitional Council, in April 2011 vice president, and held this position until January 2012.\n\n\nOn 24 January 2010, the Libyan authorities blocked access to YouTube after it featured videos of demonstrations in the Libyan city of Benghazi by families of detainees who were killed in Abu Salim prison in 1996, and videos of family members of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi at parties.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War the prison was captured by the rebels on 24 August and all prisoners were set free. Among those confirmed to have been freed was volunteer rebel fighter Matthew VanDyke from Baltimore, Maryland, USA, a member of a rebel unit captured by the Libyan Army in Brega in March. An international campaign to free VanDyke had described him as a \"writer and journalist,\" but it was later revealed that he was a rebel fighter and prisoner of war.\n"}
{"id": "13416327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13416327", "title": "Accident-proneness", "text": "Accident-proneness\n\nAccident-proneness, also known as clumsiness, is the idea that some people have a greater predisposition than others to suffer accidents, such as car crashes and industrial injuries. It may be used as a reason to deny any insurance on such individuals.\n\nThe early work on this subject dates back to 1919, in a study by Greenwood and Woods, who studied workers at a British munitions factory and found that accidents were unevenly distributed among workers, with a relatively small proportion of workers accounting for most of the accidents.\nFurther work on accident-proneness was carried out in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe subject is still being studied actively. Research into accident-proneness is of great interest in safety engineering, where human factors such as pilot error, or errors by nuclear plant operators, can have massive effects on the reliability and safety of a system.\nOne of the areas of most interest and more profound research is the Aeronautical area, where accidents have been reviewed from psychological and human factors, to mechanical and technical failures. There has been many conclusive studies, that present that human factor has great influence on the results of those occurrences.\n\nStatistical evidence clearly demonstrates that different individuals can have different rates of accidents from one another; for example, young male drivers are the group at highest risk for being involved in car accidents. There also seems to be substantial variation in personal accident rates between individuals.\n\nHowever, a number of studies have cast doubt on whether accident-proneness actually exists as a \"distinct, persistent and independently verifiable\" physiological or psychological syndrome. Although substantial research has been devoted to this subject, there still seems to be no conclusive evidence either for or against the existence of accident proneness in this sense.\n\nThe exact nature and causes of accident-proneness, assuming that it exists as a distinct entity, are unknown. Factors which have been considered as associated with accident-proneness have included absent-mindedness, clumsiness, carelessness, impulsivity, predisposition to risk-taking, and unconscious desires to create accidents as a way of achieving secondary gains.\nBroad studies on the speed and accuracy using a specially designed test sheet of finding a specific figure on various people as Japanese, Brazil born Japanese, Chinese, Russian, Spanish, Filipinos, Thai and Central Americans with different educational backgrounds. The studies have revealed that educational background or study experience is the key factor of concentration capability. Screening new employees using this test gave drastic decrease of work accidents in several companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31256327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256327", "title": "Accidental incest", "text": "Accidental incest\n\nAccidental incest is sexual activity or marriage between persons who were unaware of a family relationship between them which would be considered incestuous.\n\nThe laws of many jurisdictions void incestuous marriages, even if entered into without awareness of the kinship. If an incestuous relationship is suspected, DNA testing may be used. Some jurisdictions permit offspring of IVF donations access to donation records or to adoption records.\n\nPeople may be unaware of a kinship relationship between them in a number of circumstances. For example, artificial insemination with an anonymous donated sperm may result in offspring being unaware of any biological relations, such as paternity or half siblings. To reduce the likelihood of accidental incest, fertility clinics usually limit the number of times that a donor's sperm may be used. Some countries have laws limiting the number of children a donor can father. while others limit sperm donations based on family numbers to enable one family to have true siblings.\n\nTaiwan allows those conceived by artificial means to find out if they are related to a person they are considering marrying.\n\nAccidental incest may also arise in the following situations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21188248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21188248", "title": "Analog-to-digital timeline", "text": "Analog-to-digital timeline\n\nThis page serves as a timeline to show when analog devices were first made with digital circuits and systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31137615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31137615", "title": "Andrea Elizabeth Michaels", "text": "Andrea Elizabeth Michaels\n\nAndrea Elizabeth Michaels (née Gerson; born December 14, 1943) is an American meeting and event producer, author and speaker. As founder of an international event production company, Extraordinary Events, Michaels and her company produce large corporate events. She is an original member of the special events industry Hall of Fame and the author of a business biography, and is featured in three anthologies.\n\nAndrea Michaels was born in the Arbe concentration camp (today Rab, Croatia, on the northern shore of the Adriatic Sea) to Lelja Kauders (b. Zagreb, Yugoslavia, August 25, 1923 – d. Los Angeles California, May 30, 2009). Michaels and her mother, along with her mother's Jewish parents, Paul (Palvo) Kauders and Elza Ackerman Kauders, escaped in a small boat across the Adriatic to Italy. Michaels lived in Italy to the age of four with her grandparents until her mother, who had married an American pilot, sent for her to come live in America. The marriage ended, and after Michaels arrived in America, her mother married Peter Gerson, who adopted Andrea and moved the family from Silverlake, California, to Hollywood. When Michaels was ten, the family moved to Burbank, California.\n\nAn only child Michaels graduated from Burbank High School in 1961. Michaels attended the University of California at Berkeley in 1961 and 1962, transferring to the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) before marrying Bob Spritz on February 1, 1964. The marriage lasted ten years, and they had a son, Jon (b. July 24, 1970). After her divorce from Spritz, she changed her last name as well as that of her son's to \"Michaels.\" Michaels returned to UCLA in 1970 and earned a degree, with honors, in Psychology.\n\nInstead of pursuing a career in Psychology, Michaels began working with the Ron Rubin Orchestras in 1973. During that time, she became interested in the event planning business when there was no formalized industry. She produced her first event in 1978—-a bicentennial celebration for Marsh McClellan Insurance Company. By 1982, the company had been restructured and renamed Michaels, Rubin and Associates. Michaels and Rubin dissolved their relationship in December 1988, and on that same day, Extraordinary Events was launched. At that time, Michaels began to bring to the corporate world the spectaculars that had been produced on football fields, Disneyland and in entertainment venues by the late Tommy Walker and the late Robert (Bob) Jani.\n\nExtraordinary Events has specialized in planning and producing corporate events globally including Europe, Asia, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Africa, Australia and New Zealand. In 2006, \"Special Events\" magazine listed Extraordinary Events as one of the \"Top 50 Event Planning Companies.\" The Los Angeles Business Journal named it Number 28 on its list of the \"Fastest Growing Private Companies\" in 2006, jumping from Number 80 in 2005 and then to Number 48 in 2005 and then to Number 48 in 2007.\n\nMichaels and her company began to incorporate charitable activities into its events with the rebuilding of an elementary school in Leona Vicario, Mexico, with client CEMEX, a concrete manufacturer, in 2005. The \"Los Angeles Business Journal\" and \"Financial and Insurance Meetings \" magazine covered the event.\n\nMichaels and Extraordinary Events have won the following awards:\n\nIn addition to her business biography, \"Reflections of a Successful Wallflower—Lessons in Business; Lessons in Life\", Michaels contributed and was featured in three business anthologies in 2010. They are: \"Stepping Stones to Success\", featuring Deepak Chopra, Jack Canfield, Andrea Michaels and Dr. Denis Waitley; \"Yes You Can! Reaching Your Potential While Achieving Greatness\", featuring Dr. Warren Bennis, Andrea Michaels and Jim Rohn and \"Bushido Business —The Fine Art of the Modern Professional\" with Tom Hopkins, Brian Tracy, Andrea Michaels and Stephen M. R. Covey.\n\nMichaels has authored several magazine articles. Two of the most recent ones were published in \"WE Magazine for Women\" and are entitled \"Growing a Business with Creative Thinking\", Part 1 and Part 2. Michaels is a regular contributor to \"Special Events\" magazine writing about her experiences speaking internationally. Michaels was also highlighted in Anaheim University's CEO Video Interview Series.\n\nMichaels has been the subject of numerous newspaper and magazine articles. A few include \"Smart Business,\" \"Antelope Valley Proz,\" \"Special Events\" magazine, \"Los Angeles Times,\" \"MICE Exchange,\" \"Southern California Meetings & Events,\" The \"Los Angeles Business Journal,\" \"Antelope Valley Proz,\" \"Special Events\" magazine, \"Los Angeles Times,\" \"MICE Exchange,\" \"Southern California Meetings & Events,\" The \"Los Angeles Business Journal,\" \"ExhibitorOnline,\" \"Event Solutions,\" \"All Business/Successful Meetings,\" and \"Meetings & Conventions.\"\n\nIn 2007, Michaels developed a mentor program to offer an in-the-field special event education and international exchange program to assist event newcomers. Michaels is currently a faculty member at California State University, Long Beach College of Continuing and Professional Education and teaches event management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43176195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43176195", "title": "Asia Tour", "text": "Asia Tour\n\nThe Asia Tour was planned to be the eleventh concert tour by Canadian singer Celine Dion. The tour was organized to support the English language album \"Loved Me Back to Life\", and was scheduled to take place in October and November 2014. It would have marked Dion's first concerts in Asia since the Taking Chances World Tour in 2008. While Japan and the Philippines were the only confirmed stops of the tour, it has been revealed that the singer was planned to be performing dates in several Asian countries for the very first time.\n\nThe tour was organized to support the English language album \"Loved Me Back to Life\", and was scheduled to take place in October and November 2014. Japan and the Philippines were officially announced. However, there were unofficial dates and venues for Taiwan, China, South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand but because of the cancellation the ticket were never put on sale. In total, 14 concerts were supposed to take place.\n\nCeline's concerts in Tokyo and Osaka sold out immediately after tickets went on sale.\n\nOn 13 August 2014, Dion has announced that the tour has been cancelled due to ongoing illness and family issues.\n\nAccording to a statement released by the singer:\n\nIn the official announcement for the Japan and Philippine tour, it was revealed that the impersonator Véronic DiCaire had been invited to join Celine as the opening act for these shows.\n\nThe official setlist had yet to be announced, although in an exclusive video message to her Japanese fans, Dion promised a new show featuring songs from her latest English album, \"Loved Me Back to Life\", as well as fan favorites from the past. Celine was also rehearsing one song in Japanese and one in Mandarin for the tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "18336087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18336087", "title": "Bloodline (2008 film)", "text": "Bloodline (2008 film)\n\nBloodline is a 2008 documentary film by Bruce Burgess, a filmmaker with an interest in paranormal claims, focused on the \"Jesus bloodline\" hypothesis and other elements of the book \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\".\n\nThe 2008 documentary was originally released in cinemas on 9 May. \"Ben Hammott\" relating to his alleged discoveries made in the vicinity of Rennes-le-Château since 1999; Burgess claims Ben Hammott would have found the treasure of Bérenger Saunière: a mummified corpse, which he believed were Mary Magdalene. In the film, Burgess interviews several people with alleged connections to the Priory of Sion, including a Gino Sandri and Nicolas Haywood. A book by one of the documentary's researchers, Rob Howells, entitled \"Inside the Priory of Sion: Revelations from the World's Most Secret Society - Guardians of the Bloodline of Jesus\" presented the version of the Priory of Sion as given in the 2008 documentary, which contained several erroneous assertions, such as the claim that Plantard believed in the Jesus bloodline hypothesis. By 21 March 2012 Ben Hammott confessed and apologised on Podcast interview (using his real name Bill Wilkinson) that everything to do with the tomb and related artifacts was a hoax; revealing that the actual tomb was now destroyed, being part of a full sized set located in a warehouse in England.\n\nBruce Burgess returned to the subject matter with \"The Bloodline of Christ\" that was shown in September 2013 on the Yesterday channel.\n"}
{"id": "36061626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36061626", "title": "Brian Worley", "text": "Brian Worley\n\nBrian Worley (born September 8, 1972) is an American reality television host, event planner, and wedding designer. Worley is the co-owner of Your BASH! Event Production where he has produced numerous events within the entertainment industry.\n\nWorley was born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana before he moved to Denver, Colorado at age 2 and Austin, Texas at age 12, where he and his younger sister were raised.\n\nWhile in high school, Worley worked as camp counselor for Lost Creek Country Club. By spring of 1992, Worley had gained work experience from 3 different jobs including a sales associate position with The Gap, a tour guide position with Disney World’s Great Movie Ride, where he also played the role of Sleeping Beauty's Prince Phillip and Disney’s character Goofy.\n\nWorley graduated cum laude from the University of North Texas with a degree in Radio, Television, and Film.\n\nWorley launched his first business in fashion with B Worley Designs, a clothing design company that expanded its business to stores throughout Texas. Although thriving as a new clothing company at the time, he pursued his true passion in wedding and event planning.\n\nWorley began his career working with “Entertainment Tonight,” MTV, numerous award shows, and high-profile personalities. Worley was soon donned the “event guru” and budget specialist, known to turn any ordinary event into an extraordinary event.\n\nWorley’s background in event production and design has led him to creating events such as the recent polo match featuring Prince William and Kate Middleton during their visit in the United States on July 8.\n\nOther events Brian has worked on include:\n\nBrian has been featured on the following shows and publications:\n\nWorley is known for being a green and eco-friendly advocate by implementing the philosophy to “reduce, reuse, and, recycle” through organic and pesticide-free food, bio-diesel generators, rented furniture, recycled fabric, drapes, and linens, and low watt/LED lighting. In 2011, Worley applied this idea through events like the Emmy Awards with 50% recycled material used on the red carpet and conserved 20% of the energy used in lighting.\n\nBrian Worley currently runs an ongoing blog sharing eco-friendly tips, do it yourself ideas, wedding and event planning guides, and links to his work.\n"}
{"id": "17866864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17866864", "title": "Carol McCain", "text": "Carol McCain\n\nCarol Shepp McCain (born February 19, 1938) is a former political aide and event planner who was director of the White House Visitors Office during the Reagan administration. She was the first wife of United States Senator John McCain.\n\nCarol Shepp was born in Pennsylvania to Joseph, an insurance agent, and Mary Shepp.\nShepp grew up in Lansdowne, Pennsylvania, outside Philadelphia. She graduated from Lansdowne-Aldan High School in 1955, winning a scholarship award.\n\nShepp attended Centenary Junior College for Women in Hackettstown, New Jersey, beginning in 1956. There she majored in English.\n\nShepp first met John McCain while he was attending the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis from 1954 to 1958. But, in 1958, she married one of his midshipman classmates, Alasdair E. Swanson, who had been a football and basketball star there. She and Swanson, who became a Navy pilot, had two children, Douglas (born 1959) and Andrew (born 1962), and lived in Pensacola, Florida. The Swansons divorced in June 1964, after she sued him for infidelity.\n\nShepp met John McCain again when he was stationed at the Naval Air Basic Training Command at Pensacola in 1964, and after her divorce from Swanson, the two began dating. Her future husband frequently took training flights from Florida up to Philadelphia to see her on weekends.\n\nOn July 3, 1965, Shepp and McCain married in Philadelphia. The ceremony was held at the home of the family that owned the well-known Old Original Bookbinder's seafood restaurant in Philadelphia; one of the Bookbinder family members was a close friend of Shepp from college.\n\nFollowing the wedding, McCain's new husband adopted her two children. Together, they had a daughter, Sidney, born in September 1966.\n\nJohn McCain was shot down over North Vietnam on October 26, 1967; he would remain a prisoner of war for five and a half years. During her husband's captivity, McCain raised their children in Orange Park, Florida, with the assistance of friends and neighbors in the Navy-oriented community. She sent frequent letters and packages to him, few of which the North Vietnamese let through. She became active in the POW/MIA movement, while those around her wore POW bracelets with her husband's name and capture date engraved on them.\n\nWhile visiting family and friends in the Philadelphia area on Christmas Eve 1969, McCain skidded and crashed into a telephone pole as she was navigating an icy, snowy, isolated portion of Pennsylvania Route 320 near Gulph Mills, Pennsylvania, driving alone. She was thrown from her car into the snow, going into shock; she thought she would never be seen and would die there. Hours later she was found and taken to Bryn Mawr Hospital. She suffered two smashed legs, a broken pelvis, broken arm, and a ruptured spleen. She spent six months in the hospital and underwent 23 operations over the following two years in order to rebuild her legs with rods and pins, and had extensive physical therapy. During this time her daughter stayed with her parents in Landsdowne while her sons stayed with friends in Florida.\n\nMcCain did not tell her husband about the accident in her letters, believing he already had enough to worry about. The U.S. State Department contacted her surgeon the next day with a warning; as the doctor later said: Businessman and POW advocate Ross Perot paid for McCain's medical care. She remained grateful to Perot, later remarking: \"The military families are in Ross's heart and in his soul...There are millions of us who are extremely grateful to Ross Perot\". Years after her husband found out about Perot's help, he said \"we loved him for it\". McCain was interviewed on \"CBS Evening News\" in 1970 and said Christmas had no meaning for her without her husband but that she carried on with it for their children.\n\nMcCain and her husband were reunited upon his release from captivity on March 14, 1973. She was now four inches (ten centimeters) shorter, in a wheelchair or on crutches, and substantially heavier than when he had last seen her. He was also visibly hampered by his injuries and the mistreatment he had endured from the North Vietnamese.\n\nFollowing her husband's return from Vietnam, the McCains became frequent guests of honor at dinners hosted by Governor of California Ronald Reagan and his wife Nancy Reagan, and the two couples became friendly. McCain was the Clay County director for Reagan's 1976 presidential campaign as he sought the Republican Party nomination. Her husband's assignments as executive officer, then commanding officer, of A-7 attack squadron VA-174 at NAS Cecil Field saw the couple leading an active social life. Such engagements included entertaining other naval personnel at their Orange Park home and Ponte Vedra beach house. McCain's marriage, however, began to falter due to her husband's partying away from home and extramarital affairs.\n\nHer husband's next assignment was to the Senate Liaison Office within the Navy's Office of Legislative Affairs. The McCains separated briefly, then reunited. His job was aided by the social life the couple conducted, entertaining Navy, government, and other persons three to four nights a week at their Alexandria, Virginia, home. During this time she worked for Congressman John H. Rousselot. By 1979, the McCains were still living together.\n\nIn April 1979, John McCain began a relationship with Cindy Lou Hensley, an Arizona special education teacher and Hensley & Co. heiress. McCain's husband pushed to end their marriage, and friends described her as being in shock. The McCains stopped cohabitating in January 1980; he filed for divorce in February 1980, which she accepted. When asked by a friend what had gone wrong, she said, \"It's just one of those things.\" The uncontested divorce became official in Fort Walton Beach on April 2, 1980.\n\nHer ex-husband would later state that he felt the demise of his marriage was due to his \"selfishness and immaturity more than it was to Vietnam, and I cannot escape blame by pointing a finger at the war. The blame was entirely mine.\" Regarding her divorce, McCain said, \"The breakup of our marriage was not caused by my accident or Vietnam or any of those things. I don't know that it might not have happened if John had never been gone. I attribute it more to John turning 40 and wanting to be 25 again than I do to anything else.\" John McCain's biographer Robert Timberg wrote, however, \"Vietnam did play a part, perhaps not the major part, but more than a walk-on.\" Ross Perot gave his own assessment of the McCain divorce: \"After he came home, he walked with a limp, she [Carol McCain] walked with a limp. So he threw her over for a poster girl with big money from Arizona [Cindy McCain] and the rest is history.\" McCain's three children were initially upset with their father about the divorce, but later reconciled with him.\n\nThe divorce settlement afforded McCain full custody of her three children as well as alimony, child support, college tuition for their children, houses in Virginia and Florida, and lifelong financial support for her continuing medical treatment. She was sued by her former mother-in-law, Roberta McCain, in 1980 for return of personal property, with the suit settled out of court in 1981.\n\nDespite the divorce, McCain remained on good terms with her ex-husband, supporting him in his subsequent political campaigns. She refused to discuss her marriage with an election opponent of her ex-husband's in 1982 who was seeking negative information about him, telling the opponent that \"a gentleman never would have called.\" During his 2008 presidential campaign, McCain said of her former husband: \"He's a good guy. We are still good friends. He is the best man for president.\"\n\nMcCain moved to La Mesa, California, where she lived for several months with the family of top Reagan associate Edwin Meese. She became a personal assistant to Nancy Reagan in the fall of 1979, working with her as a press assistant on Ronald Reagan's 1980 presidential campaign, and then worked on the 1980 Republican National Convention. She was director of the 1981 Reagan inaugural ball, and as the Reagan administration began, she handled scheduling for the First Lady and the Reagan children.\n\nIn 1981 she became Director of the White House Visitors Office. There she planned tours and dealt with the pleas of different groups for the limited slots available. She also dealt with demands from Washington officials, including a dispute about tour slots between Nancy Reagan and New York Congressman Thomas Downey. Regarding the pressures of her job, she said cheerfully, \"I'm always in tears, but I love the job. I'm really having a ball.\" During the early 1980s recession, she declared that the White House tours were fully booked even when other Washington attractions saw declining attendance; her office processed well over one million visits a year. She was a well-liked presence on the Washington social scene.\n\nBetween 1981 and 1986, she greatly expanded the annual White House Easter Egg Roll, adding participatory activities and doubling the size of the crowds attending. The \"Washington Post\" likened her \"extravaganza-loving\" event style to that of Cecil B. DeMille. She was also involved in planning South Lawn State Arrival Ceremonies, as well as a national Christmas celebration.\n\nShe left the White House Visitors Office position in January 1987 to join Philadelphia-based We the People 200, Inc., which was the organization planning the celebration for the 200th anniversary of the United States Constitution that year. She was named programming director, part of We the People 200's senior management team. The bicentennial project was already troubled by lack of corporate financial sponsorship and persistent internal conflicts; the high salaries of McCain and other senior staff came under some criticism, but were defended by the organization's president as justified based upon age and experience.\n\nBy 1990, she was a spokesperson for Washington, Inc., a large event planning company. During 1991, she was a spokesperson for the Desert Storm Homecoming Foundation, which held a $12 million victory celebration and memorial in Washington in June 1991 following the conclusion of the Gulf War and Operation Desert Storm. She later worked in press relations for the National Soft Drink Association in Washington.\n\nIn 2003, McCain retired and moved to a bungalow in Virginia Beach. While she has had romantic relationships since her divorce, McCain has not remarried. A friend of the family, who was interviewed by the \"Washington Post\" in 2008, recounted McCain's reasoning why she never remarried: \"She had a lot of boyfriends. She was going out with one fellow who was so terrific. And I said: 'He's so in love with you. You'll have a terrific life together.' She said, 'No, I don't think so.' She's never fallen in love with anyone else. [John McCain] was a hard act to follow.\"\n"}
{"id": "20261829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261829", "title": "Chronology of the Great Famine", "text": "Chronology of the Great Famine\n\nThe Chronology of the Great Famine ( or \"An Drochshaol\", litt: \"The Bad Life\") documents a period of Irish history between 1845 and 1852 during which time the population of Ireland was reduced by 20 to 25 percent. The proximate cause was famine resulting from a potato disease commonly known as late blight. Although blight ravaged potato crops throughout Europe during the 1840s, the impact and human cost in Irelandwhere a third of the population was entirely dependent on the potato for foodwas exacerbated by a host of political, social and economic factors which remain the subject of historical debate.\n\nAn important and controversial point of debate, that is notable amongst Irish people, was that Irish food supplies were sufficient until it was taken away by the British the feed the British, and the landlords kept economic benefits to themselves. Some commentators and writers controversially compared this explanation to \"genocide\".\n\nAt the beginning of August, Sir Robert Peel, the British Prime Minister, received news of a potato disease in the South of England. This was the first recorded evidence that the 'blight' which had ravaged the potato crop in North America in 1843-1844 had crossed the Atlantic. Cecil Woodham-Smith would write that a failure in England would be serious, but for Ireland, it would be a disaster.\n\nFollowing earlier reports of incidences of the blight in England, on 13 September 1845 potato blight was first reported in Ireland. The crops at Dublin were suddenly perishing, it was reported in the \"Gardeners' Chronicle\", asking \"where will Ireland be in the event of a universal potato rot?\" The British Government were nevertheless optimistic through the next few weeks.\n\n\nThe principle of the Corn Laws had been to keep the price of home-grown grain up. Duties on imported grain assured English farmers a minimum and profitable price. The burden of a higher price for bread was carried by the labouring classes, in particular factory workers and operatives. It was claimed that if the Corn Laws were repealed all those connected with the land would be ruined and the established social organisation of the country destroyed.\n\nAccording to Cecil Woodham-Smith, the rising wrath of Tories and landlords ensured \"all interest in Ireland was submerged.\" She writes that the Tory Mayor of Liverpool refused to call a meeting for the relief of Irish distress. She continues that the Mansion House Committee in Dublin was accused of 'deluding the public with a false alarm', and the blight itself 'was represented as the invention of agitators on the other side of the water'. The entanglement of the Irish famine with the repeal of the Corn Laws, she says, was a key misfortune for Ireland. The potato failure was eclipsed by the domestic issue of Corn Law repeal. The Irish famine, she writes, \"slipped into the background.\"\n\n\nThe first deaths from hunger took place in early 1846. In March Peel set up a programme of public works in Ireland but was forced to resign as Prime Minister on 29 June. The new Whig administration under Lord Russell, influenced by their laissez-faire belief that the market would provide the food needed then halted government food and relief works, leaving many hundreds of thousands of people without any work, money or food. Grain continued to be exported from the country. Private initiatives such as The Central Relief Committee of the Society of Friends (Quakers) attempted to fill the gap caused by the end of government relief and eventually the government reinstated the relief works, although bureaucracy slowed the release of food supplies. The blight almost totally destroyed the 1846 crop and the Famine worsened considerably. By December a third of a million destitute people were employed in public works.\n\nThere were average crop yields in the 1847 harvest, but due to lack of seed potatoes to plant, the crop was low. Crowds began to throng the public works during the last months of 1846 and the start of 1847, which promoted exactly the social conditions for the spread of 'famine fever.' In late January and February, legislation called the Temporary Relief Act went through the British parliament; it became popularly known as the Soup Kitchen Act and occasionally as Burgoyne's Act. This system of relief was designed to deliver cheap food directly and gratuitously to the destitute masses. This system of relief would be terminated in September. The government also announced an additional change in the system of relief. After August 1847, the permanent Poor Law was to be extended and was to become responsible for providing relief and as a result, all relief would be financed by the local Poor Law rates. This put impossible loads on local poor rates, particularly in the rural west and south. With the mass emigration of the famine era, the horrors of the 'coffin ships' and 1847 have ever since been associated in the popular mind, according to James S. Donnelly.\n\nIn December 1847 The Crime and Outrage Bill (Ireland) 1847 was enacted due to growing Irish nationalist agitation that was causing the British government concern about a possible violent rebellion against British rule in Ireland.\n\nThe bill gave the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland the power to organise the island into districts and bring police forces into them at the districts' expense. It limited who could own guns, and required all of the men in the district between the ages of 16 and 60 to assist in apprehending suspected murderers when landlords were killed, or else be guilty of a misdemeanour themselves.\n\nThe blight returned in 1848 and outbreaks of cholera were reported. Evictions became common among the Irish who could not keep up with the demands of their British landlords. Famine victims on outdoor relief peaked in July at almost 840,000 people. On 29 July an uprising against the government was led by William Smith O'Brien. After a skirmish at \"Widow McCormack's house\" in the village of Ballingarry, County Tipperary the leaders of the rebellion fled to America or were sentenced to transportation.\n\nThe potato crop failed again in 1849 and famine was accompanied by cholera outbreaks. This deadly cholera epidemic killed one of Ireland's greatest poets: James Clarence Mangan.\n\nThe Famine ended.\n\nBy 1851 census figures showed that the population of Ireland had fallen to 6,575,000 – a drop of 1,600,000 in ten years. Cormac Ó Gráda and Joel Mokyr have described the 1851 census as a famous but flawed source. They contend that the combination of institutional and individuals figures gives \"an incomplete and biased count\" of fatalities during the famine. The famine left in its wake up to a million dead and another million emigrated. The famine caused a sense of lasting bitterness by the Irish towards the British government, whom many blamed — then and now — for the starvation of so many people. The fall-out of the famine continued for decades afterwards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21219455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21219455", "title": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign", "text": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign\n\nThis is a chronicle of important events that took place under the Shunzhi Emperor of the Qing Dynasty (1636–1912) in what is now China. It spans from the death of his predecessor Hong Taiji (r. 1626–1643) in September 1643, to the emperor's own death on 5 February 1661, seven days into the eighteenth year of the Shunzhi reign period. These dates do not correspond perfectly with the Shunzhi era itself, which started on 8 February 1644—on New Year's Day of the lunisolar year following the emperor's accession—and ended on 17 February 1662 (the last day of the 18th year of Shunzhi), more than one solar year after the emperor's death. The posthumous events related to the Shunzhi Emperor's burial and posthumous cult are also included.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986491", "title": "Disaster area", "text": "Disaster area\n\nA disaster area is a region or a locale, heavily damaged by either natural, technological or social hazards. Disaster areas affect the population living in the community by dramatic increase in expense, loss of energy, food and services; and finally increase the risk of disease for citizens. An area that has been struck with a natural, technological or sociological hazard that opens the affected area for national or international aid.\n\nA natural hazard is a negative process of phenomena created naturally (tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes) that will affect people or the environment.\n\nTornadoes are narrow aggressively rotating mixtures of air that come from the base of a thunderstorm, being the most violent of storms. Tornadoes are usually hard to see unless they form a condensations funnel made from:- dust, water droplets and debris. Tornadoes take place in several parts of the world, such as Australia, Europe, Africa but mostly occur in the United States, Argentina, and Bangladesh.\n\nHurricanes, cyclones, tropical storms and typhoons can be referred to as the same. They combine low pressure and strong winds that rotate counter clockwise in the northern hemisphere and clockwise in the southern hemisphere. Tropical cyclones have a low pressure center, rain and strong winds. They usually initiate over tropical or subtropical waters. Hurricanes can be predicted several days before they hit and can be very destructive and destroy homes and some other buildings. Cyclones, although they are the same type of storm, are harder to predict before a few days like hurricanes thus giving people only a few hours of notice to evacuate their homes. In this case there are far more deaths from flooding and high tides. A recent (2012) example of a hurricane is Hurricane Sandy, which was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States, leaving millions without power and a few homeless.\n\nFloods take place when water overflows or submerges land that is usually parched. The most common way is when rivers or streams overflow their banks. A floodplain is produced when water from a rivers spreads through the land from excessive rain, rapid ice melting, unfortunately placed beaver dam, and ruptured dam. There are two types of floods: general and flash floods. General floods are predicted well in advance and usually cause the destruction of housing, people and crops. Flash floods come without warning and are sudden and extreme: A large volume of water flows rapidly and people have to make quick movements if they do not want to be caught in the flood. They have to find high safe ground where the water will not reach them.\n\nWhen two blocks of the earth suddenly slip past each other in the fault of the earth, it is called an earthquake. Energy released in many forms moves in all directions and causes the ground to shake. Sometimes earthquakes may have foreshocks, which are smaller earthquakes that occur in the same region which is followed by a larger earthquake. The larger earthquake, called the mainshock, always has aftershocks that follow it. Aftershocks can continue of hours, weeks, months and sometimes even years depending on how big the mainshock was. Earthquakes usually occur on active faults which define major tectonic plates on the Earth. 90% of the world’s earthquakes occur along plate boundaries. Earthquakes can cause much damage, mainly from the ground shaking and leaving cracks in the ground. Sometimes it can also cause buildings to collapse and cause deaths.\n\nThere are several technical hazards one should be aware of as they pose a threat humans and their values. These hazards are measured in terms of the risk they pose to the community using them. Technical hazards are classified by a source, specifically speaking; they can fall under automotive emissions, medical radiation, explosions and air pollution (environmental) hazards. The quality of the hazard determines the safety precautions that are taken. For example, hazards can be a risk to an individual or a risk to the population. If the population is at risk with the hazard, there will be more priorities for the management of the hazardous material. These hazardous materials can cause illness or even death to an individual if they are not address accordingly, so it is crucial for them to inform the public about these technical hazards.\n\nThere are several thoughts that come to mind when one thinks of the word “nuclear”, whether it be basic chemistry or highly complex explosives; nuclear accidents, nuclear incidences or nuclear terrorism are definitely a threat to the community or the world in that matter. But what is nuclear terrorism exactly? A \"nuclear accident, incident, or act of terrorism is an unpredictable, unusual and unwanted event involving radiation and/or radioactive materials.\" To specifically distinguish between the three, nuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. Nuclear incidents on the other hand are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” \n\nNuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. There are several examples of these nuclear accidents taken place around the world. To start off, a prime example of a nuclear accident would be Palo mares B-52 Accident. On January 17, 1966, a U.S. Air Force B-52 bomber collided with a mid-tanker airplane that was being refueled at 31000 feet. When the two airplanes collided, the tanker airplane exploded completely killing all crew members, while the B-52 bomber split in half killing a small proportion of the crew. When the airplane split in half, four bombs dropped from the sky. Two of them detonated, causing 2 kilometers of land to be contaminated by radioactive plutonium. The fourth explosive was recovered when it was discovered that it landed on the sea. The soil on the contaminated area had to be removed and placed in barrels, to reduce the amount of pollution having been caused by the nuclear explosive.\n\nNuclear incidents are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” A Secondary example would be the Johnston Atoll Incident that occurred on July 25, 1962. They decided to conduct the experiment at Christmas Island on Johnson Atoll, where they set off 36 nuclear explosions. One of the missile launches went wrong as it malfunctioned when trying to launch. The leaders decided to detonate the missile before it launched. When it detonated, the entire island was covered with radioactive plutonium. The witnesses claimed that 85% of the people suffered from radioactive contamination that created cancer and other radioactive related diseases. Plus those who were present at the site of the explosion suffered from infertility, and other body deformations.\n\nSociological hazards that create a disaster area are riots, terrorism, and war.\n\nA riot is defined as a noisy, violent public disturbance caused by a group or a crowd (three or more people) usually protesting against another group or government policy in the streets. The UK London riot in August 2011, for example, was started due to the shooting of Mark Duggan by the London police. The rioters came together destroying neighborhoods and streets violently damaging property to protest the police's actions that happened a few days prior. Riots increase expenses to repair costly damages putting the city in distress.\n\nTerrorism is defined as acts of violence and threats by a group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons. Terrorism occurs with an unexpected attack on non-combatants to create fear and panic having a detrimental consequence. Terrorist attacks create a massive, costly impact on the society. Not only is there large amount of property damage that may not be able to be repaired, there is also a large impact on citizens. People lose loved ones and suffer from their own health being impacted. The 9/11 terrorist attack on the twin towers in New York City marks one of the largest attacks on the United States. The Twin Towers were completely destroyed, damaging the surrounding buildings as well as causing the loss of many lives. People suffered from health problems from inhaling the sediments from the crumbling towers. The financial and social impact is still present thirteen years later in today's society. It is concluded that New York City still suffers from a post-disaster decline in financial services. New York City is a Disaster area due to the sociological hazard of terrorism.\n\nWar defined as a period where conflict is carried out as an act of hostility by armed forces between two or more nations or within a nation. Afghanistan, for example would be a sociological hazard causing disaster areas because it is considered a war zone. There has been an ongoing battle between United States and the Taliban in Afghanistan resulting in a war zone. Constant bombing and shooting marks up Afghanistan destructing property, land and causing threats to the civilians living in the area. Thousands have died and international aid for the cost of the war is implemented through tax payers. There is lack of resources due to the war area cutting off access to areas because of violence and danger.\n\nAn example of a technological disaster was the Fukushima disaster which was caused by a “massive 8.9-magnitude earthquake [that] hit northeast Japan”. This earthquake caused a nuclear explosion at a power plant; five reactors were damaged, causing the plant to go into an emergency state. All this occurred because there was a technological error in the system that cut down the regular and emergency power, causing the five reactors to destabilize and explode. This significant nuclear event had a big impact on the public health, as the area suffered nuclear contamination. The contamination caused all the crops such as milk, water or vegetables unsafe to eat. Hence all food grown in that area was banned from being sold. People in the “surroundings were moved to safe shelters,” and 3 people were affected by the radiation alone. Luckily, the “Japanese government [handled] the situation in the most efficient and amazing way that anyone can imagine.”\n\nA recent example of a disaster area caused by a natural hazard is Hurricane Sandy which hit October 27, 2012. It was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States. The storm killed about 50 people and many were also hit by falling trees. The hardest-hit state was New York, leaving millions without power and a few homeless. \n\nA disaster area caused by a sociological hazard would be the terrorist attack on September 11th, 2001, in New York City. Two airplanes struck the Twin Towers, causing them to crumble, killing many people in the process. The unexpected attack harmed many people and had a detrimental impact on New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10385691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10385691", "title": "Earth Hour", "text": "Earth Hour\n\nEarth Hour is a worldwide movement organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The event is held annually encouraging individuals, communities, and businesses to turn off non-essential electric lights for one hour, from 8:30 to 9:30 pm on a specific day towards the end of March, as a symbol of commitment to the planet. It was started as a lights-off event in Sydney, Australia, in 2007. Since then, it has grown to engage more than 7,000 cities and towns across 187 countries and territories.\n\nOccasionally, in years when Holy Saturday falls on the last Saturday of March, Earth Hour is moved a week early rather than its traditional date.\n\nEarth Hour 2018 was on March 24, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nEarth Hour 2019 is scheduled for March 30, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nIn 2004, confronted with scientific findings, WWF Australia met with advertising agency Leo Burnett Sydney to \"discuss ideas for engaging Australians on the issue of climate change\". The idea of a large scale switch off was coined and developed in 2006, originally under the working title \"The Big Flick\". WWF Australia presented their concept to Fairfax Media who, along with Sydney Lord Mayor Clover Moore, agreed to back the event. The 2007 Earth Hour was held on March 31 in Sydney, Australia at 7:30 pm, local time.\n\nIn October 2007 San Francisco ran its own \"Lights Out\" program inspired by the Sydney Earth Hour. After their successful event in October, the organizers decided to rally behind the Earth Hour being planned for March 2008.\n\nEarth Hour 2008 was held internationally on March 29, 2008 from 8 pm to 9 pm local time, marking the first anniversary of the event. 35 countries around the world participated as official flagship cities and over 400 cities also supported. Landmarks around the world turned off their non-essential lighting for Earth Hour. Some websites took part in the event, with Google's homepage going \"dark\" on the day .\n\nAccording to a Zogby International online survey, 36 million Americans—approximately 16 percent of the United States adult population—participated in Earth Hour 2008. The survey also showed there was a 4 percentage point increase in the level of interest in environmental issues such as climate change and pollution directly after the event (73 percent pre-event versus 77 percent post-event).\nTel Aviv scheduled their Earth Hour for Thursday March 27, 2008 to avoid conflict with Sabbath. Dublin moved their Earth Hour to between 9 and 10 pm due to their northern geographical location.\n\nAccording to WWF Thailand, Bangkok decreased electricity usage by 73.34 megawatts, which, over one hour, is equivalent to 41.6 tonnes of carbon dioxide. The \"Bangkok Post\" gave different figures of 165 megawatt-hours and 102 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This was noted to be significantly less than a similar campaign initiated by Bangkok's City Hall the previous year in May, when 530 megawatt-hours were saved and 143 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission were cut.\n\nPhilippine Electricity Market Corp. noted that power consumption dropped by about 78.63 megawatts in Metro Manila, and up to 102.2 megawatts on Luzon. The maximum demand drop of around 39 MW was experienced at 8:14 pm in Metro Manila and of around 116 MW at 8:34 pm in the Luzon grid.\n\nOntario used approximately 900 megawatt-hours less electrical energy during Earth Hour. At one point, Toronto saw an 8.7% reduction in consumption as compared to a typical March Saturday night.\n\nIreland, as a whole, had a reduction in electricity use of about 1.5% for the evening. In the three-hour period between 6:30 pm and 9:30 pm, there was a reduction of 50 megawatts, saving 150 megawatt-hours, or approximately 60 tonnes of carbon dioxide.\n\nIn Dubai, where external lighting on several major city landmarks was turned off and street lighting in selected areas was dimmed by 50%, the Electricity and Water Authority reported savings of 100 megawatt-hours of electricity. This represented a 2.4% reduction in demand compared to before the hour began.\nThe best result was from Christchurch, New Zealand, with the city reporting a drop of 13% in electricity demand. However, national grid operator Transpower reported that New Zealand's power consumption during Earth Hour was 335 megawatts, higher than the 328 megawatt average of the previous two Saturdays. Melbourne, Australia reduced demand by 10.1%. Sydney, being the city that participated in both the 2007 and 2008 Earth Hours, cut electricity consumption by 8.4%. This is less than the previous year's 10.2%; however, Earth Hour executive director Andy Ridley made the claim that after factoring margin of error, the participation in this city was the same.\n\nThe worst result was from Calgary, Canada. The city's power consumption actually went up 3.6% at the hour's peak electricity demand. Calgary's weather plays a large role in power consumption, and the city experienced weather 12 °C (around 22 °F) colder than the previous Saturday's recorded temperature in the inaugural year. Enmax, the city's power supplier, has confirmed that in all subsequent years, Calgarians have not supported the Earth Hour initiative, noting that power consumption changed only marginally during the hour in 2010 and 2011 (1% or less) and in 2012 and 2013 showed no appreciable change in power usage at all.\n\nEarth Hour 2009 was from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time, March 28, 2009. The campaign was titled \"Vote Earth\" and was dubbed \"the world's first global vote\" with one billion votes was the stated aim for Earth Hour 2009, in the context of the pivotal 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference. WWF reported that 88 countries and 4,159 cities participated in Earth Hour 2009, ten times more cities than Earth Hour 2008 had (2008 saw 400 cities participate).\n\nAmong the participants in 2009 was, for the first time, the United Nations Headquarters in New York City.\n\nIn Egypt, the lights went out on the Sphinx and the Great Pyramids of Giza from 8:30 to 9:30 pm.\n\nThe Philippines saw participation from 647 cities and towns; over 10 million Filipinos were estimated to have joined in the hour-long lights-off. This was followed by Greece with 484 cities and towns participating, and Australia with 309.\n\nDespite official organizers WWF stating that the event is not about the reduction in electricity, a number of public institutions reported on electricity savings in their cities to see participation numbers. The Canadian province of Ontario, excluding the city of Toronto, saw a decrease of 6% in electricity usage while Toronto saw a decrease of 15.1% (nearly doubled from 8.7% the previous year) as many businesses darkened, including the landmark CN Tower.\n\nThe Philippines was able to save 611 MWh of electricity during the time period, which is said to be equivalent to shutting down a dozen coal-fired power plants for an hour.\n\nSwedish electricity operator Svenska Kraftnät recorded a 2.1% decrease in power consumption from its projected figure between 8 pm and 9 pm. The following hour, the corresponding number was 5%. This is equivalent to the consumption of approximately half a million households out of the total 4.5 million households in Sweden.\n\nAccording to Vietnam Electricity Company, Vietnam's electricity demand fell 140 MWh during Earth Hour.\n\n96 countries and territories on 6 continents participated in the event in 2009.\n\n\nMalaysia's 8TV halted transmission for one hour starting from 20:30\n\nEarth Hour 2010 was held from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time on March 27. In Israel, the hour was held on April 22.\n\n126 countries participated in Earth Hour 2010.\n\nIn the United States polling showed that an estimated 90,000,000 Americans participated in Earth Hour as lights were turned off around the country, including landmarks such as Mount Rushmore, the Las Vegas Strip, the Empire State Building and Niagara Falls.\n\nSome cities and landmarks took the opportunity to make more long-term adjustments to their everyday power consumption. In Chicago, the Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) developed lighting guidelines to reduce light pollution and reduce the carbon footprint of downtown buildings. Mount Rushmore in South Dakota started powering down each night around 9 pm instead of 11 pm.\n\nIn Vietnam, electricity demand fell 500,000 kWh during Earth Hour 2010, which was three times larger than the first time the country joined the event in 2009.\n\nIn the Philippines, 1,067 towns and cities pledged participation in 2010 and over 15 million Filipinos participated in the event.\n\nAbout 4000 cities participated, including landmarks such as Big Ben, the Empire State Building, the Sydney Opera House, the Eiffel Tower, the Parthenon, the Brandenburg Gate, and the Forbidden City.\n\n\nEarth Hour 2011 was the biggest year in the campaign's five-year history, reaffirming it as the largest ever voluntary action for the environment. In 2011, the tagline \"Beyond the Hour\" was adopted by organizers as a way to encourage people to take their commitment to the cause beyond the 60-minute event. Together with agency Leo Burnett, Earth Hour unveiled an updated planet themed logo that included a small plus symbol to the right of the signature \"60\" which was used in previous years. The 60+ symbol continues to be the main logo used by campaign organizers around the world.\n\nEarth Hour 2011 took place in a record 5,251 cities and towns in 135 countries and territories on all seven continents. It had an estimated reach of 1.8 billion people across the globe. In addition to this, the campaign's digital footprint grew to 91 million.\n\nIn India, Earth Hour 2011 was held on March 26, 2011 from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm. IST, flagged off by the Chief Minister of Delhi Sheila Dikshit and Earth Hour 2011 Ambassador and Bollywood actress Vidya Balan in the presence of Jim Leape, Director General, WWF International. Rosebowl channel suspended broadcasting from 8.30 pm to 9.30 pm to mark the observance of Earth Hour.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, Maiden Tower darkened for Earth Hour.\n\nThe Philippines, which has been an active participant of the Earth Hour, had an early \"earth hour\" when power was accidentally interrupted, plunging Metro Manila and nearby provinces into darkness. After power was restored, major buildings, commercial centers and residential areas in Metro Manila and most provinces continued to turn off their lights, while participating channels in the Philippines, ABS-CBN and Cartoon Network halted their transmissions for an hour.\n\n30 provinces and cities in Vietnam took part in Earth Hour 2011 with the main event held in Nha Trang. The nation's electricity demand fell 400,000 kWh, one-fifth less than the previous year's. Vietnam managed to save 500 million VND (US$23,809) thanks to the saved power.\n\nYouTube promoted the Earth Hour by changing its logo, and by adding a switch on/off feature near the title of each video, so that users could change the background colour from white to black.\n\nOne of the least co-operative areas traditionally has been Alberta; in 2008, Calgary's power consumption went up during Earth Hour. The trend continued in 2011 when Edmonton's power usage also increased. While Calgary's power usage went down in 2011 during the event, electricity officials could not distinguish their readings between normal usage and a conscious attempt to participate.\n\nEarth Hour Global headquarters was moving from Sydney to Singapore in February 2012. A launch event took place at ION Orchard on February 20, with the move supported by Singapore's Economic Development Board (EDB) and WWF-Singapore.\n\nEarth Hour 2012 was observed on March 31, 2012, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm (participants' local time). It took place in more than 7000 cities and towns across 152 countries and territories, making it the biggest growth year for the campaign since 2009. It was also the first year that Earth Hour was celebrated in space, with Dutch astronaut André Kuipers tweeting at various moments during the event's trek around the globe.\n\nEarth Hour 2013 was held across the world on Saturday, March 23 at 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time to avoid taking place after European Summer Time began, ensuring a greater impact for the lights-off event. It was also changed to avoid coinciding with the Christian Holy Saturday, which fell on March 30 of that year.\n\nIn 2013, the world's first Earth Hour Forest began in Uganda, an ongoing project that aims to restore 2700 hectares of degraded land. Standard Chartered Bank-Uganda pledged to help fill the forest with more than 250,000 trees.\n\nEarth Hour commemorations in Madagascar had as their highlight the distribution of one thousand wood-saving stoves to victims of the cyclone Haruna in the southern town of Toliara, extensively damaged in February 22 storm. WWF-Madagascar and ADES (Association pour le Développement de l'Energie Solaire) distributed an additional 2,200 wood-saving stoves later that year.\n\nFormer President of Botswana, Festus Mogae promised to plant one million indigenous trees over four years, as part of his \"I Will If You Will\" challenge for Earth 2013.\n\nWWF-Russia launched its 2013 campaign aiming to secure more than 100,000 signatures from Russian citizens to petition for amendments to the current forest legislation. The petition reached more than 127,000 signatures before the Earth Hour event, ensuring the legislation was debated in the State Duma by politicians.\n\nEarth Hour 2014 took place on Saturday, March 29, during the same 8:30 to 9:30 pm local timeslot. Earth Hour Blue was launched as a global crowdfunding and crowdsourcing platform for the planet. \"It is all about the collective effort of individuals around the world getting together to help fund or add their voice to support on-the-ground environmental and social projects that deliver real outcomes.\"\n\nThe Earth Hour 2014 Report highlighted a broad range of environmental outcomes achieved by the movement across 162 countries and territories around the world. More than US$60,000 was raised on the Earth Hour Blue platform for grassroots environmental projects run by WWF. The movement also saw campaigns to help protect Australia's Great Barrier Reef, the launch of a Blue Sky App in China, and the delivery of thousands of wood efficient stoves to communities in Madagascar.\n\nEarth Hour 2015 took place on Saturday, March 28, again between 8:30 and 9:30 pm local time. The tagline for the global campaign was \"Change Climate Change\", returning to the movement's original focus to initiate citizen action on global warming. A day before the event, over 170 countries and territories had confirmed their participation; with more than 1200 landmarks and close to 40 UNESCO world heritage sites set for the switch off.\n\nFor the second year running, Earth Hour Blue aims to raise funds for WWF organized climate focused projects on a crowdfunding platform. This year, crowdfunding projects include solar light distribution in the Philippines and India, and wildlife based projects from Colombia, Uganda and Indonesia.\n\nUniquely participating in the Earth Hour activity are the inhabitants of an island called Sibuyan in the Philippines who turned on their lights to elevate the message of using renewable energy. The island's source of electricity is a mini-hydro power plant.\n\nEarth Hour 2016 was on Saturday, March 19, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm during participants' local time. It was also changed to avoid coinciding with the Christian Holy Saturday, which fell on March 26 of that year. It was the 10th anniversary of the campaign's beginnings in Sydney, Australia. Östersund in Sweden cancelled the 2016 event, following a spate of sex attacks, highlighting safety as a subject for discussion when saving resources. Almost all the countries in the world observed Earth Hour.\n\nEarth Hour occurred on Saturday, March 25.\n\nEarth Hour 2018 took place on March 24, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm in participants' time, in order to avoid coinciding with Catholic Holy Saturday which fell on March 31.\n\nEarth Hour 2019 is scheduled for March 30, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nEarth Hour is supported around the world by UNESCO, the UN Environment Programme, the International Trade Union Confederation, Woodland, CBRE Group, the National Hockey League, FIFA, UEFA, Hilton Worldwide, Girl Scouts of the US, World Organization of the Scout Movement, HSBC, World Association of the Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, Philips, IKEA, The Body Shop, ING Vysya Bank, and more.\n\nThe Earth Hour Global FAQ page states:\nA 2014 study published in \"Energy Research and Social Science\" compiled 274 measurements of observed changes in electricity demand caused by Earth Hour in 10 countries, spanning 6 years, and found that the events reduced electricity consumption an average of 4%. The study noted the policy challenge of converting Earth Hour's short-term energy saving into longer-term actions, including sustained changes in behaviour and investment.\n\nBjørn Lomborg, author of \"The Skeptical Environmentalist\", wrote, \"It is vital to make solar and other new technology cheaper than fossil fuels quickly so we can turn off carbon energy sources for a lot longer than one hour and keep the planet running... Fossil fuels literally gave us an enlightenment, by lighting our world and giving us protection from the fury of the elements. It is ironic that today's pure symbolism should hark back to a darker age.\" Lomborg also pointed out the feel-good factor Earth Hour creates, noting that it is an \"ineffective feel good event\" that makes people feel they are doing something for the environment, while in reality the amount of carbon emissions reduced by the earth hour is negligible.\n\nOther criticisms of Earth Hour have included the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18515583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18515583", "title": "Event management software", "text": "Event management software\n\nEvent management software is the generic term for a wide range of software products that are used in the management of professional and academic conferences, trade exhibitions, conventions and smaller events such as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) meetings.\n\nThe most common event management applications are:\n"}
{"id": "53352269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53352269", "title": "Global Running Day", "text": "Global Running Day\n\nGlobal Running Day is a day that celebrates the sport of running. It is held annually on the first Wednesday of June. Participants of all ages and abilities pledge to take part in some type of running activity by submitting their names through the Global Running Day website. Global Running Day 2018 is scheduled for June 6.\n\nGlobal Running Day was formerly known as National Running Day and began in the United States. The first event was in 2009.\n\nThe inaugural Global Running Day was held on June 1, 2016. More than 2.5 million people from 177 countries pledged to run more than 9.2 million miles. New York City Mayor, Bill de Blasio, declared June 1, 2016 to be Global Running Day in the City of New York. 2014 Boston Marathon winner Meb Keflezighi led a group run from the Boston Run Base, and the Atlanta Track Club organized a “run around the clock” event, where at least one person from the Atlanta metro area would be running every hour of Global Running Day.\n\nThe Million Kid Run is the youth division of Global Running Day and aims to have one million kids around the world participate in Global Running Day. Its focus is on making fitness fun, and inspiring kids to embrace running as a way to remain healthy and fit. In 2016, 672,030 youths took part.\n\nMore than 100 organizations support Global Running Day and the Million Kid Run, including the Abbott World Marathon Majors, Atlanta Track Club, Boston Athletic Association, Competitor Group, Houston Marathon Foundation, International Association of Athletics Federations, Athletics for a Better World program, New York Road Runners, Running USA, USA Track & Field, and more\n"}
{"id": "32038976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32038976", "title": "Global Wind Day", "text": "Global Wind Day\n\nGlobal Wind Day is a worldwide event that occurs annually on 15 June. It is organised by EWEA (European Wind Energy Association) and GWEC (Global Wind Energy Council).\nIn association with EWEA and GWEC, national wind energy associations and companies involved in wind energy production organise events in many countries around the world. In 2011, there were events organised in 30 countries, on 4 continents. Events included visits to onshore and offshore wind farms, information campaigns, demonstration turbines being set up in cities, wind workshops and a wind parade. Many events happened on Global Wind Day (15 June) itself, but there were also events on the days and weeks before and afterwards. In 2012 there were 250 events around the globe and a very popular photo competition. \n\nThe inaugural year of Wind Day (it did not become Global Wind Day until 2009) was organised by EWEA. The main idea was to coordinate events organised by national wind energy associations and companies active in the wind energy field. Wind Day in 2007 reached 18 countries in Europe, with a participation of around 35,000 people.\n\nWind Day 2008 reached 20 European countries and attracted 100,000 people.\n\nThis was the first year that EWEA joined forces with GWEC and extended the reach from European wind energy associations and companies to coordinate Wind Day events across the globe (and changing the name to Global Wind Day). In 2009 there were 300 events in 35 countries, reaching 1 million people.\n\nIn 2009 in Portugal the Wind Day was celebrated with an event called Wind Parade. It was organised in the city of Cascais just in front of the ocean. This project aimed to promote renewable energy good practices and in particular Wind Energy. It was supported by the City Council and conceived by Energia Lateral and implied the installation of 7 skstream micro wind turbines in a very visible place by the sea in June–July 9. One of the purposes was to involve children in the event and they were invited for a contest to decorate/paint small dummy wind turbines. Over 50 applications were submitted by 30 schools. The winner decorated a dummy wind turbine with Don Quixote elements comparing his fight against the windmills but in this case the wind mills being allies of Don Quixote in an epic effort to improve the environment.\n\nIn this year, 220 events took place in 30 countries, including the display of a 29.5 metre (96.7 ft) wind turbine blade in Brussels, Belgium, next to the main building of the European Commission and European Council. More than 1 million people were reached by Global Wind Day communications around the world.\n\nIn Brussels, Belgium, the home of EWEA and GWEC, a wind parade in Place de Luxembourg educated people working in the EU area on the benefits and importance of wind energy.\n\nGlobal Wind Day events happened in 30 countries around the world in 2011. Some examples include:\nIn France there were 15 events, ranging from wind farm inauguration to a jobs-in-the-wind-industry question and answer session. \nIn Austria, journalists leapt from the top of a turbine and abseiled to the ground. \nIn Japan there were 10 events, involving field trips to wind farms, experimental wind energy facilities and making wind turbines from a kit. \nIn Australia, an open day at a wind farm was available, with a community evening to finish off the day. \nIn Mexico, a public street fair featured a drawing competition for kids and a display of wind energy history.\n\nGlobal Wind Day partners organised 250 events around the globe in 2012, from wind farm open days to workshops, from\nphoto exhibition to regattas, from kite-flying to charity runs. For the first time, this included events in\nMexico, Chile, Israel, South Korea and South Africa.\nGlobal Wind Day 2012 gained the support of 18 GWD Ambassadors,who were joined by the Danish Presidency of the EU and the United Nations. Kandeh K. Yumkella, the Director-General of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and the leader of Secretary General Ban Ki-moon’s Sustainable Energy for All initiative said, ‘We need to double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030. This can be achieved with significant contribution from wind energy, both grid connected andfor small-scale decentralised systems. The ‘Global Wind Day’ on 15 June, does play a central role in contributing to the UNSG’s Sustainable Energy For All initiative through galvanising the much needed support for the wind energy industry from political leaders around the globe’.\nThe ‘Wind in Mind’ photo competition saw 2,300 photos from over 40 countries submitted.\n\nFor 2018, WindEurope and GWEC launched a global photo competition to capture the power of wind in the run up to Global Wind Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "50406244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50406244", "title": "Global news flow", "text": "Global news flow\n\nGlobal news flow (also referred to as international news flow) is a field of study that deals with the news coverage of events in foreign countries. It describes and explains the flow of news from one country to another.\n\nStudies on global news flow typically attempt to understand why certain countries are more newsworthy than others.. Along the years it has been found that the economic power of countries plays a particularly crucial role in their news prominence as well as the presence of international news agencies. Thus, the US has been found to be very prominent in news mentions around the world (18%), followed by China, Western European and Middle Eastern countries (about 3-5% each).\n\nThe unequal representation of the world and the under-representation of developing countries have been already of a great concern at least since the 1950s, since they influence the way people perceive the world and the image of countries. This problem was later addressed in the MacBride report, and his set of recommendations for a New World Information and Communication Order. The unequal representation of the world has been also linked to the World System Theory, and the unequal economic structure of the world.\n\nRecent empirical studies show that among online news websites and news aggregators the unequal representation of the world has been perpetuated and even further intensified. Economically powerful countries, as well as their opponent countries (mainly in the Middle East and Asia) get the most news coverage around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "44724007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44724007", "title": "Great Escape Tour", "text": "Great Escape Tour\n\nThe Great Escape Tour was the scheduled second headlining concert tour by Australian recording artist Iggy Azalea in support of her debut album, \"The New Classic\" (2014), its reissue, \"Reclassified\" (2014) and then-upcoming second studio album. The tour was scheduled to visit twenty-one cities across North America over the span of two months, beginning on 18 September 2015 in San Diego, California and concluding on 27 October 2015 in Glendale, Arizona. It was announced on 29 May 2015 that the entire tour was cancelled, with a new tour to be announced with her then-upcoming, later cancelled album in 2016. It was the first of Azalea's tours to be cancelled, with her 2018 Bad Girls Tour also later cancelled.\n\nOn 10 December 2014, when reflecting on the year she has had and the struggles she faced in the years before, Azalea announced plans of an arena tour and a second studio album via her Twitter account. The same day, Azalea revealed the title of the tour and the concept behind it, which is Azalea picturing herself as \"a musical escape artist for people.\" Azalea also revealed that the name of the tour goes along with the title of her upcoming second studio album, which will also be promoted on the tour.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, the North American leg of the tour was officially announced. Presented by AEG, the first leg of tour, which was set to commence on 14 April 2015 in Fresno, California, and was scheduled to visit twenty-four cities across North America during the spring of 2015 before ending on 24 May 2015 in Austin, Texas. Also revealed in the North American leg announcement was that Nick Jonas and Tinashe would be the special guests supporting Azalea on the first leg of the tour promoting their latest individual efforts, \"Nick Jonas\" (2014) and \"Aquarius\" (2014). Azalea's disc jockey, DJ Wizz Kidd, would also support Azalea throughout the tour.\n\nBeginning on 15 December 2014, pre-sale tickets were available to all American Express cardholders through 18 December 2014. The public on-sale followed immediately after with tickets becoming available on 19 December 2014. Platinum and VIP Packages also became available for purchase on AEG's website, in which the packages included premium seating and exclusive autographed merchandise.\n\nIn an interview with \"GQ\", Azalea began to reveal details about the tour's stage, visuals, and concept. When speaking about her main focus of the tour, Azalea stated \"I want everything to be right—everything, from the tour book to what someone wears. Even the right faces for the dancers, and their attitude. Everything is equally important.\" While discussing stage layout, Azalea revealed that she's \"trying to work on the initial stage design\" and that she's \"making a stage that [she can] engage with many people in an arena that big.\" She also noted that she was working with Jamie King, who has also worked with Madonna on her Confessions Tour (2006), which Azalea has stated is a major influence for the tour. Other influences for the tour that she's mentioned include the films \"Xanadu\" (1980) and \"Fantasia\" (1940). In regards to the visuals, Azalea has stated that the tour will include \"color blocking—loud, just obnoxious-type visual things\", that she also characterized as \"Trippy, cool, [and] colorful.\" Azalea also commented on the nature of the show by saying \"The traditional hip-hop arena show is more focused on a DJ. I don't think it has as many props and spectacles as perhaps a pop show, which is also what I would say my show is visually like.\" Overall, Azalea has stated her desire for the show is \"not to be too wacky\" and to be \"a great experience [in which fans feel] really immersed in the whole thing.\"\n\n\"The whole point was to make no compromises, but nothing's changed in terms of my creative vision,\" Azalea told the Associated Press on 18 March 2014, backstage at a show for Samsung Galaxy during SXSW. \"It's very kind of like Patrick Nagel, powerful 80s androgynous women vibe.\" Azalea admitted not wanting to wait until September to launch the tour, \"but because the arenas are so far in advanced booked, it was kind of their next slot.\" She also mentioned taking advantage of the free time to finish recording her second album, \"I didn't anticipate having any time to completely finish it, but now that I have kind of the time, I'd love to have an album at the end of 2015.\"\n\nOn 29 March 2015, Azalea told \"Billboard\" at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, the tour was now under the creative guidance of a new production designer, Baz Halpin, who'd been seasoning the show with a post-apocalyptic vibe, \"It's going to be maybe a bit like Blade Runner, full of dark and '80s ridiculous fare but not in a cliché way,\" also revealing she had parted ways with former tour producer AEG Live over creative differences earlier that month. \"It's been great working with a new person who really understands my vision,\" Azalea said of Halpin, who had also fashioned the set for her performance of \"Trouble\" with Jennifer Hudson both at the iHeartRadio Awards and Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards on the previous day. \"It's taken some of the workload off me that he's able to understand what I'm trying to achieve instead of battling it, or it being lost in translation,\" Azalea continued. \"Some things just work. With Baz, I really don't have to say it; he's thinking what I'm thinking, and it's great. I'm super-excited about the tour,\" she said.\n\nOn 10 March 2015, it was announced the tour was being rescheduled \"due to tour production delays\", according to a statement from Def Jam Recordings. After reports surfaced that the tour was to be cancelled due to lack of promotion and conflict between her and management, Def Jam announced the decision \"to accommodate for creative team availability and tour productions, it was determined that the tour will not be ready this spring.\" They continued, \"It's important to Iggy that she delivers the show she envisaged to share with her fans and that requires more time in development.\" The spring tour was rescheduled to the fall, kicking off on September 18 in San Diego, California. A rep for Azalea also added that \"there's no truth to the rumor that there's any conflict between her and her management.\" The press release issued by AEG Live also noted tickets for dates on the tour would be valid for the new dates in the fall, with the exception of the Baltimore, Las Vegas and Sacramento shows being canceled altogether, also indicating that the opening acts for the spring tour, Nick Jonas and Tinashe, would be replaced. Shortly after the announcement, a message was also posted from Azalea's official Twitter account: \"The tour getting pushed back only means that it'll be way more amazing than it would've been in April. Good things take time.\"\n\nOn 29 May 2015, it was announced that the entire tour had been cancelled, with ticket holders receiving an email that stated \"The Iggy Azalea Great Escape Tour scheduled for this fall has been cancelled and refunds are available at point of purchase. There will be a new tour planned around Iggy's new record to be released in 2016 and we apologize for any inconvenience.\" Azalea stated, \"I'm sad and sorry to let my fans down,\" confirming plans to \"be back on the road when the next album is done.\" She later issued a statement clarifying the cancellation saying she \"had a different creative change of heart,\" in addition to being unable to find new opening acts available for the new dates she thought that would be a good fit for the tour and announcing she would also be taking a break to figure out the progression she wanted for her sound and visuals.\n\nThe tour promoter, AEG Live's senior VP Debra Rathwell, stated they never put its full marketing support behind the tour, explaining, \"As we were not able to fill the support slots on the tour in the fall, due to so many artists already having commitments and working this summer, we had not advertised or promoted the new shows since last winter.\" She added, \"The dates were selling well and were going to do fine,” standing by Azalea’s creative decision to take a break and not exploring a move to smaller venues by clarifying, \"there was no reason to do so. AEG LIVE is committed to her and will be working with her on her new tour.\" Azalea’s booking agency, CAA, also issued a statement, \"The lines of communication between Iggy, myself, and her [Turn First] managers Sarah [Stennett] and Nadia [Khan] have always been open. Iggy is an incredibly talented and creative artist with a clear vision, which she continuously shares with myself and her management team.\"\n\nAfter the tickets for the tour became available to the public for purchase on 19 December 2014, \"Forbes\" reported positive news for ticket sales on the primary and secondary markets. On 7 January 2015, a list compiled by TiqIQ revealed that tickets for Azalea's tour were ranked fourteenth for most expensive concert tickets of the year as of that month. On the secondary market, the average ticket price for Azalea's tour totals in about $167, therefore making the tickets some of the most expensive tickets available on the secondary market. Ticket prices for the tour managed to top artists such as the Foo Fighters, but paled in comparison to artists such as Fleetwood Mac, Maroon 5, and Taylor Swift.\n"}
{"id": "301456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301456", "title": "Happy ending", "text": "Happy ending\n\nA happy ending is an ending of the plot of a work of fiction in which almost everything turns out for the best for the protagonists, their sidekicks, and almost everyone except the villains.\n\nIn storylines where the protagonists are in physical danger, a happy ending mainly consists of their survival and successful completion of the quest or mission; where there is no physical danger, a happy ending may be lovers consummating their love despite various factors which may have thwarted it. A considerable number of storylines combine both situations. In Steven Spielberg's version of \"War of the Worlds\", the happy ending consists of three distinct elements: The protagonists all survive the countless perils of their journey; humanity as a whole survives the alien invasion; \"and\" the protagonist father regains the respect of his estranged children. The plot is so constructed that all three are needed for the audience's feeling of satisfaction in the end. \n\nA happy ending is epitomized in the standard fairy tale ending phrase, \"happily ever after\" or \"and they lived happily ever after\". (\"One Thousand and One Nights\" has the more restrained formula \"they lived happily until there came to them the One who Destroys all Happiness\" (i.e. Death); likewise, the Russian versions of fairy tales typically end with \"they lived long and happily, and died together on the same day\".) Satisfactory happy endings are happy for the reader as well, in that the characters he or she sympathizes with are rewarded. However, this can also serve as an open path for a possible sequel. For example, in the 1977 film \"Star Wars\", Luke Skywalker defeats the Galactic Empire by destroying the Death Star; however, the story's happy ending has consequences that follow in \"The Empire Strikes Back\". The concept of a permanent happy ending is specifically brought up in the Stephen King fantasy/fairy tale novel \"The Eyes of the Dragon\" which has a standard good ending for the genre, but simply states that \"there were good days and bad days\" afterwards.\n\nA happy ending only requires that the main characters be all right. Millions of innocent background characters can die, but as long as the characters that the reader/viewer/audience cares about survive, it can still be a happy ending. Roger Ebert comments in his review of Roland Emmerich's \"The Day After Tomorrow\": \"Billions of people may have died, but at least the major characters have survived. Los Angeles is leveled by multiple tornadoes, New York is buried under ice and snow, the United Kingdom is flash-frozen, and lots of the Northern Hemisphere is wiped out for good measure. Thank god that Jack, Sam, Laura, Jason and Dr. Lucy Hall survive, along with Dr. Hall's little cancer patient.\"\n\nThe presence of a happy ending is one of the key points that distinguish melodrama from tragedy. In certain periods, the endings of traditional tragedies such as \"Macbeth\" or \"Oedipus Rex\", in which most of the major characters end up dead, disfigured, or discountenanced, have been actively disliked. In the Seventeenth Century, the Irish author Nahum Tate sought to improve William Shakespeare's \"King Lear\" in his own heavily modified version in which Lear survives and Cordelia marries Edgar. Tate's version dominated performances for a century and a half, Shakespeare's original nearly forgotten. Both David Garrick and John Philip Kemble, while taking up some of Shakespeare's original text, kept Tate's happy ending. Edmund Kean played \"King Lear\" with its tragic ending in 1823, but failed and reverted to Tate's crowd-pleaser after only three performances. Only in 1838 did William Macready at Covent Garden successfully restore Shakespeare's original tragic end – Helen Faucit's final appearance as Cordelia, dead in her father's arms, became one of the most iconic of Victorian images and the play's tragic end was finally accepted by the general public. Most subsequent critics have not found Tate's amendments an improvement, and welcomed the restoration of Shakespeare's original. Happy endings have also been fastened – equally, with no lasting success – to \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Othello\". \n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of what a happy ending is; such definitions can considerably vary with time and cultural differences. An interpretation of \"The Merchant of Venice\"s forced conversion of Shylock to Christianity is that it was intended as a happy ending. As a Christian, Shylock could no longer impose interest, undoing his schemes in the play and ending the rivalry between him and Antonio, but more important, contemporary audiences would see becoming a Christian as a means to save his soul (cf. Romans 11:15). In later times, Jews (and non-Jewish opponents of anti-Semitism) strongly objected to that ending, regarding it as depicting a victory for injustice and oppression and as pandering to the audience's prejudices.\n\nMost interpretations of the legend of Don Juan end with the protagonist rake being dragged off to Hell, in just retribution for his many sins (for example, the ending of Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\"). However, José Zorrilla - whose 1844 play \"Don Juan Tenorio\" is the version most well-known in the Spanish-speaking world - believed that a story should never end sadly, and must always have a happy ending. In Zorrilla's depiction, Don Juan is saved at the last moment from the flames of Hell by the selfless pure love of Doña Inés, a woman whom he wronged but who forgave him; she had made a deal with God to offer her own blameless soul on behalf of Don Juan's - thus redeeming Don Juan and taking him with her to Paradise.\n\nA \"Times\" review of \"The Spy Who Came in from the Cold\" strongly criticized John le Carré for failing to provide a happy ending, and gave unequivocal reasons why in the reviewer's opinion (shared by many others) such an ending is needed: \"The hero must triumph over his enemies, as surely as Jack must kill the giant in the nursery tale. If the giant kills Jack, we have missed the whole point of the story.\"\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw had to wage an uphill struggle against audiences, as well as some critics, persistently demanding that his \"Pygmalion\" have a happy ending, i.e. that Professor Higgins and Eliza Doolitle would ultimately get married. To Shaw's great chagrin, [[Herbert Beerbohm Tree]] who presented the play in London's [[West End theatre|West End]] in 1914 had sweetened the ending and told Shaw: \"My ending makes money; you ought to be grateful. Your ending is damnable; you ought to be shot.\" The irritated Shaw added a postscript essay, \"'What Happened Afterwards\", to the 1916 print edition, for inclusion with subsequent editions, in which he explained precisely why in his view it was impossible for the story to end with Higgins and Eliza getting married. Nevertheless, audiences continued wanting a happy ending also for later adaptations such as the musical and film \"[[My Fair Lady]]\".\n\nIn numerous cases, [[Hollywood]] studios adapting literary works into film added a happy ending which did not appear in the original. \n\n\n[[Category:Endings]]\n[[Category:Narratology]]\n[[Category:Fiction]]\n[[Category:Plot (narrative)]]\n[[Category:Recurrent elements in fairy tales]]"}
{"id": "52239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52239", "title": "Hoax", "text": "Hoax\n\nA hoax is a falsehood deliberately fabricated to masquerade as the truth. It is distinguishable from errors in observation or judgment, rumors, urban legends, pseudosciences, and April Fools' Day events that are passed along in good faith by believers or as jokes.\n\nAlthough practical jokes have likely existed for thousands of years, one of the earliest recorded hoaxes in history was the drummer of Tedworth in 1661. The communication of hoaxes can be accomplished in almost any manner that a fictional story can be communicated: in person, via word of mouth, via words printed on paper, and so on. As the technology of communication has advanced, the speed at which hoaxes spread has also advanced: a rumor about a ghostly drummer, spread by word of mouth, will impact a relatively small area at first, then grow gradually. However, hoaxes could also be spread via chain letters, which became easier as the cost of mailing a letter dropped. The invention of the printing press in the 15th century brought down the cost of a mass-produced books and pamphlets, and the rotary printing press of the 19th century reduced the price even further (see yellow journalism). During the 20th century, the hoax found a mass market in the form of supermarket tabloids, and by the 21st century there were fake news websites which spread hoaxes via social networking websites (in addition to the use of email for a modern type of chain letter).\n\nThe English philologist Robert Nares (1753–1829) says that the word \"hoax\" was coined in the late 18th century as a contraction of the verb \"hocus\", which means \"to cheat,\" \"to impose upon\" or (according to Merrian-Webster) \"to befuddle often with drugged liquor.\" \"Hocus\" is a shortening of the magic incantation \"hocus pocus\", whose origin is disputed.\n\nRobert Nares defined the word \"hoax\" as meaning \"to cheat,\" dating from Thomas Ady's 1656 book \"A candle in the dark, or a treatise on the nature of witches and witchcraft\".\n\nThe term \"hoax\" is occasionally used in reference to urban legends and rumors, but the folklorist Jan Harold Brunvand argues that most of them lack evidence of deliberate creations of falsehood and are passed along in good faith by believers or as jokes, so the term should be used for only those with a probable conscious attempt to deceive. As for the closely related terms \"practical joke\" and \"prank\", Brunvand states that although there are instances where they overlap, \"hoax\" tends to indicate \"relatively complex and large-scale fabrications\" and includes deceptions that go beyond the merely playful and \"cause material loss or harm to the victim.\"\n\nAccording to Professor Lynda Walsh of the University of Nevada, Reno, some hoaxes—such as the Great Stock Exchange Fraud of 1814, labeled as a hoax by contemporary commentators—are financial in nature, and successful hoaxers—such as P. T. Barnum, whose Fiji mermaid contributed to his wealth—often acquire monetary gain or fame through their fabrications, so the distinction between \"hoax\" and \"fraud\" is not necessarily clear. Alex Boese, the creator of the Museum of Hoaxes, states that the only distinction between them is the reaction of the public, because a fraud can be classified as a hoax when its method of acquiring financial gain creates a broad public impact or captures the imagination of the masses.\n\nOne of the earliest recorded media hoaxes is a fake almanac published by Jonathan Swift under the pseudonym of Isaac Bickerstaff in 1708. Swift predicted the death of John Partridge, one of the leading astrologers in England at that time, in the almanac and later issued an elegy on the day Partridge was supposed to have died. Partridge's reputation was damaged as a result and his astrological almanac was not published for the next six years.\n\nIt is possible to perpetrate a hoax by making only true statements using unfamiliar wording or context, such as in the Dihydrogen monoxide hoax. Political hoaxes are sometimes motivated by the desire to ridicule or besmirch opposing politicians or political institutions, often before elections.\n\nA hoax differs from a magic trick or from fiction (books, movies, theatre, radio, television, etc.) in that the audience is unaware of being deceived, whereas in watching a magician perform an illusion the audience expects to be tricked.\n\nA hoax is often intended as a practical joke or to cause embarrassment, or to provoke social or political change by raising people's awareness of something. It can also emerge from a marketing or advertising purpose. For example, to market a romantic comedy movie, a director staged a phony \"incident\" during a supposed wedding, which showed a bride and preacher getting knocked into a pool by a clumsy fall from a best man. A resulting video clip of \"Chloe and Keith's Wedding\" was uploaded to YouTube and was viewed by over 30 million people and the couple was interviewed by numerous talk shows. Viewers were deluded into thinking that it was an authentic clip of a real accident at a real wedding; but a story in \"USA Today\" in 2009 revealed it was a hoax.\n\nGovernments sometimes spread false information to facilitate their objectives, such as going to war. These often come under the heading of black propaganda. There is often a mixture of outright hoax and suppression and management of information to give the desired impression. In wartime and times of international tension rumors abound, some of which may be deliberate hoaxes.\n\nExamples of politics-related hoaxes:\n\nPsychologist Peter Hancock has identified six steps which characterise a truly successful hoax:\n\nHoaxes vary widely in their processes of creation, propagation, and entrenchment over time. Examples include:\n\nFake news websites (also referred to as hoax news) deliberately publish hoaxes which may serve the goal of propaganda or disinformation — using social media to drive web traffic and amplify their effect. Unlike news satire, fake news websites seek to mislead, rather than entertain, readers for financial or political gain.\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "360984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360984", "title": "Jessica McClure", "text": "Jessica McClure\n\nJessica McClure Morales (born March 26, 1986) became famous on October 14, 1987, at the age of 18 months after she fell into a well in her aunt's backyard in Midland, Texas. Between that day and October 16, rescuers worked for 56 hours to free her from the well casing below the ground. The story gained worldwide attention (leading to some criticism as a media circus), and later became the subject of a 1989 ABC television movie \"\".\n\nMcClure's rescue proved to be a much more difficult ordeal than was first anticipated. Within hours of beginning the emergency procedure, the Midland Fire and Police Departments devised a plan that involved drilling another shaft parallel to the well and then drilling a tunnel at a right angle across to it. Enlisting the help of a variety of local (often out-of-work) oil-drillers, the Midland officials had hoped to free McClure in minutes. However, the first workers to arrive on the scene found their tools barely adequate to penetrate the hard rock around the well. It took about six hours to drill the shaft and longer to drill the tunnel, because the jackhammers used were designed for drilling downward, rather than sideways. A mining engineer eventually arrived to help supervise and coordinate the rescue effort. TV viewers watched as paramedics and rescuers, drilling experts and contractors worked tirelessly to save the baby's life. Meanwhile, they were reassured when they heard Jessica singing “Winnie the Pooh” from deep in the well. As long as she was still singing, they knew she was still alive. Forty-five hours after McClure fell into the well, the shaft and tunnel were finally completed.\n\nThe relatively new technology of waterjet cutting, used to cut through the hard rock surrounding the well, was a vital part of the rescue.\n\nRon Short, a muscular roofing contractor who was born without collar bones because of cleidocranial dysostosis and so could collapse his shoulders to work in cramped corners, arrived at the site and offered to go down the shaft. They considered his offer, but did not use it. One report said that he helped to clear tunneling debris away.\n\nMidland Fire Department paramedic Robert O'Donnell was ultimately able to inch his way into the tunnel and wrestle McClure free from the confines of the well, handing her to fellow paramedic Steve Forbes, who carried her up to safety.\n\nCNN was on the scene with around-the-clock coverage of the rescue effort. This massive media saturation of the ordeal prompted then-President Ronald Reagan to state that \"everybody in America became godmothers and godfathers of Jessica while this was going on.\"\n\nFrom the beginning and throughout the incident, the switchboard of local media outlet KMID-TV was flooded with telephone calls from news organizations and private individuals around the world, seeking the latest information on rescue efforts. In some cases, they shared their own insight into this and similar incidents.\n\nIn 1988, McClure and her parents appeared on \"Live with Regis and Kathie Lee\" to talk about the incident.\n\nThe photograph of McClure being rescued fetched the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography to Scott Shaw of the \"Odessa American\".\n\nABC made a television movie of the story in 1989, \"\", starring Patty Duke and Beau Bridges. It featured many participants in the actual rescue and its coverage as extras.\n\nOn May 30, 2007, \"USA Today\" ranked McClure number 22 on its list of \"25 lives of indelible impact.\"\n\nFollowing McClure's rescue on October 16, 1987, surgeons had to amputate a toe due to gangrene from loss of circulation while she was in the well. She also has a scar on her forehead where her head rubbed against the well casing. She had 15 surgeries over the years and has no first-hand memory of the event. Her parents divorced a few years after the rescue.\n\nParamedic Robert O'Donnell, battling posttraumatic stress disorder as a result of the arduous rescue effort and struggling to cope with the abrupt decline of the fame and recognition that had been lavished on him following his heroic act, committed suicide in 1995.\n\nMcClure graduated from Greenwood High School, in a small community near Midland, in May 2004. On January 28, 2006, nineteen-year-old McClure married Daniel Morales at Church of Christ in Notrees, Texas, about 40 miles from Midland. They met at a day care center where she worked with his sister. They have two children, a boy born 2007 and a girl born 2009.\n\nWhen McClure turned 25 on March 26, 2011, she received a trust fund of donations worth up to $800,000. Her father said she had discussed setting up a trust fund for the college education of her children. It had earlier helped in the purchase of her present home, which is less than from the site of the incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48494190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48494190", "title": "Kurram incident", "text": "Kurram incident\n\nOn 30 September 2010, U.S. helicopters entered Pakistani airspace after ground troops determined that a mortar attack by militants in Pakistan was imminent, according to the Coalition. Pakistani Frontier Corps troops manning the Mandata Kadaho border post fired warning shots, and the helicopters responded by firing two missiles that destroyed the post. Three soldiers were killed and another three wounded. Pakistan responded by closing a key NATO supply route for eleven days.\n"}
{"id": "17895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17895", "title": "Leap year", "text": "Leap year\n\nA leap year (also known as an intercalary year or bissextile year) is a calendar year containing one additional day (or, in the case of lunisolar calendars, a month) added to keep the calendar year synchronized with the astronomical or seasonal year. Because seasons and astronomical events do not repeat in a whole number of days, calendars that have the same number of days in each year drift over time with respect to the event that the year is supposed to track. By inserting (also called \"intercalating\") an additional day or month into the year, the drift can be corrected. A year that is not a leap year is called a common year.\n\nFor example, in the Gregorian calendar, each leap year has 366 days instead of 365, by extending February to 29 days rather than the common 28. These extra days occur in years which are multiples of four (with the exception of centennial years not divisible by 400). Similarly, in the lunisolar Hebrew calendar, Adar Aleph, a 13th lunar month, is added seven times every 19 years to the twelve lunar months in its common years to keep its calendar year from drifting through the seasons. In the Bahá'í Calendar, a leap day is added when needed to ensure that the following year begins on the vernal equinox.\n\nThe name \"leap year\" probably comes from the fact that while a fixed date in the Gregorian calendar normally advances one day of the week from one year to the next, the day of the week in the 12 months following the leap day (from March 1 through February 28 of the following year) will advance two days due to the extra day (thus \"leaping over\" one of the days in the week). For example, Christmas Day (December 25) fell on a Sunday in 2016, and Monday in 2017, then it will fall on Tuesday in 2018, and Wednesday in 2019 but then \"leaps\" over Thursday to fall on a Friday in 2020.\n\nThe length of a day is also occasionally changed by the insertion of leap seconds into Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), owing to the variability of Earth's rotational period. Unlike leap days, leap seconds are not introduced on a regular schedule, since the variability in the length of the day is not entirely predictable.\n\nIn the Gregorian calendar, the standard calendar in most of the world, most years that are multiples of 4 are leap years. In each leap year, the month of February has 29 days instead of 28. Adding one extra day in the calendar every four years compensates for the fact that a period of 365 days is shorter than a tropical year by almost 6 hours. Some exceptions to this basic rule are required since the duration of a tropical year is slightly less than 365.25 days. The Gregorian reform modified the Julian calendar's scheme of leap years as follows:\nEvery year that is exactly divisible by four is a leap year, except for years that are exactly divisible by 100, but these centurial years are leap years if they are exactly divisible by 400. For example, the years 1700, 1800, and 1900 were not leap years, but the years 1600 and 2000 were.\n\nOver a period of four centuries, the accumulated error of adding a leap day \"every\" four years amounts to about three extra days. The Gregorian calendar therefore drops three leap days every 400 years, which is the length of its \"leap cycle\". This is done by dropping February 29 in the three century years (multiples of 100) that cannot be exactly divided by 400. The years 1600, 2000 and 2400 are leap years, while 1700, 1800, 1900, 2100, 2200 and 2300 are common years. By this rule, the average number of days per year is 365 +  −  +  = 365.2425. The rule can be applied to years before the Gregorian reform (the proleptic Gregorian calendar), if astronomical year numbering is used.\nThe Gregorian calendar was designed to keep the vernal equinox on or close to March 21, so that the date of Easter (celebrated on the Sunday after the ecclesiastical full moon that falls on or after March 21) remains close to the vernal equinox. The \"Accuracy\" section of the \"Gregorian calendar\" article discusses how well the Gregorian calendar achieves this design goal, and how well it approximates the tropical year.\n\nThe following pseudocode determines whether a year is a \"leap year\" or a \"common year\" in the Gregorian calendar (and in the proleptic Gregorian calendar before 1582). The \"year\" variable being tested is the integer representing the number of the year in the Gregorian calendar, and the tests are arranged to dispatch the most common cases first. Care should be taken in translating mathematical integer divisibility into specific programming languages.\n\nif (\"year\" is not divisible by 4) then (it is a common year)<br>\nelse if (\"year\" is not divisible by 100) then (it is a leap year)<br>\nelse if (\"year\" is not divisible by 400) then (it is a common year)<br>\nelse (it is a leap year)\n\nThe algorithm applies to proleptic Gregorian calendar years before 1, but only if the year is expressed with astronomical year numbering. It is not valid for the BC or BCE notation. The algorithm is not necessarily valid for years in the Julian calendar, such as years before 1752 in the British Empire. The year 1700 was a leap year in the Julian calendar, but not in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nFebruary 29 is a date that usually occurs every four years, and is called leap day. This day is added to the calendar in leap years as a corrective measure, because the Earth does not orbit the sun in precisely 365 days.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar is a modification of the Julian calendar first used by the Romans. The Roman calendar originated as a lunisolar calendar and named many of its days after the syzygies of the moon: the new moon (\"Kalendae\" or calends, hence \"calendar\") and the full moon (\"Idus\" or ides). The \"Nonae\" or nones was not the first quarter moon but was exactly one \"nundina\" or Roman market week of nine days before the ides, inclusively counting the ides as the first of those nine days. This is what we would call a period of eight days. In 1825, Ideler believed that the lunisolar calendar was abandoned about 450 BC by the decemvirs, who implemented the Roman Republican calendar, used until 46 BC. The days of these calendars were counted down (inclusively) to the next named day, so February 24 was \"ante diem sextum Kalendas Martias\" (\"the sixth day before the calends of March\") often abbreviated a. d. VI Kal. Mart. The Romans counted days inclusively in their calendars, so this was actually the fifth day before March 1 when counted in the modern exclusive manner (not including the starting day).\n\nThe Republican calendar's intercalary month was inserted on the first or second day after the Terminalia (a. d. VII Kal. Mar., February 23). The remaining days of Februarius were dropped. This intercalary month, named Intercalaris or Mercedonius, contained 27 days. The religious festivals that were normally celebrated in the last five days of February were moved to the last five days of Intercalaris. Because only 22 or 23 days were effectively added, not a full lunation, the calends and ides of the Roman Republican calendar were no longer associated with the new moon and full moon.\n\nThe Julian calendar, which was developed in 46 BC by Julius Caesar, and became effective in 45 BC, distributed an extra ten days among the months of the Roman Republican calendar. Caesar also replaced the intercalary month by a single intercalary day, located where the intercalary month used to be. To create the intercalary day, the existing \"ante diem sextum Kalendas Martias\" (February 24) was doubled, producing \"ante diem bis sextum Kalendas Martias\". Hence, the year containing the doubled day was a bissextile (\"bis sextum\", \"twice sixth\") year. For legal purposes, the two days of the \"bis sextum\" were considered to be a single day, with the second half being intercalated; but in common practice by 238, when Censorinus wrote, the intercalary day was followed by the last five days of February, a. d. VI, V, IV, III and pridie Kal. Mart. (the days numbered 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28 from the beginning of February in a common year), so that the intercalated day was the \"first\" half of the doubled day. Thus the intercalated day was effectively inserted between the 23rd and 24th days of February. All later writers, including Macrobius about 430, Bede in 725, and other medieval computists (calculators of Easter), continued to state that the bissextum (bissextile day) occurred before the last five days of February.\nUntil 1970, the Roman Catholic Church always celebrated the feast of Saint Matthias on a. d. VI Kal. Mart., so if the days were numbered from the beginning of the month, it was named February 24 in common years, but the presence of the bissextum in a bissextile year immediately before a. d. VI Kal. Mart. shifted the latter day to February 25 in leap years, with the Vigil of St. Matthias shifting from February 23 to the leap day of February 24. This shift did not take place in pre-Reformation Norway and Iceland; Pope Alexander III ruled that either practice was lawful (Liber Extra, 5. 40. 14. 1). Other feasts normally falling on February 25–28 in common years are also shifted to the following day in a leap year (although they would be on the same day according to the Roman notation). The practice is still observed by those who use the older calendars.\n\nThe Revised Bengali Calendar of Bangladesh and the Indian National Calendar organise their leap years so that the every leap day is close to a February 29 in the Gregorian calendar and vice versa. This makes it easy to convert dates to or from Gregorian.\n\nThe Thai solar calendar uses the Buddhist Era (BE), but has been synchronized with the Gregorian since AD 1941.\n\nFrom AD 8 the Julian calendar received an extra day added to February in years that are multiples of 4.\n\nThe Coptic calendar and Ethiopian calendar also add an extra day to the end of the year once every four years before a Julian 29-day February.\n\nThis rule gives an average year length of 365.25 days. However, it is 11 minutes longer than a tropical year. This means that the vernal equinox moves a day earlier in the calendar about every 131 years.\n\nThe Revised Julian calendar adds an extra day to February in years that are multiples of four, except for years that are multiples of 100 that do not leave a remainder of 200 or 600 when divided by 900. This rule agrees with the rule for the Gregorian calendar until 2799. The first year that dates in the Revised Julian calendar will not agree with those in the Gregorian calendar will be 2800, because it will be a leap year in the Gregorian calendar but not in the Revised Julian calendar.\n\nThis rule gives an average year length of 365.242222 days. This is a very good approximation to the \"mean\" tropical year, but because the \"vernal equinox\" year is slightly longer, the Revised Julian calendar for the time being does not do as good a job as the Gregorian calendar at keeping the vernal equinox on or close to March 21.\n\nThe Chinese calendar is lunisolar, so a leap year has an extra month, often called an \"embolismic\" month after the Greek word for it. In the Chinese calendar the leap month is added according to a rule which ensures that month 11 is always the month that contains the northern winter solstice. The intercalary month takes the same number as the preceding month; for example, if it follows the second month (二月) then it is simply called \"leap second month\" i.e. .\n\nThe Hebrew calendar is lunisolar with an embolismic month. This extra month is called \"Adar Alef\" (first Adar) and is added before \"Adar\", which then becomes \"Adar Bet\" (second Adar). According to the Metonic cycle, this is done seven times every nineteen years (specifically, in years 3, 6, 8, 11, 14, 17, and 19). This is to ensure that Passover () is always in the spring as required by the Torah (Pentateuch) in many verses relating to Passover.\n\nIn addition, the Hebrew calendar has postponement rules that postpone the start of the year by one or two days. These postponement rules reduce the number of different combinations of year length and starting days of the week from 28 to 14, and regulate the location of certain religious holidays in relation to the Sabbath. In particular, the first day of the Hebrew year can never be Sunday, Wednesday or Friday. This rule is known in Hebrew as \"\" (), i.e., \"Rosh [ha-Shanah, first day of the year] is not Sunday, Wednesday or Friday\" (as the Hebrew word is written by three Hebrew letters signifying Sunday, Wednesday and Friday). Accordingly, the first day of Passover is never Monday, Wednesday or Friday. This rule is known in Hebrew as \"\" (), which has a double meaning — \"Passover is not a legend\", but also \"Passover is not Monday, Wednesday or Friday\" (as the Hebrew word is written by three Hebrew letters signifying Monday, Wednesday and Friday).\n\nOne reason for this rule is that Yom Kippur, the holiest day in the Hebrew calendar and the tenth day of the Hebrew year, now must never be adjacent to the weekly Sabbath (which is Saturday), i.e., it must never fall on Friday or Sunday, in order not to have two adjacent Sabbath days. However, Yom Kippur can still be on Saturday. These rules for the Feasts do not apply to the years from the Creation to the deliverance of the Hebrews from Egypt under Moses. It was at that time (cf. Exodus 13) that the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob gave the Hebrews their \"Law\" including the days to be kept holy and the feast days and Sabbaths.\n\nYears consisting of 12 months have between 353 and 355 days. In a (\"in order\") 354-day year, months have alternating 30 and 29 day lengths. In a (\"lacking\") year, the month of Kislev is reduced to 29 days. In a (\"filled\") year, the month of Marcheshvan is increased to 30 days. 13-month years follow the same pattern, with the addition of the 30-day Adar Alef, giving them between 383 and 385 days.\n\nThe observed and calculated versions of the Islamic calendar do not have regular leap days, even though both have lunar months containing 29 or 30 days, generally in alternating order. However, the tabular Islamic calendar used by Islamic astronomers during the Middle Ages and still used by some Muslims does have a regular leap day added to the last month of the lunar year in 11 years of a 30-year cycle. This additional day is found at the end of the last month, Dhu 'l-Hijja, which is also the month of the Hajj.\n\nThe Hijri-Shamsi calendar, also adopted by the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, is based on solar calculations and is similar to the Gregorian calendar in its structure with the exception that the first year starts with Hijra.\n\nIn the Hindu calendar, which is a lunisolar calendar, the embolismic month is called \"adhika maas\" (extra month). It is the month in which the sun is in the same sign of the stellar zodiac on two consecutive dark moons. \"Adhika maas\" occurs once every 33 to 34 months, compensating for the approximately eleven fewer days per year in twelve lunar months than the solar calendar. Thus, Hindu festivals tend to occur within a given span of the Gregorian calendar. For example: the No Moon during Diwali festival occurs between mid - October and mid - November. Buddhist calendars in several related forms (each a simplified version of the Hindu calendar) are used on mainland Southeast Asia in the countries of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Myanmar (formerly Burma) and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe Hindu Calendar also known as Vikram Samvat is used in Nepal as the national calendar. All the official work is done based on this calendar.\n\nThe calendar followed in some parts of South India (mainly in Tamil Nadu) is solar. It has a leap year every four years.\n\nThe Bahá'í calendar is a solar calendar composed of 19 months of 19 days each (361 days). Years begin at Naw-Rúz, on the vernal equinox, on or about March 21. A period of \"Intercalary Days\", called Ayyam-i-Ha, are inserted before the 19th month. This period normally has 4 days, but an extra day is added when needed to ensure that the following year starts on the vernal equinox. This is calculated and known years in advance.\n\nThe Iranian calendar is an observational calendar that starts on the spring equinox and adds a single intercalated day to the last month (Esfand) once every four or five years; the first leap year occurs as the fifth year of the typical 33-year cycle and the remaining leap years occur every four years through the remainder of the 33-year cycle. The system used is more accurate and more complicated, and is based on the time of the March equinox as observed from Tehran. The 33-year period is not completely regular; every so often the 33-year cycle will be broken by a cycle of 29 years.\n\nIn Ireland and Britain, it is a tradition that women may propose marriage only in leap years. While it has been claimed that the tradition was initiated by Saint Patrick or Brigid of Kildare in 5th century Ireland, this is dubious, as the tradition has not been attested before the 19th century. Supposedly, a 1288 law by Queen Margaret of Scotland (then age five and living in Norway), required that fines be levied if a marriage proposal was refused by the man; compensation was deemed to be a pair of leather gloves, a single rose, £1 and a kiss. In some places the tradition was tightened to restricting female proposals to the modern leap day, February 29, or to the medieval (bissextile) leap day, February 24.\n\nAccording to Felten: \"A play from the turn of the 17th century, 'The Maydes Metamorphosis,' has it that 'this is leape year/women wear breeches.' A few hundred years later, breeches wouldn't do at all: Women looking to take advantage of their opportunity to pitch woo were expected to wear a scarlet petticoat — fair warning, if you will.\"\n\nIn Finland, the tradition is that if a man refuses a woman's proposal on leap day, he should buy her the fabrics for a skirt.\n\nIn France, since 1980, a satirical newspaper entitled \"La Bougie du Sapeur\" is published only on leap year, on February 29.\n\nIn Greece, marriage in a leap year is considered unlucky. One in five engaged couples in Greece will plan to avoid getting married in a leap year.\n\nIn February 1988 the town of Anthony in Texas, declared itself \"leap year capital of the world\", and an international leapling birthday club was started.\n\nA person born on February 29 may be called a \"leapling\" or a \"leaper\". In common years, they usually celebrate their birthdays on February 28. In some situations, March 1 is used as the birthday in a non-leap year, since it is the day following February 28.\n\nTechnically, a leapling will have fewer \"birthday anniversaries\" than their age in years. This phenomenon is exploited when a person claims to be only a quarter of their actual age, by counting their leap-year birthday anniversaries only: for example, in Gilbert and Sullivan's 1879 comic opera \"The Pirates of Penzance\", Frederic the pirate apprentice discovers that he is bound to serve the pirates until his 21st \"birthday\" (that is, when he turns 88 years old, since 1900 was not a leap year) rather than until his 21st \"year\".\n\nFor legal purposes, legal birthdays depend on how local laws count time intervals.\n\nThe Civil Code of the Republic of China since October 10, 1929, implies that the legal birthday of a leapling is February 28 in common years:\n\nSince 1990 non-retroactively, Hong Kong considers the legal birthday of a leapling March 1 in common years:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34258585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258585", "title": "Let's Do It! World", "text": "Let's Do It! World\n\nLet's Do It! World is a global civic movement that started from Estonia, asking people worldwide to join a series of local, national and regional clean-up events. Among other projects, it is the founder of World Cleanup Day.\n\nThe Let's Do It! movement was first conceived in Estonia in year 2008, where a country clean-up action called Let's do it! (in Estonian: \"Teeme Ära!\") cleaned up 10,000 tons of illegal waste by more than 50,000 volunteers in one day. Following Estonia's lead many countries also started their own country clean-up events. In 2011 a new initiative called Let's do it! World was started with the aim of promoting massive clean-ups from 24 March 2012 till 15 September 2012. After a successful World Cleanup 2012 project the next bigger goal is to have World Cleanup Day in 2018.\n\nToday, the movement has grown into a network of 113 countries. All together, 14 million participants have been engaged in movement's activities.\n\nLet's Do It! World is an accredited member of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nSince 2017, the movement uses W sign aka Three Fingers Up as a symbol. \n\nOn the 3rd of May 2008 over 50,000 people came out of their homes to clean up Estonia, the rest followed the process via all the media channels. That's 4% out of a population of 1,3 million - which would equal 15,3 million in the USA or 57 million in India. The idea spread from Estonia to the whole Europe and beyond. Next spring, in 2009, Latvia and Lithuania cleaned their countries with more than 250,000 people participating and have done it henceforth for three years, engaging more people each year. On 20 March 2010 Portugal cleaned their country with 200,000 people. Slovenia followed shortly, breaking all records with 270,000 people (which is 13% of the overall population of the country) taking part in the action. In the beginning of June the same year, Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine was cleaned. By the end of 2011 more than 2.5 million people have participated in Let’s Do It! cleanup actions in 16 countries – Estonia, India, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Cambodia, Russia, Hungary and Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, starting from 24 March until 25 September, a series of cleanups happened around the globe, on all continents, bringing together millions of volunteers in 96 countries. The action was initiated on 24 March 2012 by volunteers in Slovenia and Portugal.\n\nTo bring together doers and initiators and share existing experience – Let's Do It! teams were organizing workshops and regional gatherings, introducing the World Cleanup 2012 around the world. Each group or organisation was leading the cleanup action in their country.\nAfter a successful World Cleanup 2012 project, the network set more ambitious goals. During the Let's Do It! Clean World Conference held in Prishtina, Kosovo on the 6th-9th of February 2014, it was agreed, that the aim of the global movement is to clean up the whole World from illegally dumped solid waste and to then keep the planet clean. To reach the essential transformation in the global society, the leaders of country cleanups set the ambitious goal to involve 380 million people by 2018. According to Let's Do It! World, this is around 5% of the world’s population and is estimated to be the amount to create a lasting change.\n\nThe most massive cleanup actions (data: October 2014) within the movement have happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Kosovo and in Albania.\n\nIn 2012, 289,000 Slovenians came out of the homes and cleaned up the entire country in just one day. This is 14% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2013, 375,000 cleaned up the country in Bulgaria in a one-day country cleanup action (13,9% of country's population).\n\nIn 2012, 210,000 people (10% of country's population) cleaned up Latvia from illegal waste in just one day.\n\nIn 2013, a massive civic cleanup action also took place in Kosovo, bringing together 132,000 people (7% of the population) and in the same year, Albania also had a massive cleanup action, uniting 147,000 people (5,25%) to clean up the country in just one day.\n\nIn 2015, 250,000 people (8,6% of country's population) cleaned up Lithuania from illegal waste in one day.\n\nIn 2015, over 500,000 people participated in Let's Do It! actions in Ukraine cleaning up illegal dump-sites around the country. \n\nAround 15 millions people in 158 countries took part on the World Clean Up Day, the 15th of September 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1040867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040867", "title": "List of ICON science fiction conventions", "text": "List of ICON science fiction conventions\n\nICON is the name of at least five science fiction conventions. In order of seniority, these are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23900299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23900299", "title": "List of Renaissance fairs", "text": "List of Renaissance fairs\n\nThis is a list of Renaissance fairs worldwide.\n\nIncluded below are the fairs in the United States which are either notably long running or which regularly have had at least a two-week or better run. Generally, renaissance fairs are open weekends-only during the periods indicated. States are listed first and dates are codified to facilitate searching by state and by date.\n\nMost Canadian events are only one weekend in duration. Those notable and older than 10 years are listed here.\n\nMost Australian events are only one or two days in duration. Notable Renaissance and Medieval events (older than 10 years) are listed here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10150504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10150504", "title": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent", "text": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent\n\nAn auto show (also: motor show or car show) is a public exhibition of current automobile models, debuts, concept cars, or out-of-production classics. The five most prestigious auto shows, sometimes called the \"Big Five\", are generally considered to be held in Frankfurt, Geneva, Detroit, Paris and Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3981713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3981713", "title": "List of free-software events", "text": "List of free-software events\n\nThe following is a list of computer conferences and other events focused on the development and usage of free and open-source software (FOSS).\n\nSome events with \"Linux\" in their name are in fact general-purpose free-software events, often because they began as Linux-only events before broadening their focus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855237", "title": "List of hoaxes", "text": "List of hoaxes\n\nThe following are lists of hoaxes:\n\nThese are some claims that have been revealed, or proven definitively, to be deliberate public hoaxes. This list does not include hoax articles published on or around April 1, a long list of which can be found in the \"List of April Fools' Day jokes\" article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Proven hoaxes of exposure\" are semi-comical or private sting operations. They usually encourage people to act foolishly or credulously by falling for patent nonsense that the hoaxer deliberately presents as reality. See also \"culture jamming\".\n\n\nDeliberate hoaxes, or journalistic fraud, that drew widespread attention include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10323418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323418", "title": "Maurice Flitcroft", "text": "Maurice Flitcroft\n\nMaurice Gerald Flitcroft (23 November 1929 – 24 March 2007) was a British golfer and audacious hoaxer.\n\nFlitcroft became notorious after hitting a score of 121 in the qualifying competition for the 1976 Open Championship—the highest score recorded at the Open Championship—and by a self-professed \"professional golfer\". Subsequently, he gained significant media attention, being referred to as \"the world's worst golfer\". Following the 1976 Open, the rules were changed to prevent Flitcroft from attempting to enter again. Undeterred, he regularly attempted to enter the Open and several other golf competitions, either under his own name or under pseudonyms such as Gene Paceky (as in paycheque), Gerald Hoppy, and James Beau Jolley. Flitcroft was married to Jean (died 2002) by whom he had two sons—one of whom caddied for him.\n\nHe is the subject of a biography, \"The Phantom of the Open\", by Scott Murray and Simon Farnaby, published by Yellow Jersey Press in July 2010.\n\nIn his obituary, The Daily Telegraph commented thus:\n\nFlitcroft was born in Manchester on 23 November 1929.\n\nAccording to his unpublished memoirs, Flitcroft took up the game after watching the 1974 Piccadilly World Match Play Championship. Flitcroft had golfing ambitions well above his ability and came to notoriety in 1976 when, posing as a professional golfer, he managed to obtain a place to play in the qualifying round of The Open Championship—despite his previous experience amounting only to some hacking around on playing fields near his home. Flitcroft recalled, \"I was looking to find fame and fortune but only achieved one of the two\". He was inspired to enter the tournament by Walter Danecki, a postal worker from Milwaukee who, after being barred from becoming a professional by the Professional Golfers' Association of America, entered the 1965 Open Championship after telling the R&A that he was a pro and set a two-round score of 221 during qualifying.\n\nWhen he discovered, to his shock, that any amateurs entering competitions had to have an official handicap—something he lacked—he simply declared himself to be a professional. It was in the same 1976 Open that a young new player, the 19-year-old Seve Ballesteros first came to the public's attention. Flitcroft prepared for the tournament by studying a golf instruction manual by Peter Alliss which was borrowed from his local library. He further studied from instructional articles by the 1966 PGA Championship winner Al Geiberger, and honed his skills on a nearby beach.\n\nHis deception (and ineptitude) were uncovered when he managed to card a 49-over-par 121—the worst score in the tournament's history; some of the other professionals playing with him were so angry that they successfully demanded a refund of their entry fees. In addition the R&A gave him a lifetime ban from all their courses. It seems that none of the professionals noticed that his gear comprised only a red imitation-leather bag and half a set of mail-order clubs. As a result of his abilities, he became known as \"The Royal & Ancient Rabbit\".\n\nAfter leaving school, Flitcroft joined the Merchant Navy. Following his marriage, he and his wife settled in Barrow-in-Furness, where he worked as a crane operator at the Vickers-Armstrongs shipyard. At other times he worked as a shoe polish salesman and an ice cream man.\n\nIn a July 2006 article in Golfonline, Flitcroft said, \"I was in show business. I toured with a revue, and I used to jump into a tank on the stage, I was a stuntcomedy high diver. The revue used to tour all the country and I would dive into this tank. It wasn't all glass, just the front so the spectators could see what was going on under the water.\"\n\nAfter his initiation into celebrity golf, Flitcroft briefly became a C-list celebrity and had various golf trophies (usually those celebrating poor play or egregious mishaps) named after him; he also had the distinction of having the \"Maurice Gerald Flitcroft Member-Guest Tournament\" named after him by the 1988 Blythefield Country Club in Grand Rapids. Buddy Whitten, Blythefield's head pro stated that, \"It started as a lark, but most people can't break 90 so they relate more to Maurice than they would to a touring pro.\" By the time of the 22nd Maurice G. Flitcroft Member-Guest Tournament, which was held in May 2000, the club had featured a green with two holes so that even the most errant of approaches were potentially rewarded. If this wasn't enough another green had a cup.\n\nIn 1988, Flitcroft himself was flown to Blythefield to play in the event. He is reported as having told the members there that it was the first time he and his wife had been out of the house together \"since their gas oven exploded.\" Whitten further said, \"It was a different sort of experience, I'd never met a crane operator from England. But his game had gotten a little better than I expected. I think he shot in the low 90s.\" Flitcroft said of his performance, \"I wasn't playing too well. Some faults had crept into my swing. But I hit a lot of good shots.”\n\nFlitcroft retired from Vickers in the 1970s and devoted himself to his golf—but was reduced to the ignominy of once again playing on local fields, having been banned from every local golf club after sneaking into their grounds to play without permission.\n\nMany years after his rise to fame, Flitcroft still received post which had been addressed simply to: Maurice Flitcroft, Golfer, England.\n\nIn 2017 comedian and writer Simon Farnaby, who co-wrote a biography of Flitcroft, stated that he was writing a film script based on the book.\n"}
{"id": "30860671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860671", "title": "Museum of Hoaxes", "text": "Museum of Hoaxes\n\nThe Museum of Hoaxes is a website created by Alex Boese in 1997 in San Diego, California as a resource for reporting and discussing hoaxes and urban legends, both past and present.\n\nIn 2004, PC Magazine included the site as one of the \"Top 100 Sites You Didn't Know You Couldn't Live Without,\" and Sci Fi Weekly named it \"site of the week\" for the week beginning 7 February 2007.\n\nBoese has published two books on hoaxes: \"Museum of Hoaxes\" (E.P. Dutton, 2002, ) and \"Hippo Eats Dwarf: A Field Guide to Hoaxes and Other B.S.\" (Harvest Books, 2006, ). A third book by Boese, \"Elephants on Acid\" (Harvest Books, 2007, ), focuses on unusual scientific experiments. His latest book is \"Electrified Sheep\", published by Boxtree 2011, is also about strange scientific experiments.\n\n"}
{"id": "27869730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27869730", "title": "New Milford, New Hampshire", "text": "New Milford, New Hampshire\n\nNew Milford is a fictional town in New Hampshire, United States. It was the subject of a hoax article published in 2011 by \"The White Pine Series of Architectural Monographs\", which described the community as being a flourishing Victorian-era village in the White Mountains during the early 20th century. According to the article, New Milford had been incorporated in 1852 by working-class quarry workers, had enjoyed prosperity for many years, and then declined in the early 20th century, following a succession of unfortunate disasters at the quarry site, the decline of rail-based tourism, the Great Depression, and the outbreak of World Wars. Research by the Milford, New Hampshire, Historical Society and the New Hampshire State Library following the publication of the article led to the discovery that the article was fictitious.\n\n"}
{"id": "20731129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731129", "title": "Personal watercraft-related accidents", "text": "Personal watercraft-related accidents\n\nThe number of personal watercraft-related accidents has increased with the popularity of personal watercraft (PWC) (also commonly known as jet skis) since their introduction during the late 1960s. The use of the term \"jet ski\" for all types of PWCs is a misnomer; Jet Ski is a registered trademark in the United States for a line of PWCs manufactured by Kawasaki). With the increased use of personal watercraft since their inception, the hazards accompanying their use have also increased. According to U.S. government reports, most accidents are associated with rental operators, underage operators, under-trained and undereducated boaters and a variety of factors associated with recreational-boating accidents (excessive speed, inattention, reckless operation, alcohol consumption and violations of the \"Rules of the Road\"). Due to their affordability, ease of use, and relatively low transportation and maintenance costs, personal watercraft have significantly increased the number of water-based enthusiasts in the U.S. This rise in participation has created conflicts between the various boating segments in the U.S. and a need for additional boater education. Recreational-boating accidents are the second-largest transportation-related cause of injury in the U.S. (after automobile accidents).\n\nPersonal watercraft are vessels designed for recreational use on the water, carrying between one and four passengers. The U.S. Coast Guard defines PWC as \"craft less than 13 feet in length designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the craft rather than within the confines of a hull\". The original PWCs were manufactured during the mid-1950s in the United Kingdom and Europe. Ten years later Bombardier Recreational Products (BRP) began manufacturing PWC's in the USA under the name Sea-Doo. BRP left the PWC business shortly thereafter, and in 1973 Kawasaki introduced a \"stand-up\" watercraft designed for a single operator (with a tray for standing or kneeling, in place of a seat). By the late 1980s \"sit-down\" models had appeared on the market, allowing the rider to be seated (similar to a snowmobile or motorcycle seat). These sit-down models were made by Kawasaki (1986), Yamaha (1987) and BRP (1988). Polaris and Arctic were two American companies which entered the market during the early 1990s.\n\nPWC have an inboard engine with a screw-shaped impeller to create thrust and propulsion for steering. They are small, fast, and easy to maneuver; PWCs do not use external propellers, making them safer for swimmers and wildlife. The user-friendly properties of PWCs have contributed to the increase in popularity amongst less-experienced watercraft users. To increase safety, a number of U.S. consumer groups suggested that all boats should utilize the jet-drive mechanism (also called a pump-jet) employed by PWC manufacturers since this would reduce the risk of propeller injuries.\n\nAll boating accidents in the United States either occur on state- or federally-patrolled waters. Whether state or federal, reports must be filed for a predefined level of damage and are compiled by the United States Coast Guard (which uses the reported data for its annual BAR—Boating Accident Report—Statistical Reports). As automotive law-enforcement officers outnumber boating law-enforcement officers in the U.S., federal government reports for watercraft are comparatively fewer. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) conducted general investigation of the recreational-boating accident-reporting system in 1998 and compiled its findings in a published report. The NTSB's investigation emerged with data seen as representative of overall recreational boating; an example follows from the report's conclusion:\n\nInattention (attributed to 307 operators), inexperience (attributed to 296 operators), and inappropriate speed for the operating conditions (attributed to 246 operators) were the most frequently cited causes that contributed to the PWC accidents. One or more of these three causes were associated with 70 percent of the 814 accidents. A fourth cause, improper lookout (153), was associated with about one-fifth of the accidents.\n\nAccording to the aforementioned interpretation of the NTSB report: \n\nA study performed by the Red Cross in 1991 concluded that during the research period, PWC accidents were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population. This was later supported by a Coast Guard study presented to the State of Vermont in 1996. Both studies presented findings that the comparative accident rates for personal water craft were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population; the reports emphasized the high level of attention and publicity that PWC accidents receive.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, several states (including California and Florida, two jurisdictions which, according to the NTSB report, accounted for over 50 percent of all personal-water-craft accidents in the U.S.) changed their laws regarding the use of personal water craft. These amendments included the introduction of limits for wake-jumping, the prescribed use of a PWC within of another vessel, \"spraying\" activities, mandated operation of PWCs within of the shoreline, and age restrictions for operators (the operator age was raised from 12 to 16 years for all affected states, with Florida also introducing a mandatory boating-safety course for those under age 18). According to the State of California, these laws have directly contributed to an over-50-percent reduction in accidents.\n\nA notable fatality occurred on July 1, 2012 in Little Sabine Bay (near Pensacola Beach), Florida; retired astronaut Alan Poindexter was killed when the PWC he was riding was rammed by one operated by one of his sons.\n\nThe leading cause of PWC accidents among riders in 2007 was reckless or careless driving. According to the National Transportation Safety Board in the U.S., this accounted for 26.3 percent of all PWCs involved in accidents in 2007. Reckless driving has been defined in the Personal Watercraft Act of 2005 in the U.S. as follows:\nReckless driving is defined differently by state. For example, in Florida reckless driving on a PWC is defined as \"maneuvering a personal watercraft by weaving through congested vessel traffic, jumping the wake of another vessel unreasonably close or when visibility around the vessel is obstructed, or swerving at the last possible moment to avoid collision is classified as reckless operation of a vessel\".\nIn U.S. law, the penalties for operating a vessel in a negligent or reckless manner are defined as following:\n(a) A person operating a vessel in a negligent manner or interfering with the safe operation of a vessel, so as to endanger the life, limb, or property of a person is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 in the case of a recreational vessel, or $25,000 in the case of any other vessel.\n(b) A person operating a vessel in a grossly negligent manner that endangers the life, limb, or property of a person commits a class A misdemeanor.\nBecause of the increasing popularity of water sports (particularly PWC), the number of vessels in use has increased in the last several decades. According to the U.S. Coast Guard, the number of registered vessels was 8,557,857 in 1980 and 12,875,568 in 2007. This has resulted in more-crowded waterways and increased hazards. Because of the increased congestion caused by the number of vessels, a heightened need for attention and caution is required by operators. In 2007, 17.2 percent of all PWC-related accidents were caused by driver inattention.\n\nAs the market has grown for PWC manufacturers, vessel power has also increased. Modern PWC engines have more than 250 horsepower and can reach speeds of over . Excessive speed accounted for nearly 15 percent of all PWC-related accidents in 2007, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nThe steering characteristics of jet boats (including personal watercraft) when they are \"off throttle\" seem to differ from conventional steering. All recreational planing boats steer with thrust. Jet boats (including PWCs) generate that thrust with a moveable nozzle connected to a jet pump; propeller boats generate thrust through a downward-placed, exposed propeller. The fact that the propeller is placed downward in the water and is exposed means that even when it is not generating thrust that some amount of steering effect is possible. Jet boats have no downward projection, and achieve no additional steering effect from the device. If the operator of a jet boat releases the throttle, steering effectiveness decreases roughly in proportion to thrust reduction. The NTSB related an example of an off-throttle steering accident in the personal watercraft safety study of 1998: \nThe Florida Marine Patrol accident description states, \"[Operator] was\nattempting to make a turn south through a cut in the mangroves . . . . He was not real familiar with operating a jet ski with a passenger. When he attempted to make a left turn he let off the throttle which caused the PWC to lose steering capabilities. The forward momentum of the PWC took [operator] and passenger into the mangrove shoreline.\n[Operator] received a puncture wound to the left side of his neck . . . .\"\nAccording to the NTSB, 24 percent of reported PWC accidents list steering problems or loss of control as contributing factors; in Florida, it is the second-leading cause of PWC-related accidents. PWC manufacturers have been working to develop a system to prevent off-throttle steering. Modifications have been made to solve this problem in newer PWC models.\n\nBecause of the ease of operating a PWC, little training and experience is required to perform basic maneuvers of a PWC. The NTSB reported in 1998 that 32 percent of operators involved in accidents reported that they had operated a vessel between zero and ten times prior to the accident; 86 never, 75 once and 225 between 2 and 10 times. Of the 712 operators who were asked about training, 84 percent said they had received no training and the other 16 percent participated in some boating training. Regulations concerning training courses and age limits for operators vary by state and by country. In the U.S. the minimum operator age ranges from 12–18 years; young operators may require adult supervision on the vessel and training in accordance with local laws.\n\nOne particularly serious type of personal watercraft injury occurs when a female rider falls off the back of the craft and into the path of the craft's high-pressure water jet.The jet thrust is powerful enough to push water into the rider's orifices, which can result in severe internal injuries to the rider's vagina, rectum or anus, and possibly death.\n\nFor example, in 2014, the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District, Division One upheld in full a San Diego County jury verdict against Bombardier Recreational Products and two other defendants in favor of two plaintiffs injured simultaneously in a single 2007 fall from a PWC, which included awards, respectively, of $3.385 million and $1.063 million in compensatory damages (with liability divided in equal portions among the three defendants). The appellate court also affirmed awards of $1.5 million in punitive damages against BRP alone for each plaintiff (adding up to $3 million in punitive damages) which were based on the jury's express finding that BRP's conduct manifested a \"reckless or callous disregard for the rights of others\".\n\nHowever, on the other hand, there are also examples where the owner, operator, and/or user of the personal watercraft have been found entirely at fault by a jury without any fault whatsoever on the manufacturer. For example, in 2010 in a case venued in the federal court of the Middle District of Florida, a jury found the 2006 Sea-Doo safe and not defective as to design, warnings, manufacture, and that BRP was not negligent in the design of its product. BRP maintained the Sea-Doo was reasonably safe, state-of-the-art, compliant with industry standards as well as the U.S. Coast Guard's standards, and was not the cause of plaintiff's injuries and/or accident. The plaintiff testified she did not have any conversation with anyone concerning the use of protective gear, such as wet suit bottoms or equivalent protective clothing and was not provided any safety information before riding. During the trial, the operator admitted he saw, but chose not to read, the onboard warning label. He also admitted that he did not read the safety recommendations in the operator’s guide nor watch the safety video. Counsel for BRP in the Thomas case, Scott Sarason, commented on the case that, “Statistically speaking, the probability of the type of incident involved in this case is extremely rare. Owners, operators and passengers of personal watercrafts must think safety first. It’s important for people to realize that these watercraft are classified as boats. That’s why the watercraft industry has been working diligently with authorities like the U.S. Coast Guard to introduce programs like ‘Know Before You Go’ in an effort to prevent accidents and injuries.” The Thomas case is just one example, of a handful, where such a rare accident is caused by extraneous persons or factors (including, but not limited to, the presence of alcohol, operator inexperience/inattention, careless or reckless operation, violation of state/local boating laws, failure on the part of the operator and/or owner to convey necessary safety information provided by the manufacturer, etc.). \n"}
{"id": "21759405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21759405", "title": "Solomon curve", "text": "Solomon curve\n\n]\n\nThe Solomon curve is a graphical representation of the collision rate of automobiles as a function of their speed compared to the average vehicle speed on the same road. The curve was based on research conducted by David Solomon in the late 1950s and published in 1964. Subsequent research suggests significant biases in the Solomon study, which may cast doubt on its findings.\n\nIn 1964, Solomon researched the relationship between average speed and the collision rates of automobiles and plotted the results. While others have attempted to quantify the relationship between average speed and collision rates, Solomon's work was both \"the earliest and best known\". Solomon conducted a comprehensive study of more than 10,000 collision-involved drivers and their vehicles and how other roadway, driver, and vehicle characteristics affect the probability of being involved in a crash. He found that the probability of being involved in a crash per vehicle-mile as a function of on-road vehicle speeds follows a U-shaped curve with speed values around the median speed having the lowest probability of being in a crash. Although typically called the Solomon curve, the U-shaped curve has also been referred to as the Crash Risk Curve.\n\nIn 1968, Julie Cirillo conducted a similar study of 2,000 vehicles on interstate highways that addressed speed variation’s impact on crashes that involved two or more vehicles. The Cirillo data produced a U-shaped curve similar to the Solomon curve. The Research Triangle Institute conducted a study in 1970 where data was collected on 114 crashes involving 216 vehicles on a state highway in Indiana to address these concerns by (1) combining automated, embedded speed-monitoring stations with trained on-scene crash investigators, and (2) distinguishing data on vehicles slowing to negotiate a turn from vehicles moving slowly in the flow of traffic. Reporting on these results in 1971, academics West and Dunn confirmed the findings of Solomon and Cirillo, but found that crashes involving turning vehicles accounted for 44 percent of all crashes observed in the study and that excluding these crashes from the analysis greatly attenuated the factors that created the U-shape of the Solomon curve.\n\nIn 1991, Fildes, Rumbold, and Leening collected self-reported crash data from 707 motorists in Australia with fewer than 200 reporting that they had been in a collision but, unlike Solomon and Cirillo, the researchers found no relationship between slower speeds and increased crash involvement. Notwithstanding the many studies over the years, in testimony before the Ohio Senate Highways and Transportation Committee on June 10, 2003, Julie Cirillo, Former Assistant Administrator and Chief Safety Officer for the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), testified that \"up to the present time there has been no evidence to alter Solomon’s original finding that variance from the mean operating speed is a major contributor to accidents\".\n\nIn July 2001, Kloeden CN, Ponte G and McLean AJ of the Road Accident Research Unit, Adelaide University quantified the relationship, \"... between free travelling speed and the risk of involvement in a casualty crash in 80 km/h or greater speed limit zones in rural South Australia\" using a case control study design. They found, \"..the risk of involvement in a casualty crash increased more than exponentially with increasing free travelling speed above the mean traffic speed and that travelling speeds below the mean traffic speed were associated with a lower risk of being involved in a casualty crash.\" Outlining past research in this area, they suggest that, in the Solomon research, \"Both the numerator (number of crashes in a particular speed band) and the denominator (number of vehicle-miles travelled in that same speed band) may have been quite inaccurate for relatively low speeds.\" \n\nHauer provided a theoretical foundation for the Solomon curve in 1971—“for example, if I drive at 45 mph, while the median of the pack is 60 mph, how many cars will pass me in an hour and hence have a chance to collide with me?”—that showed that the theoretical distribution was nearly identical to the Solomon curve.\n\nWhile Solomon’s research focused on speed deviation, and not speed per se, some commentators have cited Solomon’s research to support the conclusion that raw speed and crash risk are not directly related. On the other hand, while recognizing Solomon's research reveals the importance to safety of variability around average speed, Leonard Evans concludes in \"Traffic Safety and the Driver\" that control of absolute driver speed, and not variability, should be the primary focus of traffic safety regulation. Both views support the fact that the seminal research underlying the Solomon curve shows that the greater the difference between a driver’s speed and the average speed of traffic—both above and below that average speed—the greater the likelihood of involvement in a crash. Consequently, many states and safety organizations advise drivers to “drive with the flow of traffic”.\n"}
{"id": "27852663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27852663", "title": "Sustainable event management", "text": "Sustainable event management\n\nSustainable event management (also known as event greening) is the process used to produce an event with particular concern for environmental, economic and social issues. Sustainability in event management incorporates socially and environmentally responsible decision making into the planning, organisation and implementation of, and participation in, an event. It involves including sustainable development principles and practices in all levels of event organisation, and aims to ensure that an event is hosted responsibly. It represents the total package of interventions at an event, and needs to be done in an integrated manner. Event greening should start at the inception of the project, and should involve all the key role players, such as clients, organisers, venues, sub-contractors and suppliers.\n\nThe first time that environmental concerns were raised by the public was at the 1992 Albertville Winter Olympics in France, which led to the first ‘green Games’ in Lillehammer, Norway, in 1994. The Lillehammer Olympic Organizing Committee received the UNEP Global 500 Award for setting environmental standards which were absent from previous Olympic games.\n\nThe Centennial Olympic Congress, Congress of Unity, held in Paris in 1994, recognised the importance of the environment and sustainable development, which led to the inclusion of a paragraph in Rule 2 of the Olympic Charter. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has acknowledged its particular responsibility in terms of promoting sustainable development, and regards the environment as the third dimension of Olympism, alongside sport and culture. This led to its decision in 1995 to create an IOC Sport and Environment Commission. \n\nEnvironmental Guidelines for the Summer Olympics were developed to guide Olympic hosts to ensure that facilities are constructed in a more environmentally friendly manner. The Guidelines were successfully used in the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games. As a result, the organizers of the Sydney Games were honoured with the Global 500 Award in 2001 for organizing the greenest games ever. Since then, other major sports events have also considered their environmental impact. \n\nA major aspect of UNEP’s work is with the IOC. A cooperative agreement was signed in 1994 with IOC and an Agenda 21 for Sport and Environment developed. Since 2002, UNEP has participated in a task force of the UN Secretary-General on the use of sport for the implementation of the United Nations Development Goals. UNEP also supports the IOC in organizing world conferences and regional seminars on sport and the environment.\n\nDuring the 2006 FIFA World CupTM in Germany, Green Goal was launched, which was also implemented in South Africa for the 2010 FIFA World CupTM. The Host City Cape Town Green Goal programme had been awarded the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Sport and Environment Award. Nominated by FIFA, the award recognised the efforts of the Host City Cape Town to mitigate negative environmental impacts of the FIFA World Cup and to maximise a positive environmental and social legacy.\n\nEvent greening is however not only limited to sports events, and other examples include the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD), Johannesburg 2002, and UNFCCC 15th Conference of the Parties (COP15) held in Copenhagen in 2010.\n\nMonitoring and evaluation is an essential component of event greening, and should be used to make continuous improvement. A detailed plan needs to be in place to ensure that information is gathered on all aspects of the event – before, during, and also after the event. This ensures that information is available to understand the effects of greening interventions (e.g. to what extent was water used, and how did water-saving measures reduce water use), as well as the potential improvements to future event-greening initiatives.\n\nWith large events it is best to ensure an independent report, which complies with international standards, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI Event Organizers Supplement provides organizations in the sector with a tailored version of GRI’s Reporting Guidelines. It includes the original Guidelines, which set out the Reporting Principles, Disclosures on Management Approach and Performance Indicators for economic, environmental and social issues. The Event Organizers Supplement’s capture the issues that matter most for event organizers to be reported on:\n\nThe British Standard (BS 8901) has been developed specifically for the events industry with a purpose of helping the industry to operate in a more sustainable manner. The standard defines the requirements for a sustainability event management system to ensure an enduring and balanced approach to economic activity, environmental responsibility and social progress relating to events.\n\nIt requires organizations to identify and understand the effects that their activities have on the environment, on society and on the economy both within the organization and the wider economy; and put measures in place to minimize the negative effects. These standards will however be replaced by the International Standard (ISO 20121) for Sustainability Management Systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "48738380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48738380", "title": "The Oprah Effect", "text": "The Oprah Effect\n\nThe Oprah Effect is the phenomenon in which consuming soft news causes the politically unaware to vote more consistently with their own views, articulated by Matthew A. Baum and Angela S. Jamison in their 2006 study, \"The Oprah Effect: How Soft News Helps Inattentive Citizens Vote Consistently\". The findings and conclusions of the study centered around the distinction between hard and soft news as written about by Baum, and the complex interactions both types of news have on people with low and high political awareness. The term was pioneered by Oprah Winfrey.\n\nThe increase of soft news content available has led some scholars to question its value in informing the public, and therefore question whether the media is properly fulfilling its duty to inform the citizens. The Oprah Effect was demonstrated by testing a dependent variable of voting consistently versus an independent variable which measured how often the voter watched daytime talk shows. Voting consistency measures the consistency between a voter's preferences and their vote. For the context of this experiment, the measure of voting consistently was created by applying Lau and Redlawsk's model of \"correct\" voting to data from the 2000 National Election Studies. Increased consumption of soft news caused low information voters to vote more consistently, but had no significant effect on more aware voters. Exposure to hard news modestly increased the voting consistency of politically aware individuals, but had no significant effect on those with low political awareness.\n\nWhile Baum and Jamison agree that soft news contains lower quality political information, they conclude from their analysis that soft news fulfills a valuable duty by providing information to apolitical individuals. This is because soft news still exposes those individuals to the political information that they need to cast a vote for the candidate which best reflects their personal interests, even if it doesn't contain highly complex political information. They theorize that exposure to soft news has this effect on low information individuals because most people with little political knowledge have no interest in harder news, making their decision to consume soft news one between consuming soft news or consuming no news. Even though soft news may not be highly informational, it's still beneficial compared to consuming no news. They also go even further, contending that even if an individual with little political knowledge were to consume hard news, the more complex political information would be difficult for them to comprehend, and they would get relatively little out of it. As a result, they conclude their results should give some pause to critics of the increase soft news content in the media, because it increases the voting consistency of those with little political knowledge.\n"}
{"id": "19206107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19206107", "title": "Third Eurovision Dance Contest", "text": "Third Eurovision Dance Contest\n\nThe third Eurovision Dance Contest was originally planned to be organised in Baku, Azerbaijan at the Heydar Aliyev Sports and Exhibition Complex on 26 September 2009. İctimai Television was planning to increase the number of participating countries as well as inviting a world-famous star to host the contest, listing Jennifer Lopez, Kylie Minogue and Shakira as candidates. An additional extravaganza open-air concert was planned to be held, bringing together ex-participants of the Eurovision, Junior Eurovision and Eurovision Dance Contests on one stage.\n\nOn the date of cancellation, two countries had finished selection of the participating couples for the contest:\n\n\nHowever, on 28 May 2009, European Broadcasting Union (EBU) had announced that the contest was postponed at least until Autumn 2010 as \"the number of broadcasters that signed up for participation had not reach the desired level\". According to a preliminary calculations, at least five countries that were taking part in Eurovision Dance Contest 2008, namely , , , and had announced withdrawal from the contest, with only confirming its participation as a début country.\n\nAccording to contest coordinator on behalf of EBU Tal Barnea \"concrete plans for a 2010 autumn event were being developed, with considerable changes to introduce a new programme proposal\". These plans were expected to be unveiled in the autumn of 2009. EBU also praised \"the commendable work on the next Eurovision Dance Contest already completed by our partners Ictimai Television and the Azerbaijani officials\" stating that 2010 edition of the contest was planned to take place in Baku, Azerbaijan as well. \n\nIn January 2010, EBU Eurovision coordinator, Svante Stockselius, announced that contest has been postponed again, and is now unlikely to happen at all, at least within the next couple of years. He explained this decision was the fact that the popularity of televised dance shows had calmed down recently.\n\n"}
{"id": "11778750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11778750", "title": "Tonto Basin (novel)", "text": "Tonto Basin (novel)\n\n\"For the geographical place see Tonto Basin\n\nTonto Basin is a western novel written by Zane Grey.\n\n\"Tonto Basin\" is the original version of the shorter novel \"To The Last Man\" (1921). Grey submitted the manuscript of \"Tonto Basin\" to the magazine \"The Country Gentleman,\" which published it in serialization as \"To the Last Man\" from May 28, 1921 through July 30, 1921. This was a much shorter version of the original leaving out much of the backstory and character development. This shorter version was published as a book by Harper Brothers in 1921.\n\nA story of a feud between two families, the evil it causes, and the power of love to transcend all.\n\nThe story begins with 24-year-old Jean Isbel in the last stages of a multi-week trip from Oregon to the frontier in Arizona where his family had moved four years earlier to start a cattle ranch. As he nears his destination he meets a woman in the woods, and falls in love at first sight. As they part they learn that they are mortal enemies. She is Ellen Jorth, and her family is locked in a deadly feud with his.\n\nJean dreads the part his father, Gaston, wants him to play in the feud. He can’t get Ellen out of his mind. They meet again and his words awake in her doubt and fear that her father, Lee Jorth, is not an honorable man but in fact a horse thief and cattle rustler. As events unfold her fears are proved true. Through thick and thin Jean Isbel defends Ellen’s honor and believes the best of her.\n\nThe feud erupts into fatal gun battles, first at the Isbel ranch house, and then at the general store in the nearby town. Most of the Isbel and Jorth clans are killed, with several of their allies. The remnant of the Jorths flee with Ellen in tow to a hide-out hidden in a deep box cañon.\n\nJean and his allies track them and there is a deadly gun battle in the woods nearby. Ellen is forced by one of the three remaining Jorth allies to flee once again. During their flight their horse is shot out from under them. Ellen now on foot meets one of the dying Isbels and finally learns the certain truth that her father, family, and their allies were horse thieves and cattle rustlers as she feared.\n\nWhen she finally makes her way back to the hide-out, she arrives just after Jean has been forced to take refuge in the loft, unknown to her. One of the two remaining rustlers attacks her with rape in mind but is interrupted by the arrival of the other rustler. Ellen discovers Jean during this interruption. When the rustler returns a few minutes later, Ellen is forced to kill him to protect herself and Jean. A minute later Jean kills the last rustler.\n\nThe story ends with Jean and Ellen declaring their love for each other.\n\nThe book is concerned with the destruction deadly violence wreaks on those family members who survive. Grey writes about the intense concern Jean feels for the impact the violence will have on the wives and children whose husbands and fathers will die in the feud.\n\nThe feud is caused by a love triangle between Gaston Isbel, Lee Jorth, and Ellen the woman both love, and the mother of Ellen Jorth. The story explores how love, betrayal, and jealousy can engender a hate which leads two men to destroy their families, without a thought to the pain and suffering of those relatives who will be left to bury the dead.\n\nEllen grows from a naïve girl to a woman of understanding under the severe trial of the events which overtake her. She begins to examine critically her own behavior with wisdom and insight. She grows and matures emotionally and psychologically, becoming aware that her father whom she had supported with unquestioning trust, is in fact a scoundrel, a thief, and a thoroughly dishonorable rogue. At the end she acts decisively and fatally to protect herself, her virtue, and the man she loves.\n\n\nIn the early 1990s, Jon Tuska, was researching the filmography of Zane Grey. During this research he discovered that \"Last of the Duanes\" and \"Rangers of the Lone Star\" were much altered from the holograph found \"in the bottom drawer of a file cabinet in the Zane Grey, Inc. room where it had survived for eighty years.\". This caused him to request that they \"tell me of any other manuscripts...that had met a similar fate.\" The result was the discovery of the complete holographic manuscript of the novel \"To the Last Man\". A comparison of the holograph with \"To the Last Man\" revealed that the holograph was much longer, and contained detail which altered the meaning of the story. The complete uncut version was published in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "29192344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29192344", "title": "Tragedy (event)", "text": "Tragedy (event)\n\nA tragedy is an event of great loss, usually of human life. Such an event is said to be \"tragic\". Traditionally the event would require \"some element of moral failure, some flaw in character, or some extraordinary combination of elements\" to be tragic.\n\nNot all death is considered a tragedy. Rather it is a precise set of symptoms surrounding the loss that define it as such. There are a variety of factors that define a death as \"tragic\".\n\nAn event in which a massive number of deaths occur may be seen as a tragedy. This can be re-enforced by media attention or other public outcry.\n\nA tragedy does not necessarily involve massive death. The death of a single person, e.g., a public figure or a child, may be seen as a tragedy. The person need not necessarily have been famous before death.\n\nGenerally, the label of \"tragedy\" is given to an event based on public perception. There are a number of factors that can make a death be considered a tragedy.\n\nThe scope of an event can affect the public view, and make it appear tragic. This can be the case whether the death toll is high, or if a single, unexpected death occurs in a well-beloved person.\n\nThe degree of attachment in the public eye may also impact whether or not the event is publicly labeled as a tragedy. For example, the unexpected death of a preparatory school student that receives heavy media attention may be seen as more tragic than that of a recidivist prisoner who is beaten to death by fellow inmates.\n\nA death may be viewed as a tragedy when it is premature in nature. An old person dying of old age is an expectation, but the death of a child or of a young, healthy adult that is not expected by others can be viewed as tragic.\n\nPublicity is a factor in making the public view an event as a tragedy. With publicity of a large number of deaths or even a single death, this plays on the emotions of the general public, and thereby impacts perception.\n\nThe range of coverage affects the number of people in whose eyes the event is viewed as tragic. While local coverage may garner sympathy from those in the hometown of the deceased, international coverage may lead the whole world to mourn.\n\nThe resulting consequences from one or more deaths can be seen as a tragedy. For example, if a large number of persons are killed in a terrorist attack, not only is life lost, but others may lose their sense of security, and this impacts the lives of others in other ways.\n\nThe long-term effects of an event can render it as tragic. Tragedies often have effects that shape those affected, and are remembered even long after, as they clearly impact the future for those involved. They may also be commemorated on anniversaries or whenever they otherwise come to mind. A public tragedy often leads to measures being taken to prevent similar tragic events in the future.\n\nThere are various ways tragedy can affect people.\n\nThe typical reaction to tragedy is heavy grief, followed by a slow recovery. Common feelings following a tragedy include sadness, depression, crying, blame, and guilt. Some people wonder what they did to deserve such suffering.\n\nFor some, their faith may be a source of comfort in the wake of tragedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "38174573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38174573", "title": "Travis London", "text": "Travis London\n\nTravis London (born July 16, 1988) is an American celebrity chef, television host, writer, and event planner. He was born in Los Angeles and is of both Mexican and African American descent.\n\nAt 16, London began throwing parties for his friends, which eventually landed him on \"Page Six\" as a \"party-going L.A. hipster\". By the time he received formal training at the French Culinary Institute, he had scored a food column in OK! Magazine and had prepared dishes for his celebrity friends Justin Timberlake, Mary-Kate Olsen, and former love interest Rihanna\"\n\nTravis is the founder of Healthy Chic Eats, and regularly appears on the \"Today Show\", \"Fox and Friends\" and the \"Suzanne Somers Show\".\n\nTravis has been profiled and quoted extensively in many periodicals, including \"OK! Magazine\", \"Us Weekly\", \"The New York Daily News\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"The Sun Post Weekly\", \"Uptown Magazine\", \"Vibe\", \"Shape\", \"Latina\", \"Cosmopolitan\", \"Venue\", and the \"Miami Herald\".\n\nTravis is a weekly contributor to \"OK! Magazine\" and in 2012 was brand ambassador for X Rated Fusion Liqueur.\n\nGrowing up with a Georgia-bred African-American grandfather and Mexican maternal grandmother, Travis learned how to raise chickens, cook collard greens, and master homemade tamales. London credits his approach to eating healthy as being influenced by growing up with his mother being overweight. He has stated that at 13 he discovered healthy meals for his mother while watching Suzanne Somers on the Home Shopping Network.\n\nThe media has noted several relationships with celebrities such as Rihanna and Mary-Kate Olsen\n\n"}
{"id": "34341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34341", "title": "Year", "text": "Year\n\nA year is the orbital period of the Earth moving in its orbit around the Sun. Due to the Earth's axial tilt, the course of a year sees the passing of the seasons, marked by change in weather, the hours of daylight, and, consequently, vegetation and soil fertility. The current year is 2018.\n\nIn temperate and subpolar regions around the planet, four seasons are generally recognized: spring, summer, autumn, and winter. In tropical and subtropical regions, several geographical sectors do not present defined seasons; but in the seasonal tropics, the annual wet and dry seasons are recognized and tracked.\n\nA calendar year is an approximation of the number of days of the Earth's orbital period as counted in a given calendar. The Gregorian calendar, or modern calendar, presents its calendar year to be either a common year of 365 days or a leap year of 366 days, as do the Julian calendars; \"see\" below. For the Gregorian calendar, the average length of the calendar year (the mean year) across the complete leap cycle of 400 years is 365.2425 days. The ISO standard ISO 80000-3, Annex C, supports the symbol \"a\" (for Latin \"annus\") to represent a year of either 365 or 366 days. In English, the abbreviations \"y\" and \"yr\" are commonly used.\n\nIn astronomy, the Julian year is a unit of time; it is defined as 365.25 days of exactly 86,400 seconds (SI base unit), totalling exactly 31,557,600 seconds in the Julian astronomical year.\n\nThe word \"year\" is also used for periods loosely associated with, but not identical to, the calendar or astronomical year, such as the seasonal year, the fiscal year, the academic year, etc. Similarly, \"year\" can mean the orbital period of any planet; for example, a Martian year and a Venusian year are examples of the time a planet takes to transit one complete orbit. The term can also be used in reference to any long period or cycle, such as the Great Year.\n\nEnglish \"year\" (via West Saxon \"ġēar\" (), Anglian \"ġēr\") continues Proto-Germanic \"*jǣran\" (\"*jē₁<nowiki>ran</nowiki>\").\nCognates are German \"Jahr\", Old High German \"jār\", Old Norse \"ár\" and Gothic \"jer\", from the Proto-Indo-European noun \"\" \"year, season\". Cognates also descended from the same Proto-Indo-European noun (with variation in suffix ablaut) are Avestan \"yārǝ\" \"year\", Greek (hṓra) \"year, season, period of time\" (whence \"hour\"), Old Church Slavonic \"jarŭ\", and Latin \"hornus\" \"of this year\". \n\nLatin \"annus\" (a 2nd declension masculine noun; \"annum\" is the accusative singular; \"annī\" is genitive singular and nominative plural; \"annō\" the dative and ablative singular) is from a PIE noun \"\", which also yielded Gothic \"aþn\" \"year\" (only the dative plural \"aþnam\" is attested).\n\nAlthough most languages treat the word as thematic \"*yeh₁r-o-\", there is evidence for an original derivation with an \"*-r/n\" suffix, \"*yeh₁-ro-\". Both Indo-European words for year, \"*yeh₁-ro-\" and \"*h₂et-no-\", would then be derived from verbal roots meaning \"to go, move\", \"*h₁ey-\" and \"*h₂et-\", respectively (compare Vedic Sanskrit \"éti\" \"goes\", \"atasi\" \"thou goest, wanderest\").\nA number of English words are derived from Latin \"annus\", such as annual, annuity, anniversary, etc.; \"per annum\" means \"each year\", \"anno Domini\" means \"in the year of the Lord\".\n\nThe Greek word for \"year\", , is cognate with Latin \"vetus\" \"old\", from the PIE word \"*wetos-\" \"year\", also preserved in this meaning in Sanskrit ' \"year\" and ' \"yearling (calf)\", the latter also reflected in Latin \"vitulus\" \"bull calf\", English \"wether\" \"ram\" (Old English \"weðer\", Gothic \"wiþrus\" \"lamb\").\n\nIn some languages, it is common to count years by referencing to one season, as in \"summers\", or \"winters\", or \"harvests\". Examples include Chinese 年 \"year\", originally 秂, an ideographic compound of a person carrying a bundle of wheat denoting \"harvest\". Slavic besides \"godŭ\" \"time period; year\" uses \"lěto\" \"summer; year\".\n\nIn the International System of Quantities (ISO 80000-3), the year (symbol, \"a\") is defined as either 365 days or 366 days.\n\nNo astronomical year has an integer number of days or lunar months, so any calendar that follows an astronomical year must have a system of intercalation such as leap years.\n\nIn the Julian calendar, the average (mean) length of a year is 365.25 days. In a non-leap year, there are 365 days, in a leap year there are 366 days. A leap year occurs every fourth year, or leap year, during which a leap day is intercalated into the month of February. The name \"Leap Day\" is applied to the added day.\n\nThe Revised Julian calendar, proposed in 1923 and used in some Eastern Orthodox Churches, \nhas 218 leap years every 900 years, for the average (mean) year length of days, close to the length of the mean tropical year, days (relative error of 9·10).\nIn the year 2800 CE, the Gregorian and Revised Julian calendars will begin to differ by one calendar day.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar attempts to cause the northward equinox to fall on or shortly before March 21 and hence it follows the northward equinox year, or tropical year. Because 97 out of 400 years are leap years, the mean length of the Gregorian calendar year is days; with a relative error below one ppm (8·10) relative to the current length of the mean tropical year ( days) and even closer to the current \"March equinox year\" of days that it aims to match. It is estimated that by the year 4000 CE, the northward equinox will fall back by one day in the Gregorian calendar, not because of this difference, but due to the slowing of the Earth's rotation and the associated lengthening of the day.\n\nHistorically, lunisolar calendars intercalated entire leap months on an observational basis.\nLunisolar calendars have mostly fallen out of use except for liturgical reasons (Hebrew calendar, various Hindu calendars).\n\nA modern adaptation of the historical Jalali calendar, known as the Solar Hijri calendar (1925), is a purely solar calendar with an irregular pattern of leap days based on observation (or astronomical computation), aiming to place new year (Nowruz) on the day of vernal equinox (for the time zone of Tehran), as opposed to using an algorithmic system of leap years.\n\nA calendar era assigns a cardinal number to each sequential year, using a reference point in the past as the beginning of the era.\n\nThe worldwide standard is the Anno Domini era (but the label Common Era is preferred by some). It was historically introduced in the 6th century and intended as counting years from the birth of Jesus.\n\nThe Anno Domini era is given the Latin abbreviation AD (for Anno Domini \"in the year of the Lord\"), or alternatively CE for \"Common Era. Years before AD 1 are abbreviated BC for Before Christ or alternatively BCE for Before the Common Era.\nYear numbers are based on inclusive counting, so that there is no \"year zero\".\nIn the modern alternative reckoning of Astronomical year numbering, positive numbers indicate years AD, the number 0 designates 1 BC, −1 designates 2 BC, and so on.\n\nFinancial and scientific calculations often use a 365-day calendar to simplify daily rates.\n\nA fiscal year or financial year is a 12-month period used for calculating annual financial statements in businesses and other organizations. In many jurisdictions, regulations regarding accounting require such reports once per twelve months, but do not require that the twelve months constitute a calendar year.\n\nFor example, in Canada and India the fiscal year runs from April 1; in the United Kingdom it runs from April 1 for purposes of corporation tax and government financial statements, but from April 6 for purposes of personal taxation and payment of state benefits; in Australia it runs from July 1; while in the United States the fiscal year of the federal government runs from October 1.\n\nAn academic year is the annual period during which a student attends an educational institution. The academic year may be divided into academic terms, such as semesters or quarters. The school year in many countries starts in August or September and ends in May, June or July. In Israel the academic year begins around October or November, aligned with the second month of the Hebrew Calendar.\n\nSome schools in the UK and USA divide the academic year into \"three\" roughly equal-length terms (called \"trimesters\" or \"quarters\" in the USA), roughly coinciding with autumn, winter, and spring. At some, a shortened summer session, sometimes considered part of the regular academic year, is attended by students on a voluntary or elective basis. Other schools break the year into \"two\" main semesters, a first (typically August through December) and a second semester (January through May). Each of these main semesters may be split in half by mid-term exams, and each of the halves is referred to as a \"quarter\" (or \"term\" in some countries). There may also be a voluntary summer session and/or a short January session.\n\nSome other schools, including some in the United States, have \"four\" marking periods. Some schools in the United States, notably Boston Latin School, may divide the year into \"five or more\" marking periods. Some state in defense of this that there is perhaps a positive correlation between report frequency and academic achievement.\n\nThere are typically 180 days of teaching each year in schools in the US, excluding weekends and breaks, while there are 190 days for pupils in state schools in Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, and 200 for pupils in Australia.\n\nIn India the academic year normally starts from June 1 and ends on May 31. Though schools start closing from mid-March, the actual academic closure is on May 31 and in Nepal it starts from July 15.\n\nSchools and universities in Australia typically have academic years that roughly align with the calendar year (i.e., starting in February or March and ending in October to December), as the southern hemisphere experiences summer from December to February.\n\nThe Julian year, as used in astronomy and other sciences, is a time unit defined as exactly 365.25 days. This is the normal meaning of the unit \"year\" (symbol \"a\" from the Latin \"annus\") used in various scientific contexts. The Julian century of days and the Julian millennium of days are used in astronomical calculations. Fundamentally, expressing a time interval in Julian years is a way to precisely specify how many days (not how many \"real\" years), for long time intervals where stating the number of days would be unwieldy and unintuitive. By convention, the Julian year is used in the computation of the distance covered by a light-year.\n\nIn the Unified Code for Units of Measure, the symbol, \"a\" (without subscript), always refers to the Julian year, \"a\", of exactly seconds.\n\nThe SI multiplier prefixes may be applied to it to form \"ka\" (kiloannus), \"Ma\" (megaannus), etc.\n\nEach of these three years can be loosely called an \"astronomical year\".\n\nThe sidereal year is the time taken for the Earth to complete one revolution of its orbit, as measured against a fixed frame of reference (such as the fixed stars, Latin \"sidera\", singular \"sidus\"). Its average duration is days (365 d 6 h 9 min 9.76 s) (at the epoch J2000.0 = January 1, 2000, 12:00:00 TT).\n\nToday the mean tropical year is defined as the period of time for the mean ecliptic longitude of the Sun to increase by 360 degrees. Since the Sun's ecliptic longitude is measured with respect to the equinox, the tropical year comprises a complete cycle of the seasons; because of the biological and socio-economic importance of the seasons, the tropical year is the basis of most calendars. The modern definition of mean tropical year differs from the actual time between passages of, e.g., the northward equinox for several reasons explained below. Because of the Earth's axial precession, this year is about 20 minutes shorter than the sidereal year. The mean tropical year is approximately 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, 45 seconds, using the modern definition. (= days of 86400 SI seconds)\n\nThe anomalistic year is the time taken for the Earth to complete one revolution with respect to its apsides. The orbit of the Earth is elliptical; the extreme points, called apsides, are the perihelion, where the Earth is closest to the Sun (January 3 in 2011), and the aphelion, where the Earth is farthest from the Sun (July 4 in 2011). The anomalistic year is usually defined as the time between perihelion passages. Its average duration is days (365 d 6 h 13 min 52.6 s) (at the epoch J2011.0).\n\nThe draconic year, draconitic year, eclipse year, or ecliptic year is the time taken for the Sun (as seen from the Earth) to complete one revolution with respect to the same lunar node (a point where the Moon's orbit intersects the ecliptic). The year is associated with eclipses: these occur only when both the Sun and the Moon are near these nodes; so eclipses occur within about a month of every half eclipse year. Hence there are two eclipse seasons every eclipse year. The average duration of the eclipse year is\n\nThis term is sometimes erroneously used for the draconic or nodal period of lunar precession, that is the period of a complete revolution of the Moon's ascending node around the ecliptic: Julian years ( days; at the epoch J2000.0).\n\nThe full moon cycle is the time for the Sun (as seen from the Earth) to complete one revolution with respect to the perigee of the Moon's orbit. This period is associated with the apparent size of the full moon, and also with the varying duration of the synodic month. The duration of one full moon cycle is:\n\nThe lunar year comprises twelve full cycles of the phases of the Moon, as seen from Earth. It has a duration of approximately 354.37 days. Muslims use this for celebrating their Eids and for marking the start of the fasting month of Ramadan.\nA Muslim calendar year is based on the lunar cycle.\n\nThe vague year, from \"annus vagus\" or wandering year, is an integral approximation to the year equaling 365 days, which wanders in relation to more exact years. Typically the vague year is divided into 12 schematic months of 30 days each plus 5 epagomenal days. The vague year was used in the calendars of Ancient Egypt, Iran, Armenia and in Mesoamerica among the Aztecs and Maya. It is still used by many Zoroastrian communities.\n\nA heliacal year is the interval between the heliacal risings of a star. It differs from the sidereal year for stars away from the ecliptic due mainly to the precession of the equinoxes.\n\nThe Sothic year is the interval between heliacal risings of the star Sirius. It is currently less than the sidereal year and its duration is very close to the Julian year of 365.25 days.\n\nThe Gaussian year is the sidereal year for a planet of negligible mass (relative to the Sun) and unperturbed by other planets that is governed by the Gaussian gravitational constant. Such a planet would be slightly closer to the Sun than Earth's mean distance. Its length is:\n\nThe Besselian year is a tropical year that starts when the (fictitious) mean Sun reaches an ecliptic longitude of 280°. This is currently on or close to January 1. It is named after the 19th-century German astronomer and mathematician Friedrich Bessel. The following equation can be used to compute the current Besselian epoch (in years):\n\nThe TT subscript indicates that for this formula, the Julian date should use the Terrestrial Time scale, or its predecessor, ephemeris time.\n\nThe exact length of an astronomical year changes over time.\n\nMean year lengths in this section are calculated for 2000, and differences in year lengths, compared to 2000, are given for past and future years. In the tables a day is 86,400 SI seconds long.\n\nAn average Gregorian year is 365.2425 days (52.1775 weeks, hours, minutes or seconds). For this calendar, a common year is 365 days ( hours, minutes or seconds), and a leap year is 366 days ( hours, minutes or seconds). The 400-year cycle of the Gregorian calendar has days and hence exactly weeks.\n\nThe Great Year, or equinoctial cycle, corresponds to a complete revolution of the equinoxes around the ecliptic. Its length is about 25,700 years.\n\nThe Galactic year is the time it takes Earth's solar system to revolve once around the galactic center. It comprises roughly 230 million Earth years.\n\nA seasonal year is the time between successive recurrences of a seasonal event such as the flooding of a river, the migration of a species of bird, the flowering of a species of plant, the first frost, or the first scheduled game of a certain sport. All of these events can have wide variations of more than a month from year to year.\n\nIn the International System of Quantities the symbol for the year as a unit of time is \"a\", taken from the Latin word \"annus\".\n\nIn English, the abbreviations \"y\" or \"yr\" are more commonly used in non-scientific literature, but also specifically in geology and paleontology, where \"kyr, myr, byr\" (thousands, millions, and billions of years, respectively) and similar abbreviations are used to denote intervals of time remote from the present.\n\nNIST SP811 and ISO 80000-3:2006 support the symbol \"a\" as the unit of time for a year. In English, the abbreviations \"y\" and \"yr\" are also used.\n\nThe Unified Code for Units of Measure disambiguates the varying symbologies of ISO 1000, ISO 2955 and ANSI X3.50 by using:\n\nwhere:\n\nThe International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) and the International Union of Geological Sciences have jointly recommended defining the annus, with symbol \"a\", as the length of the tropical year in the year 2000:\n\nThis differs from the above definition of 365.25 days by about 20 parts per million. The joint document says that definitions such as the Julian year \"bear an inherent, pre-programmed obsolescence because of the variability of Earth’s orbital movement\", but then proposes using the length of the tropical year as of 2000 AD (specified down to the millisecond), which suffers from the same problem. (The tropical year oscillates with time by more than a minute.)\n\nThe notation has proved controversial as it conflicts with an earlier convention among geoscientists to use \"a\" specifically for \"years ago\", and \"y\" or \"yr\" for a one-year time period.\n\nFor the following, there are alternative forms which elide the consecutive vowels, such as \"kilannus\", \"megannus\", etc. The exponents and exponential notations are typically used for calculating and in displaying calculations, and for conserving space, as in tables of data.\n\nIn astronomy, geology, and paleontology, the abbreviation \"yr\" for \"years\" and \"ya\" for years ago are sometimes used, combined with prefixes for thousand, million, or billion. They are not SI units, using \"y\" to abbreviate the English \"year\", but following ambiguous international recommendations, use either the standard English first letters as prefixes (t, m, and b) or metric prefixes (k, M, and G) or variations on metric prefixes (k, m, g). In archaeology, dealing with more recent periods, normally expressed dates, e.g. \"22,000 years ago\" may be used as a more accessible equivalent of a Before Present (\"BP\") date.\n\nThese abbreviations include:\nUse of \"mya\" and \"bya\" is deprecated in modern geophysics, the recommended usage being \"Ma\" and \"Ga\" for dates Before Present, but \"m.y.\" for the duration of epochs. This \"ad hoc\" distinction between \"absolute\" time and time intervals is somewhat controversial amongst members of the Geological Society of America.\n\nNote that on graphs, using \"ya\" units on the horizontal axis time flows from right to left, which may seem counter-intuitive. If the \"ya\" units are on the vertical axis, time flows from top to bottom which is probably easier to understand than conventional notation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20116588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20116588", "title": "Zero Waste Event", "text": "Zero Waste Event\n\nA Zero Waste Event (or \"ZeeWee\" as it has been nicknamed) is one in which event organizers plan ahead to reduce solid waste from the event, reuse various elements such as banners, and set up Zero-Waste Stations for those recyclable and compostable materials such as paper cups, food scraps, and plastic water bottles that are generated by the event. ZeeWees can range from large scale sports events to weddings and parties.\n\nAs sustainability becomes ever more accepted as a concept within organizations and communities across the nation, the idea of Zero Waste Events is spreading. Additionally, the steady expansion of recycling and commercial composting infrastructure makes it possible to offer recycling and food composting at events in many locations. Increasingly Zero Waste Events are sharing best practices and developing new ways to divert event materials from landfills.\n\nZeeWee's utilize many if not all of the following strategies.\n\nFront-end waste prevention\n\nReuse of event equipment\n\nRecycling event materials\n\nWhen the bid was submitted for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, LOCOG, The London 2012 Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, pledged not just to host the biggest sporting event in the world but also to stage the first truly sustainable Games. Central to this was an ambitious target to send zero waste from Games-time venues directly to landfill – something that no Games has attempted before. \nIn February 2012 an initiative was launched to share the lessons learnt from delivering a zero waste games with the wider waste and events community.\n"}
