{"id": "4327451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4327451", "title": "Adolf Dygasiński", "text": "Adolf Dygasiński\n\nAdolf Dygasiński (March 7, 1839, Niegosławice–June 3, 1902, Grodzisk Mazowiecki) was a Polish novelist, publicist and educator. In Polish literature, he was one of the leading representatives of Naturalism. \nDuring his literary career, Dygasiński wrote forty-two short stories and novels. \nSince 1884 his works were being published in book-form and enjoyed considerable success. \nThey were translated into Russian and German. \nIn 1891, Dygasiński went on a trip to Brazil on a trail of Polish emigrants from Partitioned Poland. \nHe produced a series of letters describing the tragic fate of Polish emigrees in South America. In the following years Dygasiński maintained a position of a tutor and coach for numerous wealthy landowning families. Late in life he settled in Warsaw, where he died on June 6, 1902, and was buried at the local Powązkowski Cemetery.\n\nIn his work Dygasiński often focused on topics of rural life and residents of small towns, highlighting the common fate of both, human and animal communities. Some of his most important work include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55895027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55895027", "title": "Disposable soma theory of aging", "text": "Disposable soma theory of aging\n\nThe disposable soma theory of aging states that organisms age due to an evolutionary trade-off between growth, reproduction, and DNA repair maintenance. Formulated by Thomas Kirkwood, the disposable soma theory explains that an organism only has a limited amount of resources or \"soma\" that it can allocate to its various cellular processes. Therefore, a greater investment in growth and reproduction would result in reduced investment in DNA repair maintenance, leading to increased cellular damage, shortened telomeres, accumulation of mutations, compromised stem cells, and ultimately, senescence. Although many models, both animal and human, have appeared to support this theory, parts of it are still controversial. \nSpecifically, while the evolutionary trade-off between growth and aging has been well established, \nthe relationship between reproduction and aging is still without scientific consensus, and the cellular mechanisms largely undiscovered.\n\nBritish biologist Thomas Kirkwood first proposed the disposable soma theory of aging in a 1977 \"Nature\" review article. The theory was inspired by Leslie Orgel's Error Catastrophe Theory of Aging, which was published fourteen years earlier, in 1963. Orgel believed that the process of aging arose due to mutations acquired during the replication process, and Kirkwood developed the disposable soma theory in order to mediate Orgel's work with evolutionary genetics.\n\nThe disposable soma theory of aging acts on the premise that there is a tradeoff in resource allocation between somatic maintenance and reproductive investment. Too low an investment in self-repair would be evolutionarily unsound, as the organism would likely die before reproductive age. However, too high an investment in self-repair would also be evolutionarily unsound due to the fact that one's offspring would likely die before reproductive age. Therefore, there is a compromise and resources are partitioned accordingly. However, this compromise is thought to damage somatic repair systems, which can lead to progressive cellular damage and senescence. Repair costs can be categorized into three groups: (1) the costs of increased durability of nonrenewable parts; (2) the costs of maintenance involving cell renewal, and (3) the costs of intracellular maintenance. In a nutshell, aging and decline is essentially a tradeoff for increased reproductive robustness in youth.\n\nMuch research has been done on the antagonistic effects of increased growth on lifespan. Specifically, the hormone insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), binds to a cell receptor, leading to a phosphorylation cascade. This cascade results in kinases phosphorylating forkhead transcription factor (FOXO), deactivating it. Deactivation of FOXO results in an inability to express genes involved in responding to oxidative stress response, such as antioxidants, chaperones, and heat-shock proteins. \nAdditionally, uptake of IGF-1 stimulates the mTOR pathway, which activates protein synthesis (and therefore growth) through upregulation of the translation-promoting S6K1, and also inhibits autophagy, a process necessary for recycling of damaged cellular products. Decline of autophagy causes neurodegeneration, protein aggregation and premature aging. Lastly, studies have also indicated that the mTOR pathway also alters immune responses and stimulates cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors such as p16 and p21. This leads to alteration of the stem-cell niche and results in stem cell exhaustion, another theorized mechanism of aging.\n\nThe mechanism of why reproduction inhibits lifespan with regards to multicellular organisms is still unclear. Although many models do illustrate an inverse relationship, and the theory makes sense from an evolutionary perspective, the cellular mechanisms have yet to be explored. However, with regards to cellular replication, the progressive shortening of telomeres is a mechanism which limits the amount of generations of a single cell may undergo. Furthermore, in unicellular organisms like \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\", the formation of extrachromosomal rDNA circles (ERCs) in mother cells (but not daughter cells) upon every subsequent division is an identifiable type of DNA damage that is associated with replication. These ERCs accumulate over time and eventually trigger replicative senescence and death of the mother cell.\n\nThere is a large body of evidence indicating the negative effects of growth on longevity across many species. As a general rule, individuals of a smaller size generally live longer than larger individuals of the same species.\n\nIn dwarf models of mice, such Snell or Ames mice, mutations have arisen, either rendering them incapable of producing IGF-1 or unable to have adequate receptors for IGF-1 uptake. Furthermore, mice injected with growth hormone have been shown to have progressive weight loss, roughing of the coat, curvature of the spine, enlargement of the organs, kidney lesions and increased cancer risk. This effect is also seen in different breeds of dogs, where smaller breeds of dogs typically live significantly longer compared to their larger counterparts. Selectively bred for their small size, smaller dog breeds like the Chihuahua (average lifespan of 15–20 years) have the B/B genotype for the IGF-1 haplotype, reducing the amount of IGF-1 produced. Conversely, large dogs like the Great Dane (average lifespan of 6–8 years) are homozygous for the IGF-1 I allele, which increases the amount of IGF-1 production.\n\nInitially, it was believed that growth hormone actually prolonged lifespan due to a 1990 study that indicated that injection of growth hormone to men over 60 years of age appeared to reverse various biomarkers implicated in aging, such as decreased muscle mass, bone density, skin thickness, and increased adipose tissue. However, a 1999 study found that administering growth hormone also significantly increased mortality rate. Recent genomic studies have confirmed that the genes involved in growth hormone uptake and signaling are largely conserved across a plethora of species, such as yeast, nematodes, fruit flies, mice and humans. These studies have also shown that individuals with Laron syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder resulting in dwarfism due to defects in growth hormone receptors, have increased lifespan. Additionally, these individuals have much lower incidences of age-related diseases such as type 2 diabetes and cancer. Lastly, human centenarians around the world are disproportionately of short stature, and have low levels of IGF-1.\n\nNumerous studies have found that lifespan is inversely correlated with both the total amount of offspring birthed, as well as the age at which females first gives birth, also known as primiparity. Additionally, it has been found that reproduction is a costly mechanism that alters the metabolism of fat. Lipids invested in reproduction would be unable to be allocated to support mechanisms involved in somatic maintenance.\n\nThe disposable soma theory has been consistent with the majority of animal models. It was found in numerous animal studies that castration or genetic deformities of reproduction organs was correlated with increased lifespan. Moreover, in red squirrels, it was found that females with an early primiparity achieved the highest immediate and lifetime reproductive success. However, it was also found that these same individuals had a decreased median and maximum lifespan. Specifically squirrels who mated earlier had a 22.4% rate of mortality until two years of age compared to a 16.5% rate of mortality in late breeders. In addition, these squirrels had an average maximum lifespan of 1035 days compared to an average maximum lifespan of 1245 days for squirrels that bred later.\n\nIn another study, researchers selectively bred fruit flies over three years to develop two different strains, an early-reproducing strain and a late-reproducing strain. The late-reproducing line had a significantly longer lifespan than the early-reproducing line. Even more telling was that when the researchers introduced a mutation in the ovarian-associated gene \"ovoD1\", resulting in defective oogenesis, the differences in lifespan between the two lines disappeared. The researchers in this case concluded that \"aging has evolved primarily because of the damaging effects of reproduction earlier in life\".\n\nProminent aging researcher Steven Austad also performed a large-scale ecological study on the coast of Georgia in 1993. Austad isolated two opossum populations, one from the predator-infested mainland and one from the predator-absent nearby island of Sapelo. According to the disposable soma theory, a genetically isolated population subject to low environmentally-induced mortality would evolve delayed reproduction and aging. This is because without the pressure of predation, it would be evolutionarily advantageous to allocate more resources to somatic maintenance than reproduction, as early offspring mortality would be low. As predicted, even after controlling for predation, the isolated population had a longer lifespan, delayed primiparity, and reduced aging biomarkers such as tail collagen cross-linking.\n\nIn general, only a few studies exist in human models. It was found that castrated men live longer than their fertile counterparts. Further studies found that in British women, primiparity was earliest in women who died early and latest in women who died at the oldest ages. Furthermore, increased number of children birthed was associated with a decreased lifespan. A final study found that female centenarians were more likely to have children in later life compared average, especially past the age of 40. The researchers discovered that 19.2% of female centenarians had their first child after the age of 40, compared to 5.5% of the rest of the female population.\n\nThere are numerous studies that support cellular damage, often due to a lack of somatic maintenance mechanisms, as a primary determinant for aging, and these studies have given rise to the free radical theory of aging and the DNA damage theory of aging. One study found that the cells of short-living rodents \"in vitro\" show much greater mutation rates and a general lack of genome surveillance compared to human cells and are far more susceptible to oxidative stress. \nOther studies have been conducted on the naked mole rat, a rodent species with remarkable longevity (30 years), capable of outliving the brown rat (3 years) by ten-fold. Additionally, almost no incidence cancer has ever been detected in naked mole rats. Nearly all of the differences found between these two organisms, which are otherwise rather genetically similar, was in somatic maintenance. Naked mole rats were found to have higher levels of superoxide dismutase, a reactive oxygen species clearing antioxidant. In addition, naked mole rats had higher levels of base excision repair, DNA damage response signaling, homologous recombination repair, mismatch repair, nucleotide excision repair, and non-homologous end joining. In fact, many of these processes were near or exceeded human levels. Proteins from naked mole rats were also more resistant to oxidation, misfolding, ubiquitination, and had increased translational fidelity.\n\nFurther studies have been conducted on patients with Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS), a condition that leads to premature aging. Patients with HGPS typically age about seven times faster than average and usually succumb to the disease in their early teens. Patients with HGPS have cellular defects, specifically in the lamin proteins, which regulate the organization of the lamina and nuclear envelope for mitosis. \nLastly, as mentioned previously, it has been found that the suppression of autophagy is associated with reduced lifespan, while stimulation is associated with extended lifespan. Activated in times of caloric restriction, autophagy is a process that prevents cellular damage through clearance and recycling of damaged proteins and organelles.\n\nOne of the main weaknesses of the disposable soma theory is that it does not postulate any specific cellular mechanisms to which an organism shifts energy to somatic repair over reproduction. Instead, it only offers an evolutionary perspective on why aging may occur due to reproduction. Therefore, parts of it are rather limited outside of the field of evolutionary biology.\n\nCritics have pointed out the supposed inconsistencies of the disposable soma theory due to the observed effects of caloric restriction, which is correlated with increased lifespan. Although it activates autophagy, according to classical disposable soma principles, with less caloric intake, there would less total energy to be distributed towards somatic maintenance, and decreased lifespan would be observed (or at least the positive autophagic effects would be balanced out). However, Kirkwood, alongside his collaborator Darryl P. Shanley, assert that caloric restriction triggers an adaptive mechanism which causes the organism to shift a higher proportion of resources to somatic maintenance, away from reproduction. This theory is supported by multiple studies, which show that caloric restriction typically results in impaired fertility, but leave an otherwise healthy organism. Evolutionarily, an organism would want to delay reproduction to when resources were more plentiful. During a resource-barren period, it would evolutionarily unwise to invest resources in progeny that would be unlikely to survive in famine. Mechanistically, the NAD-dependent deacetylase Sirtuin 1 (SIRT-1) is upregulated during low-nutrient periods. SIRT-1 increases insulin sensitivity, decreases the amount of inflammatory cytokines, stimulates autophagy, and activates FOXO, the aforementioned protein involved in activating stress response genes. SIRT-1 is also found to result in decreased fertility.\n\nIn additional to differential partitioning of energy allocation during caloric restriction, less caloric intake would result in less metabolic waste in the forms of free radicals like hydrogen peroxide, superoxide and hydroxyl radicals, which damage important cellular components, particularly mitochondria. Elevated levels of free radicals in mice has been correlated with neurodegeneration, myocardial injury, severe anemia, and premature death.\n\nAnother primary criticism of the disposable soma theory is that it fails to account for why women tend to live longer than their male counterparts. Afterall, females invest significantly more resources into reproduction and according to the classical disposable soma principles, this would compromise energy diverted to somatic maintenance. However, this can be reconciled with the grandmother hypothesis. The Grandmother Hypothesis states that menopause comes about into older women in order to restrict the time of reproduction as a protective mechanism. This would allow women to live longer and increase the amount of care they could provide to their grandchildren, increasing their evolutionary fitness. And so, although women do invest a greater proportion of resources into reproduction during their fertile years, their overall reproductive period is significantly shorter than men, who are able of reproduction during and even beyond middle age. Additionally, males invest more resources into growth, and have significantly higher levels of IGF-1 compared to females, which is correlated with decreased lifespan. Other variables such as increased testosterone levels in males are not accounted for. Increased testosterone is often associated with reckless behaviour, which may lead to a high accidental death rate.\n\nA few contradicting animal models weaken the validity of the disposable soma theory. This includes studies done on the aforementioned naked mole rats. In these studies, it was found that reproductive naked mole rats actually show significantly increased lifespans compared to non-reproductive individuals, which contradicts the principles of diposable soma. However, although these naked mole rats are mammalian, they are highly atypical in terms of aging studies and may not serve as the best model for humans. For example, naked mole rats have a disproportionately high longevity quotient and live in eusocial societies, where breeding is usually designated to a queen.\n\nThe disposable soma theory is tested disproportionately on female organisms for the relationship between reproduction and aging, as females carry a greater burden in reproduction. Additionally, for the relationship between growth and aging, studies are disproportionately conducted on males, to minimize the hormonal fluctuations that occur with menstrual cycling. Lastly, genetic and environmental factors, rather than reproductive patterns, may explain the variations in human lifespan. For example, studies have shown that poorer individuals, to whom nutritious food and medical care is less accessible, typically have higher birth rates and earlier primiparity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48211145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48211145", "title": "Dorrite", "text": "Dorrite\n\nDorrite is a silicate mineral that is isostructural to the aenigmatite group. Although it is most chemically similar to the mineral rhönite [CaMgTi(AlSi)O], the lack of titanium (Ti) and presence of Fe influenced dorrite's independence. Dorrite is named for Dr. John (Jack) A. Dorr, a late professor at the University of Michigan that researched in outcrops where dorrite was found in 1982. This mineral is sub-metallic resembling colors of brownish-black, dark brown, to reddish brown.\n\nDorrite was first reported in 1982 by A. Havette in a basalt-limestone contact on Réunion Island off of the coast of Africa. The second report of dorrite was made by Franklin Foit and his associates while examining a paralava from the Powder River Basin, Wyoming in 1987. Analyses determined that this newly found mineral was surprisingly similar to the mineral rhönite, lacking Ti but presenting dominant Fe in its octahedral sites. Other minerals that coexist with this phase are plagioclase, gehlenite-akermanite, magnetite-magnesioferrite-spinel solid solutions, esseneite, nepheline, wollastonite, Ba-rich feldspar, apatite, ulvöspinel, ferroan sahamalite, and secondary barite, and calcite.\n\nDorrite can be found in mineral reactions that relate dorrite + magnetite + clinopyroxene, rhönite + magnetite + olivine + clinopyroxene, and aenigmatite + pyroxene + olivine assemblages in nature. These assemblages favor low pressures and high temperatures. Dorrite is stable in strongly oxidizing, high-temperature, low-pressure environments. It occurs in paralava, pyrometamorphic melt rock, formed from the burning of coal beds.\n\nResearchers conclusively determined that dorrite is triclinic-pseudomonoclinic and twinned by a twofold rotation about the pseudomonoclinic b axis. The parameters for dorrite are a=10.505, b=10.897, c=9.019 Å, α=106.26°, β=95.16°, γ=124.75°.\n\nCalcium 8.97%<br>Magnesium 5.44%<br>Aluminum 6.04%<br>Iron 37.48%<br>Silicon 6.28%<br>Oxygen 35.79%\n\nCaO 12.55%<br>MgO 9.02%<br>AlO 11.41%<br>FeO 53.59%<br>SiO 13.44%\n"}
{"id": "3958869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3958869", "title": "List of conservation organisations", "text": "List of conservation organisations\n\nThis is a list of conservation organisations, which are organisations that primarily deal with the conservation of various ecosystems.\nCave Conservancies are land trusts specialized in caves and karst features.\n\n"}
{"id": "146118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146118", "title": "List of long-distance footpaths", "text": "List of long-distance footpaths\n\nThis is a list of some long-distance footpaths used for walking and hiking.\n\n\n\n\nThe merit of hiking trails in Hong Kong is that hikers can enjoy scenery of both the sea and highland.\n\nTranscaucasian Trail:\n\nA long distance trail in the caucasus has been a lingering idea for trekkers and hikers for many years since they started hiking remote parts of the Caucasus. \nMany sections of the TCT already exist, used by local community members and shepherds for centuries. These trail cross long valleys and traverse mammoth mountains to connect mountain villages together. Unfortunately, in recent years many of these trails have fallen into disrepair, and while many trails are known to locals, they are difficult to navigate for visitors and tourists. \nIn 2015, two Peace Corps volunteers, Paul Stephens and Jeff Haack, mapped and charted known routes in The Republic of Georgia. During this time they succeeded in locating many connections between known trails and publicizing the concept of the trail. In 2016, Tom Allen and Alessandro Mambelli scouted new trail routes in Armenia while the first trail building project began in Svaneti, Georgia. In 2017, the trail building expanded to Dilijan National Park in Armenia while trail building continued in the Svaneti region. \nToday, over 300 km of trail has been improved and marked in Georgia and Armenia. Many 7-10 day guided hikes are available on the TCT this summer. Over the next 5 years, the trail will be expanded to connect all of the sections and create even longer hikes.\nThe TCT can serve many purposes in the Caucasus region. For one, the natural diversity of the area needs to be protected. This habitat fosters many species of animal and provides unique ecosystems created by the mountains. \nMore information about the trail can be found at transcaucasiantrail.org . \nDonations can be sustaining or one-time.\n\n\n\n\n\nHkakabo Razi Trail, climbing the highest peak in Myanmar, in Khakaborazi National Park, and various footpaths in Putao\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: \n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: List of long-distance hiking tracks in Australia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3627783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3627783", "title": "Natural monument", "text": "Natural monument\n\nA natural monument is a natural or natural/cultural feature of outstanding or unique value because of its inherent rarity, representative of aesthetic qualities or cultural significance. \n\nUnder World Commission on Protected Areas guidelines, natural monuments are level III, described as:\nThis is a lower level of protection than level II (national parks) and level I (wilderness areas).\n\nThe European Environment Agency's guidelines for selection of a natural monument are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11301067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11301067", "title": "Seven Wonders of Canada", "text": "Seven Wonders of Canada\n\nThe Seven Wonders of Canada was a 2007 competition sponsored by CBC Television's \"\" and CBC Radio One's \"Sounds Like Canada\". They sought to determine Canada's \"seven wonders\" by receiving nominations from viewers, and then from on-line voting of the short list. After the vote, a panel of judges, Ra McGuire, Roy MacGregor and Roberta L. Jamieson, picked the winners based on geographic and poetic criteria. Their seven picks were revealed on \"\" on June 7, 2007. The Seven Wonders as chosen by Canada were the Sleeping Giant, Niagara Falls, the Bay of Fundy, Nahanni National Park Reserve, the Northern Lights, the Rockies, and the Cabot Trail.\n\nFull voting results\n\n"}
{"id": "401062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401062", "title": "Shower-curtain effect", "text": "Shower-curtain effect\n\nThe shower-curtain effect in physics describes the phenomenon of how a shower curtain gets blown inward with a running shower. The problem of identifying the cause of this effect has been featured in Scientific American magazine, with several theories given to explain the phenomenon but no definite conclusion.\n\nThe shower-curtain effect may also be used to describe the observation how nearby phase front distortions of an optical wave are more severe than remote distortions of the same amplitude.\n\nAlso called Chimney effect or Stack effect, observes that warm air (from the hot shower) rises out over the shower curtain as cooler air (near the floor) pushes in under the curtain to replace the rising air. By pushing the curtain in towards the shower, the (short range) vortex and Coandă effects become more significant. However, the shower-curtain effect persists when cold water is used, implying that this cannot be the only mechanism at work.\n\nSee also Cooling tower.\n\nThe most popular explanation given for the shower-curtain effect is Bernoulli's principle. Bernoulli's principle states that an increase in velocity results in a decrease in pressure. This theory presumes that the water flowing out of a shower head causes the air through which the water moves to start flowing in the same direction as the water. This movement would be parallel to the plane of the shower curtain. If air is moving across the inside surface of the shower curtain, Bernoulli's principle says the air pressure there will drop. This would result in a pressure differential between the inside and outside, causing the curtain to move inward. It would be strongest when the gap between the bather and the curtain is smallest - resulting in the curtain attaching to the bather.\n\nA computer simulation of a typical bathroom found that none of the above theories pan out in their analysis, but instead found that the spray from the shower-head drives a horizontal vortex. This vortex has a low-pressure zone in the centre, which sucks the curtain.\n\nDavid Schmidt of University of Massachusetts was awarded the 2001 Ig Nobel Prize in Physics for his partial solution to the question of why shower curtains billow inwards. He used a computational fluid dynamics code to achieve the results. Professor Schmidt is adamant that this was done \"for fun\" in his own free time without the use of grants.\n\nThe Coandă effect, also known as \"boundary layer attachment\", is the tendency of a moving fluid to adhere to an adjacent wall.\n\nA hot shower will produce steam that condenses on the shower side of the curtain; lowering the pressure there. In a steady state the steam will be replaced by new steam delivered by the shower but in reality the water temperature will fluctuate and lead to times when the net steam production is negative.\n\nColder dense air outside and hot less dense air inside causes higher air pressure on the outside to force the shower curtain inwards to equalise the air pressure, this can be observed simply when the bathroom door is open allowing cold air into the bathroom.\n\nMany shower curtains come with features to reduce the shower-curtain effect. They may have adhesive suction cups on the bottom edges of the curtain, which are then pushed onto the sides of the shower when in use. Others may have magnets at the bottom, though these are not effective on acrylic or fiberglass tubs.\n\nIt's possible to use a telescopic shower curtain rod to block the curtain on it's lower part and to prevent it from sucking inside.\n\nHanging the curtain rod higher or lower, or especially further away from the shower head, can reduce the effect. A (convex) curved shower rod can also be used to hold the curtain against the inside wall of a tub.\n\nA weight can be attached to a long string and the string attached to the curtain rod in the middle of the curtain (on the inside). Hanging the weight low against the curtain just above the rim of the shower pan or tub makes it an effective billowing deterrent without allowing the weight to hit the pan or tub and damage it.\n\nThere are a few alternative solutions that either attach to the shower curtain directly, attach to the shower rod or attach to the wall.\n\n"}
{"id": "1335297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1335297", "title": "Spaceship Earth", "text": "Spaceship Earth\n\nSpaceship Earth or Spacecraft Earth is a world view encouraging everyone on Earth to act as a harmonious crew working toward the greater good.\n\nThe earliest known use is a passage in Henry George's best known work, \"Progress and Poverty\" (1879).\nFrom book IV, chapter 2: \nIt is a well-provisioned ship, this on which we sail through space. If the bread and beef above decks seem to grow scarce, we but open a hatch and there is a new supply, of which before we never dreamed. And very great command over the services of others comes to those who as the hatches are opened are permitted to say, \"This is mine!\"\n\nGeorge Orwell later paraphrases Henry George in \"The Road to Wigan Pier\":\n\nThe world is a raft sailing through space with, potentially, plenty of provisions for everybody; the idea that we must all cooperate and see to it that everyone does his fair share of the work and gets his fair share of the provisions seems so blatantly obvious that one would say that no one could possibly fail to accept it unless he had some corrupt motive for clinging to the present system.\n\nIn 1965 Adlai Stevenson made a famous speech to the UN in which he said:\n\nWe travel together, passengers on a little space ship, dependent on its vulnerable reserves of air and soil; all committed for our safety to its security and peace; preserved from annihilation only by the care, the work, and, I will say, the love we give our fragile craft. We cannot maintain it half fortunate, half miserable, half confident, half despairing, half slave—to the ancient enemies of man—half free in a liberation of resources undreamed of until this day. No craft, no crew can travel safely with such vast contradictions. On their resolution depends the survival of us all.\n\nThe following year, \"Spaceship Earth\" became the title of a book by a friend of Stevenson's, the internationally influential economist Barbara Ward.\n\nAlso in 1966, Kenneth E. Boulding, who was influenced by reading Henry George, used the phrase in the title of an essay, \"The Economics of the Coming Spaceship Earth\". Boulding described the past open economy of apparently illimitable resources, which he said he was tempted to call the \"cowboy economy\", and continued: \"The closed economy of the future might similarly be called the 'spaceman' economy, in which the earth has become a single spaceship, without unlimited reservoirs of anything, either for extraction or for pollution, and in which, therefore, man must find his place in a cyclical ecological system\".\n\nThe phrase was also popularized by Buckminster Fuller, who published a book in 1968 under the title of \"Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth\". This quotation, referring to fossil fuels, reflects his approach: \n…we can make all of humanity successful through science's world-engulfing industrial evolution provided that we are not so foolish as to continue to exhaust in a split second of astronomical history the orderly energy savings of billions of years' energy conservation aboard our Spaceship Earth. These energy savings have been put into our Spaceship's life-regeneration-guaranteeing bank account for use only in self-starter functions.\n\nUnited Nations Secretary-General U Thant spoke of Spaceship Earth on Earth Day March 21, 1971 at the ceremony of the ringing of the Japanese Peace Bell: \"May there only be peaceful and cheerful Earth Days to come for our beautiful Spaceship Earth as it continues to spin and circle in frigid space with its warm and fragile cargo of animate life.\"\n\nSpaceship Earth is the name given to the 50 m diameter geodesic sphere that greets visitors at the entrance of Walt Disney World's Epcot theme park. Housed within the sphere is a dark ride that serves to explore the history of communications and promote Epcot's founding principles, \"[a] belief and pride in man's ability to shape a world that offers hope to people everywhere.\" A previous incarnation of the ride, narrated by actor Jeremy Irons and revised in 2008, was explicit in its message:\n\nLike a grand and miraculous spaceship, our planet has sailed through the universe of time, and for a brief moment, we have been among its many passengers….We now have the ability and the responsibility to build new bridges of acceptance and co-operation between us, to create a better world for ourselves and our children as we continue our amazing journey aboard Spaceship Earth.\n\nDavid Deutsch has pointed out that the picture of Earth as a friendly \"spaceship\" habitat is difficult to defend even in metaphorical sense. The Earth environment is harsh and survival is constant struggle for life, including whole species extinction. Humans wouldn't be able to live in most of the areas where they are living now without knowledge necessary to build life-support systems such as houses, heating, water supply, etc.\n\nThe term \"Spaceship Earth\" is frequently used on the labels of Emanuel Bronner's products to refer to the Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "103141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103141", "title": "Thatching", "text": "Thatching\n\nThatching is the craft of building a roof with dry vegetation such as straw, water reed, sedge (\"Cladium mariscus\"), rushes, heather, or palm branches, layering the vegetation so as to shed water away from the inner roof. Since the bulk of the vegetation stays dry and is densely packed—trapping air—thatching also functions as insulation. It is a very old roofing method and has been used in both tropical and temperate climates. Thatch is still employed by builders in developing countries, usually with low-cost local vegetation. By contrast, in some developed countries it is the choice of some affluent people who desire a rustic look for their home, would like a more ecologically friendly roof, or who have purchased an originally thatched abode.\nThatching methods have traditionally been passed down from generation to generation, and numerous descriptions of the materials and methods used in Europe over the past three centuries survive in archives and early publications.\n\nIn some equatorial countries, thatch is the prevalent local material for roofs, and often walls. There are diverse building techniques from the ancient Hawaiian \"hale\" shelter made from the local ti leaves (\"Cordyline fruticosa\"), lauhala (\"Pandanus tectorius\") or pili grass (\"Heteropogon contortus\").\n\nPalm leaves are also often used. For example, in Na Bure, Fiji, thatchers combine fan palm leave roofs with layered reed walls. Feathered palm leaf roofs are used in Dominica. Alang-alang (\"Imperata cylindrica\") thatched roofs are used in Hawaii and Bali. In Southeast Asia, mangrove nipa palm leaves are used as thatched roof material known as attap dwelling. In Bali, Indonesia, the black fibres of Arenga pinnata called \"ijuk\" is also used as thatched roof materials, usually used in Balinese temple roof and meru towers. Sugar cane leaf roofs are used in Kikuyu tribal homes in Kenya.\n\nWild vegetation such as water reed (\"Phragmites australis\"), bulrush/cat tail (\"Typha\" spp.), broom (\"Cytisus scoparius\"), heather (\"Calluna vulgaris\"), and rushes (\"Juncus\" spp. and \"Schoenoplectus lacustris\") was probably used to cover shelters and primitive dwellings in Europe in the late Palaeolithic period, but so far no direct archaeological evidence for this has been recovered. People probably began to use straw in the Neolithic period when they first grew cereals—but once again, no direct archaeological evidence of straw for thatching in Europe prior to the early medieval period survives.\n\nMany indigenous people of the Americas, such as the former Maya civilization, Mesoamerica, the Inca empire, and the Triple Alliance (Aztec), lived in thatched buildings. It is common to spot thatched buildings in rural areas of the Yucatán Peninsula as well as many settlements in other parts of Latin America, which closely resemble the method of construction from distant ancestors. After the collapse of most extant American societies due to diseases introduced by Europeans, wars, enslavement, and genocide, the first Americans encountered by Europeans lived in structures roofed with bark or skin set in panels that could be added or removed for ventilation, heating, and cooling. Evidence of the many complex buildings with fiber-based roofing material was not rediscovered until the early 2000s. French and British settlers built temporary thatched dwellings with local vegetation as soon as they arrived in New France and New England, but covered more permanent houses with wooden shingles.\n\nIn most of England, thatch remained the only roofing material available to the bulk of the population in the countryside, in many towns and villages, until the late 1800s. Commercial production of Welsh slate began in 1820, and the mobility provided by canals and then railways made other materials readily available. Still, the number of thatched properties actually increased in the UK during the mid-1800s as agriculture expanded, but then declined again at the end of the 19th century because of agricultural recession and rural depopulation. \n\nGradually, thatch became a mark of poverty, and the number of thatched properties gradually declined, as did the number of professional thatchers. Thatch has become much more popular in the UK over the past 30 years, and is now a symbol of wealth rather than poverty. There are approximately 1,000 full-time thatchers at work in the UK, and thatching is becoming popular again because of the renewed interest in preserving historic buildings and using more sustainable building materials.\n\nAlthough thatch is popular in Germany, The Netherlands, Denmark, parts of France, Sicily, Belgium and Ireland, there are more thatched roofs in the United Kingdom than in any other European country. Good quality straw thatch can last for more than 50 years when applied by a skilled thatcher. Traditionally, a new layer of straw was simply applied over the weathered surface, and this \"spar coating\" tradition has created accumulations of thatch over 7’ (2.1 m) thick on very old buildings. The straw is bundled into \"yelms\" before it is taken up to the roof and then is attached using staples, known as \"spars\", made from twisted hazel sticks. Over 250 roofs in Southern England have base coats of thatch that were applied over 500 years ago, providing direct evidence of the types of materials that were used for thatching in the medieval period. Almost all of these roofs are thatched with wheat, rye, or a \"maslin\" mixture of both. Medieval wheat grew to almost tall in very poor soils and produced durable straw for the roof and grain for baking bread.\n\nTechnological change in the farming industry significantly affected the popularity of thatching. The availability of good quality thatching straw declined in England after the introduction of the combine harvester in the late 1930s and 1940s, and the release of short-stemmed wheat varieties. Increasing use of nitrogen fertiliser in the 1960s–70s also weakened straw and reduced its longevity. Since the 1980s, however, there has been a big increase in straw quality as specialist growers have returned to growing older, tall-stemmed, \"heritage\" varieties of wheat such as Squareheads Master (1880), N59 (1959), Rampton Rivet (1937), Victor (1910) and April Bearded (early 1800s)] in low input/organic conditions.\n\nIn the UK it is illegal under the Plant Variety and Seeds Act 1964 (with many amendments) for an individual or organisation to give, trade or sell seed of an older variety of wheat (or any other agricultural crop) to a third party for growing purposes, subject to a significant fine. Because of this legislation, thatchers in the UK can no longer obtain top quality thatching straw grown from traditional, tall-stemmed varieties of wheat.\n\nAll evidence indicates that water reed was rarely used for thatching outside of East Anglia. It has traditionally been a \"one coat\" material applied in a similar way to how it is used in continental Europe. Weathered reed is usually stripped and replaced by a new layer. It takes 4–5 acres of well-managed reed bed to produce enough reed to thatch an average house, and large reed beds have been uncommon in most of England since the Anglo-Saxon period. Over 80% of the water reed used in the UK is now imported from Turkey, Eastern Europe, China and South Africa. Though water reed might last for 50 years or more on a steep roof in a dry climate, modern imported water reed on an average roof in England does not last any longer than good quality wheat straw. The lifespan of a thatched roof also depends on the skill of the thatcher, but other factors must be considered—such as climate, quality of materials, and the roof pitch.\n\nIn areas where palms are abundant, palm leaves are used to thatch walls and roofs. Many species of palm trees are called \"thatch palm\", or have \"thatch\" as part of their common names. In the southeastern United States, Native and pioneer houses were often constructed of palmetto-leaf thatch. The chickees of the Seminole and Miccosukee are still thatched with palmetto leaves.\n\nGood thatch does not require frequent maintenance. In England a ridge normally lasts 8–14 years, and re-ridging is required several times during the lifespan of a thatch. Experts no longer recommend covering thatch with wire netting, as this slows evaporation and reduces longevity. Moss can be a problem if very thick, but is not usually detrimental, and many species of moss are actually protective. , remains the most widely used reference book on the techniques used for thatching. The thickness of a layer of thatch decreases over time as the surface gradually turns to compost and is blown off the roof by wind and rain. Thatched roofs generally needs replacement when the horizontal wooden 'sways' and hair-pin 'spars', also known as 'gads' (twisted hazel staples) that fix each course become visible near the surface. It is not total depth of the thatch within a new layer applied to a new roof that determines its longevity, but rather how much weathering thatch covers the fixings of each overlapping course. “A roof is as good as the amount of correctly laid thatch covering the fixings.”\n\nThatch is not as flammable as many people believe. It burns slowly, \"like a closed book,\" thatchers say. The vast majority of fires are linked to the use of wood burners and faulty chimneys with degraded or poorly installed or maintained flues. Sparks from paper or burned rubbish can ignite dry thatch on the surface around a chimney. Fires can also begin when sparks or flames work their way through a degraded chimney and ignite the surrounding semi-charred thatch. This can be avoided by ensuring that the chimney is in good condition, which may involve stripping thatch immediately surrounding the chimney to the full depth of the stack. This can easily be done without stripping thatch over the entire roof. Insurance premiums on thatched houses are higher than average in part because of the perception that thatched roofs are a fire hazard, but also because a thatch fire can cause extensive smoke damage and a thatched roof is more expensive to replace than a standard tiled or slate roof. Workmen should never use open flame near thatch, and nothing should be burnt that could fly up the chimney and ignite the surface of the thatch. Spark arrestors usually cause more harm than good, as they are easily blocked and reduce air flow. All thatched roofs should have smoke detectors in the roof space. Spray-on fire retardant or pressure impregnated fire retardants can reduce the spread of flame and radiated heat output.\n\nOn new buildings, a solid fire retardant barrier over the rafters can make the thatch sacrificial in case of fire. If fireboards are used, they require a ventilation gap between boarding and thatch so that the roof can breathe, as condensation can be a significant problem in thin, single layer thatch. Condensation is much less of a problem on thick straw roofs, which also provide much better insulation since they do not need to be ventilated.\n\nThe performance of thatch depends on roof shape and design, pitch of roof, position—its geography and topography—the quality of material and the expertise of the thatcher.\n\nThatch has some natural properties that are advantageous to its performance. It is naturally weather-resistant, and when properly maintained does not absorb a lot of water. There should not be a significant increase to roof weight due to water retention. A roof pitch of at least 50 degrees allows precipitation to travel quickly down slope so that it runs off the roof before it can penetrate the structure.\n\nThatch is also a natural insulator, and air pockets within straw thatch insulate a building in both warm and cold weather. A thatched roof ensures that a building is cool in summer and warm in winter.\n\nThatch also has very good resistance to wind damage when applied correctly.\n\nThatching materials range from plains grasses to waterproof leaves found in equatorial regions. It is the most common roofing material in the world, because the materials are readily available.\n\nBecause thatch is lighter, less timber is required in the roof that supports it.\n\nThatch is a versatile material when it comes to covering irregular roof structures. This fact lends itself to the use of second-hand, recycled and natural materials that are not only more sustainable, but need not fit exact standard dimensions to perform well.\n\nThatched houses are harder to insure because of the perceived fire risk, and because thatching is labor-intensive, it is much more expensive to thatch a roof than to cover it with slate or tiles. Birds can damage a roof while they are foraging for grubs, and rodents are attracted by residual grain in straw.\nThatch has fallen out of favor in much of the industrialized world not because of fire, but because thatching has become very expensive and alternative 'hard' materials are cheaper—but this situation is slowly changing. There are about 60,000 thatched roofs in the UK, of which 50–80 suffer a serious fire each year, most of these being completely destroyed. The cost to the Fire Brigade is £1.3m per annum. Many more thatched roofs are being built every year.\n\nNew thatched roofs were forbidden in London in 1212 following a major fire, and existing roofs had to have their surfaces plastered to reduce the risk of fire. The modern Globe Theatre is one of the few thatched buildings in London (others can be found in the suburb of Kingsbury), but the Globe's modern, water reed thatch is purely for decorative purpose and actually lies over a fully waterproofed roof built with modern materials. The Globe Theatre, opened in 1997, was modelled on the Rose, which was destroyed by a fire on a dry June night in 1613 when a burning wad of cloth ejected from a special effects cannon during a performance set light to the surface of the thatch. The original Rose Theatre was actually thatched with cereal straw, a sample of which was recovered by Museum of London archaeologists during the excavation of the site in the 1980s.\n\nSome claim thatch cannot cope with regular snowfall but, as with all roofing materials, this depends on the strength of the underlying roof structure and the pitch of the surface. A law passed in 1640 in Massachusetts outlawed the use of thatched roofs in the colony for this reason. Thatch is lighter than most other roofing materials, typically around , so the roof supporting it does not need to be so heavily constructed, but if snow accumulates on a lightly constructed thatched roof, it could collapse. A thatched roof is usually pitched between 45–55 degrees and under normal circumstances this is sufficient to shed snow and water. In areas of extreme snowfall, such as parts of Japan, the pitch is increased further.\nSome thatched roofs in the UK are extremely old and preserve evidence of traditional materials and methods that have long since been lost. In northern Britain this evidence is often preserved beneath corrugated sheet materials and frequently come to light during the development of smaller rural properties. Historic Scotland have funded several research projects into thatching techniques and these have revealed a wide range of materials including broom, heather, rushes, cereals, bracken, turf and clay and highlighted significant regional variation \n\nMore recent examples include the Moirlanich Longhouse, Killin owned by the National Trust for Scotland (rye, bracken & turf) and Sunnybrae Cottage, Pitlochry owned by Historic Scotland (rye, broom & turf) \n\n\n\n\n"}
