{"id": "26756364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26756364", "title": "Business writing process prewriting", "text": "Business writing process prewriting\n\nIn terms of the 3 × 3 writing process, prewriting belongs to phase one of the writing process. Prewriting focuses on how to properly convey the information in a message by analyzing its purpose, anticipating the audience's reaction and adapting the content of the message to that audience. Examples of methods that may assist you in your pre-writing phase include: free-writing, planning, research, outlining, storyboarding or clustering. \n\nBusiness writing is different from other types of writing because it needs to be purposeful, economical and reader-oriented. It is important for business writers to focus on expressing their ideas rather than impressing the intended audience. The goal is to get the message across in a clear and simple manner. \n\nThe 3 × 3 writing process is divided into three different phases. This chapter focuses on Phase 1 which involves analyzing, anticipating and adapting. Phase 2 requires research, organization and composition. Finally, Phase 3 includes revising, proofreading and evaluating. In the case of short messages, writing can be done relatively quickly by spending a small amount of time on each phase. However, for longer documents, it is better to spend a good amount of time working through each phase of the writing process. It is also possible to rearrange the steps in the process and even repeat some steps if necessary. The writing process is recursive rather than linear so the writer is free to revise the text at any point. \n\nBusiness writing often involves collaborating with others, such as when working in teams. Generally, team members get together in the beginning, during Phase 1, to exchange ideas. During Phase 2, each member can work separately to do some writing. Once that's done, members can meet again for Phase 3 to revise the document as a team.\n\nAnalyzing, which is the first step of the prewriting process, focuses on both detecting the main goals of the business message and choosing the most effective way to express the information to the audience. Finding out the main goals of business writing requires considering and summarizing the needs of the audience, would all be conveyed by: email, instant message, business letters, memos, reports, etc. Only when the information presented through the writing matches the demands of the audience will it attract the audience's attention. Generally, most business writing can be devoted to informing and persuading the audience. However, it is just as necessary to establish a good relationship with the audience.\nChoosing the most appropriate way of conveying information is fairly significant for improving efficiency of expression. Delivering a message in the proper way depends on a few factors. It is helpful to note the importance of the message, the feedback needed and the cost of the method of delivery.\n\nAnticipating includes profiling the audience and learning to adjust the message according to its recipients. Profiling the audience helps the writer establish the proper tone and language of the message. It also helps with choosing the right method to deliver the message. Another benefit of profiling the audience is identifying the possibility of a secondary audience. More information might be needed if the message is also intended for a secondary audience.\n\nAdapting involves using certain techniques to tailor the message to the intended audience. When writing a message, it is essential to pay attention to the tone because it is a good indicator of how the reader will feel while reading the message. Words that are chosen improperly can contribute to an overall negative tone and can make the message sound unpleasant. Therefore, it is a good idea to choose words that will have a positive impact on the tone of the message. One technique involves putting the focus of the message on the receiver. This can be achieved by using second-person pronouns throughout the text and it shows that the writer has empathy towards the reader. Another technique involves using bias-free language which means the message should be free from gender, race, age and disability bias so as to not offend anyone. It is also recommended to use a professional yet friendly tone to make the writer sound professional and approachable at the same time. It is a good idea to use positive words and avoid words that have negative connotations. Finally, it is in the writer's best interest to be polite, use simple language and words that are precise.\n\nIt is the responsibility of the writer to use language that is ethical for the purpose of avoiding litigation. When writing messages about stocks or financial services, it is important to follow the laws that protect investors. Also, regarding safety information, it is essential to write warnings on dangerous products as clearly and succinctly as possible. Messages that are used in sales and marketing should not have any false or misleading information. The messages should not be written in a way that will deceive customers. The use of proper language is also helpful regarding employee evaluation. In letters of recommendation, it is best to use positive language and stick to information that is related to the job.\n\n"}
{"id": "1074568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1074568", "title": "Carlos Albizu University", "text": "Carlos Albizu University\n\nAlbizu University is a private, non-profit university offering undergraduate and graduate degrees in the fields of psychology, education, speech and language, criminal justice, ESOL, and human services. With the main campus in San Juan, Puerto Rico, a branch campus in Miami, Florida, and an additional instructional location in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico, the university provides professional training that is relevant and responsive to the mental health needs of multicultural communities and supports culturally sensitive research that contributes to and helps grow the professions of psychology, health, education, and human services.\n\nThe university’s history began in 1966, when a renowned Puerto Rican psychologist and educator, Dr. Carlos Albizu-Miranda, founded the Instituto Psicológico de Puerto Rico (Puerto Rico Institute of Psychology) in response to the need for culturally sensitive professional training in the area of clinical psychology. At the time, there were no graduate programs in clinical psychology in Puerto Rico. The University of Puerto Rico and the Normal School (later known as the College of Education) included psychology as part of the core curricula as early as 1903—but only for undergraduate studies that were heavily based on the American higher education system and its standards. Graduate-level degrees in psychology could only be obtained through schools in the United States.\n\nBy the early 1960s, little had changed, with mental health professionals being trained abroad and then returning to their home country with the challenge of adapting what they had learned in the United States to fit the sociocultural realities of a Hispanic community. Dr. Albizu-Miranda himself received his training at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, and incurred the same difficulties of incorporating what he had learned into the culture of the island upon returning home to Puerto Rico.\n\nWhat had changed, though, was the social climate of the island. Between 1947 and the late 1960s, Puerto Rico saw major industrialization that transformed the island from a rural agrarian to an urban industrial society. With this, came the establishment of social classes, modern capitalism, and economic consumption—along with confusion and insecurity that led to issues such as violence and drug use. By the 1960s, the population had grown to nearly three million people, with only five clinical psychologists on the island to support the growing need for social services. In an effort to meet the public’s demands, the government established what were known as “assistant psychologists.” These assistant psychologists for the most part had had little training and were not equipped to serve what was becoming an increasingly complex population. By 1964, Dr. Albizu-Miranda had begun envisioning a Puerto Rican-based graduate program that would address the need for multicultural professional training in psychology on the island, along with the need for greater numbers of clinically trained psychologists to serve the growing population.\n\nBetween 1964 and 1966, Dr. Albizu-Miranda held multiple meetings with the chancellor of the University of Puerto Rico to discuss the development of a graduate program in psychology. After two years of fruitless efforts, Dr. Albizu-Miranda decided to turn away from the state university and establish a self-governing and independent institution. On August 1, 1966, he incorporated the Puerto Rico Institute of Psychology and welcomed the Institute’s inaugural academic year in 1967-1968.\n\nRecognizing a parallel need for multicultural training in clinical psychology in Southern Florida, which has a large Hispanic population, Dr. Albizu-Miranda opened the Miami Institute of Psychology in Miami, Florida, in 1980. In January 2000, the two main campuses were merged under the shared name Carlos Albizu University in honor of their founder, becoming the first institution in North America to be named after a Hispanic. Today, they are commonly known as Albizu University and continue the tradition of offering programs, both in theory and practice, that stay true to addressing and honoring the multicultural heritages found in both Puerto Rico and South Florida.\n\nAlbizu University has two campuses; the main campus in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico and a branch campus in Miami, Florida. There is a third, instructional, location in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico.\n\nLocated in the heart of Puerto Rico’s capital city, the San Juan campus set a precedent as the first independent professional school of psychology in North America. Originally called the Puerto Rico Institute of Psychology, Dr. Albizu-Miranda modeled the university after institutes of psychology in Europe where practice and internship coexisted. Now, over 50 years since its founding, the San Juan campus has over 1,000 students and has expanded to include two on-campus training clinics: the Clínica de Salud Mental de la Comunidad (Community Mental Health Clinic) and the Clínica de Patología del Habla y Lenguaje (Speech and Language Pathology Clinic).\n\nThe Community Mental Health Clinic (CMHC) is a training clinic on the campus of Albizu University in San Juan, Puerto Rico. An active clinic that provides culturally sensitive mental health services to low income and minority clients in San Juan and surrounding communities, CMHC also serves as a practicum and internship site for Albizu University graduate students.\n\nBased at Albizu University’s San Juan campus, the Speech and Language Pathology Clinic provides culturally sensitive care in the areas of autism, dysphagia, motor-speech disorders, neurological impairments, hearing impairments, cognitive disabilities, and developmental disorders. Graduate students from the university’s M.S. in Speech and Language Pathology program work closely with licensed and certified pathologists to provide care to a diverse population while gaining clinical experience.\n\nLocated in the Miami, Florida, metropolitan area, the Miami campus offers over 30 undergraduate and graduate degree and certificate programs in the fields of psychology, education, speech and language, English as a second language (ESOL), criminal justice, and human services. Known as the “Gateway to Latin America and the Caribbean,” Miami has one of the largest multi-ethnic populations in the United States, thus providing the perfect environment to support Albizu University in its mission to offer culturally sensitive training to a diverse population in an area with a wide range of practical training sites.\n\nFounded in 1980, The Goodman Psychological Services Center (GPSC), was established with the purpose of providing quality, culturally sensitive, mental health services to low-income, minority, clients in Southern Florida. Sponsored by Albizu University, the Goodman Center is also a practicum site housing four training programs; the Psy.D. in Clinical Psychology program, the M.S. in Psychology program with a major in Marriage and Family Therapy, the M.S. in Speech and Language Pathology program, and the GPSC Doctoral Internship Consortium Program.\n\nSince its inception, the Goodman Center has provided care to nearly 10,000 people of all ages in communities that are typically underserved due to factors such as financial hardship, limited or no insurance coverage, and lack of proficiency in the English language. In addition to the mental health services provided at the center, the Goodman Center is contracted by Miami-Dade County Public Schools to conduct psychoeducational evaluations for both private referrals and a host of community agencies, including the Florida Department of Families and Children and other health centers. \n\nIn addition to partnering with the Miami-Dade County Public Schools, the Goodman Center has also established a close relationship with Camillus House, a long-standing community center in Miami-Dade County that provides humanitarian services to the poor and homeless. Through its Doctoral Internship Consortium Program, Albizu provides eight full-time internship spots per year—six at the Goodman Center and two at Camillus House—to clinical psychology doctoral students. In the past, these internships were available only to Albizu University students. This year, for the first time, the internships will be available on a national level to all graduate students who come from an APA-accredited clinical psychology doctoral program.\n\nIn January 2015, Albizu opened an extension in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico. Under the jurisdiction of the San Juan Campus, the location was created to provide academic offerings and clinical services to the western region of Puerto Rico. Known as the Mayagüez University Center, the facility is much smaller than the other two campuses, with degrees offered exclusively in the fields of psychology and speech and language pathology. With an on-site clinic, the Center is also able to offer students clinical practice while providing health services to the community.\n\nThe Mayagüez University Center is located in the heart of the city of Mayagüez. Known as an intellectual mecca, the city houses a number of museums, historic buildings, an array of colleges and universities, and a large student population. In recognition of the cultural and linguistic diversity found not only in Mayagüez but in Puerto Rico as a whole, the Center adopted both Spanish and English as official languages. Though students primarily speak Spanish, they are expected to have adequate reading, writing, and conversational skills in English as well. On occasion, if enough students express interest, teachers will instruct entire classes in English.\n\nRanked as one of the nation’s top Hispanic-serving institutions specializing in human behavior science, Albizu attracts a student body committed to preparing themselves to work in community-oriented fields. With curriculums carefully designed to promote cultural sensitivity in today’s diverse society, students are able to choose from over 30 degree and certificate programs, with the largest number of offerings being in the field of psychology.\n\nOver half of the programs offered at Albizu are for degrees in psychology, and students are able to select from certificate, undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs with a wide range of specializations that include marriage and family therapy, mental health counseling, school counseling, industrial/organizational psychology, child psychology, and clinical psychology.\n\nWhen Albizu was founded in the late 1960s, Dr. Albizu-Miranda’s blueprint was to create a school offering a master’s degree in clinical psychology that would foster the development of therapeutic processes sensitive to cultural and class differences. At first, there were only 20 students and a handful of teachers committed to the pioneer institution. Over time, the clinical psychology program gained momentum and became the inaugural program at all three locations. To this day, it continues to be the most extensive program that Albizu offers.\n\nToday, all of the psychology programs emphasize cultural and ethnic sensitivity, in recognition of Albizu’s origins as an institution built on the belief that a multicultural society is best served by professionals who are culturally competent and inclusive. In the classroom, where a majority of the professors are practicing mental health professionals, students are taught the intricacies of a multicultural society from the real-world experience and examples provided by their professors. Outside of the classroom, students gain hands-on exposure at over 100 practicum sites that between them offer experience with a wide range of psychological disorders and clinical environments.\n\nAlbizu University has numerous clubs and organizations to encourage student involvement in larger communities. Opportunities range from organizations exclusive to Albizu, such as the Student Council, to associations that operate on a national or international level and welcome Albizu students to participate as campus representatives.\n\nOf the clubs and organizations offered to Albizu students, there is a fairly even balance between those hosted by the university and those that represent outside associations. Of the outside associations, some of the most notable with chapters at Albizu include The American Psychological Association of Graduate Students (APAGS), The Society for Military Psychology, and The International Honor Society in Psychology: Psi Chi. All offer students the opportunity to have a voice on a national to international level and to advocate on behalf of the science and practice of psychology through events including panel discussions, fundraisers, and walks to raise awareness for different causes such as suicide amongst veterans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "232905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232905", "title": "Code-switching", "text": "Code-switching\n\nIn linguistics, code-switching occurs when a speaker alternates between two or more languages, or language varieties, in the context of a single conversation. Multilinguals, speakers of more than one language, sometimes use elements of multiple languages when conversing with each other. Thus, code-switching is the use of more than one linguistic variety in a manner consistent with the syntax and phonology of each variety.\n\nCode-switching is distinct from other language contact phenomena, such as borrowing, pidgins and creoles, loan translation (calques), and language transfer (language interference). Borrowing affects the lexicon, the words that make up a language, while code-switching takes place in individual utterances. Speakers form and establish a pidgin language when two or more speakers who do not speak a common language form an intermediate, third language. On the other hand, speakers practice code-switching when they are each fluent in both languages. Code mixing is a thematically related term, but the usage of the terms \"code-switching\" and \"code-mixing\" varies. Some scholars use either term to denote the same practice, while others apply \"code-mixing\" to denote the formal linguistic properties of language-contact phenomena and \"code-switching\" to denote the actual, spoken usages by multilingual persons.\n\nIn the 1940s and the 1950s, many scholars considered code-switching to be a substandard use of language. Since the 1980s, however, most scholars have come to regard it as a normal, natural product of bilingual and multilingual language use.\n\nThe term \"code-switching\" is also used outside the field of linguistics. Some scholars of literature use the term to describe literary styles that include elements from more than one language, as in novels by Chinese-American, Anglo-Indian, or Latino writers. In popular usage, \"code-switching\" is sometimes used to refer to relatively stable informal mixtures of two languages, such as Spanglish, Taglish, or Hinglish. Both in popular usage and in sociolinguistic study, the name code-switching is sometimes used to refer to switching among dialects, styles or registers. This form of switching is practiced, for example, by speakers of African American Vernacular English as they move from less formal to more formal settings. Such shifts, when performed by public figures such as politicians, are sometimes criticized as signalling inauthenticity or insincerity.\n\nCode-switching relates to, and sometimes indexes social-group membership in bilingual and multilingual communities. Some sociolinguists describe the relationships between code-switching behaviours and class, ethnicity, and other social positions.\nIn addition, scholars in interactional linguistics and conversation analysis have studied code-switching as a means of structuring speech in interaction. Some discourse analysts, including conversation analyst Peter Auer, suggest that code-switching does not simply reflect social situations, but that it is a means to create social situations.\n\nThe Markedness Model, developed by Carol Myers-Scotton, is one of the more complete theories of code-switching motivations. It posits that language users are rational and choose to speak a language that clearly marks their rights and obligations, relative to other speakers, in the conversation and its setting. When there is no clear, unmarked language choice, speakers practice code-switching to explore possible language choices. Many sociolinguists, however, object to the Markedness Model’s postulation that language-choice is entirely rational.\n\nScholars of conversation analysis such as Peter Auer and Li Wei argue that the social motivation behind code-switching lies in the way code-switching is structured and managed in conversational interaction; in other words, the question of why code-switching occurs cannot be answered without first addressing the question of how it occurs. Using conversation analysis (CA), these scholars focus their attention on the sequential implications of code-switching. That is, whatever language a speaker chooses to use for a conversational turn, or part of a turn, impacts the subsequent choices of language by the speaker as well as the hearer. Rather than focusing on the social values inherent in the languages the speaker chooses (\"brought-along meaning\"), the analysis concentrates on the meaning that the act of code-switching itself creates (\"brought-about meaning\").\n\nThe communication accommodation theory (CAT), developed by Howard Giles, professor of communication at the University of California, Santa Barbara, seeks to explain the cognitive reasons for code-switching, and other changes in speech, as a person either emphasizes or minimizes the social differences between himself and the other person(s) in conversation. Giles posits that when speakers seek approval in a social situation they are likely to converge their speech with that of the other speaker. This can include, but is not limited to, the language of choice, accent, dialect, and para-linguistic features used in the conversation. In contrast to convergence, speakers might also engage in divergent speech, in which an individual person emphasizes the social distance between himself and other speakers by using speech with linguistic features characteristic of his own group.\n\nIn a diglossic situation, some topics and situations are better suited to the use of one language over another. Joshua Fishman proposes a domain-specific code-switching model (later refined by Blom and Gumperz) wherein bilingual speakers choose which code to speak depending on where they are and what they are discussing. For example, a child who is a bilingual Spanish-English speaker might speak Spanish at home and English in class, but Spanish at recess.\n\nScholars use different names for various types of code-switching.\n\n\nMost code-switching studies primarily focus on intra-sentential switching, as it creates many hybrid grammar structures that require explanation. The other types involve utterances that simply follow the grammar of one language or the other. Intra-sentential switching can be alternational or insertional. In alternational code-switching, a new grammar emerges that is a combination of the grammars of the two languages involved. Insertional code-switching involves \"the insertion of elements from one language into the morphosyntactic frame of the other.\"\n\nThere are several reasons to switch codes in a single conversation.\n\nIn studying the syntactic and morphological patterns of language alternation, linguists have postulated specific grammatical rules and specific syntactic boundaries for where code-switching might occur.\n\nShana Poplack's model of code-switching is the best known theory of the underlying grammar of code-switching. In this model, code-switching is subject to two constraints. The \"free-morpheme constraint\" stipulates that code-switching cannot occur between a lexical stem and bound morphemes. Essentially, this constraint distinguishes code-switching from borrowing. Generally, borrowing occurs in the lexicon, while code-switching occurs at either the syntax level or the utterance-construction level. The \"equivalence constraint\" predicts that switches occur only at points where the surface structures of the languages coincide, or between sentence elements that are normally ordered in the same way by each individual grammar. For example, the sentence: \"I like you \"porque eres simpático\"\" (\"I like you \"because you are nice\"\") is allowed because it obeys the syntactic rules of both Spanish and English. Cases like the noun phrases \"the casa white\" and \"the blanca house\" are ruled out because the combinations are ungrammatical in at least one of the languages involved. Spanish noun phrases are made up of determiners, then nouns, then adjectives, while the adjectives come before the nouns in English noun phrases. \"The casa white\" is ruled out by the equivalence constraint because it does not obey the syntactic rules of English, and \"the blanca house\" is ruled out because it does not follow the syntactic rules of Spanish.\n\nCritics cite weaknesses of Sankoff and Poplack's model. The free-morpheme and equivalence constraints are insufficiently restrictive, meaning there are numerous exceptions that occur. For example, the free morpheme constraint does not account for why switching is impossible between certain free morphemes. The sentence: \"The students had \"visto la película italiana\"\" (\"The students had \"seen the Italian movie\"\") does not occur in Spanish-English code-switching, yet the free-morpheme constraint would seem to posit that it can. The equivalence constraint would also rule out switches that occur commonly in languages, as when Hindi postpositional phrases are switched with English prepositional phrases like in the sentence: \"John gave a book \"ek larakii ko\"\" (\"John gave a book \"to a girl\"\"). The phrase \"ek larakii ko\" is literally translated as \"a girl to,\" making it ungrammatical in English, and yet this is a sentence that occurs in English-Hindi code-switching despite the requirements of the equivalence constraint. The Sankoff and Poplack model only identifies points at which switching is blocked, as opposed to explaining which constituents can be switched and why.\n\nCarol Myers-Scotton's Matrix Language-Frame (MLF) model is the dominant model of insertional code-switching. The MLF model posits that there is a Matrix Language (ML) and an Embedded Language (EL). In this case, elements of the Embedded Language are inserted into the morphosyntactic frame of the Matrix Language. The hypotheses are as follows (Myers-Scotton 1993b: 7):\n\nThe Matrix Language Hypothesis states that those grammatical procedures in the central structure in the language production system which account for the surface structure of the Matrix Language + Embedded Language constituent (linguistics) are only Matrix Language–based procedures. Further, the hypothesis is intended to imply that frame-building precedes content morpheme insertion. A Matrix Language can be the first language of the speaker or the language in which the morphemes or words are more frequently used in speech, so the dominant language is the Matrix Language and the other is the Embedded Language. A Matrix Language island is a constituent composed entirely of Matrix Language morphemes.\n\nAccording to the Blocking Hypothesis, in Matrix Language + Embedded Language constituents, a blocking filter blocks any Embedded Language content morpheme which is not congruent with the Matrix Language with respect to three levels of abstraction regarding subcategorization. \"Congruence\" is used in the sense that two entities, linguistic categories in this case, are congruent if they correspond in respect of relevant qualities.\n\nThe three levels of abstraction are:\n\n\nWe see that example 1 is consistent with the Blocking Hypothesis and the system content morpheme criteria, so the prediction is that the Hindi equivalents are also content morphemes. Sometimes non-congruence between counterparts in the Matrix Language and Embedded Language can be circumvented by accessing bare forms. \"Cell\" is a bare form and so the thematic role of \"cell\" is assigned by the verb \"-wek-\" 'put in/on'; this means that the verb is a content morpheme.\n\nThe Embedded Language Island Trigger Hypothesis states that when an Embedded Language morpheme appears which is not permitted under either the Matrix Language Hypothesis or Blocking Hypothesis, it triggers the inhibition of all Matrix Language accessing procedures and completes the current constituent as an Embedded Language island. Embedded Language islands consist only of Embedded Language morphemes and are well-formed by Embedded Language grammar, but they are inserted in the Matrix Language frame. Therefore, Embedded Language islands are under the constraint of Matrix Language grammar.\n\n\nExample 1 is ungrammatical (indicated by the leading asterisk) because \"your\" is accessed, so the Embedded Language Island Trigger Hypothesis predicts that it must be followed by an English head (e.g., \"your letter\") as an Embedded Language island. The reason is that possessive adjectives are system morphemes. We see the same thing happen in example 2, which is therefore ungrammatical. However, the correct way to finish the sentence is not \"for wewe\", switching back to Swahili; rather, it should end with \"for you\", which would be an Embedded Language island.\n\nThe Embedded Language Implicational Hierarchy Hypothesis can be stated as two sub-hypotheses: \n\nThe Implication Hierarchy of Embedded Language Islands:\n\n\nWe see example 1 work because the French Embedded Language island \"Le matin de bonne heure\", \"early in the morning\", is a time expression. (Also, it is repeated in Wolof in the second sentence.) In example 2, we see the quantifier \"a lot of\" is a predicted Embedded Language island. Here we see an objective complement of a finite verb begin with the quantifier.\n\nJeff MacSwan has posited a \"constraint-free approach\" to analyzing code-switching. This approach views explicit reference to code-switching in grammatical analysis as tautological, and seeks to explain specific instances of grammaticality in terms of the unique contributions of the grammatical properties of the languages involved. MacSwan characterizes the approach with the refrain, \"Nothing constrains code-switching apart from the requirements of the mixed grammars.\" The approach focuses on the repudiation of any rule or principle which explicitly refers to code-switching itself. This approach does not recognize or accept terms such as \"matrix language\", \"embedded language\", or \"language frame\", which are typical in constraint-based approaches such as the MLF Model.\n\nRather than posit constraints specific to language alternation, as in traditional work in the field, MacSwan advocates that mixed utterances be analyzed with a focus on the specific and unique linguistic contributions of each language found in a mixed utterance. Because these analyses draw on the full range of linguistic theory, and each data set presents its own unique challenges, a much broader understanding of linguistics is generally needed to understand and participate in this style of codeswitching research.\n\nFor example, Cantone and MacSwan (2009) analyzed word order differences for nouns and adjectives in Italian-German codeswitching using a typological theory of Cinque that had been independently proposed in the syntax literature; their account derives the word order facts of Italian-German codeswitching from underlying differences between the two languages, according to Cinque's theory.\n\nMuch remains to be done before a more complete understanding of code-switching phenomena is achieved. Linguists continue to debate apparent counter-examples to proposed code-switching theories and constraints.\n\nThe \"Closed-class Constraint\", developed by Aravind Joshi, posits that closed class items (pronouns, prepositions, conjunctions, etc.) cannot be switched. The \"Functional Head Constraint\" developed by Belazi et al. holds that code-switching cannot occur between a functional head (a complementizer, a determiner, an inflection, etc.) and its complement (sentence, noun-phrase, verb-phrase). These constraints, among others like the Matrix Language-Frame model, are controversial among linguists positing alternative theories, as they are seen to claim universality and make general predictions based upon specific presumptions about the nature of syntax.\n\nMyers-Scotton and MacSwan debated the relative merits of their approaches in a series of exchanges published in 2005 in \"\", issues 8(1) and 8(2).\n\nIn this section, segments that are switched from the primary language of the conversation are shown in red.\n\nResearcher Ana Celia Zentella offers this example from her work with Puerto Rican Spanish-English bilingual speakers in New York City. In this example, and her younger sister, , speak Spanish and English with outside of their apartment building.\n\nZentella explains that the children of the predominantly Puerto Rican neighbourhood speak both English and Spanish: \"Within the children’s network, English predominated, but code-switching from English to Spanish occurred once every three minutes, on average.\"\n\nThis example of switching from French to Tamil comes from ethnographer Sonia Das's work with immigrants from Jaffna, Sri Lanka, to Quebec.\n\n, who moved from Sri Lanka to Quebec as a child and now identifies as Québécois, speaks to Das in French. When Selvamani's sister, Mala, laughs, switches to Tamil to ask Mala why she is laughing. After this aside, continues to speak in French. also uses the word \"tsé\" (\"you know\", contraction of \"tu sais\") and the expression \"je me pas poigné\" (\"I will not be handled\"), which are not standard French but are typical of the working-class Montreal dialect Joual.\n\nResearcher Paul Kroskrity offers the following example of code-switching by , who are trilingual in Tewa, Hopi, and English. They are discussing the selection of a site for a new high school in the eastern Hopi Reservation:\n\nIn their two-hour conversation, the primarily speak Tewa; however, when addresses the Hopi Reservation as a whole, he code-switches to Hopi. His speaking Hopi when talking of Hopi-related matters is a conversational norm in the Arizona Tewa speech community. Kroskrity reports that these Arizona Tewa men, who culturally identify themselves as Hopi \"and\" Tewa, use the different languages to linguistically construct and maintain their discrete ethnic identities.\n"}
{"id": "9124629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9124629", "title": "Cognitive philology", "text": "Cognitive philology\n\nCognitive philology is the science that studies written and oral texts as the product of human mental processes. Studies in cognitive philology compare documentary evidence emerging from textual investigations with results of experimental research, especially in the fields of cognitive and ecological psychology, neurosciences and artificial intelligence. \"The point is not the text, but the mind that made it\". Cognitive Philology aims to foster communication between literary, textual, philological disciplines on the one hand and researches across the whole range of the cognitive, evolutionary, ecological and human sciences on the other.\n\nCognitive philology: \n\nAmong the founding thinkers and noteworthy scholars devoted to such investigations are: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "248810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248810", "title": "Communication theory", "text": "Communication theory\n\nCommunication theory is a field of information theory and mathematics that studies the technical process of information and the process of human communication.\n\nAdditionally communication theory is “any systematic summary about the nature of the communication process” (Dainton, 2019). It “is a coherent field of metadiscursive practice, a field of discourse about discourse with implications for the practice of communication” (Craig, 1999, pg. 120) and seeks to “provide conceptual resources for reflecting on communication problems” (p. 130).\n\n\"The fundamental problem of communication is that of reproducing at one point either exactly or approximately a message selected at another point.\" Claude Shannon (1916–2001)\n\nThe origins of communication theory is linked to the development of information theory in the early 1920s. Limited information-theoretic ideas had been developed at Bell Labs, all implicitly assuming events of equal probability.\n\nHarry Nyquist's 1924 paper, \"Certain Factors Affecting Telegraph Speed\", contains a theoretical section quantifying \"intelligence\" and the \"line speed\" at which it can be transmitted by a communication system.\n\nRalph Hartley's 1928 paper, \"Transmission of Information,\" uses the word \"information\" as a measurable quantity, reflecting the receiver's ability to distinguish one sequence of symbols from any other. The natural unit of information was therefore the decimal digit, much later renamed the hartley in his honour as a unit or scale or measure of information.\n\nAlan Turing in 1940 used similar ideas as part of the statistical analysis of the breaking of the German second world war Enigma ciphers.\n\nThe main landmark event that opened the way to the development of communication theory was the publication of an article by Claude Shannon in the \"Bell System Technical Journal\" in July and October 1948 under the title \"A Mathematical Theory of Communication\". Shannon focused on the problem of how best to encode the information that a sender wants to transmit. He also used tools in probability theory, developed by Norbert Wiener. They marked the nascent stages of applied communication theory at that time. Shannon developed information entropy as a measure for the uncertainty in a message while essentially inventing the field of information theory.\n\nIn 1949, in a declassified version of his wartime work on the mathematical theory of cryptography (\"Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems\"), he proved that all theoretically unbreakable ciphers must have the same requirements as the one-time pad. He is also credited with the introduction of sampling theory, which is concerned with representing a continuous-time signal from a (uniform) discrete set of samples. This theory was essential in enabling telecommunications to move from analog to digital transmissions systems in the 1960s and later.\n\nIn 1951, Shannon made his fundamental contribution to natural language processing and computational linguistics with his article \"Prediction and Entropy of Printed English\" (1951), providing a clear quantifiable link between cultural practice and probabilistic cognition.\n\nThe studies on information theory by Claude Elwood Shannon, Warren Weaver and others, prompted research on new models of communication from other scientific perspectives like psychology and sociology. In science, a model is a structure that represents a theory.\n\nScholars from disciplines different from mathematics and engineering began to take distance from the Shannon and Weaver models as a 'transmissible model':\n\nAccording to Robert T. Craig in his foundational publication, \"Communication Theory as a Field\" (1999), communication theory “consist of seven traditions that are […] characteristic of the field: rhetoric, semiotics, phenomenology, cybernetics, sociopsychology, sociocultural theory, and the critical approach.”\n\n\"Communication is a process of expression, interaction, and influence, in which the behavior of humans or other complex organisms expresses psychological mechanisms, states, and traits and, through interaction with the similar expressions of other individuals, produces a range of cognitive, emotional, and behavioral effects.” (Craig, 1999, p. 143)\n\nBasic elements of communication made the object of study of the communication theory:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50937447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50937447", "title": "Comparison of computer-assisted translation tools", "text": "Comparison of computer-assisted translation tools\n\nA number of computer-assisted translation software and websites exists for various platforms and access types. The list below includes only some of the existent and available software and website platforms.\n\nAccording to a 2006 survey undertaken by Imperial College of 874 translation professionals from 54 countries, primary tool usage was reported as follows: Trados (35%), Wordfast (17%), Déjà Vu (16%), SDL Trados 2006 (15%), SDLX (4%), STAR Transit (3%), OmegaT (3%), others (7%).\n"}
{"id": "6978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6978", "title": "Concept", "text": "Concept\n\nConcepts are mental representations, abstract objects or abilities that make up the fundamental building blocks of thoughts and beliefs. They play an important role in all aspects of cognition.\n\nIn contemporary philosophy, there are at least three prevailing ways to understand what a concept is:\n\n\nConcepts can be organized into a hierarchy, higher levels of which are termed \"superordinate\" and lower levels termed \"subordinate\". Additionally, there is the \"basic\" or \"middle\" level at which people will most readily categorize a concept. For example, a basic-level concept would be \"chair\", with its superordinate, \"furniture\", and its subordinate, \"easy chair\".\n\nA concept is instantiated (reified) by all of its actual or potential instances, whether these are things in the real world or other ideas.\n\nConcepts are studied as components of human cognition in the cognitive science disciplines of linguistics, psychology and philosophy, where an ongoing debate asks whether all cognition must occur through concepts. Concepts are used as formal tools or models in mathematics, computer science, databases and artificial intelligence where they are sometimes called classes, schema or categories. In informal use the word \"concept\" often just means any idea.\n\nWithin the framework of the representational theory of mind, the structural position of concepts can be understood as follows: Concepts serve as the building blocks of what are called \"mental representations\" (colloquially understood as \"ideas in the mind\"). Mental representations, in turn, are the building blocks of what are called \"propositional attitudes\" (colloquially understood as the stances or perspectives we take towards ideas, be it \"believing\", \"doubting\", \"wondering\", \"accepting\", etc.). And these propositional attitudes, in turn, are the building blocks of our understanding of thoughts that populate everyday life, as well as folk psychology. In this way, we have an analysis that ties our common everyday understanding of thoughts down to the scientific and philosophical understanding of concepts.\n\nA central question in the study of concepts is the question of what concepts \"are\". Philosophers construe this question as one about the ontology of concepts – what they are really like. The ontology of concepts determines the answer to other questions, such as how to integrate concepts into a wider theory of the mind, what functions are allowed or disallowed by a concept's ontology, etc. There are two main views of the ontology of concepts: (1) Concepts are abstract objects, and (2) concepts are mental representations.\n\nPlatonist views of the mind construe concepts as abstract objects,\n\nThere is debate as to the relationship between concepts and natural language. However, it is necessary at least to begin by understanding that the concept \"dog\" is philosophically distinct from the things in the world grouped by this concept – or the reference class or extension. Concepts that can be equated to a single word are called \"lexical concepts\".\n\nStudy of concepts and conceptual structure falls into the disciplines of linguistics, philosophy, psychology, and cognitive science.\n\nIn the simplest terms, a concept is a name or label that regards or treats an abstraction as if it had concrete or material existence, such as a person, a place, or a thing. It may represent a natural object that exists in the real world like a tree, an animal, a stone, etc. It may also name an artificial (man-made) object like a chair, computer, house, etc. Abstract ideas and knowledge domains such as freedom, equality, science, happiness, etc., are also symbolized by concepts. It is important to realize that a concept is merely a symbol, a representation of the abstraction. The word is not to be mistaken for the thing. For example, the word \"moon\" (a concept) is not the large, bright, shape-changing object up in the sky, but only \"represents\" that celestial object. Concepts are created (named) to describe, explain and capture reality as it is known and understood.\n\nKant declared that human minds possess pure or \"a priori\" concepts. Instead of being abstracted from individual perceptions, like empirical concepts, they originate in the mind itself. He called these concepts categories, in the sense of the word that means predicate, attribute, characteristic, or quality. But these pure categories are predicates of things \"in general\", not of a particular thing. According to Kant, there are twelve categories that constitute the understanding of phenomenal objects. Each category is that one predicate which is common to multiple empirical concepts. In order to explain how an \"a priori\" concept can relate to individual phenomena, in a manner analogous to an \"a posteriori\" concept, Kant employed the technical concept of the schema. He held that the account of the concept as an abstraction of experience is only partly correct. He called those concepts that result from abstraction \"a posteriori concepts\" (meaning concepts that arise out of experience). An empirical or an \"a posteriori\" concept is a general representation (\"Vorstellung\") or non-specific thought of that which is common to several specific perceived objects (Logic, I, 1., §1, Note 1)\n\nA concept is a common feature or characteristic. Kant investigated the way that empirical \"a posteriori\" concepts are created.\nIn cognitive linguistics, abstract concepts are transformations of concrete concepts derived from embodied experience. The mechanism of transformation is structural mapping, in which properties of two or more source domains are selectively mapped onto a blended space (Fauconnier & Turner, 1995; see conceptual blending). A common class of blends are metaphors. This theory contrasts with the rationalist view that concepts are perceptions (or \"recollections\", in Plato's term) of an independently existing world of ideas, in that it denies the existence of any such realm. It also contrasts with the empiricist view that concepts are abstract generalizations of individual experiences, because the contingent and bodily experience is preserved in a concept, and not abstracted away. While the perspective is compatible with Jamesian pragmatism, the notion of the transformation of embodied concepts through structural mapping makes a distinct contribution to the problem of concept formation.\n\nPlato was the starkest proponent of the realist thesis of universal concepts. By his view, concepts (and ideas in general) are innate ideas that were instantiations of a transcendental world of pure forms that lay behind the veil of the physical world. In this way, universals were explained as transcendent objects. Needless to say this form of realism was tied deeply with Plato's ontological projects. This remark on Plato is not of merely historical interest. For example, the view that numbers are Platonic objects was revived by Kurt Gödel as a result of certain puzzles that he took to arise from the phenomenological accounts.\n\nGottlob Frege, founder of the analytic tradition in philosophy, famously argued for the analysis of language in terms of sense and reference. For him, the sense of an expression in language describes a certain state of affairs in the world, namely, the way that some object is presented. Since many commentators view the notion of sense as identical to the notion of concept, and Frege regards senses as the linguistic representations of states of affairs in the world, it seems to follow that we may understand concepts as the manner in which we grasp the world. Accordingly, concepts (as senses) have an ontological status (Morgolis:7).\n\nAccording to Carl Benjamin Boyer, in the introduction to his \"The History of the Calculus and its Conceptual Development\", concepts in calculus do not refer to perceptions. As long as the concepts are useful and mutually compatible, they are accepted on their own. For example, the concepts of the derivative and the integral are not considered to refer to spatial or temporal perceptions of the external world of experience. Neither are they related in any way to mysterious limits in which quantities are on the verge of nascence or evanescence, that is, coming into or going out of existence. The abstract concepts are now considered to be totally autonomous, even though they originated from the process of abstracting or taking away qualities from perceptions until only the common, essential attributes remained.\n\nIn a physicalist theory of mind, a concept is a mental representation, which the brain uses to denote a class of things in the world. This is to say that it is literally, a symbol or group of symbols together made from the physical material of the brain. Concepts are mental representations that allow us to draw appropriate inferences about the type of entities we encounter in our everyday lives. Concepts do not encompass all mental representations, but are merely a subset of them. The use of concepts is necessary to cognitive processes such as categorization, memory, decision making, learning, and inference.\n\nConcepts are thought to be stored in long term cortical memory, in contrast to episodic memory of the particular objects and events which they abstract, which are stored in hippocampus. Evidence for this separation comes from hippocampal damaged patients such as patient HM. The abstraction from the day's hippocampal events and objects into cortical concepts is often considered to be the computation underlying (some stages of) sleep and dreaming. Many people (beginning with Aristotle) report memories of dreams which appear to mix the day's events with analogous or related historical concepts and memories, and suggest that they were being sorted or organised into more abstract concepts. (\"Sort\" is itself another word for concept, and \"sorting\" thus means to organise into concepts.)\n\nThe classical theory of concepts, also referred to as the empiricist theory of concepts, is the oldest theory about the structure of concepts (it can be traced back to Aristotle), and was prominently held until the 1970s. The classical theory of concepts says that concepts have a definitional structure. Adequate definitions of the kind required by this theory usually take the form of a list of features. These features must have two important qualities to provide a comprehensive definition. Features entailed by the definition of a concept must be both \"necessary\" and \"sufficient\" for membership in the class of things covered by a particular concept. A feature is considered necessary if every member of the denoted class has that feature. A feature is considered sufficient if something has all the parts required by the definition. For example, the classic example \"bachelor\" is said to be defined by \"unmarried\" and \"man\". An entity is a bachelor (by this definition) if and only if it is both unmarried and a man. To check whether something is a member of the class, you compare its qualities to the features in the definition. Another key part of this theory is that it obeys the \"law of the excluded middle\", which means that there are no partial members of a class, you are either in or out.\n\nThe classical theory persisted for so long unquestioned because it seemed intuitively correct and has great explanatory power. It can explain how concepts would be acquired, how we use them to categorize and how we use the structure of a concept to determine its referent class. In fact, for many years it was one of the major activities in philosophy – concept analysis. Concept analysis is the act of trying to articulate the necessary and sufficient conditions for the membership in the referent class of a concept. For example, Shoemaker's classic \"Time Without Change\" explored whether the concept of the flow of time can include flows where no changes take place, though change is usually taken as a definition of time.\n\nGiven that most later theories of concepts were born out of the rejection of some or all of the classical theory, it seems appropriate to give an account of what might be wrong with this theory. In the 20th century, philosophers such as Wittgenstein and Rosch argued against the classical theory. There are six primary arguments summarized as follows:\n\nPrototype theory came out of problems with the classical view of conceptual structure. Prototype theory says that concepts specify properties that members of a class tend to possess, rather than must possess. Wittgenstein, Rosch, Mervis, Berlin, Anglin, and Posner are a few of the key proponents and creators of this theory. Wittgenstein describes the relationship between members of a class as \"family resemblances\". There are not necessarily any necessary conditions for membership, a dog can still be a dog with only three legs. This view is particularly supported by psychological experimental evidence for prototypicality effects. Participants willingly and consistently rate objects in categories like 'vegetable' or 'furniture' as more or less typical of that class. It seems that our categories are fuzzy psychologically, and so this structure has explanatory power. We can judge an item's membership to the referent class of a concept by comparing it to the typical member – the most central member of the concept. If it is similar enough in the relevant ways, it will be cognitively admitted as a member of the relevant class of entities. Rosch suggests that every category is represented by a central exemplar which embodies all or the maximum possible number of features of a given category. According to Lech, Gunturkun, and Suchan explain that categorization involves many areas of the brain, some of these are; visual association areas, prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia, and temporal lobe.\n\nTheory-theory is a reaction to the previous two theories and develops them further. This theory postulates that categorization by concepts is something like scientific theorizing. Concepts are not learned in isolation, but rather are learned as a part of our experiences with the world around us. In this sense, concepts' structure relies on their relationships to other concepts as mandated by a particular mental theory about the state of the world. How this is supposed to work is a little less clear than in the previous two theories, but is still a prominent and notable theory. This is supposed to explain some of the issues of ignorance and error that come up in prototype and classical theories as concepts that are structured around each other seem to account for errors such as whale as a fish (this misconception came from an incorrect theory about what a whale is like, combining with our theory of what a fish is). When we learn that a whale is not a fish, we are recognizing that whales don't in fact fit the theory we had about what makes something a fish. In this sense, the Theory–Theory of concepts is responding to some of the issues of prototype theory and classic theory.\n\nAccording to the theory of ideasthesia (or \"sensing concepts\"), activation of a concept may be the main mechanism responsible for creation of phenomenal experiences. Therefore, understanding how the brain processes concepts may be central to solving the mystery of how conscious experiences (or qualia) emerge within a physical system e.g., the sourness of the sour taste of lemon. This question is also known as the hard problem of consciousness. Research on ideasthesia emerged from research on synesthesia where it was noted that a synesthetic experience requires first an activation of a concept of the inducer. Later research expanded these results into everyday perception.\n\nThere is a lot of discussion on the most effective theory in concepts. Another theory is semantic pointers, which use perceptual and motor representations and these representations are like symbols.\n\nThe term \"concept\" is traced back to 1554–60 (Latin \"\" – \"something conceived\").\n\n"}
{"id": "6341218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6341218", "title": "Dysorthography", "text": "Dysorthography\n\nDysorthography is a specific dysgraphic disorder of spelling which accompanies dyslexia by a direct consequence of the phonological disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "604771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604771", "title": "Ergative–absolutive language", "text": "Ergative–absolutive language\n\nErgative–absolutive languages, or ergative languages are languages that share a certain distinctive pattern relating to the subjects (technically, arguments) of verbs. Examples are Basque, Georgian, Mayan, Tibetan and several Indo-European languages, such as the Kurdish languages including Gorani. \n\nIn an ergative language, the single argument (\"subject\") of an intransitive verb behaves like the object of a transitive verb, and differently from the agent of a transitive verb.\n\nThat is in contrast to nominative–accusative languages, such as English and most other Indo-European languages, where the single argument of an intransitive verb (\"She\" in the sentence \"She walks.\") behaves grammatically like the agent of a transitive verb (\"She\" in the sentence \"She finds it.\") but differently from the object of a transitive verb (\"him\" in the sentence \"She likes him.\").\n\nIn ergative–absolutive languages with grammatical case, the case used for the single argument of an intransitive verb and the object of a transitive verb is the absolutive, and the case used for the agent of a transitive verb is the ergative. In nominative–accusative languages, the case for the single argument of an intransitive verb and the agent of a transitive verb is the nominative while the case for the direct object of a transitive verb is the accusative. \n\nThere is a variant group, the ergative-accusative languages (such as Dyirbal), which function ergatively with respect to nouns but are nominative-accusative with pronouns.\n\nAn ergative language maintains a syntactic or morphological equivalence (such as the same word order or grammatical case) for the object of a transitive verb and the single core argument of an intransitive verb, while treating the agent of a transitive verb differently.\n\nThis contrasts with nominative–accusative languages such as English, where the single argument of an intransitive verb and the agent of a transitive verb (both called the subject) are treated alike and kept distinct from the object of a transitive verb.\n\nThese different arguments are usually symbolized as follows:\n\nThe relationship between ergative and accusative systems can be schematically represented as the following:\n\n\"See morphosyntactic alignment for a more technical explanation and a comparison with nominative–accusative languages.\"\n\nNote that the word \"subject\", as it is typically defined in grammars of nominative–accusative languages, has a different application when referring to ergative–absolutive languages, or when discussing morphosyntactic alignment in general.\n\nErgative languages tend to be either verb-final or verb-initial; there are few, if any, ergative SVO-languages.\n\nErgativity can be found in both morphological and syntactic behavior.\n\nIf the language has morphological case, then the verb arguments are marked thus:\n\nIf there is no case marking, ergativity can be marked through other means, such as in verbal morphology. For instance, Abkhaz and most Mayan languages have no morphological ergative case, but they have a verbal agreement structure that is ergative. In languages with ergative–absolutive agreement systems, the absolutive form is usually the most unmarked form of a word (exceptions include Nias and Tlapanec).\n\nThe following examples from Basque demonstrate an ergative–absolutive case marking system:\n\nHere \"-Ø\" represents a zero morpheme, as the absolutive case is unmarked in Basque. The forms for the ergative are \"-k\" after a vowel, and \"-ek\" after a consonant. It is a further rule in Basque grammar that in most cases a noun phrase must be closed by a determiner. The default determiner (commonly called the article, which is suffixed to common nouns and usually translatable by \"the\" in English) is \"-a\" in the singular and \"-ak\" in the plural, the plural being marked only on the determiner and never the noun. For common nouns, this default determiner is fused with the ergative case marker. Thus one obtains the following forms for \"gizon\" (\"man\" in English): gizon-a (man-the.sing.abs), gizon-ak (man-the.pl.abs), gizon-ak (man-the.sing.erg), gizon-ek (man-the.pl.erg). Note that when fused with the article, the absolutive plural is homophonous with the ergative singular. See Basque grammar for details.\n\nIn contrast, Japanese is a nominative–accusative language:\n\nIn this language, the argument of the intransitive and agent of the transitive sentence are marked with the same nominative case particle \"ga\", while the object of the transitive sentence is marked with the accusative case o.\n\nIf one sets: A = agent of a transitive verb; S = argument of an intransitive verb; O = object of a transitive verb, then we can contrast normal nominative–accusative English with a hypothetical ergative English:\n\nAccusative English:\n\nHypothetical ergative English:\n\nA number of languages have both ergative and accusative morphology. A typical example is a language that has nominative–accusative marking on verbs and ergative–absolutive case marking on nouns.\n\nGeorgian also has an ergative alignment, but the agent is only marked with the ergative case in the perfective aspect (also known as the \"aorist screeve\"). Compare:\n\n\"K'ac'-\" is the root of the word \"man\". In the first sentence (present continuous tense) the agent is in the nominative case \"(k'ac'i).\" In the second sentence, which shows ergative alignment, the root is marked with the ergative suffix \"-ma\".\n\nHowever, there are some intransitive verbs in Georgian that behave like transitive verbs, and therefore employ the ergative case in the past tense. Consider:\n\nAlthough the verb \"sneeze\" is clearly intransitive, it is conjugated like a transitive verb. In Georgian there are a few verbs like these, and there has not been a clear-cut explanation as to why these verbs have evolved this way. One explanation is that verbs such as \"sneeze\" used to have a direct object (the object being \"nose\" in the case of \"sneeze\") and over time lost these objects, yet kept their transitive behavior.\n\nErgativity may be manifested through syntax, such as saying “Arrived I” for “I arrived”, in addition to morphology. Syntactic ergativity is quite rare, and while all languages that exhibit it also feature morphological ergativity, few morphologically ergative languages have ergative syntax. As with morphology, syntactic ergativity can be placed on a continuum, whereby certain syntactic operations may pattern accusatively and others ergatively. The degree of syntactic ergativity is then dependent on the number of syntactic operations that treat the subject like the object. Syntactic ergativity is also referred to as inter-clausal ergativity, as it typically appears in the relation of two clauses.\n\nSyntactic ergativity may appear in:\n\nExample of syntactic ergativity in the \"conjunction reduction\" construction (coordinated clauses) in Dyirbal in contrast with English conjunction reduction. (The subscript (i) indicates coreference.)\n\nEnglish (SVO word order):\n\nDyirbal (OSV word order):\n\nThe term \"ergative–absolutive\" is considered unsatisfactory by some, since there are very few languages without any patterns that exhibit nominative–accusative alignment. Instead they posit that one should only speak of \"ergative–absolutive systems\", which languages employ to different degrees.\n\nMany languages classified as ergative in fact show split ergativity, whereby syntactic and/or morphological ergative patterns are conditioned by the grammatical context, typically person or the tense/aspect of the verb. Basque is unusual in having an almost fully ergative system in case-marking and verbal agreement, though it shows thoroughly nominative–accusative syntactic alignment.\n\nIn Urdu and Hindi, the ergative case is marked on agents in the preterite and perfect tenses for transitive and ditransitive verbs, while in other situations agents appear in the nominative case.\n\nIn the Northern Kurdish language Kurmanji, the ergative case is marked on agents and verbs of transitive verbs in past tenses, for the events actually occurred in the past. Present, future and \"future in the past\" tenses show no ergative mark neither for agents nor the verbs. For example:\n\nbut:\n\nIn sentences (1) to (4), there is no ergativity (transitive and intransitive verbs alike). In sentences (6) and (8), the ergative case is marked on agents and verbs. \n\nIn Dyirbal, pronouns are morphologically nominative–accusative when the agent is first or second person, but ergative when the agent is a third person.\n\nMany languages with ergative marking display what is known as \"optional ergativity\", where the ergative marking is not always expressed in all situations. McGregor (2010) gives a range of contexts when we often see optional ergativity, and argues that the choice is often not truly \"optional\" but is affected by semantics and pragmatics. Note that unlike split ergativity, which occurs regularly but in limited locations, optional ergativity can occur in a range of environments, but may not be used in a way that appears regular or consistent.\n\nOptional ergativity may be motivated by:\n\nLanguages from Australia, New Guinea and Tibet have been shown to have optional ergativity.\n\nPrototypical ergative languages are, for the most part, restricted to specific regions of world: the Mesopotamia (Kurdish), Caucasus, the Americas, the Tibetan Plateau, and Australia and parts of New Guinea.\n\nSome specific languages are the following:\n\nAmericas\n\nAfrica\n\nAsia\n\nAustralian\nCertain Australian Aboriginal languages (e.g., Wangkumara) possess an intransitive case and an accusative case along with an ergative case, and lack an absolutive case; such languages are called ergative–accusative languages or tripartite languages.\n\nPapua\n\n\nEurope\n\nNear East (Caucasus and Mesopotamia)\n\nSign languages −− (for example, Nepali Sign Language) should also generally be considered ergative in the patterning of actant incorporation in verbs. In sign languages that have been studied, classifier handshapes are incorporated into verbs, indicating the subject of intransitive verbs when incorporated, and the object of transitive verbs. (If we follow the \"Semantic Phonology\" model proposed by William Stokoe (1991) this ergative-absolutive patterning also works at the level of the lexicon: thus in Nepali Sign Language the sign for TEA has the motion for the verb DRINK with a manual alphabet handshape च /ca/ (standing for the first letter of the Nepali word TEA चिया /chiya:/) being incorporated as the object.)\n\nMany other languages have limited ergativity. In both Pashto and Hindi (Indo-Iranian), ergative behavior occurs only in the preterite and perfect tenses, and in the Georgian, ergativity only occurs in the perfective.\n\nThe Philippine languages (e.g., Tagalog) are sometimes considered ergative (Schachter 1976, 1977; Kroeger 1993), however they have also been considered to have their own unique morphosyntactic alignment. See Austronesian alignment.\n\nSeveral scholars have hypothesized that Proto-Indo-European was an ergative language. However, this hypothesis is disputed.\n\nEnglish has derivational morphology that parallels ergativity in that it operates on intransitive verbs and objects of transitive verbs. With certain intransitive verbs, adding the suffix \"-ee\" to the verb produces a label for the person performing the action:\n\nHowever, with a transitive verb, adding \"-ee\" does not produce a label for the person doing the action. Instead, it gives us a label for the person to whom the action is done:\n\nEtymologically, the sense in which \"-ee\" denotes the object of a transitive verb is the original one, arising from French past participles in \"-é\". This is still the prevalent sense in British English: the intransitive uses are all 19th-century American coinages and all except \"escapee\" are still marked as \"chiefly U.S.\" by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\".\n\nEnglish also has a number of so-called ergative verbs, where the object of the verb when transitive is equivalent to the subject of the verb when intransitive.\n\nWhen English nominalizes a clause, the underlying subject of an intransitive verb and the underlying object of a transitive verb are both marked with the possessive case or with the preposition \"of\" (the choice depends on the type and length of the noun: pronouns and short nouns are typically marked with the possessive, while long and complex NPs are marked with \"of\"). The underlying subject of a transitive is marked differently (typically with \"by\" as in a passive construction):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3480573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3480573", "title": "Fiction writing", "text": "Fiction writing\n\nFiction writing is the composition of non-factual prose texts. Fictional writing often is produced as a story meant to entertain or convey an author's point of view. The result of this may be a short story, novel, novella, screenplay, or drama, which are all types (though not the only types) of fictional writing styles. Different types of authors practice fictional writing, including novelists, playwrights, short story writers, dramatists and screenwriters.\n\nA genre is the subject matter or category that writers use. For instance, science fiction, fantasy and mystery fiction are genres. Genre fiction also known as popular fiction, is plot-driven fictional works written with the intent of fitting into a specific literary genre, in order to appeal to readers and fans already familiar with that genre.\n\nGenre fiction is storytelling driven by plot, as opposed to literary fiction, which focuses more on theme and character. Genre fiction, or popular fiction, is written to appeal to a large audience and it sells more primarily because it is more commercialised. An example is the \"Twilight\" series which may sell more than Herman Melville's \"Moby Dick\", because the \"Twilight\" novels deal with elements of pop culture – romance and vampires.\n\nLiterary fiction is fictional works that hold literary merit, that is to say, they are works that offer social commentary, or political criticism, or focus on aspect of the human condition.\n\nLiterary fiction is usually contrasted with, popular, commercial, or genre fiction. Some have described the difference between them in terms of analysing reality (literary) rather than escaping reality (popular). The contrast between these two categories of fiction is controversial among some critics and scholars.\n\nCharacterization is one of the five elements of fiction, along with plot, setting, theme, and writing style. A character is a participant in the story, and is usually a person, but may be any persona, identity, or entity whose existence originates from a fictional work or performance.\n\nCharacters may be of several types:\n\nThe plot, or storyline, is the rendering and ordering of the events and actions of a story. Starting with the initiating event, then the rising action, conflict, climax, falling action, and ending possibly with a resolution.\n\nPlot consists of action and reaction, also referred to as stimulus and response and has a beginning, a middle, and an ending.\n\nThe climax of the novel consists of a single action-packed sentence in which the conflict (problem) of the novel is resolved. This sentence comes towards the end of the novel. The main part of the action should come before the climax.\n\nPlot also has a mid-level structure: scene and sequel. A scene is a unit of drama—where the action occurs. Then, after a transition of some sort, comes the sequel—an emotional reaction and regrouping, an aftermath.\n\nSetting is the locale and time of a story. The setting is often a real place, but may be a fictitious city or country within our own world; a different planet; or an alternate universe, which may or may not have similarities with our own universe. Sometimes setting is referred to as milieu, to include a context (such as society) beyond the immediate surroundings of the story. It is basically where and when the story takes place.\n\nTheme is what the author is trying to tell the reader. For example, the belief in the ultimate good in people, or that things are not always what they seem. This is often referred to as the \"moral of the story.\" Some fiction contains advanced themes like morality, or the value of life, whereas other stories have no theme, or a very shallow one.\n\nStyle includes the multitude of choices fiction writers make, consciously or not, in the process of writing a story. It encompasses not only the big-picture, strategic choices such as point of view and choice of narrator, but also tactical choices of grammar, punctuation, word usage, sentence and paragraph length and structure, tone, the use of imagery, chapter selection, titles, etc. In the process of creating a story, these choices meld to become the writer's voice, his or her own unique style.\n\nFor each piece of fiction, the author makes many choices, consciously or subconsciously, which combine to form the writer's unique style. The components of style are numerous, but include point of view, choice of narrator, fiction-writing mode, person and tense, grammar, punctuation, word usage, sentence length and structure, paragraph length and structure, tone, imagery, chapter usage, and title selection.\n\nThe narrator is the story teller. The main character in the book can also be the narrator.\n\nPoint of view is the perspective (or type of personal or non-personal \"lens\") through which a story is communicated. Narrative point of view or narrative perspective describes the position of the narrator, that is, the character of the storyteller, in relation to the story being told.\n\nThe tone of a literary work expresses the writer's attitude toward or feelings about the subject matter and audience.\n\nSuspension of disbelief is the reader's temporary acceptance of story elements as believable, regardless of how implausible they may seem in real life.\n\nErnest Hemingway wrote \"Prose is architecture, not interior decoration.\"\n\nStephen King, in his non-fiction, part autobiographical, part self-help writing memoir, \"\", he gives readers helpful advice on honing their craft: \"Description begins in the writer's imagination, but should finish in the reader's.\"\n\nKurt Vonnegut the author of praised novels \"Cat's Cradle\", \"Slaughterhouse-Five\", and \"Breakfast of Champions\", has given his readers, from his short story collection, \"Bagombo Snuff Box\", eight rules on how to write a successful story. The list can be found in the Introduction of the collection.\n\n\"Now lend me your ears. Here is Creative Writing 101:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1720724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1720724", "title": "Fumblerules", "text": "Fumblerules\n\nA fumblerule is a rule of language or linguistic style, humorously written in such a way that it breaks this rule. Fumblerules are a form of self-reference.\n\nThe science editor George L. Trigg published a list of such rules in 1979. The term \"fumblerules\" was coined in a list of such rules compiled by William Safire on Sunday, 4 November 1979, in his column \"On Language\" in the \"New York Times\". Safire later authored a book titled \"Fumblerules: A Lighthearted Guide to Grammar and Good Usage\", which was reprinted in 2005 as \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11985", "title": "Graffiti", "text": "Graffiti\n\nGraffiti (both singular and plural; the singular \"graffito\" is very rare in English except in archeology) is writing or drawings made on a wall or other surface, usually without permission and within public view. Graffiti ranges from simple written words to elaborate wall paintings, and it has existed since ancient times, with examples dating back to ancient Egypt, ancient Greece, and the Roman Empire.\n\nIn modern times, paint (particularly spray paint) and marker pens have become the most commonly used graffiti materials. In most countries, marking or painting property without the property owner's permission is considered defacement and vandalism, which is a punishable crime.\n\nGraffiti may also express underlying social and political messages and a whole genre of artistic expression is based upon spray paint graffiti styles. Within hip hop culture, graffiti have evolved alongside hip hop music, b-boying, and other elements. Unrelated to hip-hop graffiti, gangs use their own form of graffiti to mark territory or to serve as an indicator of gang-related activities.\n\nControversies that surround graffiti continue to create disagreement amongst city officials, law enforcement, and writers who wish to display and appreciate work in public locations. There are many different types and styles of graffiti; it is a rapidly developing art form whose value is highly contested and reviled by many authorities while also subject to protection, sometimes within the same jurisdiction.\n\nBoth \"graffiti\" and its occasional singular form \"graffito\" are from the Italian word \"graffiato\" (\"scratched\"). \"Graffiti\" is applied in art history to works of art produced by scratching a design into a surface. A related term is \"sgraffito\", which involves scratching through one layer of pigment to reveal another beneath it. This technique was primarily used by potters who would glaze their wares and then scratch a design into it. In ancient times graffiti were carved on walls with a sharp object, although sometimes chalk or coal were used. The word originates from Greek —\"graphein\"—meaning \"to write\".\n\nThe term \"graffiti\" referred to the inscriptions, figure drawings, and such, found on the walls of ancient sepulchres or ruins, as in the Catacombs of Rome or at Pompeii. Use of the word has evolved to include any graphics applied to surfaces in a manner that constitutes vandalism.\n\nThe only known source of the Safaitic language, a form of proto-Arabic, is from graffiti: inscriptions scratched on to the surface of rocks and boulders in the predominantly basalt desert of southern Syria, eastern Jordan and northern Saudi Arabia. Safaitic dates from the first century BC to the fourth century AD.\n\nThe first known example of \"modern style\" graffiti survives in the ancient Greek city of Ephesus (in modern-day Turkey). Local guides say it is an advertisement for prostitution. Located near a mosaic and stone walkway, the graffiti shows a handprint that vaguely resembles a heart, along with a footprint, a number, and a carved image of a woman's head. This is believed to indicate that a brothel was nearby, with the handprint symbolizing payment.\n\nThe ancient Romans carved graffiti on walls and monuments, examples of which also survive in Egypt. Graffiti in the classical world had different connotations than they carry in today's society concerning content. Ancient graffiti displayed phrases of love declarations, political rhetoric, and simple words of thought, compared to today's popular messages of social and political ideals\nThe eruption of Vesuvius preserved graffiti in Pompeii, which includes Latin curses, magic spells, declarations of love, alphabets, political slogans, and famous literary quotes, providing insight into ancient Roman street life. One inscription gives the address of a woman named Novellia Primigenia of Nuceria, a prostitute, apparently of great beauty, whose services were much in demand. Another shows a phallus accompanied by the text, \"mansueta tene\" (\"handle with care\").\n\nDisappointed love also found its way onto walls in antiquity:\n\nAncient tourists visiting the 5th-century citadel at Sigiriya in Sri Lanka scribbled over 1800 individual graffiti there between the 6th and 18th centuries. Etched on the surface of the Mirror Wall, they contain pieces of prose, poetry, and commentary. The majority of these visitors appear to have been from the elite of society: royalty, officials, professions, and clergy. There were also soldiers, archers, and even some metalworkers. The topics range from love to satire, curses, wit, and lament. Many demonstrate a very high level of literacy and a deep appreciation of art and poetry. Most of the graffiti refer to the frescoes of semi-nude females found there. One reads:\n\n<poem>Wet with cool dew drops\nfragrant with perfume from the flowers\ncame the gentle breeze\njasmine and water lily\ndance in the spring sunshine\nside-long glances\nof the golden-hued ladies\nstab into my thoughts\nheaven itself cannot take my mind\nas it has been captivated by one lass\namong the five hundred I have seen here.</poem>\n\nAmong the ancient political graffiti examples were Arab satirist poems. Yazid al-Himyari, an Umayyad Arab and Persian poet, was most known for writing his political poetry on the walls between Sajistan and Basra, manifesting a strong hatred towards the Umayyad regime and its \"walis\", and people used to read and circulate them very widely.\n\nHistoric forms of graffiti have helped gain understanding into the lifestyles and languages of past cultures. Errors in spelling and grammar in these graffiti offer insight into the degree of literacy in Roman times and provide clues on the pronunciation of spoken Latin. Examples are \"CIL\" IV, 7838: \"Vettium Firmum / aed\"[ilem] \"quactiliar\"[ii] \"rog\"[ant]. Here, \"qu\" is pronounced \"co\". The 83 pieces of graffiti found at \"CIL\" IV, 4706-85 are evidence of the ability to read and write at levels of society where literacy might not be expected. The graffiti appear on a peristyle which was being remodeled at the time of the eruption of Vesuvius by the architect Crescens. The graffiti were left by both the foreman and his workers. The brothel at \"CIL\" VII, 12, 18–20 contains more than 120 pieces of graffiti, some of which were the work of the prostitutes and their clients. The gladiatorial academy at \"CIL\" IV, 4397 was scrawled with graffiti left by the gladiator Celadus Crescens (\"Suspirium puellarum Celadus thraex\": \"Celadus the Thracian makes the girls sigh.\")\n\nAnother piece from Pompeii, written on a tavern wall about the owner of the establishment and his questionable wine:\n\n<poem>\nLandlord, may your lies malign\nBring destruction on your head!\nYou yourself drink unmixed wine,\nWater [do you] sell [to] your guests instead.</poem>\n\nIt was not only the Greeks and Romans who produced graffiti: the Maya site of Tikal in Guatemala contains examples of ancient Maya graffiti. Viking graffiti survive in Rome and at Newgrange Mound in Ireland, and a Varangian scratched his name (Halvdan) in runes on a banister in the Hagia Sophia at Constantinople. These early forms of graffiti have contributed to the understanding of lifestyles and languages of past cultures.\n\nGraffiti, known as Tacherons, were frequently scratched on Romanesque Scandinavian church walls.\nWhen Renaissance artists such as Pinturicchio, Raphael, Michelangelo, Ghirlandaio, or Filippino Lippi descended into the ruins of Nero's Domus Aurea, they carved or painted their names and returned to initiate the \"grottesche\" style of decoration.\n\nThere are also examples of graffiti occurring in American history, such as Independence Rock, a national landmark along the Oregon Trail.\n\nLater, French soldiers carved their names on monuments during the Napoleonic in the 1790s. Lord Byron's survives on one of the columns of the Temple of Poseidon at Cape Sounion in Attica, Greece.\n\nGraffiti writing is often intertwined with hip hop culture and the myriad international styles derived from Philadelphia and New York City Subway graffiti. However, there are many other instances of notable graffiti in the twentieth century. Graffiti have long appeared on building walls, in latrines, railroad boxcars, subways, and bridges. The oldest known example of modern graffiti is found on traincars created by hobos and railworkers started more than eighty years ago, called Bozo Texino, documented by filmmaker Bill Daniel in his 2005 film, \"Who is Bozo Texino?\".\n\nSome graffiti have their own poignancy. In World War II, an inscription on a wall at the fortress of Verdun was seen as an illustration of the US response twice in a generation to the wrongs of the Old World:\n\n<poem>\nAustin White – Chicago, Ill – 1918\nAustin White – Chicago, Ill – 1945\nThis is the last time I want to write my name here.</poem>\n\nDuring World War II and for decades after, the phrase \"Kilroy was here\" with an accompanying illustration was widespread throughout the world, due to its use by American troops and ultimately filtering into American popular culture. Shortly after the death of Charlie Parker (nicknamed \"Yardbird\" or \"Bird\"), graffiti began appearing around New York with the words \"Bird Lives\". The student protests and general strike of May 1968 saw Paris bedecked in revolutionary, anarchistic, and situationist slogans such as \"L'ennui est contre-révolutionnaire\" (\"Boredom is counterrevolutionary\") expressed in painted graffiti, poster art, and stencil art. At the time in the US, other political phrases (such as \"Free Huey\" about Black Panther Huey Newton) became briefly popular as graffiti in limited areas, only to be forgotten. A popular graffito of the early 1970s was \"Dick Nixon Before He Dicks You\", reflecting the hostility of the youth culture to that US president.\n\nRock and roll graffiti is a significant subgenre. A famous graffito of the twentieth century was the inscription in the London tube reading \"Clapton is God\" in a link to the guitarist Eric Clapton. The phrase was spray-painted by an admirer on a wall in an Islington station on the Underground in the autumn of 1967. The graffito was captured in a photograph, in which a dog is urinating on the wall.\n\nGraffiti also became associated with the anti-establishment punk rock movement beginning in the 1970s. Bands such as Black Flag and Crass (and their followers) widely stenciled their names and logos, while many punk night clubs, squats, and hangouts are famous for their graffiti. In the late 1980s the upside down Martini glass that was the tag for punk band Missing Foundation was the most ubiquitous graffito in lower Manhattan, and was copied by hard core punk fans throughout the US and West Germany.\n\nAlong similar lines was the legend \"Frodo Lives,\" referring to the protagonist of \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nIn 1979, graffiti artist Lee Quinones and Fab 5 Freddy were given a gallery opening in Rome by art dealer Claudio Bruni. For many outside of New York, it was their first encounter with their art form. Fab 5 Freddy's friendship with Debbie Harry influenced Blondie's single \"Rapture\" (Chrysalis, 1981), the video of which featured Jean-Michel Basquiat, and offered many their first glimpse of a depiction of elements of graffiti in hip hop culture. JaJaJa toured Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, and Holland with a large graffiti canvas as a backdrop. Charlie Ahearn's independently released fiction film \"Wild Style\" (Wild Style, 1983), the early PBS documentary \"Style Wars\" (1983), hit songs such as \"The Message\" and \"Planet Rock\" and their accompanying music videos (both 1982) contributed to a growing interest outside New York in all aspects of hip hop.\n\n\"Style Wars\" depicted not only famous graffiti artists such as Skeme, Dondi, MinOne, and ZEPHYR, but also reinforced graffiti's role within New York's emerging hip-hop culture by incorporating famous early break-dancing groups such as Rock Steady Crew into the film and featuring rap in the soundtrack. Although many officers of the New York City Police Department found this film to be controversial, Style Wars is still recognized as the most prolific film representation of what was going on within the young hip hop culture of the early 1980s. Fab 5 Freddy and Futura 2000 took hip hop graffiti to Paris and London as part of the New York City Rap Tour in 1983. Hollywood also paid attention, consulting writers such as PHASE 2 as it depicted the culture and gave it international exposure in movies such as \"Beat Street\" (Orion, 1984).\n\nThis period also saw the emergence of the new stencil graffiti genre. Some of the first examples were created in 1981 by graffiti artist Blek le Rat in Paris, in 1982 by Jef Aerosol in Tours (France); by 1985 stencils had appeared in other cities including New York City, Sydney, and Melbourne, where they were documented by American photographer Charles Gatewood and Australian photographer Rennie Ellis.\n\nPeople often leave their traces in wet cement or concrete. This type of graffito often commemorates the mutual commitment of a couple, or simply records a person's presence at a particular moment. Often this type of graffito is dated and is left untouched for decades, offering a look into local historical minutiae.\n\nWith the popularity and legitimization of graffiti has come a level of commercialization. In 2001, computer giant IBM launched an advertising campaign in Chicago and San Francisco which involved people spray painting on sidewalks a peace symbol, a heart, and a penguin (Linux mascot), to represent \"Peace, Love, and Linux.\" Due to laws forbidding it, some of the \"street artists\" were arrested and charged with vandalism, and IBM was fined more than US$120,000 for punitive damages and clean-up costs.\n\nIn 2005, a similar ad campaign was launched by Sony and executed by TATS CRU in New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, and Miami, to market its handheld PSP gaming system. In this campaign, taking notice of the legal problems of the IBM campaign, Sony paid building owners for the rights to paint on their buildings \"a collection of dizzy-eyed urban kids playing with the PSP as if it were a skateboard, a paddle, or a rocking horse\".\n\nAlong with the commercial growth has come the rise of video games also depicting graffiti, usually in a positive aspect – for example, the \"Jet Set Radio\" series (2000–2003) tells the story of a group of teens fighting the oppression of a totalitarian police force that attempts to limit the graffiti artists' freedom of speech. In plotlines mirroring the negative reaction of non-commercial artists to the commercialization of the art form by companies such as IBM (and, later, Sony itself) the \"Rakugaki Ōkoku\" series (2003–2005) for Sony's PlayStation 2 revolves around an anonymous hero and his magically imbued-with-life graffiti creations as they struggle against an evil king who only allows art to be produced which can benefit him. Following the original roots of modern graffiti as a political force came another game title, \"\" (2006), featuring a story line involving fighting against a corrupt city and its oppression of free speech, as in the \"Jet Set Radio\" series.\n\nOther games which feature graffiti include \"Bomb the World\" (2004), an online graffiti simulation created by graffiti artist Klark Kent where users can paint trains virtually at 20 locations worldwide, and \"Super Mario Sunshine\" (2002), in which the hero, Mario must clean the city of graffiti left by the villain, Bowser Jr. in a plotline which evokes the successes of the Anti-Graffiti Task Force of New York's Mayor Rudolph Giuliani (a manifestation of the \"broken window theory\") or those of the \"Graffiti Blasters\" of Chicago's Mayor Richard M. Daley.\n\nNumerous other non-graffiti-centric video games allow the player to produce graffiti (such as the \"Half-Life\" series, the \"Tony Hawk's\" series, \"\", \"Rolling\", and \"\"). \"Counter-Strike\", which is a \"Half-Life\" mod, allows users to create their own graffiti tags to use in the game. Many other titles contain in-game depictions of graffiti, including \"The Darkness\", \"\", \"NetHack\", \"\", \"The World Ends with You\", \"The Warriors\", \"Just Cause\", \"Portal\", and various examples of Virtual Graffiti. There also exist games where the term \"graffiti\" is used as a synonym for \"drawing\" (such as \"Yahoo! Graffiti\", \"Graffiti\", etc.).\n\nMarc Ecko, an urban clothing designer, has been an advocate of graffiti as an art form during this period, stating that \"Graffiti is without question the most powerful art movement in recent history and has been a driving inspiration throughout my career.\"\n\nHenry Chalfant is one of the foremost advocates of modern graffiti, having produced the documentary film Style Wars and co-authored the books \"Subway Art\" and \"Spray Can Art\". His most recent work, \"Henry Chalfant's Graffiti Archive: New York City's Subway Art and Artists\" displays his over 800 photographs of New York City Subway Graffiti Art.\n\nKeith Haring was another well-known graffiti artist who brought Pop Art and graffiti to the commercial mainstream. In the 1980s, Haring opened his first Pop Shop: a store that offered everyone access to his works, which until then could only be found spray-painted on city walls. Pop Shop offered commodities such as bags and t-shirts. Haring explained that \"The Pop Shop makes my work accessible. It's about participation on a big level, the point was that we didn't want to produce things that would cheapen the art. In other words, this was still art as statement.\"\n\nGraffiti have become a common stepping stone for many members of both the art and design communities in North America and abroad. Within the United States graffiti artists such as Mike Giant, Pursue, Rime, Noah, and countless others have made careers in skateboard, apparel, and shoe design for companies such as DC Shoes, Adidas, Rebel8, Osiris, or Circa Meanwhile, there are many others such as DZINE, Daze, Blade, and The Mac who have made the switch to being gallery artists, often not even using their initial medium, spray paint.\n\nBut perhaps the greatest example of graffiti artists infiltrating mainstream pop culture is the French crew 123Klan. Founded as a graffiti crew in 1989 by Scien and Klor, 123Klan has gradually turned their hands to illustration and design while still maintaining their graffiti practice and style. In doing so they have designed and produced logos and illustrations, shoes, and fashion for the likes of Nike, Adidas, Lamborghini, Coca Cola, Stussy, Sony, Nasdaq, and more.\n\nThere is a significant graffiti tradition in South America, especially in Brazil. Within Brazil, São Paulo is a significant centre of inspiration for many graffiti artists worldwide.\n\nTristan Manco wrote that Brazil \"boasts a unique and particularly rich, graffiti scene ... [earning] it an international reputation as the place to go for artistic inspiration.\" Graffiti \"flourishes in every conceivable space in Brazil's cities.\" Artistic parallels \"are often drawn between the energy of São Paulo today and 1970s New York.\" The \"sprawling metropolis,\" of São Paulo has \"become the new shrine to graffiti;\" Manco alludes to \"poverty and unemployment ... [and] the epic struggles and conditions of the country's marginalised peoples,\" and to \"Brazil's chronic poverty,\" as the main engines that \"have fuelled a vibrant graffiti culture.\" In world terms, Brazil has \"one of the most uneven distributions of income. Laws and taxes change frequently.\" Such factors, Manco argues, contribute to a very fluid society, riven with those economic divisions and social tensions that underpin and feed the \"folkloric vandalism and an urban sport for the disenfranchised,\" that is South American graffiti art.\n\nProminent Brazilian graffiti artists include Os Gêmeos, Boleta, Nunca, Nina, Speto, Tikka, and T.Freak. Their artistic success and involvement in commercial design ventures has highlighted divisions within the Brazilian graffiti community between adherents of the cruder transgressive form of \"pichação\" and the more conventionally artistic values of the practitioners of \"grafite\".\n\nGraffiti in the Middle East is emerging slowly, with pockets of taggers operating in the various 'Emirates' of the United Arab Emirates, in Israel, and in Iran. The major Iranian newspaper \"Hamshahri\" has published two articles on illegal writers in the city with photographic coverage of Iranian artist A1one's works on Tehran walls. Tokyo-based design magazine, \"PingMag\", has interviewed A1one and featured photographs of his work. The Israeli West Bank barrier has become a site for graffiti, reminiscent in this sense of the Berlin Wall. Many graffiti artists in Israel come from other places around the globe, such as JUIF from Los Angeles and DEVIONE from London. The religious reference \"נ נח נחמ נחמן מאומן\" (\"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\") is commonly seen in graffiti around Israel.\n\nThere are also a large number of graffiti influences in Southeast Asian countries that mostly come from modern Western culture, such as Malaysia, where graffiti have long been a common sight in Malaysia's capital city, Kuala Lumpur. Since 2010, the country has begun hosting a street festival to encourage all generations and people from all walks of life to enjoy and encourage Malaysian street culture.\n\nThe modern-day graffiti artist can be found with an arsenal of various materials that allow for a successful production of a piece. This includes such techniques as scribing. However, spray paint in aerosol cans is the number one medium for graffiti. From this commodity comes different styles, technique, and abilities to form master works of graffiti. Spray paint can be found at hardware and art stores and comes in virtually every color.\n\nStencil graffiti, originating in the early 1980s (Blek le Rat, Jef Aerosol, Speedy Graphito, Miss Tic ... ) is created by cutting out shapes and designs in a stiff material (such as cardboard or subject folders) to form an overall design or image. The stencil is then placed on the \"canvas\" gently and with quick, easy strokes of the aerosol can, the image begins to appear on the intended surface. This method of graffiti is popular amongst artists because of its swift technique that requires very little time. Time is always a factor with graffiti artists due to the constant threat of being caught by law enforcement.\n\nModern graffiti art often incorporates additional arts and technologies. For example, Graffiti Research Lab has encouraged the use of projected images and magnetic light-emitting diodes (throwies) as new media for graffiti artists. Yarnbombing is another recent form of graffiti. Yarnbombers occasionally target previous graffiti for modification, which had been avoided among the majority of graffiti artists.\n\nSome of the most common styles of graffiti have their own names. A tag is the most basic writing of an artist's name; it is simply a handstyle. A graffiti writer's tag is his or her personalized signature. Tagging is often the example given when opponents of graffiti refer to any acts of handstyle graffiti writing (it is by far the most common form of graffiti). Tags can contain subtle and sometimes cryptic messages, and may incorporate the artist's crew initials or other letters.\n\nOne form of tagging, known as pissing, involves taking a refillable fire-extinguisher and replacing the contents with paint, allowing for tags as high as approximately . Aiming and keeping a handstyle steady in this form of tagging is very difficult, usually coming out wavy and sloppy.\n\nAnother form is the throw-up, also known as a bombing, which is normally painted very quickly with two or three colors, sacrificing aesthetics for speed. Throw-ups can also be outlined on a surface with one color. A piece is a more elaborate representation of the artist's name, incorporating more stylized letters, usually incorporating a much larger range of colors. This is more time-consuming and increases the likelihood of the artist getting caught. A blockbuster or roller is a large piece, almost always done in a block-shaped style, done simply to cover a large area solidly with two contrasting colors, sometimes with the whole purpose of blocking other writers from painting on the same wall. These are usually accomplished with extended paint rollers and gallons of cheap exterior paint.\n\nA more complex style is wildstyle, a form of graffiti usually involving interlocking letters and connecting points. These pieces are often harder to read by non-graffiti artists as the letters merge into one another in an often-undecipherable manner.\n\nSome artists also use self-adhesive stickers as a quick way to do catch ups. While certain critics from within graffiti culture consider this lazy, stickers can be quite detailed in their own right and often, are used in conjunction with other materials. Sticker tags are commonly executed on blank postage stickers, as these can easily be acquired with no cost on the writer's part.\n\nMany graffiti artists believe that doing complex pieces involves too great an investment of time to justify the practice. Doing a piece can take (depending on experience and size) from 30 minutes to months on end, as was the case for Saber MSK while working on the world's largest graffiti piece on the LA river.\n\nAnother graffiti artist can go over a piece in a matter of minutes with a simple throw-up. This was exemplified by the writer \"CAP\" in the documentary \"Style Wars\", who, other writers complain, ruins pieces with his quick throw ups. This became known as capping and often is done when there is a \"beef\", or conflict between writers.\n\nA number of recent examples of graffiti make use of hashtags.\n\nTheories on the use of graffiti by avant-garde artists have a history dating back at least to the Scandinavian Institute of Comparative Vandalism in 1961.\n\nMany contemporary analysts and even art critics have begun to see artistic value in some graffiti and to recognize it as a form of public art. According to many art researchers, particularly in the Netherlands and in Los Angeles, that type of public art is, in fact an effective tool of social emancipation or, in the achievement of a political goal.\n\nThe murals of Belfast and of Los Angeles offer another example of official recognition. In times of conflict, such murals have offered a means of communication and self-expression for members of these socially, ethnically, or racially divided communities, and have proven themselves as effective tools in establishing dialog and thus, of addressing cleavages in the long run. The Berlin Wall was also extensively covered by graffiti reflecting social pressures relating to the oppressive Soviet rule over the GDR.\n\nMany artists involved with graffiti are also concerned with the similar activity of stenciling. Essentially, this entails stenciling a print of one or more colors using spray-paint. Recognized while exhibiting and publishing several of her coloured stencils and paintings portraying the Sri Lankan Civil War and urban Britain in the early 2000s, graffiti artist Mathangi Arulpragasam, aka M.I.A., has also become known for integrating her imagery of political violence into her music videos for singles \"Galang\" and \"Bucky Done Gun\", and her cover art. Stickers of her artwork also often appear around places such as London in Brick Lane, stuck to lamp posts and street signs, she having become a muse for other graffiti artists and painters worldwide in cities including Seville. Graffiti artist John Fekner, called \"caption writer to the urban environment, adman for the opposition\" by writer Lucy Lippard, was involved in direct art interventions within New York City's decaying urban environment in the mid-1970s through the 1980s. Fekner is known for his word installations targeting social and political issues, stenciled on buildings throughout New York.\n\nGraffiti artists constantly have the looming threat of facing consequences for displaying their graffiti. Many choose to protect their identities and reputation by remaining anonymous.\n\nWith the commercialization of graffiti (and hip hop in general), in most cases, even with legally painted \"graffiti\" art, graffiti artists tend to choose anonymity. This may be attributed to various reasons or a combination of reasons. Graffiti still remains the one of four hip hop elements that is not considered \"performance art\" despite the image of the \"singing and dancing star\" that sells hip hop culture to the mainstream. Being a graphic form of art, it might also be said that many graffiti artists still fall in the category of the introverted archetypal artist.\n\nBanksy is one of the world's most notorious and popular street artists who continues to remain faceless in today's society. He is known for his political, anti-war stencil art mainly in Bristol, England, but his work may be seen anywhere from Los Angeles to Palestine. In the UK, Banksy is the most recognizable icon for this cultural artistic movement and keeps his identity a secret to avoid arrest. Much of Banksy's artwork may be seen around the streets of London and surrounding suburbs, although he has painted pictures throughout the world, including the Middle East, where he has painted on Israel's controversial West Bank barrier with satirical images of life on the other side. One depicted a hole in the wall with an idyllic beach, while another shows a mountain landscape on the other side. A number of exhibitions also have taken place since 2000, and recent works of art have fetched vast sums of money. Banksy's art is a prime example of the classic controversy: vandalism vs. art. Art supporters endorse his work distributed in urban areas as pieces of art and some councils, such as Bristol and Islington, have officially protected them, while officials of other areas have deemed his work to be vandalism and have removed it.\n\nPixnit is another artist who chooses to keep her identity from the general public. Her work focuses on beauty and design aspects of graffiti as opposed to Banksy's anti-government shock value. Her paintings are often of flower designs above shops and stores in her local urban area of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Some store owners endorse her work and encourage others to do similar work as well. \"One of the pieces was left up above Steve's Kitchen, because it looks pretty awesome\"- Erin Scott, the manager of New England Comics in Allston, Massachusetts.\n\nGraffiti often has a reputation as part of a subculture that rebels against authority, although the considerations of the practitioners often diverge and can relate to a wide range of attitudes. It can express a political practice and can form just one tool in an array of resistance techniques. One early example includes the anarcho-punk band Crass, who conducted a campaign of stenciling anti-war, anarchist, feminist, and anti-consumerist messages throughout the London Underground system during the late 1970s and early 1980s. In Amsterdam graffiti was a major part of the punk scene. The city was covered with names such as \"De Zoot\", \"Vendex\", and \"Dr Rat\". To document the graffiti a punk magazine was started that was called \"Gallery Anus\". So when hip hop came to Europe in the early 1980s there was already a vibrant graffiti culture.\n\nThe student protests and general strike of May 1968 saw Paris bedecked in revolutionary, anarchistic, and situationist slogans such as \"L'ennui est contre-révolutionnaire\" (\"Boredom is counterrevolutionary\") and \"Lisez moins, vivez plus\" (\"Read less, live more\"). While not exhaustive, the graffiti gave a sense of the 'millenarian' and rebellious spirit, tempered with a good deal of verbal wit, of the strikers.\n\nThe developments of graffiti art which took place in art galleries and colleges as well as \"on the street\" or \"underground\", contributed to the resurfacing in the 1990s of a far more overtly politicized art form in the subvertising, culture jamming, or tactical media movements. These movements or styles tend to classify the artists by their relationship to their social and economic contexts, since, in most countries, graffiti art remains illegal in many forms except when using non-permanent paint. Since the 1990s with the rise of Street Art, a growing number of artists are switching to non-permanent paints and non-traditional forms of painting for a variety of reasons—but primarily because is it difficult for the police to apprehend them and for the courts to sentence or even convict a person for a protest that is as fleeting and less intrusive than marching in the streets. In some communities, such impermanent works survive longer than works created with permanent paints because the community views the work in the same vein as that of the civil protester who marches in the street—such protest are impermanent, but effective nevertheless.\n\nIn some areas where a number of artists share the impermanence ideal, an informal competition develops: the length of time that a work escapes destruction is viewed as a measure of the respect the work garners in the community. A crude work that deserves little respect would be invariably removed immediately, while the most talented artists might have works last for days.\n\nContemporary practitioners, accordingly, have varied and often conflicting practices. Some individuals, such as Alexander Brener, have used the medium to politicize other art forms, and have used the prison sentences enforced on them as a means of further protest.\nThe practices of anonymous groups and individuals also vary widely, and practitioners by no means always agree with each other's practices. For example, the anti-capitalist art group the Space Hijackers did a piece in 2004 about the contradiction between the capitalistic elements of Banksy and his use of political imagery.\n\nOn top of the political aspect of graffiti as a movement, political groups and individuals may also use graffiti as a tool to spread their point of view. This practice, due to its illegality, has generally become favored by groups excluded from the political mainstream (e.g. far-left or far-right groups) who justify their activity by pointing out that they do not have the money – or sometimes the desire – to buy advertising to get their message across, and that a \"ruling class\" or \"establishment\" controls the mainstream press, systematically excluding the radical and alternative point of view. This type of graffiti can seem crude; for example fascist supporters often scrawl swastikas and other Nazi images.\n\nOne innovative form of graffiti that emerged in the UK in the 1970s was devised by the Money Liberation Front (MLF), essentially a loose affiliation of underground press writers such as the poet and playwright Heathcote Williams and magazine editor and playwright Jay Jeff Jones. They initiated the use of paper currency as a medium for counterculture propaganda, overprinting banknotes, usually with a John Bull printing set. Although short lived, the MLF was representative of London's Ladbroke Grove centered alternative and literary community of the period. The area was also a scene of considerable anti-establishment and humorous street graffiti, much of which is also produced by Williams. In 2009, following the elections in Iran, protesters (who regarded the electoral result as rigged) began to deface banknotes with slogans such as \"Death to the dictator\". In Colombia writing and drawing on banknotes has become increasingly popular, either to make political comments, for fun or as an artistic medium. The national government has run advertising campaigns in an attempt to discourage the practice. In the UK there have been signs of an MLF resurgence with a number of banknotes in circulation being over-marked with protest slogans such as \"Banks=Robbers\", relating to the perceived culpability of banks in the financial crisis.\n\nBoth sides of the conflict in Northern Ireland produce political graffiti. As well as slogans, Northern Irish political graffiti includes large wall paintings, referred to as \"murals\". Along with the flying of flags and the painting of kerb stones, the murals serve a territorial purpose, often associated with gang use. Artists paint them mostly on house gables or on the \"Peace Lines\", high walls that separate different communities.\n\nThe murals often develop over an extended period and tend to stylization, with a strong symbolic or iconographic content. Loyalist murals often refer to historical events dating from the war between James II and William III in the late seventeenth century, whereas Republican murals usually refer to the more recent troubles.\n\nTerritorial graffiti marks urban neighborhoods with tags and logos to differentiate certain groups from others. These images are meant to show outsiders a stern look at whose turf is whose. The subject matter of gang-related graffiti consists of cryptic symbols and initials strictly fashioned with unique calligraphies. Gang members use graffiti to designate membership throughout the gang, to differentiate rivals and associates and, most commonly, to mark borders which are both territorial and ideological.\n\nGraffiti has been used as a means of advertising both legally and illegally. Bronx-based TATS CRU has made a name for themselves doing legal advertising campaigns for companies such as Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Toyota, and MTV. In the UK, Covent Garden's Boxfresh used stencil images of a Zapatista revolutionary in the hopes that cross referencing would promote their store.\n\nTech Giants Hewlett Packard used graffiti company Graffiti Kings based in London to showcase the creative use for their Sprout computer by producing a video, during the video Hewlett Packard showed many pieces of graffiti art while the Graffiti Kings artist used the Sprout computer to draw digital graffiti. Smirnoff hired artists to use reverse graffiti (the use of high pressure hoses to clean dirty surfaces to leave a clean image in the surrounding dirt) to increase awareness of their product. Shepard Fairey rose to fame after his \"Andre the Giant Has a Posse\" sticker campaign, in which his art was plastered in cities throughout America.\n\nMany graffiti artists see legal advertising as no more than \"paid for and legalised graffiti\", and have risen against mainstream ads. The Graffiti Research Lab crew have gone on to target several prominent ads in New York as a means of making a statement against this practice.\n\nGraffiti may also be used as an offensive expression. This form of graffiti may be difficult to identify, as it is mostly removed by the local authority (as councils which have adopted strategies of criminalization also strive to remove graffiti quickly). Therefore, existing racist graffiti is mostly more subtle and at first sight, not easily recognized as \"racist\". It can then only be understood if one knows the relevant \"local code\" (social, historical, political, temporal, and spatial), which is seen as heteroglot and thus a 'unique set of conditions' in a cultural context.\nHence, the lack of obvious racist graffiti does not necessarily mean that there is none. By making the graffiti less explicit (as adapted to social and legal constraints), these drawings are less likely to be removed, but do not lose their threatening and offensive character.\n\nElsewhere, activists in Russia have used painted caricatures of local officials with their mouths as potholes, to show their anger about the poor state of the roads. In Manchester, England a graffiti artist painted obscene images around potholes, which often resulted in their being repaired within 48 hours.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the first art galleries to show graffiti artists to the public were Fashion Moda in the Bronx, Now Gallery and Fun Gallery, both in the East Village, Manhattan.\n\nA 2006 exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum displayed graffiti as an art form that began in New York's outer boroughs and reached great heights in the early 1980s with the work of Crash, Lee, Daze, Keith Haring, and Jean-Michel Basquiat. It displayed 22 works by New York graffiti artists, including Crash, Daze, and Lady Pink. In an article about the exhibition in the magazine \"Time Out\", curator Charlotta Kotik said that she hoped the exhibition would cause viewers to rethink their assumptions about graffiti. Terrance Lindall, an artist and executive director of the Williamsburg Art and Historic Center, said regarding graffiti and the exhibition:\n\n\"Graffiti is revolutionary, in my opinion\", he says, \"and any revolution might be considered a crime. People who are oppressed or suppressed need an outlet, so they write on walls—it's free.\"\n\nFrom the 1970s onwards, Burhan Dogancay photographed urban walls all over the world; these he then archived for use as sources of inspiration for his painterly works. The project today known as \"Walls of the World\" grew beyond even his own expectations and comprises about 30,000 individual images. It spans a period of 40 years across five continents and 114 countries. In 1982, photographs from this project comprised a one-man exhibition titled \"Les murs murmurent, ils crient, ils chantent...\" (The walls whisper, shout and sing ... ) at the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris.\n\nIn Australia, art historians have judged some local graffiti of sufficient creative merit to rank them firmly within the arts. Oxford University Press's art history text \"Australian Painting 1788–2000\" concludes with a long discussion of graffiti's key place within contemporary visual culture, including the work of several Australian practitioners.\n\nBetween March and April 2009, 150 artists exhibited 300 pieces of graffiti at the Grand Palais in Paris — a clear acceptance of the art form into the French art world.\n\nMany graffiti artists have used their design talents in other artistic endeavors. In 2009 graffiti artist \"Scape\" published \"GRAFF; the Art & Technique of Graffiti\", the world's first book dedicated to displaying the full techniques of creating graffiti art. Other books that focus on graffiti include \"Faith of Graffiti\" by Norman Mailer, \"Trespass\" by Taschen press, and the comic book by Elite Gudz, \"Concrete Immortalz\", which has a graffiti artist as its main character.\n\nFigurines by KAWS, featuring icons of pop culture, often with crossed-out eyes, run in limited editions and sell for thousands of dollars. World-renowned street artist Banksy directed a film in 2010, \"Exit Through the Gift Shop\", which explored street art and commercialism.\n\nSpray paint has many negative environmental effects. The paint contains toxic chemicals, and the can uses chlorofluorocarbons or volatile hydrocarbon gases to spray the paint unto a surface. As an alternative, moss graffiti is starting to catch on, which uses moss to create text or images. The moss is glued onto a surface by means of beer, buttermilk, or yogurt combined with sugar.\n\nIn China, Mao Zedong in the 1920s used revolutionary slogans and paintings in public places to galvanise the country's communist revolution.\n\nIn Hong Kong, Tsang Tsou Choi was known as the \"King of Kowloon\" for his calligraphy graffiti over many years, in which he claimed ownership of the area. Now some of his work is preserved officially.\n\nIn Taiwan, the government has made some concessions to graffiti artists. Since 2005 they have been allowed to freely display their work along some sections of riverside retaining walls in designated \"Graffiti Zones\". From 2007, Taipei's department of cultural affairs also began permitting graffiti on fences around major public construction sites. Department head Yong-ping Lee (李永萍) stated, \"We will promote graffiti starting with the public sector, and then later in the private sector too. It's our goal to beautify the city with graffiti\". The government later helped organize a graffiti contest in Ximending, a popular shopping district. Graffiti artists caught working outside of these designated areas still face fines up to $6,000 TWD under a department of environmental protection regulation. However, Taiwanese authorities can be relatively lenient, one veteran police officer stating anonymously, \"Unless someone complains about vandalism, we won't get involved. We don't go after it proactively.\"\n\nIn 1993, after several expensive cars in Singapore were spray-painted, the police arrested a student from the Singapore American School, Michael P. Fay, questioned him, and subsequently charged him with vandalism. Fay pleaded guilty to vandalizing a car in addition to stealing road signs. Under the 1966 Vandalism Act of Singapore, originally passed to curb the spread of communist graffiti in Singapore, the court sentenced him to four months in jail, a fine of S$3,500 (US$2,233), and a caning. \"The New York Times\" ran several editorials and op-eds that condemned the punishment and called on the American public to flood the Singaporean embassy with protests. Although the Singapore government received many calls for clemency, Fay's caning took place in Singapore on 5 May 1994. Fay had originally received a sentence of six strokes of the cane, but the presiding president of Singapore, Ong Teng Cheong, agreed to reduce his caning sentence to four lashes.\n\nIn South Korea, Park Jung-soo was fined 2 million South Korean won by the Seoul Central District Court for spray-painting a rat on posters of the G-20 Summit a few days before the event in November 2011. Park alleged that the initial in \"G-20\" sounds like the Korean word for \"rat\", but Korean government prosecutors alleged that Mr. Park was making a derogatory statement about the president of ROK, Lee Myung-bak, the host of the summit. This case led to public outcry and debate on the lack of government tolerance and in support of freedom of expression. The court ruled that the painting, \"an ominous creature like a rat\" amounts to \"an organized criminal activity\" and upheld the fine while denying the prosecution's request for imprisonment for Park.\n\nIn Europe, community cleaning squads have responded to graffiti, in some cases with reckless abandon, as when in 1992 in France a local Scout group, attempting to remove modern graffiti, damaged two prehistoric paintings of bison in the Cave of Mayrière supérieure near the French village of Bruniquel in Tarn-et-Garonne, earning them the 1992 Ig Nobel Prize in archeology.\n\nIn September 2006, the European Parliament directed the European Commission to create urban environment policies to prevent and eliminate dirt, litter, graffiti, animal excrement, and excessive noise from domestic and vehicular music systems in European cities, along with other concerns over urban life.\n\nThe Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2003 became Britain's latest anti-graffiti legislation. In August 2004, the Keep Britain Tidy campaign issued a press release calling for zero tolerance of graffiti and supporting proposals such as issuing \"on the spot\" fines to graffiti offenders and banning the sale of aerosol paint to anyone under the age of 16. The press release also condemned the use of graffiti images in advertising and in music videos, arguing that real-world experience of graffiti stood far removed from its often-portrayed 'cool' or 'edgy' image.\n\nTo back the campaign, 123 MPs (including then Prime Minister Tony Blair), signed a charter which stated: \"Graffiti is not art, it's crime. On behalf of my constituents, I will do all I can to rid our community of this problem.\" However, since the early 1990s, the British graffiti scene has been struck by self-titled \"art terrorist\" Banksy, who has revolutionized the style of UK graffiti (bringing to the forefront stencils to aid the speed of painting), as well as the content; making his work largely satirical of the sociological state of cities, or the political climate of war, often using monkeys and rats as motifs.\n\nIn the UK, city councils have the power to take action against the owner of any property that has been defaced under the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003 (as amended by the Clean Neighbourhoods and Environment Act 2005) or, in certain cases, the Highways Act. This is often used against owners of property that are complacent in allowing protective boards to be defaced so long as the property is not damaged.\n\nIn July 2008, a conspiracy charge was used to convict graffiti artists for the first time. After a three-month police surveillance operation, nine members of the DPM crew were convicted of conspiracy to commit criminal damage costing at least £1 million. Five of them received prison sentences, ranging from eighteen months to two years. The unprecedented scale of the investigation and the severity of the sentences rekindled public debate over whether graffiti should be considered art or crime.\n\nSome councils, like those of Stroud and Loerrach, provide approved areas in the town where graffiti artists can showcase their talents, including underpasses, car parks, and walls that might otherwise prove a target for the 'spray and run.'\n\nIn Budapest, Hungary both a city-backed movement called \"I Love Budapest\" and a special police division tackle the problem, including the provision of approved areas.\n\nIn an effort to reduce vandalism, many cities in Australia have designated walls or areas exclusively for use by graffiti artists. One early example is the \"Graffiti Tunnel\" located at the Camperdown Campus of the University of Sydney, which is available for use by any student at the university to tag, advertise, poster, and create \"art\". Advocates of this idea suggest that this discourages petty vandalism yet encourages artists to take their time and produce great art, without worry of being caught or arrested for vandalism or trespassing. Others disagree with this approach, arguing that the presence of legal graffiti walls does not demonstrably reduce illegal graffiti elsewhere. Some local government areas throughout Australia have introduced \"anti-graffiti squads\", who clean graffiti in the area, and such crews as BCW (Buffers Can't Win) have taken steps to keep one step ahead of local graffiti cleaners.\n\nMany state governments have banned the sale or possession of spray paint to those under the age of 18 (age of majority). However, a number of local governments in Victoria have taken steps to recognize the cultural heritage value of some examples of graffiti, such as prominent political graffiti. Tough new graffiti laws have been introduced in Australia with fines of up to A$26,000 and two years in prison.\n\nMelbourne is a prominent graffiti city of Australia with many of its lanes being tourist attractions, such as Hosier Lane in particular, a popular destination for photographers, wedding photography, and backdrops for corporate print advertising. The Lonely Planet travel guide cites Melbourne's street as a major attraction. All forms of graffiti, including sticker art, poster, stencil art, and wheatpasting, can be found in many places throughout the city. Prominent street art precincts include; Fitzroy, Collingwood, Northcote, Brunswick, St. Kilda, and the CBD, where stencil and sticker art is prominent. As one moves farther away from the city, mostly along suburban train lines, graffiti tags become more prominent. Many international artists such as Banksy have left their work in Melbourne and in early 2008 a perspex screen was installed to prevent a Banksy stencil art piece from being destroyed, it has survived since 2003 through the respect of local street artists avoiding posting over it, although it has recently had paint tipped over it.\n\nIn February 2008 Helen Clark, the New Zealand prime minister at that time, announced a government crackdown on tagging and other forms of graffiti vandalism, describing it as a destructive crime representing an invasion of public and private property. New legislation subsequently adopted included a ban on the sale of paint spray cans to persons under 18 and increases in maximum fines for the offence from NZ$200 to NZ$2,000 or extended community service. The issue of tagging become a widely debated one following an incident in Auckland during January 2008 in which a middle-aged property owner stabbed one of two teenage taggers to death and was subsequently convicted of manslaughter.\n\nGraffiti databases have increased in the past decade because they allow vandalism incidents to be fully documented against an offender and help the police and prosecution charge and prosecute offenders for multiple counts of vandalism. They also provide law enforcement the ability to rapidly search for an offender's moniker or tag in a simple, effective, and comprehensive way. These systems can also help track costs of damage to city to help allocate an anti-graffiti budget. The theory is that when an offender is caught putting up graffiti, they are not just charged with one count of vandalism; they can be held accountable for all of the other damage for which they are responsible. This has two main benefits for law enforcement. One, it sends a signal to the offenders that their vandalism is being tracked. Two, a city can seek restitution from offenders for all of the damage that they have committed, not merely a single incident. These systems give law enforcement personnel real-time, street-level intelligence that allows them to not only focus on the worst graffiti offenders and their damage, but also to monitor potential gang violence that is associated with the graffiti.\n\nMany restrictions of civil gang injunctions are designed to help address and protect the physical environment and limit graffiti. Provisions of gang injunctions include things such as restricting the possession of marker pens, spray paint cans, or other sharp objects capable of defacing private or public property; spray painting, or marking with marker pens, scratching, applying stickers, or otherwise applying graffiti on any public or private property, including, but not limited to the street, alley, residences, block walls, and fences, vehicles and/or any other real or personal property. Some injunctions contain wording that restricts damaging or vandalizing the property of another, both public and private property, including, but limited to any vehicle, light fixture, door, fence, wall, gate, window, building, street sign, utility box, telephone box, trees, or power pole.\n\nTo help address many of these issues, many local jurisdictions have set up graffiti abatement hotlines, where citizens can call in and report vandalism and have it removed. San Diego's hotline receives more than 5,000 calls per year, in addition to reporting the graffiti, callers can learn more about prevention. One of the complaints about these hotlines is the response time; there is often a lag time between a property owner calling about the graffiti and its removal. The length of delay should be a consideration for any jurisdiction planning on operating a hotline. Local jurisdictions must convince the callers that their complaint of vandalism will be a priority and cleaned off right away. If the jurisdiction does not have the resources to respond to complaints in a timely manner, the value of the hotline diminishes. Crews must be able to respond to individual service calls made to the graffiti hotline as well as focus on cleanup near schools, parks, and major intersections and transit routes to have the biggest impact. Some cities offer a reward for information leading to the arrest and prosecution of suspects for tagging or graffiti related vandalism. The amount of the reward is based on the information provided, and the action taken.\n\nWhen the police use search warrants in connection with a vandalism investigation they are often seeking judicial approval to look for items such as cans of spray paint and nozzles from other kinds of aerosol sprays, etching tools, or other sharp or pointed objects used to etch or scratch glass and other hard surfaces, such as permanent marking pens and markers or paint sticks; evidence of membership or affiliation with any gang or tagging crew, paraphernalia to include any reference to \"(tagger's name),\" and any drawings, writings, objects, or graffiti depicting taggers' names, initials, logos, monikers, slogans, or mention of tagging crew membership; any newspaper clippings relating details of or referring to any graffiti crime.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "880416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880416", "title": "Illocutionary act", "text": "Illocutionary act\n\nThe concept of illocutionary acts was introduced into linguistics by the philosopher J. L. Austin in his investigation of the various aspects of speech acts.\n\nIn Austin's framework, \"locution\" is what was said and meant, \"illocution\" is what was done, and \"perlocution\" is what happened as a result.\n\nWhen somebody says \"Is there any salt?\" at the dinner table, the \"illocutionary act\" is a request: \"please give me some salt\" even though the \"locutionary act\" (the literal sentence) was to ask a question about the presence of salt.\n\nThe \"perlocutionary act\" (the actual effect), might be to cause somebody to pass the salt.\n\nThe notion of an illocutionary act is closely connected with Austin's doctrine of the so-called 'performative' and 'constative utterances': an utterance is \"performative\" \"if, and only if\" it is issued in the course of the \"doing of an action\" (1975, 5), by which, again, Austin means the performance of an illocutionary act (Austin 1975, 6 n2, 133). According to Austin's original exposition in \"How to Do Things With Words\", an illocutionary act is an act:\n\nThus, for example, in order to make a promise I must make clear to my audience that the act I am performing is the making of a promise, and in the performance of the act I will be undertaking a conventional obligation to do the promised thing: the promisee will understand what it means to make a promise and fulfill it. Thus, promising is an illocutionary act in the present sense. Since Austin's death, the term has been defined differently by various authors.\n\nOne way to think about the difference between an \"illocutionary act\" (e.g., a declaration, command, or a promise), and a \"perlocutionary act\" (e.g., a listener's reaction) is to note how in the former case, by uttering the object — for example, \"I hereby promise you\" — (and assuming that all other necessary features of the performative situation pertain), then the act has taken place: a promise was made. The perlocutionary result (how the promisee reacts) might be acceptance, or skepticism, or disbelief, but none of these reactions alter the illocutionary force of the statement: the promise was made. \n\nThat is to say, in each case a declaration, command, or promise has necessarily taken place in virtue of the utterance itself, whether the hearer believes in or acts upon the declaration, command, or promise or not.\n\nOn the other hand, with a perlocutionary act, the object of the utterance has not taken place unless the hearer deems it so — for example, if one utters, \"I hereby insult you,\" or \"I hereby persuade you\" — one would not assume an insult has necessarily occurred, nor persuasion has necessarily taken place, unless the hearer were suitably offended or persuaded by the utterance. \n\nWhereas Austin used \"performative\" to talk about certain kinds of utterances as having \"force,\" his term \"illocution\" rather names a quality or aspect of all utterances. They will have a locutionary sense or meaning, an illocutionary force, and a perlocutionary result. This approach has encouraged the view that even true/false constative statements have illocutionary force (as in \"I hereby state and affirm\") and even performatives can be evaluable as true/false statements (as \"guilty\" verdict might be right or wrong). \nIt is also often emphasised that Austin introduced the illocutionary act by means of a contrast with other aspects of \"doing\" by \"speaking.\" The illocutionary act, he says, is an act performed \"in\" saying something, as contrasted with a locutionary act, the act \"of\" saying something, and also contrasted with a perlocutionary act, an act performed \"by\" saying something. Austin, however, eventually abandoned the \"in saying\" / \"by saying\" test (1975, 123).\n\nAccording to the conception adopted by Bach and Harnish in 'Linguistic Communication and Speech Acts' (1979), an illocutionary act is an attempt to communicate, which they analyse as the expression of an attitude. Another conception of the illocutionary act goes back to Schiffer's book 'Meaning' (1972, 103), in which the illocutionary act is represented as just the act of meaning something.\n\nAccording to a widespread opinion, an adequate and useful account of \"illocutionary acts\" has been provided by John Searle (e.g., 1969, 1975, 1979). In recent years, however, it has been doubted whether Searle's account is well-founded. A wide ranging critique is in FC Doerge 2006. Collections of articles examining Searle's account are: Burkhardt 1990 and Lepore / van Gulick 1991.\n\nSearle (1975) set up the following classification of illocutionary speech acts:\nThe classification is intended to be exhaustive but the classes are not mutually exclusive: John Austin's well-known example \"I bet you five pounds it will rain\" is both directive and commissive.\n\nSeveral speech act theorists, including Austin himself, make use of the notion of an \"illocutionary force\". In Austin's original account, the notion remains rather unclear. Some followers of Austin, such as David Holdcroft, view illocutionary force as the property of an utterance to be made with the \"intention\" to perform a certain illocutionary act—rather than as the successful performance of the act (which is supposed to further require the appropriateness of certain circumstances). According to this conception, the utterance of \"I bet you five pounds that it will rain\" may well have an illocutionary force even if the addressee doesn't hear it. However, Bach and Harnish assume illocutionary force \"if, and only if\" this or that illocutionary act is actually (successfully) performed. According to this conception, the addressee must have heard and understood that the speaker intends to make a bet with them in order for the utterance to have 'illocutionary force'.\n\nIf we adopt the notion of illocutionary \"force\" as an aspect of meaning, then it appears that the (intended) 'force' of certain sentences, or utterances, is not quite obvious. If someone says, \"It sure is cold in here\", there are several different illocutionary acts that might be aimed at by the utterance. The utterer might intend to describe the room, in which case the illocutionary force would be that of 'describing'. But she might also intend to criticise someone who should have kept the room warm. Or it might be meant as a request to someone to close the window. These forces may be interrelated: it may be by way of stating that the temperature is too cold that one criticises someone else. Such a performance of an illocutionary act by means of the performance of another is referred to as an \"indirect speech act\".\n\nSearle and Vanderveken (1985) often speak about what they call 'illocutionary force indicating devices' (IFIDs). These are supposed to be elements, or aspects of linguistic devices which indicate either (dependent on which conceptions of \"illocutionary force\" and \"illocutionary act\" are adopted) that the utterance is made with a certain illocutionary force, or else that it constitutes the performance of a certain illocutionary act. In English, for example, the interrogative mood is supposed to indicate that the utterance is (intended as) a question; the directive mood indicates that the utterance is (intended as) a directive illocutionary act (an order, a request, etc.); the words \"I promise\" are supposed to indicate that the utterance is (intended as) a promise. Possible IFIDs in English include: word order, stress, intonation contour, punctuation, the mood of the verb, and performative verbs.\n\nAnother notion Searle and Vanderveken use is that of an 'illocutionary negation'. The difference of such an 'illocutionary negation' to a 'propositional negation' can be explained by reference to the difference between \"I do not promise to come\" and \"I promise not to come\". The first is an illocutionary negation—the 'not' negates the promise. The second is a propositional negation. In the view of Searle and Vanderveken, illocutionary negations change the type of illocutionary act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51467184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51467184", "title": "Indo-Portuguese Creole of Bombay", "text": "Indo-Portuguese Creole of Bombay\n\nThe Indo-Portuguese Creole of Bombay was a creole language based on Portuguese, which grew out of the long contact between the Portuguese and local languages. Currently this language is extinct. It was spoken in Bombay (now Mumbai) and northern India: Bassein, Salsette, Thana, Chevai, Mahim, Tecelaria, Dadar, Parel, Cavel, Bandora-Badra, Govai, Marol, Andheri, Versova, Malvan, Manori, Mazagaon. This language was, after the Ceylon creole dialect of Indo-Portuguese, the most important. In 1906 there were still close to 5,000 people who spoke Portuguese Creole as their mother tongue, 2,000 in Mumbai and Mahim, 1000 in Bandora, 500 in Thana, 100 in Curla (now Kurla), 50 in Bassein and 1,000 in other towns. There were, at that time, schools that taught Creole and the richest classes, which were replaced by the English language.\n\n"}
{"id": "3770189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3770189", "title": "Intensive journal method", "text": "Intensive journal method\n\nThe intensive journal method is a psychotherapeutic technique largely developed in 1966 at Drew University and popularized by Ira Progoff (1921–1998). It consists of a series of writing exercises using loose leaf notebook paper in a simple ring binder, divided into sections to help in accessing various areas of the writer's life. These include a dialogue section for the personification of things, a \"depth dimension\" to aid in accessing the subconscious and other places for recording remembrances and meditations.\n\nThe original Intensive Journal contained only 16 sections, but was later expanded to include five additional sections as part of Progoff's \"process meditation\" method. It has been the inspiration for many other \"writing therapies\" since then and is used in a variety of settings, including hospitals and prisons, by individuals as an aid to creativity or autobiography, and often as an adjunct to treatment in analytic, humanistic or cognitive therapy.\n\nThe intensive journal method is a registered trademark of Progoff and used under license by Dialogue House Associates, Inc of New York, who train facilitators and consultants in the use of the method and coordinate an ongoing series of public workshops using the method throughout the United States and elsewhere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29460546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29460546", "title": "Interlocutor (linguistics)", "text": "Interlocutor (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, discourse analysis, and related fields, an interlocutor is a person involved in a conversation or dialogue. Two or more people speaking to one another are each other's interlocutors. The terms \"conversation partner\", \"hearer\", or \"addressee\" are oftentimes used interchangeably with \"interlocutor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "719333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=719333", "title": "Kwadi language", "text": "Kwadi language\n\nKwadi was a \"click language\" of uncertain classification once spoken in the southwest corner of Angola. It is believed to be extinct. There were only fifty Kwadi in the 1950s, of whom only 4–5 were competent speakers of the language. Three partial speakers were known in 1965, but in 1981 no speakers could be found.\n\nBecause Kwadi is poorly recorded, there is not much evidence with which to classify it. It is sometimes classified as the most known divergent member of the Khoe family, linking it to the Khoe languages in a \"Kwadi–Khoe\" family, though this conclusion is disputed. Proponents say it appears to have preserved elements of proto-Khoe that were lost in the western Khoe languages under the influence of Juu languages in Botswana.\n\nThe Kwadi people, called \"Kwepe\" (\"Cuepe\") by the Bantu, appear to have been a remnant population of southwestern African hunter-gatherers, otherwise only represented by the Cimba, Kwisi, and the Damara, who adopted the Khoekhoe language. Like the Kwisi they were fishermen, on the lower reaches of the Coroca River.\n\nKwadi was alternatively known by the varieties of \"Koroka\" (\"Ba-koroka, Curoca, Ma-koroko, Mu-coroca\") and \"Cuanhoca\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4655864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4655864", "title": "Language Proficiency Index", "text": "Language Proficiency Index\n\nThe Language Proficiency Index or LPI is a Canadian standardized test for English proficiency and is administered by Paragon Testing Enterprises, a subsidiary of the University of British Columbia. The results of this test are used mostly by post secondary institutions and professional organizations within the Province of British Columbia, Alberta and in the territory of Yukon.\n\nThe test is 2.5 hours long and consists of five components, Parts I and II are multiple choice and deal with catching various grammar-related mistakes. Part III is a reading-comprehension section, also in multiple choice. Part IV deals with writing brief summaries of a short piece of writing and Part V is a 300-400 word argumentative essay.\n\n"}
{"id": "46492446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46492446", "title": "Languages of Palestine", "text": "Languages of Palestine\n\nThe languages of Palestine are the languages spoken or once spoken in the territory of the State of Palestine.\n\nPalestinian Arabic is the primary language spoken by Palestinians and has a unique dialect. A Levantine Arabic dialect subgroup, it is spoken in Palestine by Arab citizens of Israel (mostly Palestinians) and in most Palestinian populations around the world. However, Palestinian refugees in other parts of the world may have a different dialect from Palestinian Arabic. In the West Bank, there are many Israeli settlements in which, since the early 20th century, Hebrew has become more common. However, Russian and Amharic has also started to appear resulting from aliyah from Ethiopia. Other Jewish migrants have also brought other European languages.\n\nIn premodern and medieval time periods, many other languages had also been spoken in Palestine for ceremonial purposes or otherwise, including Latin and other Italic languages as well as French, Germanic languages, Classical Arabic and Greek. However, they gradually faded away along with geopolitical shifts and the end of feudalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "5496967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496967", "title": "Languages of Senegal", "text": "Languages of Senegal\n\nSenegal is a multilingual country: \"Ethnologue\" lists 36 languages, Wolof being the most widely spoken language.\n\nFrench, which was inherited from the colonial era, is the official language of Senegal. It is used by the administration and understood by about 15–20% of all males and about 1–2% of all women. Senegal is a member State of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie. A Senegalese, Abdou Diouf, held the position of its Executive Secretary between 2003 and 2014.\n\nSeveral of the Senegalese languages have the status of \"national languages\": Balanta-Ganja, Hassaniya Arabic, Jola-Fonyi, Mandinka, Mandjak, Mankanya, Noon (Serer-Noon), Pulaar, Serer, Soninke, and Wolof.\n\nIn terms of usage, Wolof is the lingua franca and the most widely spoken language in Senegal, as a first or second language (80%).\n\nMande languages spoken include Soninke, and Mandinka. Jola (Diola) is a main language in the Casamance region. The Guinea Creole dialect, based on Portuguese is also spoken in that region. In 2008 Senegal, due to its historical connections to Portuguese colonisation in Casamance, was admitted as Associate Observer in the CPLP (Community of Portuguese Language Countries).\n\nEducation for the deaf in Senegal uses American Sign Language, introduced by the deaf American missionary Andrew Foster. A local language is Mbour Sign Language.\n\nA report for the High Council of Francophonie in Paris stated in 1986 that in Senegal, 60,000 people spoke French as a first language and 700,000 spoke French as a second language. The total population of Senegal at the time was 6.5 million.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15735703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15735703", "title": "Languages of Turkmenistan", "text": "Languages of Turkmenistan\n\nTurkmen (Turkic language / Oghuz language ) is the official language of Turkmenistan (per the 1992 Constitution), although Russian still is widely spoken in cities as a \"language of inter-ethnic communication\". \n\nTurkmen is spoken by 72% of the population, Russian 12%, Uzbek 9%, and other languages 7%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10691809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10691809", "title": "Lather, rinse, repeat", "text": "Lather, rinse, repeat\n\nLather, rinse, repeat (sometimes wash, rinse, repeat) is an idiom roughly quoting the instructions found on many brands of shampoo. It is also used as a humorous way of pointing out that such instructions, if taken literally, would result in an endless loop of repeating the same steps, at least until one runs out of shampoo. It is also a sarcastic metaphor for following instructions or procedures slavishly without critical thought.\n\nIt is known as the shampoo algorithm, and is a classic example of an algorithm in introductory computer science classes.\n\nIn Benjamin Cheever's novel \"The Plagiarist\", a fictional advertising executive increases the sales of his client's shampoo by adding the word \"repeat\" to its instructions.\n\n"}
{"id": "65373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65373", "title": "Lingua franca", "text": "Lingua franca\n\nA lingua franca (; ), also known as a bridge language, common language, trade language, auxiliary language, vehicular language, or link language is a language or dialect systematically used to make communication possible between people who do not share a native language or dialect, particularly when it is a third language that is distinct from both of the speakers' native languages.\n\nLingua francas have developed around the world throughout human history, sometimes for commercial reasons (so-called \"trade languages\" facilitated trade) but also for cultural, religious, diplomatic and administrative convenience, and as a means of exchanging information between scientists and other scholars of different nationalities. The term is taken from the medieval Mediterranean Lingua Franca, a Romance-based pidgin language used by European merchants and sailors during the 2nd millennium. A world language – a language spoken internationally and learned and spoken by a large number of people – is a language that may function as a global lingua franca.\n\nLingua Franca refers to any language used for communication between people who do not share a native language. It can refer to hybrid languages such as pidgins and creoles used for communication between language groups. It can also refer to languages which are native to one nation (often a colonial power) but used as a second language for communication between groups. Finally, lingua franca can refer to a third language which allows inter-comprehension among people speaking different mother tongues as a neutral language or jargon of which nobody can claim ownership. Lingua Franca is a functional term, independent of any linguistic history or language structure. \n\nWhereas a vernacular language is the native language of a specific geographical community, a lingua franca is used beyond the boundaries of its original community, for trade, religious, political or academic reasons. For example, English is a vernacular in the United Kingdom but is used as a lingua franca in the Philippines. Arabic, French, Mandarin Chinese, Spanish, Portuguese, and Russian, serve a similar purpose as industrial/educational lingua francas, across regional and national boundaries.\n\nInternational auxiliary languages such as Esperanto and Lingua Franca Nova have not had a great degree of adoption globally so they cannot be described as global lingua francas.\n\nThe term \"lingua franca\" derives from Mediterranean Lingua Franca, the \"language of the Francs\", \"Francs\" being the term used to refer to all Western Europeans as opposed to the Greeks — is considered to be a translation of the Arab lûghat al-Ifranj, which appears for the first time in an Arabic text from the 9th century. However, Western speakers and their contemporaries only began to use the term \"lingua franca\" to describe this phenomenon at the beginning of the 16th century and the language that people around the Levant and the eastern Mediterranean Sea used as the main language of commerce and diplomacy from late medieval times, especially during the Renaissance era, to the 18th century and allowed communication between the people living, fighting in the area without becoming the vernacular language of any of them. At that time, Italian-speakers dominated seaborne commerce in the port cities of the Ottoman Empire and a simplified version of Italian, including many loan words from Greek, Old French, Portuguese, Occitan, and Spanish as well as Arabic and Turkish came to be widely used as the \"lingua franca\" (in the generic sense used) of the region.\n\nIn Lingua Franca (the specific language), \"lingua\" means a language, as in Portuguese and Italian, and \"franca\" is related to \"phrankoi\" in Greek and \"faranji\" in Arabic as well as the equivalent Italian. In all three cases, the literal sense is \"Frankish\", but the name actually applied to all Western Europeans during the late Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe Douglas Harper Etymology Dictionary states that the term \"Lingua Franca\" (as the name of the particular language) was first recorded in English during the 1670s, although an even earlier example of the use of \"Lingua Franca\" in English is attested from 1632, where it is also referred to as \"Bastard Spanish\".\n\nAs recently as the late 20th century, some restricted the use of the generic term to mean only hybrid languages that are used as vehicular languages, its original meaning, but it now refers to any vehicular language.\n\nThe term is well established in its naturalization to English, which is why major dictionaries do not italicize it as a \"foreign\" term. Its plurals in English are lingua francas and linguae francae, with the first of those being first-listed or only-listed in major dictionaries.\n\nThe use of lingua francas has existed since antiquity. The first example of lingua franca in the ancient world, before Greek and Latin, was Aramaic. Latin and Koine Greek were the lingua francas of the Roman Empire and the Hellenistic culture. Akkadian (died out during Classical antiquity) and then Aramaic remained the common languages of a large part of Western Asia from several earlier empires. \n\nIn certain countries, the lingua franca is also the national language. Indonesian has the same function in Indonesia, although Javanese has more native speakers. Still, Indonesian is the sole official language and is spoken throughout the country. Also Persian is both the lingua franca of Iran and its national language.\n\nThe Hindustani language (Hindi-Urdu) is the lingua franca of Pakistan and Northern India. Many Indian states have adopted the Three-language formula in which students in Hindi speaking states are taught: \"(a) Hindi (with Sanskrit as part of the composite course); (b) Urdu or any other modern Indian language and (c) English or any other modern European language.\" The order in non-Hindi speaking states is: \"(a) the regional language; (b) Hindi; (c) Urdu or any other modern Indian language excluding (a) and (b); and (d) English or any other modern European language.\" Hindi has also emerged as a lingua franca for the locals of Arunachal Pradesh, a linguistically diverse state in Northeast India.It is estimated that 90 percent of the state's population knows Hindi.\n\nThe only documented sign language used as a lingua franca is Plains Indian Sign Language, used across much of North America. It was used as a second language across many indigenous peoples. Alongside or a derivation of Plains Indian Sign Language was Plateau Sign Language, now extinct. Inuit Sign Language could be a similar case in the Arctic among the Inuit for communication across oral language boundaries, but little research exists.\n\nIn the European Union, the use of English as a lingua franca has led to the emergence of a new dialect called Euro English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192821", "title": "List of official languages", "text": "List of official languages\n\nThis is a list of official languages of sovereign countries.\n\nDifferent organisations sometimes refer to their principal languages of administration and communication as \"working languages\", whilst others refer to these as being \"official\".\n\nAfar:\n\nAfrikaans:\n\nAja-Gbe:\n\nAkan (Akuapem Twi, Ashante Twi, Fante):\n\nAlbanian:\nAmharic:\n\nAnii:\n\nArabic (see also List of countries where Arabic is an official language):\n\nArmenian:\n\nAssamese:\n\nAymara:\n\nAzerbaijani:\n\nBalanta:\n\nBambara:\n\nBariba:\n\nBasque:\n\nBassari:\n\nBedik:\n\nBelarusian:\n\nBengali:\n\nBerber:\n\nBiali:\n\nBislama:\n\nBoko:\n\nBomu:\n\nBosnian:\n\nBozo:\n\nBuduma:\n\nBulgarian:\n\nBurmese:\n\nCantonese:\nCatalan:\n\nChinese, Mandarin:\n\nChichewa:\n\nChirbawe (Sena):\n\nComorian\n\nCroatian:\n\nCzech:\n\nDagaare:\n\nDagbani:\n\nDangme\n\nDanish:\n\nDari:\n\nDendi:\n\nDhivehi:\n\nDioula:\n\nDogon:\n\nDutch:\n\nDzongkha:\n\nEnglish (see also List of countries where English is an official language):\n\nEstonian:\n\nEwe-Gbe:\n\nFijian:\n\nFilipino:\n\nFinnish:\n\nFon-Gbe:\n\nFoodo:\n\nFormosan:\n\nFrench (see also List of countries where French is an official language):\n\nFula:\n\nGa:\n\nGàidhlig:\n\nGbe:\n\nGen-Gbe:\n\nGeorgian:\n\nGerman:\n\nGonja:\n\nGourmanché\n\nGreek:\n\nGuaraní:\n\nGujarati:\n\nHaitian Creole:\n\nHakka:\n\nHassaniya:\n\nHausa:\n\nHebrew:\n\nHindi:\n\nHiri Motu:\n\nHungarian:\n\nIgbo:\n\nIcelandic:\n\nIndonesian:\n\nIrish:\n\nItalian:\n\nJapanese:\n\nJola:\n\nKabye:\n\nKalanga:\n\nKannada:\n\n\nKanuri:\n\nKasem:\n\nKazakh:\n\nKhmer:\n\nKinyarwanda:\n\nKirundi:\n\nKissi\n\nKhoisan:\n\nKorean:\n\nKorean Sign Language:\n\nKpelle:\n\nKurdish:\n\nKyrgyz:\n\nLao:\n\nLatvian:\n\nLithuanian:\n\nLukpa:\n\nLuxembourgish:\n\nMacedonian:\n\nMalagasy:\n\nMalay:\n\nMalinke:\n\nMaltese:\n\nMamara:\n\nManding (Mandinka, Malinke):\n\nMandinka:\n\nMandjak:\n\nMankanya:\n\nManx Gaelic:\n\nMāori:\n\nMarshallese:\n\nMauritian Creole \n\nMbelime:\n\nMoldovan\n\nMongolian:\n\nMontenegrin:\n\nMossi:\n\nNambya:\n\nNateni:\n\nNauruan\n\nNdau:\n\nNdebele (Northern):\n\nNdebele (Southern):\n\nNepali:\n\nNew Zealand Sign Language:\n\nNoon:\n\nNorth Korean:\n\nNorthern Sotho:\n\nNorwegian:\n\nNzema:\n\nOniyan:\n\nOssetian:\n\nPalauan:\n\nPapiamento:\n\nPashto:\n\nPersian:\n\nPolish:\n\nPortuguese:\n\nPunjabi:\n\nQuechua:\n\nRomanian:\n\nRomansh:\n\nRussian:\n\nSafen:\n\nSamoa\n\nSango\n\nSena:\n\nSerbian:\n\nSerer:\n\nSeychellois Creole\n\nShona:\n\nSinhala:\n\nSlovak:\n\nSlovene:\n\nSomali:\n\nSonghay-Zarma:\n\nSoninke:\n\nSotho:\n\nSpanish:\n\nSusu:\n\nSwahili:\n\nSwati:\n\nSwedish:\n\nSyenara:\n\nTajik:\n\nTagalog:\n\nTamasheq:\n\nTamil:\n\nTammari:\n\nTasawaq:\n\nTebu:\n\nTelugu:\n\nTetum:\n\nThai:\n\nTigrinya:\n\nTok Pisin:\n\nToma:\n\nTonga:\n\nTongan\n\nTsonga:\n\nTswana:\n\nTurkish:\n\nTurkmen:\n\nTuvaluan\n\nUkrainian:\n\nUrdu:\n\nUzbek:\n\nVenda:\n\nVietnamese:\n\nWaama:\n\nWaci-Gbe:\n\nWamey:\n\nWelsh:\n\nWolof:\n\nXhosa:\n\nXwela-Gbe:\n\nYobe:\n\nYom:\n\nYoruba:\n\nZimbabwean sign language:\n\nZulu:\n\nThis is a ranking of languages by number of sovereign countries in which they are \"de jure\" or \"de facto\" official (or with a \"national language\" status).\n\n\nAbaza:\n\nAdyghe:\n\nAghul:\n\nAklanon:\n\nAlbanian:\n\n\nAltay:\n\nArabic:\n\nAranese \"see Occitan\"\n\nArmenian:\n\nAssamese:\n\nAvar:\n\nAzeri:\n\nBalkar:\n\nBashkir:\n\nBasque:\n\nBengali:\n\nBikol:\n\nBosnian:\n\nBuryat:\n\nCantonese Chinese:\n\nCatalan:\n\nCebuano:\n\nChavacano:\n\nChechen:\n\nCherkess:\n\nCherokee:\n\nChipewyan:\n\nChukchi:\n\nChuvash\n\nCree:\n\nCrimean Tatar\n\nCroatian:\n\nDargwa:\n\nDolgan:\n\nDutch:\n\nEnglish:\n\n\nErzya:\n\nEven:\n\nEvenki:\n\nFaroese:\n\nFinnish:\n\nFrench:\n\n\nFrisian (West):\n\nGagauz:\n\nGalician:\n\nGerman:\n\nGreek:\n\nGuaraní:\n\nGujarati:\n\nGwich'in:\n\nHawaiian:\n\nHiligaynon:\nHindi:\nHungarian:\n\nIbanag:\n\nIlocano:\n\nIngush:\n\nInuinnaqtun:\n\nInuktitut:\n\nInuvialuktun:\n\nIrish:\n\nItalian:\n\nIvatan:\n\nJapanese:\n\nKabardian\n\nKalaallisut:\n\nKalmyk:\n\nKannada:\n\nKapampangan:\n\nKarachay:\n\nKarelian:\n\nKashmiri:\n\nKazakh:\n\nKhakas:\n\nKhanty:\n\nKinaray-a:\n\nKomi:\n\nKomi-Permyak:\n\nKorean:\n\nKumyk:\n\nKyrgyz:\n\nLak:\n\nLezgian\n\nMacedonian:*part of Albania\n\nMaguindanao:\n\nMalayalam:\n\nMansi:\n\nMaranao:\n\nMarathi:\n\nMari (Hill and Meadow):\n\nMayan:\n\nMoksha:\n\nMongolian:\n\nNáhuatl:\n\nNenets:\n\nNepali:\n\nNogai:\n\nOccitan:\n\nOdia:\n\nOssetic (Digor and Iron dialects):\n\nPangasinan:\n\nPortuguese:*part of the People's Republic of China\n\nPunjabi:\n\nRomanian:\n\nRussian. Russian is fixed as a state language in the Constitutions of the republics of the Russian Federation:\n\nRusyn:\n\nRutul:\n\nSakha:\n\nSambal:\n\nSami:\n\nSanskrit:\n\nSaraiki\n\nSarikoli:\n\nScottish Gaelic:\n\nScots:\n\nSelkup:\n\nSerbian:\n\nSindhi:\n\nNorth and South Slavey:\n\nSlovak:\n\nSlovene:\n\nSpanish:\n\nSurigaonon:\n\nTabasaran:\n\nTagalog:\n\nTahitian:\n\nTamil:\n\nTat:\n\nTatar:\n\nTausug:\n\nTelugu:\n\nTibetan:\n\nTłįchǫ:\n\nTsakhur:\n\nTswana:\n\nTurkish:\n\nTuvan:\n\nUdmurt:\n\nUrdu:\n\nUyghur:\n\nVeps:\n\nVietnamese:\n\nWaray:\n\nWelsh:\n\nYakan:\n\nYiddish:\n\nYukaghir:\n\nZhuang:\n\n"}
{"id": "20810256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20810256", "title": "Martha Crago", "text": "Martha Crago\n\nMartha Crago is the Vice-Principal of Research and Innovation at McGill University. She is an internationally known expert on language acquisition, specializing in studying language acquisition across languages and learner groups. Crago received a B.A. in sociology and anthropology from McGill University in 1968 and a Ph.D. in communication sciences and disorders from McGill in 1988. She was employed at McGill from 1971 to 2005 and the University of Montreal from 2005 to 2007. She was the Vice-President of Research at Dalhousie University from 2007 until accepting her current position. She has also served as a visiting professor at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics from 2005 to 2006. She was appointed as a Member of the Order of Canada in December 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4100885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4100885", "title": "Meaning (linguistics)", "text": "Meaning (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, meaning is the information or concepts that a sender intends to convey, or does convey, in communication with a receiver.\n\nAmbiguity means confusion about what is conveyed, since the current context may lead to different interpretations of meaning. Many words in many languages have multiple definitions. Ambiguity is an effect of a rupture of the rule of identity in the context of the exchange of information. Particularly the \"sender\" may be physically absent, and the contexts explicitly divergent, such as will be the case when the receptor is a reader and the \"sender\" was a writer.\n\nPragmatics is the study of how context affects meaning. The two primary forms of context important to pragmatics are linguistic context and situation context.\n\nLinguistic context is how meaning is understood without relying on intent and assumptions. In applied pragmatics, for example, meaning is formed through sensory experiences, even though sensory stimulus cannot be easily articulated in language or signs. Pragmatics, then, reveals that meaning is both something affected by and affecting the world. Meaning is something contextual with respect to language and the world, and is also something active toward other meanings and the world. Linguistic context becomes important when looking at particular linguistic problems such as that of pronouns.\n\nSituation context refers to every non-linguistic factor that affects the meaning of a phrase. An example of situation context can be seen in the phrase \"it's cold in here\", which can either be a simple statement of fact or a request to turn up the heat, depending on, among other things, whether or not it is believed to be in the listener's power to affect the temperature.\n\nThe relationship between words and their referents is called semantic. Semantics is the study of how meaning is conveyed through signs and language. Understanding how facial expressions, body language, and tone affect meaning, and how words, phrases, sentences, and punctuation relate to meaning are examples. Various subgroups of semantics are studied within the fields of linguistics, logic and computing. For example, linguistic semantics includes the history of how words have been used in the past; logical semantics includes how people mean and refer in terms of likely intent and assumptions.\n\nDuring the 19th century, John Stuart Mill defined semantic meaning with the words \"denotation\" and \"connotation\". A denotation is the literal or primary meaning of a word. Connotations are ideas or feelings that a word invokes for a person in addition to its literal or primary meaning.\n\nThe original use of \"meaning\" as understood early in the 20th century occurred through Lady Welby, after her daughter translated the term \"semantics\" from French.\n\nLanguages allow information to be conveyed even when the specific words used are not known by the reader or listener. People connect words with meaning and use words to refer to concepts. A person's intentions affect what is meant. \"Meaning\" (in English) as \"intent\" harkens back to the Anglo-Saxons and is associated today still, with the German verb \"meinen\" as to think or intend.\n\nFerdinand de Saussure, in founding semiology, his original subset of the semiotics, started describing language in terms of \"Signs\", dividing those \"signs\" in turn into \"signifieds\" and \"signifiers\". The signifier is the perceptive side of a sign, thus the sound form in case of oral language. The signified is the signification (semantic) side, the mental construction or image associated with the sound, by either a speaker and hearer. A sign, then, is essentially a relationship between signified and signifier.\n\nSigns are essentially conventional, as any foreign language student is well aware: there is no reason that \"bat\" couldn't mean \"body of water\" or even \"that bust of Napoleon over there\". Since the choice of signifiers is ultimately arbitrary, the meaning cannot somehow be \"in\" the signifier. Saussure instead defers meaning to the sign itself: meaning is ultimately the same thing as the sign, and \"meaning\" means that relationship is between signified and signifier. All meaning is both within us and communal, thus cultural. Signs \"mean\" by reference to our internal lexicon and grammar, and despite there being a matter of convention, so the communal part, signs also, because of the individual's uniqueness, can mean something only to the individual (what \"red\" means to one person may not be what \"red\" means to another, either in absolute value, or by including what's suggested by the context). However, while meanings carried by one given set of signifiers may vary to some extent from individual to individual, only those meanings that stay within a boundary are seen by other speakers of the language to belong to the language: if one were to refer to smells as red, most other speakers would assume the person is talking nonsense (although statements like this are common among people who experience synesthesia, or in poetry).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227277", "title": "Meaningless statement", "text": "Meaningless statement\n\nA meaningless statement posits nothing of substance with which one could agree or disagree. In the context of logical arguments, the inclusion of a meaningless statement in the premises will undermine the validity of the argument since that premise can neither be true nor false.\n\nThere are many classes of meaningless statement:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2441993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2441993", "title": "Minoan language", "text": "Minoan language\n\nThe Minoan language is the language (or languages) of the ancient Minoan civilization of Crete written in the Cretan hieroglyphs and later in the Linear A syllabary. As the Cretan hieroglyphs are undeciphered and Linear A only partly deciphered, the Minoan language is unknown and unclassified: indeed, with the existing evidence, it seems impossible to be certain that the two scripts record the same language, or even that a single language is recorded in each. The Eteocretan language, attested in a few alphabetic inscriptions from Crete 1,000 years later, is possibly a descendant of Minoan, but it is itself unclassified.\n\nMinoan is mainly known from the inscriptions in Linear A, which are fairly legible by comparison with Linear B. The Cretan hieroglyphs are dated from the first half of the 2nd millennium BCE. The Linear A texts, mostly written in clay tablets, are spread all over Crete with more than 40 localities on the island. \n\nFrom the 18th dynasty of Egypt there are four texts containing names and sayings in the Keftiu language (). They are, as usual in non-Egyptian texts, written in Egyptian hieroglyphs, which allow a more precise pronunciation.\n\nOn the basis of these texts, the phonetic system of the Minoan language can be developed, which has the following phonemes:\n\n"}
{"id": "1082108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082108", "title": "Non-rigid designator", "text": "Non-rigid designator\n\nIn the philosophy of language and modal logic, a term is said to be a non-rigid designator (or flaccid designator) or connotative term if it does not extensionally designate (denote, refer to) the same object in all possible worlds. This is in contrast to a rigid designator, which does designate the same object in all possible worlds in which that object exists, and does not designate anything else in those worlds in which that object does \"not\" exist. The term was coined by Saul Kripke in his 1970 lecture series at Princeton University, later published as the book \"Naming and Necessity\".\n\nAs an example, consider the phrase \"The 43rd President of the United States of America\": while the 43rd President of the United States is \"actually\" George W. Bush, things might have been different. Bush might have lost the election, meaning that the 43rd President might have been Al Gore or Ralph Nader instead. (\"How remote\" these possible worlds are from the actual world is a discussion for physics and counterfactualism.) \"The 43rd President of the United States of America\" is thus a non-rigid designator, picking out George W. Bush in some possible worlds, Al Gore in others, and yet other people in other worlds.\n\nNon-rigid designators are defined by contrast with Kripke's notion of a rigid designator, which picks out the same thing uniquely in \"every\" possible world; while there are possible worlds in which the 43rd President of the United States is Al Gore instead of George W. Bush, there are \"no\" possible worlds where \"George W. Bush\" is anyone other than the man who, in fact, he is. (There \"are\" worlds where some person other than George W. Bush is \"named\" \"George W. Bush,\" but that's neither here nor there.) Kripke uses this apparent asymmetry to argue (in \"Naming and Necessity\") that no definite description can be the meaning of a proper name, because names must always be rigid designators, while definite descriptions can designate non-rigidly.\n\nSome philosophers, such as Gareth Evans, have expressed doubt as to whether non-rigid expressions ought to be called \"designators\" at all.\n"}
{"id": "39577891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39577891", "title": "Phememe", "text": "Phememe\n\nA phememe (from Ancient Greek wikt:φημί ‘I speak, say’) is a hypothesized speech sound with an abstract gestural meaning, proposed by the linguist Mary LeCron Foster. (The term \"phememe\" appeared earlier in the works of Leonard Bloomfield, who defined it as a \"smallest and meaningless unit of linguistic signaling\" – either a phoneme or a taxeme.)\n\nAccording to Foster, phememes were the fundamental building block of the earliest human spoken language (Primordial Language), as opposed to the phonemes of attested languages, contemporary or historical. The phememe concept is thus important in the debate regarding the gestural origin of speech. By way of an example, the sound [m], as a meaningful oral gesture, is understood as pointing to “two opposed surfaces in tapering, pressing together, holding together, crushing, or resting against”. Reflexes of this primordial [m], and its original meaning, are found in ostensibly unrelated present-day languages in words referring to the mouth, the female genitals, and semantic extensions of these, e.g. Latin \"mugio\" ‘to moo, bugle’, \"mutus\" ‘mute’, \"mucus\" ‘mucous’, Japanese \"mugon\" ‘silence, muteness’, Dravidian \"muka-\" ‘face, mouth’, Piro (Arawak) \"musi-\" ‘to be pregnant, impregnate’. According to her most recent published work, Foster proposes that the phememic system of primordial spoken language consisted of the following phememes.\n\nThe philosopher Maxine Sheets-Johnstone makes extensive use of Foster’s concept of the phememe in arguing iconicity to be the foundation of the symbolic process. Earl R. Anderson points out that the phememe is thus an elaboration of earlier theories postulating a role for oral gesture in the origin of spoken language, such as those of the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace and the anthropologist Edward Burnett Tylor, who called his method \"generative philology\". An implication of the phememe hypothesis is that Primordial Language lacked double articulation, which the American linguist Charles F. Hockett proposed as a central design feature of human language. According to this principle, linguistic signs are made up of building blocks, such as phonemes, which are themselves meaningless, e.g. \"cat\" is composed of the phonemes /k/, /æ/ and /t/. Phememes came to be desemanticized and replaced by meaningless phonemes in later evolution. The anthropologist Gordon Hewes proposes that this shift was motivated by the advantages phonemes entail in rapid word retrieval.\n\n"}
{"id": "23193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23193", "title": "Philology", "text": "Philology\n\nPhilology is the study of language in oral and written historical sources; it is the intersection between textual criticism, literary criticism, history, and linguistics. Philology is more commonly defined as the study of literary texts as well as oral and written records, the establishment of their authenticity and their original form, and the determination of their meaning. A person who pursues this kind of study is known as a philologist.\n\nIn older usage, especially British, philology is more general, covering comparative and historical linguistics.\n\nClassical philology studies classical languages. Classical philology principally originated from the Library of Pergamum and the Library of Alexandria around the fourth century BCE, continued by Greeks and Romans throughout the Roman/Byzantine Empire. It was preserved and promoted during the Islamic Golden Age, and eventually resumed by European scholars of the Renaissance, where it was soon joined by philologies of other non-Asian (European) (Germanic, Celtic), Eurasian (Slavistics, etc.) and Asian (Arabic, Persian, Sanskrit, Chinese, etc.) languages. Indo-European studies involves the comparative philology of all Indo-European languages.\n\nPhilology, with its focus on historical development (diachronic analysis), is contrasted with linguistics due to Ferdinand de Saussure's insistence on the importance of synchronic analysis. The contrast continued with the emergence of structuralism and Chomskyan linguistics alongside its emphasis on syntax.\nThe term \"philology\" is derived from the Greek (\"philología\"), from the terms (\"phílos\") \"love, affection, loved, beloved, dear, friend\" and (\"lógos\") \"word, articulation, reason\", describing a love of learning, of literature, as well as of argument and reasoning, reflecting the range of activities included under the notion of . The term changed little with the Latin \"philologia\", and later entered the English language in the 16th century, from the Middle French \"philologie\", in the sense of \"love of literature\".\n\nThe adjective (\"philólogos\") meant \"fond of discussion or argument, talkative\", in Hellenistic Greek, also implying an excessive (\"sophistic\") preference of argument over the love of true wisdom, (\"philósophos\").\n\nAs an allegory of literary erudition, \"philologia\" appears in fifth-century postclassical literature (Martianus Capella, \"De nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii\"), an idea revived in Late Medieval literature (Chaucer, Lydgate).\n\nThe meaning of \"love of learning and literature\" was narrowed to \"the study of the historical development of languages\" (historical linguistics) in 19th-century usage of the term. Due to the rapid progress made in understanding sound laws and language change, the \"golden age of philology\" lasted throughout the 19th century, or \"from Giacomo Leopardi and Friedrich Schlegel to Nietzsche\". In the Anglo-Saxon world, the term philology to describe work on languages and literatures, which had become synonymous with the practices of German scholars, was abandoned as a consequence of anti-German feeling following World War I. Most continental European countries still maintain the term to designate departments, colleges, position titles, and journals. J. R. R. Tolkien opposed the nationalist reaction against philological practices, claiming that \"the philological instinct\" was \"universal as is the use of language\". In British English usage, and in British academia, \"philology\" remains largely synonymous with \"historical linguistics\", while in US English, and US academia, the wider meaning of \"study of a language's grammar, history and literary tradition\" remains more widespread. Based on the harsh critique of Friedrich Nietzsche, US scholars since the 1980s have viewed philology as responsible for a narrowly scientistic study of language and literature.\n\nThe comparative linguistics branch of philology studies the relationship between languages. Similarities between Sanskrit and European languages were first noted in the early 16th century and led to speculation of a common ancestor language from which all these descended. It is now named Proto-Indo-European. Philology's interest in ancient languages led to the study of what were, in the 18th century, \"exotic\" languages, for the light they could cast on problems in understanding and deciphering the origins of older texts.\n\nPhilology also includes the study of texts and their history. It includes elements of textual criticism, trying to reconstruct an author's original text based on variant copies of manuscripts. This branch of research arose among Ancient scholars in the 4th century BC Greek-speaking world, who desired to establish a standard text of popular authors for the purposes of both sound interpretation and secure transmission. Since that time, the original principles of textual criticism have been improved and applied to other widely distributed texts such as the Bible. Scholars have tried to reconstruct the original readings of the Bible from the manuscript variants. This method was applied to Classical Studies and to medieval texts as a way to reconstruct the author's original work. The method produced so-called \"critical editions\", which provided a reconstructed text accompanied by a \"critical apparatus\", i.e., footnotes that listed the various manuscript variants available, enabling scholars to gain insight into the entire manuscript tradition and argue about the variants.\n\nA related study method known as higher criticism studies the authorship, date, and provenance of text to place such text in historical context. As these philological issues are often inseparable from issues of interpretation, there is no clear-cut boundary between philology and hermeneutics. When text has a significant political or religious influence (such as the reconstruction of Biblical texts), scholars have difficulty reaching objective conclusions.\n\nSome scholars avoid all critical methods of textual philology, especially in historical linguistics, where it is important to study the actual recorded materials. The movement known as New Philology has rejected textual criticism because it injects editorial interpretations into the text and destroys the integrity of the individual manuscript, hence damaging the reliability of the data. Supporters of New Philology insist on a strict \"diplomatic\" approach: a faithful rendering of the text exactly as found in the manuscript, without emendations.\n\nAnother branch of philology, cognitive philology, studies written and oral texts. Cognitive philology considers these oral texts as the results of human mental processes. This science compares the results of textual science with the results of experimental research of both psychology and artificial intelligence production systems.\n\nIn the case of Bronze Age literature, philology includes the prior decipherment of the language under study. This has notably been the case with the Egyptian, Sumerian, Assyrian, Hittite, Ugaritic and Luwian languages. Beginning with the famous decipherment and translation of the Rosetta Stone by Jean-François Champollion in 1822, a number of individuals attempted to decipher the writing systems of the Ancient Near East and Aegean. In the case of Old Persian and Mycenaean Greek, decipherment yielded older records of languages already known from slightly more recent traditions (Middle Persian and Alphabetic Greek).\n\nWork on the ancient languages of the Near East progressed rapidly. In the mid-19th century, Henry Rawlinson and others deciphered the Behistun Inscription, which records the same text in Old Persian, Elamite, and Akkadian, using a variation of cuneiform for each language. The elucidation of cuneiform led to the decipherment of Sumerian. Hittite was deciphered in 1915 by Bedřich Hrozný.\n\nLinear B, a script used in the ancient Aegean, was deciphered in 1952 by Michael Ventris and John Chadwick, who demonstrated that it recorded an early form of Greek, now known as Mycenaean Greek. Linear A, the writing system that records the still-unknown language of the Minoans, resists deciphering, despite many attempts.\n\nWork continues on scripts such as the Maya, with great progress since the initial breakthroughs of the phonetic approach championed by Yuri Knorozov and others in the 1950s. Since the late 20th century, the Maya code has been almost completely deciphered, and the Mayan languages are among the most documented and studied in Mesoamerica. The code is described as a logosyllabic style of writing, which could be used to fully express any spoken thought.\n\nIn the \"Space Trilogy\" by C.S. Lewis, the main character, Elwin Ransom, is a philologist - as was Lewis' close friend J. R. R. Tolkien.\n\nDr. Edward Morbius, one of the main characters in the science-fiction film \"Forbidden Planet\", is a philologist.\n\nMoritz-Maria von Igelfeld, the main character in Alexander McCall Smith's 1997 comic novel \"Portuguese Irregular Verbs\" is a philologist, educated at Cambridge.\n\nThe main character in the Academy Award Nominee for Best Foreign Language film in 2012, \"Footnote\", is a Hebrew philologist, and a significant part of the film deals with his work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6880370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6880370", "title": "Philosophy of language", "text": "Philosophy of language\n\nPhilosophy of language in the analytical tradition explored logic and accounts of the mind at the end of the nineteenth century, with English-speaking writers Frege and Russell being pivotal, followed by Wittgenstein (\"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\"), the Vienna Circle and the logical positivists, and Quine, while on the continent a foundation work was Ferdinand de Saussure's \"Cours de linguistique générale\", published posthumously in 1916. Philosophy of Language may investigate the relations between language, language users, and the world. The scope of Philosophy of Language may include inquiry into the origins of language, the nature of meaning, the usage and cognition of language. It overlaps to some extent with the study of Epistemology, Logic, Philosophy of Mind and other fields (including linguistics and psychology).\n\nIn a broader sense it may be said that the philosophy of language explores the relationship between language and reality. In particular, philosophy of language studies issues that cannot be addressed by other fields, like linguistics, or psychology. Major topics in the philosophy of language include the nature of meaning, intentionality, reference, the constitution of sentences, concepts, learning, and thought.\n\nThe topic that has received the most attention in the philosophy of language has been the \"nature\" of meaning, to explain what \"meaning\" is, and what we mean when we talk about meaning. Within this area, issues include: the nature of synonymy, the origins of meaning itself, our apprehension of meaning, and the nature of composition (the question of how meaningful units of language are composed of smaller meaningful parts, and how the meaning of the whole is derived from the meaning of its parts).\n\nSecondly, this field of study seeks to better understand what speakers and listeners do with language in communication, and how it is used socially. Specific interests include the topics of language learning, language creation, and speech acts.\n\nThirdly, the question of how language relates to the minds of both the speaker and the interpreter is investigated. Of specific interest is the grounds for successful translation of words and concepts into their equivalents in another language.\n\nFinally, philosophers of language investigate how language and meaning relate to truth and the reality being referred to. They tend to be less interested in which sentences are \"actually true\", and more in \"what kinds of meanings can be true or false\". A truth-oriented philosopher of language might wonder whether or not a meaningless sentence can be true or false, or whether or not sentences can express propositions about things that do not exist, rather than the way sentences are used.\n\nIt has long been known that there are different parts of speech. One part of the common sentence is the lexical word, which is composed of nouns, verbs, and adjectives. A major question in the field – perhaps the single most important question for formalist and structuralist thinkers – is, \"How does the meaning of a sentence emerge out of its parts?\"\n\nMany aspects of the problem of the composition of sentences are addressed in the field of linguistics of syntax. Philosophical semantics tends to focus on the principle of compositionality to explain the relationship between meaningful parts and whole sentences. The principle of compositionality asserts that a sentence can be understood on the basis of the meaning of the \"parts\" of the sentence (i.e., words, morphemes) along with an understanding of its \"structure\" (i.e., syntax, logic). Further, syntactic propositions are arranged into 'discourse' or 'narrative' structures, which also encode meanings through pragmatics like temporal relations and pronominals.\n\nIt is possible to use the concept of \"functions\" to describe more than just how lexical meanings work: they can also be used to describe the meaning of a sentence. Take, for a moment, the sentence \"The horse is red\". We may consider \"the horse\" to be the product of a \"propositional function\". A propositional function is an operation of language that takes an entity (in this case, the horse) as an input and outputs a \"semantic fact\" (i.e., the proposition that is represented by \"The horse is red\"). In other words, a propositional function is like an algorithm. The meaning of \"red\" in this case is whatever takes the entity \"the horse\" and turns it into the statement, \"The horse is red.\"\n\nLinguists have developed at least two general methods of understanding the relationship between the parts of a linguistic string and how it is put together: syntactic and semantic trees. Syntactic trees draw upon the words of a sentence with the \"grammar\" of the sentence in mind. Semantic trees, on the other hand, focus upon the role of the \"meaning\" of the words and how those meanings combine to provide insight onto the genesis of semantic facts.\n\nThere have been several distinctive explanations of what a linguistic \"meaning\" is. Each has been associated with its own body of literature.\n\n\nOther theories exist to discuss non-linguistic meaning (i.e., meaning as conveyed by body language, meanings as consequences, etc.).\n\nInvestigations into how language interacts with the world are called theories of reference. Gottlob Frege was an advocate of a mediated reference theory. Frege divided the semantic content of every expression, including sentences, into two components: sense and reference. The sense of a sentence is the thought that it expresses. Such a thought is abstract, universal and objective. The sense of any sub-sentential expression consists in its contribution to the thought that its embedding sentence expresses. Senses determine reference and are also the modes of presentation of the objects to which expressions refer. Referents are the objects in the world that words pick out. The senses of sentences are thoughts, while their referents are truth values (true or false). The referents of sentences embedded in propositional attitude ascriptions and other opaque contexts are their usual senses.\n\nBertrand Russell, in his later writings and for reasons related to his theory of acquaintance in epistemology, held that the only directly referential expressions are, what he called, \"logically proper names\". Logically proper names are such terms as \"I\", \"now\", \"here\" and other indexicals. He viewed proper names of the sort described above as \"abbreviated definite descriptions\". Hence \"Donald J. Trump\" may be an abbreviation for \"the current President of the United States and husband of Melania Trump.\" Definite descriptions are denoting phrases (see \"On Denoting\") which are analyzed by Russell into existentially quantified logical constructions. Such phrases denote in the sense that there is an object that satisfies the description. However, such objects are not to be considered meaningful on their own, but have meaning only in the proposition expressed by the sentences of which they are a part. Hence, they are not directly referential in the same way as logically proper names, for Russell.\n\nOn Frege's account, any referring expression has a sense as well as a referent. Such a \"mediated reference\" view has certain theoretical advantages over Mill's view. For example, co-referential names, such as \"Samuel Clemens\" and \"Mark Twain\", cause problems for a directly referential view because it is possible for someone to hear \"Mark Twain is Samuel Clemens\" and be surprised – thus, their cognitive content seems different.\n\nDespite the differences between the views of Frege and Russell, they are generally lumped together as descriptivists about proper names. Such descriptivism was criticized in Saul Kripke's \"Naming and Necessity\".\n\nKripke put forth what has come to be known as \"the modal argument\" (or \"argument from rigidity\"). Consider the name \"Aristotle\" and the descriptions \"the greatest student of Plato\", \"the founder of logic\" and \"the teacher of Alexander\". Aristotle obviously satisfies all of the descriptions (and many of the others we commonly associate with him), but it is not necessarily true that if Aristotle existed then Aristotle was any one, or all, of these descriptions. Aristotle may well have existed without doing any single one of the things for which he is known to posterity. He may have existed and not have become known to posterity at all or he may have died in infancy. Suppose that Aristotle is associated by Mary with the description \"the last great philosopher of antiquity\" and (the actual) Aristotle died in infancy. Then Mary’s description would seem to refer to Plato. But this is deeply counterintuitive. Hence, names are \"rigid designators\", according to Kripke. That is, they refer to the same individual in every possible world in which that individual exists. In the same work, Kripke articulated several other arguments against \"Frege–Russell\" descriptivism.\n\nIt is worth noting that the whole philosophical enterprise of studying reference has been critiqued by linguist Noam Chomsky in various works.\n\nSome of the major issues at the intersection of philosophy of language and philosophy of mind are also dealt with in modern psycholinguistics. Some important questions are \"How much of language is innate? Is language acquisition a special faculty in the mind? What is the connection between thought and language?\"\n\nThere are three general perspectives on the issue of language learning. The first is the behaviorist perspective, which dictates that not only is the solid bulk of language learned, but it is learned via conditioning. The second is the \"hypothesis testing perspective\", which understands the child's learning of syntactic rules and meanings to involve the postulation and testing of hypotheses, through the use of the general faculty of intelligence. The final candidate for explanation is the innatist perspective, which states that at least some of the syntactic settings are innate and hardwired, based on certain modules of the mind.\n\nThere are varying notions of the structure of the brain when it comes to language. Connectionist models emphasize the idea that a person's lexicon and their thoughts operate in a kind of distributed, associative network. Nativist models assert that there are specialized devices in the brain that are dedicated to language acquisition. Computation models emphasize the notion of a representational language of thought and the logic-like, computational processing that the mind performs over them. Emergentist models focus on the notion that natural faculties are a complex system that emerge from simpler biological parts. Reductionist models attempt to explain higher-level mental processes in terms of the basic low-level neurophysiological activity of the brain.\n\nAn important problem which touches both philosophy of language and philosophy of mind is to what extent language influences thought and vice versa. There have been a number of different perspectives on this issue, each offering a number of insights and suggestions.\n\nLinguists Sapir and Whorf suggested that language limited the extent to which members of a \"linguistic community\" can think about certain subjects (a hypothesis paralleled in George Orwell's novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\"). In other words, language was analytically prior to thought. Philosopher Michael Dummett is also a proponent of the \"language-first\" viewpoint.\n\nThe stark opposite to the Sapir–Whorf position is the notion that thought (or, more broadly, mental content) has priority over language. The \"knowledge-first\" position can be found, for instance, in the work of Paul Grice. Further, this view is closely associated with Jerry Fodor and his language of thought hypothesis. According to his argument, spoken and written language derive their intentionality and meaning from an internal language encoded in the mind. The main argument in favor of such a view is that the structure of thoughts and the structure of language seem to share a compositional, systematic character. Another argument is that it is difficult to explain how signs and symbols on paper can represent anything meaningful unless some sort of meaning is infused into them by the contents of the mind. One of the main arguments against is that such levels of language can lead to an infinite regress. In any case, many philosophers of mind and language, such as Ruth Millikan, Fred Dretske and Fodor, have recently turned their attention to explaining the meanings of mental contents and states directly.\n\nAnother tradition of philosophers has attempted to show that language and thought are coextensive – that there is no way of explaining one without the other. Donald Davidson, in his essay \"Thought and Talk\", argued that the notion of belief could only arise as a product of public linguistic interaction. Daniel Dennett holds a similar \"interpretationist\" view of propositional attitudes. To an extent, the theoretical underpinnings to cognitive semantics (including the notion of semantic framing) suggest the influence of language upon thought. However, the same tradition views meaning and grammar as a function of conceptualization, making it difficult to assess in any straightforward way.\n\nSome thinkers, like the ancient sophist Gorgias, have questioned whether or not language was capable of capturing thought at all.\nThere are studies that prove that languages shape how people understand causality. Some of them were performed by Lera Boroditsky. For example, English speakers tend to say things like \"John broke the vase\" even for accidents. However, Spanish or Japanese speakers would be more likely to say \"the vase broke itself.\" In studies conducted by Caitlin Fausey at Stanford University speakers of English, Spanish and Japanese watched videos of two people popping balloons, breaking eggs and spilling drinks either intentionally or accidentally. Later everyone was asked whether they could remember who did what. Spanish and Japanese speakers did not remember the agents of accidental events as well as did English speakers. \n\nRussian speakers, who make an extra distinction between light and dark blue in their language, are better able to visually discriminate shades of blue. The Piraha, a tribe in Brazil, whose language has only terms like few and many instead of numerals, are not able to keep track of exact quantities.\n\nIn one study German and Spanish speakers were asked to describe objects having opposite gender assignment in those two languages. The descriptions they gave differed in a way predicted by grammatical gender. For example, when asked to describe a \"key\"—a word that is masculine in German and feminine in Spanish—the German speakers were more likely to use words like \"hard,\" \"heavy,\" \"jagged,\" \"metal,\" \"serrated,\" and \"useful,\" whereas Spanish speakers were more likely to say \"golden,\" \"intricate,\" \"little,\" \"lovely,\" \"shiny,\" and \"tiny.\" To describe a \"bridge,\" which is feminine in German and masculine in Spanish, the German speakers said \"beautiful,\" \"elegant,\" \"fragile,\" \"peaceful,\" \"pretty,\" and \"slender,\" and the Spanish speakers said \"big,\" \"dangerous,\" \"long,\" \"strong,\" \"sturdy,\" and \"towering.\" This was the case even though all testing was done in English, a language without grammatical gender.\n\nIn a series of studies conducted by Gary Lupyan, people were asked to look at a series of images of imaginary aliens. Whether each alien was friendly or hostile was determined by certain subtle features but participants were not told what these were. They had to guess whether each alien was friendly or hostile, and after each response they were told if they were correct or not, helping them learn the subtle cues that distinguished friend from foe. A quarter of the participants were told in advance that the friendly aliens were called \"leebish\" and the hostile ones \"grecious\", while another quarter were told the opposite. For the rest, the aliens remained nameless. It was found that participants who were given names for the aliens learned to categorize the aliens far more quickly, reaching 80 per cent accuracy in less than half the time taken by those not told the names. By the end of the test, those told the names could correctly categorize 88 per cent of aliens, compared to just 80 per cent for the rest. It was concluded that naming objects helps us categorize and memorize them.\n\nIn another series of experiments a group of people was asked to view furniture from an IKEA catalog. Half the time they were asked to label the object – whether it was a chair or lamp, for example – while the rest of the time they had to say whether or not they liked it. It was found that when asked to label items, people were later less likely to recall the specific details of products, such as whether a chair had arms or not. It was concluded that labeling objects helps our minds build a prototype of the typical object in the group at the expense of individual features.\n\nA common claim is that language is governed by social conventions. Questions inevitably arise on surrounding topics. One question is, \"What exactly is a convention, and how do we study it?\", and second, \"To what extent do conventions even matter in the study of language?\" David Kellogg Lewis proposed a worthy reply to the first question by expounding the view that a convention is a \"rationally self-perpetuating regularity in behavior\". However, this view seems to compete to some extent with the Gricean view of speaker's meaning, requiring either one (or both) to be weakened if both are to be taken as true.\n\nSome have questioned whether or not conventions are relevant to the study of meaning at all. Noam Chomsky proposed that the study of language could be done in terms of the I-Language, or internal language of persons. If this is so, then it undermines the pursuit of explanations in terms of conventions, and relegates such explanations to the domain of \"meta-semantics\". \"Metasemantics\" is a term used by philosopher of language Robert Stainton to describe all those fields that attempt to explain how semantic facts arise. One fruitful source of research involves investigation into the social conditions that give rise to, or are associated with, meanings and languages. \"Etymology\" (the study of the origins of words) and \"stylistics\" (philosophical argumentation over what makes \"good grammar\", relative to a particular language) are two other examples of fields that are taken to be meta-semantic.\n\nNot surprisingly, many separate (but related) fields have investigated the topic of linguistic convention within their own research paradigms. The presumptions that prop up each theoretical view are of interest to the philosopher of language. For instance, one of the major fields of sociology, symbolic interactionism, is based on the insight that human social organization is based almost entirely on the use of meanings. In consequence, any explanation of a social structure (like an institution) would need to account for the shared meanings which create and sustain the structure.\n\nRhetoric is the study of the particular words that people use to achieve the proper emotional and rational effect in the listener, be it to persuade, provoke, endear, or teach. Some relevant applications of the field include the examination of propaganda and didacticism, the examination of the purposes of swearing and pejoratives (especially how it influences the behavior of others, and defines relationships), or the effects of gendered language. It can also be used to study linguistic transparency (or speaking in an accessible manner), as well as performative utterances and the various tasks that language can perform (called \"speech acts\"). It also has applications to the study and interpretation of law, and helps give insight to the logical concept of the domain of discourse.\n\nLiterary theory is a discipline that some literary theorists claim overlaps with the philosophy of language. It emphasizes the methods that readers and critics use in understanding a text. This field, an outgrowth of the study of how to properly interpret messages, is unsurprisingly closely tied to the ancient discipline of hermeneutics.\n\nIn Continental philosophy, language is not studied as a separate discipline, as it is in analytic philosophy. Rather, it is an inextricable part of many other areas of thought, such as phenomenology, semiotics, hermeneutics, Heideggerean ontology, existentialism, structuralism, deconstruction and critical theory. The idea of language is often related to that of logic in its Greek sense as \"logos\", meaning discourse or dialectic. Language and concepts are also seen as having been formed by history and politics, or even by historical philosophy itself.\n\nThe field of hermeneutics, and the theory of interpretation in general, has played a significant role in 20th century Continental philosophy of language and ontology beginning with Martin Heidegger. Heidegger combines phenomenology with the hermeneutics of Wilhelm Dilthey. Heidegger believed language was one of the most important concepts for \"Dasein\". Heidegger believed that language today is worn out because of overuse of important words, and would be inadequate for in-depth study of Being (\"Sein\"). For example, \"Sein\" (\"being\"), the word itself, is saturated with multiple meanings. Thus, he invented new vocabulary and linguistic styles, based on Ancient Greek and Germanic etymological word relations, to disambiguate commonly used words. He avoided words like consciousness, ego, human, nature, etc. and instead talked holistically of Being-in-the-world, Dasein.\n\nWith such new concepts as \"Being-in-the-world\", Heidegger constructs his theory of language, centered on speech. He believed speech (talking, listening, silence) was the most essential and pure form of language. Heidegger claims writing is only a supplement to speech, because even a reader constructs or contributes one's own \"talk\" while reading. The most important feature of language is its \"projectivity\", the idea that language is prior to human speech. This means that when one is \"thrown\" into the world, his existence is characterized from the beginning by a certain pre-comprehension of the world. However, it is only after naming, or \"articulation of intelligibility\", can one have primary access to \"Dasein\" and \"Being-in-the-World\".\n\nHans-Georg Gadamer expanded on these ideas of Heidegger and proposed a complete hermeneutic ontology. In \"Truth and Method\", Gadamer describes language as \"the medium in which substantive understanding and agreement take place between two people.\" In addition, Gadamer claims that the world is linguistically constituted, and cannot exist apart from language. For example, monuments and statues cannot communicate without the aid of language. Gadamer also claims that every language constitutes a world-view, because the linguistic nature of the world frees each individual from an objective environment: \"... the fact that we have a world at all depends upon [language] and presents itself in it. The world as world exists for man as for no other creature in the world.\"\n\nPaul Ricœur, on the other hand, proposed a hermeneutics which, reconnecting with the original Greek sense of the term, emphasized the discovery of hidden meanings in the equivocal terms (or \"symbols\") of ordinary language. Other philosophers who have worked in this tradition include Luigi Pareyson and Jacques Derrida.\n\nSemiotics is the study of the transmission, reception and meaning of signs and symbols in general. In this field, human language (both natural and artificial) is just one among many ways that humans (and other conscious beings) are able to communicate. It allows them to take advantage of and effectively manipulate the external world in order to create meaning for themselves and transmit this meaning to others. Every object, every person, every event, and every force communicates (or \"signifies\") continuously. The ringing of a telephone for example, \"is\" the telephone. The smoke that I see on the horizon is the sign that there is a fire. The smoke signifies. The things of the world, in this vision, seem to be \"labeled\" precisely for intelligent beings who only need to interpret them in the way that humans do. Everything has meaning. True communication, including the use of human language, however, requires someone (a \"sender\") who sends a \"message\", or \"text\", in some code to someone else (a \"receiver\"). Language is studied only insofar as it is one of these forms (the most sophisticated form) of communication. Some important figures in the history of semiotics, are Charles Sanders Peirce, Roland Barthes, and Roman Jakobson. In modern times, its best-known figures include Umberto Eco, A.J. Greimas, Louis Hjelmslev, and Tullio De Mauro. Investigations on signs in non-human communications are subject to biosemiotics, a field founded in the late 20th century by Thomas Sebeok and Thure von Uexküll.\n\nOne issue that has troubled philosophers of language and logic is the problem of the vagueness of words. The specific instances of vagueness that most interest philosophers of language are those where the existence of \"borderline cases\" makes it seemingly impossible to say whether a predicate is true or false. Classic examples are \"is tall\" or \"is bald\", where it cannot be said that some borderline case (some given person) is tall or not-tall. In consequence, vagueness gives rise to the paradox of the heap. Many theorists have attempted to solve the paradox by way of \"n\"-valued logics, such as fuzzy logic, which have radically departed from classical two-valued logics.\n\nOne debate that has captured the interest of many philosophers is the debate over the meaning of \"universals\". One might ask, for example, \"When people say the word \"rocks\", what is it that the word represents?\" Two different answers have emerged to this question. Some have said that the expression stands for some real, abstract universal out in the world called \"rocks\". Others have said that the word stands for some collection of particular, individual rocks that we associate with merely a nomenclature. The former position has been called \"philosophical realism\", and the latter \"nominalism\".\n\nThe issue here can be explicated if we examine the proposition \"Socrates is a Man\".\n\nFrom the radical realist's perspective, the connection between S and M is a connection between two abstract entities. There is an entity, \"man\", and an entity, \"Socrates\". These two things connect in some way or overlap.\n\nFrom a nominalist's perspective, the connection between S and M is the connection between a particular entity (Socrates) and a vast collection of particular things (men). To say that Socrates is a man is to say that Socrates is a part of the class of \"men\". Another perspective is to consider \"man\" to be a \"property\" of the entity, \"Socrates\".\n\nThere is a third way, between nominalism and radical realism, usually called \"moderate realism\" and attributed to Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas. Moderate realists hold that \"man\" refers to a real essence or form that is really present and identical in Socrates and all other men, but \"man\" does not exist as a separate and distinct entity. This is a realist position, because \"Man\" is real, insofar as it really exists in all men; but it is a moderate realism, because \"Man\" is not an entity separate from the men it informs.\n\nMany philosophical discussions of language begin by clarifying terminology. One item which has undergone significant scrutiny is the idea of language itself. Those philosophers who have set themselves to the task ask two important questions: \"What is language in general?\" and \"What is a particular, individual language?\"\n\nSome semiotic outlooks have stressed that language is the mere manipulation and use of symbols in order to draw attention to signified content. If this were so, then humans would not be the sole possessors of language skills. On the other hand, many works by linguist Noam Chomsky have emphasized the role of syntax as a characteristic of any language.\n\nMore puzzling is the question of what it is that distinguishes one particular language from another. What is it that makes \"English\" English? What's the difference between Spanish and French? Chomsky has indicated that the search for what it means to be a language must begin with the study of the internal language of persons, or I-languages, which are based upon certain rules (or principles and parameters) which generate grammars. This view is supported in part by the conviction that there is no clear, general, and principled difference between one language and the next, and which may apply across the field of all languages. Other attempts, which he dubs \"E-languages,\" have tried to explain a language as usage within a specific speech community with a specific set of well-formed utterances in mind (markedly associated with linguists like Bloomfield).\n\nAnother of the questions that has divided philosophers of language is the extent to which formal logic can be used as an effective tool in the analysis and understanding of natural languages. While most philosophers, including Frege, Alfred Tarski and Rudolf Carnap, have been more or less skeptical about formalizing natural languages, many of them developed formal languages for use in the sciences or formalized \"parts\" of natural language for investigation. Some of the most prominent members of this tradition of formal semantics include Tarski, Carnap, Richard Montague and Donald Davidson.\n\nOn the other side of the divide, and especially prominent in the 1950s and 60s, were the so-called \"Ordinary language philosophers\". Philosophers such as P. F. Strawson, John Langshaw Austin and Gilbert Ryle stressed the importance of studying natural language without regard to the truth-conditions of sentences and the references of terms. They did not believe that the social and practical dimensions of linguistic meaning could be captured by any attempts at formalization using the tools of logic. Logic is one thing and language is something entirely different. What is important is not expressions themselves but what people use them to do in communication.\n\nHence, Austin developed a theory of speech acts, which described the kinds of things which can be done with a sentence (assertion, command, inquiry, exclamation) in different contexts of use on different occasions. Strawson argued that the truth-table semantics of the logical connectives (e.g., formula_1, formula_2 and formula_3) do not capture the meanings of their natural language counterparts (\"and\", \"or\" and \"if-then\"). While the \"ordinary language\" movement basically died out in the 1970s, its influence was crucial to the development of the fields of speech-act theory and the study of pragmatics. Many of its ideas have been absorbed by theorists such as Kent Bach, Robert Brandom, Paul Horwich and Stephen Neale. In recent work, the division between semantics and pragmatics has become a lively topic of discussion at the interface of philosophy and linguistics, for instance in work by Sperber and Wilson, Carston and Levinson.\n\nWhile keeping these traditions in mind, the question of whether or not there is any grounds for conflict between the formal and informal approaches is far from being decided. Some theorists, like Paul Grice, have been skeptical of any claims that there is a substantial conflict between logic and natural language.\n\nTranslation and interpretation are two other problems that philosophers of language have attempted to confront. In the 1950s, W.V. Quine argued for the indeterminacy of meaning and reference based on the principle of \"radical translation\". In \"Word and Object\", Quine asks readers to imagine a situation in which they are confronted with a previously undocumented, group of indigenous people where they must attempt to make sense of the utterances and gestures that its members make. This is the situation of radical translation.\n\nHe claimed that, in such a situation, it is impossible \"in principle\" to be absolutely certain of the meaning or reference that a speaker of the indigenous peoples language attaches to an utterance. For example, if a speaker sees a rabbit and says \"gavagai\", is she referring to the whole rabbit, to the rabbit's tail, or to a temporal part of the rabbit. All that can be done is to examine the utterance as a part of the overall linguistic behaviour of the individual, and then use these observations to interpret the meaning of all other utterances. From this basis, one can form a manual of translation. But, since reference is indeterminate, there will be many such manuals, no one of which is more correct than the others. For Quine, as for Wittgenstein and Austin, meaning is not something that is associated with a single word or sentence, but is rather something that, if it can be attributed at all, can only be attributed to a whole language. The resulting view is called \"semantic holism\".\n\nInspired by Quine's discussion, Donald Davidson extended the idea of radical translation to the interpretation of utterances and behavior within a single linguistic community. He dubbed this notion \"radical interpretation\". He suggested that the meaning that any individual ascribed to a sentence could only be determined by attributing meanings to many, perhaps all, of the individual's assertions, as well as their mental states and attitudes.\n\nLinguistic speculation in India is attested since the Vedic period (Iron Age), beginning with the deification of \"vāk\" \"speech\" and the role of language (utterance, shabda) in ritual. Sanskrit grammatical tradition gives rise to linguistic philosophy beginning in the final centuries BC and early centuries AD, notably in the philosophical schools of Nyaya and Mimamsa.\n\nIn the West, inquiry into language stretches back to the 5th century BC with Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and the Stoics. Both in India and in Greece, linguistic speculation predates the emergence of grammatical traditions of systematic description of language, which emerged around the 5th century BC in India (see Yāska), and around the 3rd century BC in Greece (see Rhianus).\n\nIn the dialogue \"Cratylus\", Plato considered the question of whether the names of things were determined by convention or by nature. He criticized conventionalism because it led to the bizarre consequence that anything can be conventionally denominated by any name. Hence, it cannot account for the correct or incorrect application of a name. He claimed that there was a natural correctness to names. To do this, he pointed out that compound words and phrases have a range of correctness. He also argued that primitive names had a natural correctness, because each phoneme represented basic ideas or sentiments. For example, for Plato the letter \"l\" and its sound represented the idea of softness. However, by the end of the \"Cronic\", he had admitted that some social conventions were also involved, and that there were faults in the idea that phonemes had individual meanings.\n\nAristotle interested himself with the issues of logic, categories, and meaning creation. He separated all things into categories of species and genus. He thought that the meaning of a predicate was established through an abstraction of the similarities between various individual things. This theory later came to be called \"nominalism\". However, since Aristotle took these similarities to be constituted by a real commonality of form, he is more often considered a proponent of \"moderate realism\".\n\nThe Stoic philosophers made important contributions to the analysis of grammar, distinguishing five parts of speech: nouns, verbs, appellatives (names or epithets), conjunctions and articles. They also developed a sophisticated doctrine of the \"lektón\" associated with each sign of a language, but distinct from both the sign itself and the thing to which it refers. This \"lektón\" was the meaning (or sense) of every term. The \"lektón\" of a sentence is what we would now call its proposition. Only propositions were considered \"truth-bearers\" or \"truth-vehicles\" (i.e., they could be called true or false) while sentences were simply their vehicles of expression. Different \"lektá\" could also express things besides propositions, such as commands, questions and exclamations.\n\nMedieval philosophers were greatly interested in the subtleties of language and its usage. For many scholastics, this interest was provoked by the necessity of translating Greek texts into Latin. There were several noteworthy philosophers of language in the medieval period. According to Peter J. King, (although this has been disputed), Peter Abelard anticipated the modern ideas of \"sense and reference\". Also, William of Ockham's \"Summa Logicae\" brought forward one of the first serious proposals for codifying a mental language.\n\nThe scholastics of the high medieval period, such as Ockham and John Duns Scotus, considered logic to be a \"scientia sermocinalis\" (science of language). The result of their studies was the elaboration of linguistic-philosophical notions whose complexity and subtlety has only recently come to be appreciated. Many of the most interesting problems of modern philosophy of language were anticipated by medieval thinkers. The phenomena of vagueness and ambiguity were analyzed intensely, and this led to an increasing interest in problems related to the use of \"syncategorematic\" words such as \"and\", \"or\", \"not\", \"if\", and \"every\". The study of \"categorematic\" words (or \"terms\") and their properties was also developed greatly. One of the major developments of the scholastics in this area was the doctrine of the \"suppositio\". The suppositio of a term is the interpretation that is given of it in a specific context. It can be \"proper\" or \"improper\" (as when it is used in metaphor, metonyms and other figures of speech). A proper suppositio, in turn, can be either formal or material accordingly when it refers to its usual non-linguistic referent (as in \"Charles is a man\"), or to itself as a linguistic entity (as in \"\"Charles\" has seven letters\"). Such a classification scheme is the precursor of modern distinctions between use and mention, and between language and metalanguage.\n\nThere is a tradition called speculative grammar which existed from the 11th to the 13th century. Leading scholars included, among others, Martin of Dace and Thomas of Erfurth.\n\nLinguists of the Renaissance and Baroque periods such as Johannes Goropius Becanus, Athanasius Kircher and John Wilkins were infatuated with the idea of a philosophical language reversing the confusion of tongues, influenced by the gradual discovery of Chinese characters and Egyptian hieroglyphs (\"Hieroglyphica\"). This thought parallels the idea that there might be a universal language of music.\n\nEuropean scholarship began to absorb the Indian linguistic tradition only from the mid-18th century, pioneered by Jean François Pons and Henry Thomas Colebrooke (the \"editio princeps\" of Varadarāja, a 17th-century Sanskrit grammarian, dating to 1849).\n\nIn the early 19th century, the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard insisted that language ought to play a larger role in Western philosophy. He argues that philosophy has not sufficiently focused on the role language plays in cognition and that future philosophy ought to proceed with a conscious focus on language:\n\nThe phrase \"linguistic turn\" was used to describe the noteworthy emphasis that contemporary philosophers put upon language.\n\nLanguage began to play a central role in Western philosophy in the early 20th century. One of the central figures involved in this development was the German philosopher Gottlob Frege, whose work on philosophical logic and the philosophy of language in the late 19th century influenced the work of 20-century analytic philosophers Bertrand Russell and Ludwig Wittgenstein. The philosophy of language became so pervasive that for a time, in analytic philosophy circles, philosophy as a whole was understood to be a matter of philosophy of language.\n\nIn Continental philosophy, the foundation work was Ferdinand de Saussure's \"Cours de linguistique générale\", published posthumously in 1916.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1839743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839743", "title": "Probatio pennae", "text": "Probatio pennae\n\nProbatio pennae (also written \"probatio pennę;\" in Medieval Latin; literally \"pen test\") is the medieval term for breaking in a new pen, and used to refer to text written to test a newly cut pen.\n\nA scribe would normally test a newly cut pen to see if it wrote well by writing a few lines of text on a piece of blotting paper. Sometimes these blotting papers survived due to being used afterwards as book binding material; they often provide unique, less \"serious\" textual material that would otherwise have been lost. A famous example is \"Hebban olla vogala\", one of the first fragments of Dutch literature, which survived from a tenth-century \"probatio pennae\".\n"}
{"id": "1557634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1557634", "title": "Propositional formula", "text": "Propositional formula\n\nIn propositional logic, a propositional formula is a type of syntactic formula which is well formed and has a truth value. If the values of all variables in a propositional formula are given, it determines a unique truth value. A propositional formula may also be called a propositional expression, a sentence, or a sentential formula.\n\nA propositional formula is constructed from simple propositions, such as \"five is greater than three\" or propositional variables such as \"P\" and \"Q\", using connectives such as NOT, AND, OR, or IMPLIES; for example:\n\nIn mathematics, a propositional formula is often more briefly referred to as a \"proposition\", but, more precisely, a propositional formula is not a proposition but a formal expression that \"denotes\" a proposition, a formal object under discussion, just like an expression such as \"\" is not a value, but denotes a value. In some contexts, maintaining the distinction may be of importance.\n\nFor the purposes of the propositional calculus, propositions (utterances, sentences, assertions) are considered to be either simple or compound. Compound propositions are considered to be linked by sentential connectives, some of the most common of which are \"AND\", \"OR\", \"IF … THEN …\", \"NEITHER … NOR …\", \"… IS EQUIVALENT TO …\" . The linking semicolon \";\", and connective \"BUT\" are considered to be expressions of \"AND\". A sequence of discrete sentences are considered to be linked by \"AND\"s, and formal analysis applies a recursive \"parenthesis rule\" with respect to sequences of simple propositions (see more below about well-formed formulas).\n\nSimple propositions are declarative in nature, that is, they make assertions about the condition or nature of a \"particular\" object of sensation e.g. \"This cow is blue\", \"There's a coyote!\" (\"That coyote IS \"there\", behind the rocks.\"). Thus the simple \"primitive\" assertions must be about specific objects or specific states of mind. Each must have at least a subject (an immediate object of thought or observation), a verb (in the active voice and present tense preferred), and perhaps an adjective or adverb. \"Dog!\" probably implies \"I see a dog\" but should be rejected as too ambiguous.\n\nFor the purposes of the propositional calculus a compound proposition can usually be reworded into a series of simple sentences, although the result will probably sound stilted.\n\nThe predicate calculus goes a step further than the propositional calculus to an \"analysis of the \"inner structure\" of propositions\" It breaks a simple sentence down into two parts (i) its subject (the object (singular or plural) of discourse) and (ii) a predicate (a verb or possibly verb-clause that asserts a quality or attribute of the object(s)). The predicate calculus then generalizes the \"subject|predicate\" form (where | symbolizes concatenation (stringing together) of symbols) into a form with the following blank-subject structure \" ___|predicate\", and the predicate in turn generalized to all things with that property.\n\nThe generalization of \"this pig\" to a (potential) member of two classes \"winged things\" and \"blue things\" means that it has a truth-relationship with both of these classes. In other words, given a domain of discourse \"winged things\", either we find p to be a member of this domain or not. Thus we have a relationship W (wingedness) between p (pig) and { T, F }, W(p) evaluates to { T, F } where { T, F } is the set of the boolean values \"true\" and \"false\". Likewise for B (blueness) and p (pig) and { T, F }: B(p) evaluates to { T, F }. So we now can analyze the connected assertions \"B(p) AND W(p)\" for its overall truth-value, i.e.:\n\nIn particular, simple sentences that employ notions of \"all\", \"some\", \"a few\", \"one of\", etc. are treated by the predicate calculus. Along with the new function symbolism \"F(x)\" two new symbols are introduced: ∀ (For all), and ∃ (There exists …, At least one of … exists, etc.). The predicate calculus, but not the propositional calculus, can establish the formal validity of the following statement:\n\nTarski asserts that the notion of IDENTITY (as distinguished from LOGICAL EQUIVALENCE) lies outside the propositional calculus; however, he notes that if a logic is to be of use for mathematics and the sciences it must contain a \"theory\" of IDENTITY. Some authors refer to \"predicate logic with identity\" to emphasize this extension. See more about this below.\n\nAn algebra (and there are many different ones), loosely defined, is a method by which a collection of symbols called variables together with some other symbols such as parentheses (, ) and some sub-set of symbols such as *, +, ~, &, ∨, =, ≡, ∧, ￢ are manipulated within a system of rules. These symbols, and well-formed strings of them, are said to represent objects, but in a specific algebraic system these objects do not have meanings. Thus work inside the algebra becomes an exercise in obeying certain laws (rules) of the algebra's syntax (symbol-formation) rather than in semantics (meaning) of the symbols. The meanings are to be found outside the algebra.\n\nFor a well-formed sequence of symbols in the algebra —a formula— to have some usefulness outside the algebra the symbols are assigned meanings and eventually the variables are assigned values; then by a series of rules the formula is evaluated.\n\nWhen the values are restricted to just two and applied to the notion of simple sentences (e.g. spoken utterances or written assertions) linked by propositional connectives this whole algebraic system of symbols and rules and evaluation-methods is usually called the propositional calculus or the sentential calculus.\n\nWhile some of the familiar rules of arithmetic algebra continue to hold in the algebra of propositions (e.g. the commutative and associative laws for AND and OR), some do not (e.g. the distributive laws for AND, OR and NOT).\n\nAnalysis: In deductive reasoning, philosophers, rhetoricians and mathematicians reduce arguments to formulas and then study them (usually with truth tables) for correctness (soundness). For example: Is the following argument sound?\n\nEngineers analyze the logic circuits they have designed using synthesis techniques and then apply various reduction and minimization techniques to simplify their designs.\n\nSynthesis: Engineers in particular synthesize propositional formulas (that eventually end up as circuits of symbols) from truth tables. For example, one might write down a truth table for how binary addition should behave given the addition of variables \"b\" and \"a\" and \"carry_in\" \"ci\", and the results \"carry_out\" \"co\" and \"sum\" Σ:\nThe simplest type of propositional formula is a propositional variable. Propositions that are simple (atomic), symbolic expressions are often denoted by variables named \"a\", \"b\", or \"A\", \"B\", etc. A propositional variable is intended to represent an atomic proposition (assertion), such as \"It is Saturday\" = \"a\" (here the symbol = means \" … is assigned the variable named …\") or \"I only go to the movies on Monday\" = \"b\".\n\nEvaluation of a propositional formula begins with assignment of a truth value to each variable. Because each variable represents a simple sentence, the truth values are being applied to the \"truth\" or \"falsity\" of these simple sentences.\n\nTruth values in rhetoric, philosophy and mathematics: The truth values are only two: { TRUTH \"T\", FALSITY \"F\" }. An empiricist puts all propositions into two broad classes: \"analytic\"—true no matter what (e.g. tautology), and \"synthetic\"—derived from experience and thereby susceptible to confirmation by third parties (the verification theory of meaning). Empiricits hold that, in general, to arrive at the truth-value of a synthetic proposition, meanings (pattern-matching templates) must first be applied to the words, and then these meaning-templates must be matched against whatever it is that is being asserted. For example, my utterance \"That cow is \"\"!\" Is this statement a TRUTH? Truly I said it. And maybe I \"am\" seeing a blue cow—unless I am lying my statement is a TRUTH relative to the object of my (perhaps flawed) perception. But is the blue cow \"really there\"? What do you see when you look out the same window? In order to proceed with a verification, you will need a prior notion (a template) of both \"cow\" and \"\", and an ability to match the templates against the object of sensation (if indeed there is one).\n\nTruth values in engineering: Engineers try to avoid notions of truth and falsity that bedevil philosophers, but in the final analysis engineers must trust their measuring instruments. In their quest for robustness, engineers prefer to pull known objects from a small library—objects that have well-defined, predictable behaviors even in large combinations, (hence their name for the propositional calculus: \"combinatorial logic\"). The fewest behaviors of a single object are two (e.g. { OFF, ON }, { open, shut }, { UP, DOWN } etc.), and these are put in correspondence with { 0, 1 }. Such elements are called digital; those with a continuous range of behaviors are called analog. Whenever decisions must be made in an analog system, quite often an engineer will convert an analog behavior (the door is 45.32146% UP) to digital (e.g. DOWN=0 ) by use of a comparator.\n\nThus an assignment of meaning of the variables and the two value-symbols { 0, 1 } comes from \"outside\" the formula that represents the behavior of the (usually) compound object. An example is a garage door with two \"limit switches\", one for UP labelled SW_U and one for DOWN labelled SW_D, and whatever else is in the door's circuitry. Inspection of the circuit (either the diagram or the actual objects themselves—door, switches, wires, circuit board, etc.) might reveal that, on the circuit board \"node 22\" goes to +0 volts when the contacts of switch \"SW_D\" are mechanically in contact (\"closed\") and the door is in the \"down\" position (95% down), and \"node 29\" goes to +0 volts when the door is 95% UP and the contacts of switch SW_U are in mechanical contact (\"closed\"). The engineer must define the meanings of these voltages and all possible combinations (all 4 of them), including the \"bad\" ones (e.g. both nodes 22 and 29 at 0 volts, meaning that the door is open and closed at the same time). The circuit mindlessly responds to whatever voltages it experiences without any awareness of TRUTH or FALSEHOOD, RIGHT or WRONG, SAFE or DANGEROUS.\n\nArbitrary propositional formulas are built from propositional variables and other propositional formulas using propositional connectives. Examples of connectives include:\n\nThe following are the connectives common to rhetoric, philosophy and mathematics together with their truth tables. The symbols used will vary from author to author and between fields of endeavor. In general the abbreviations \"T\" and \"F\" stand for the evaluations TRUTH and FALSITY applied to the variables in the propositional formula (e.g. the assertion: \"That cow is blue\" will have the truth-value \"T\" for Truth or \"F\" for Falsity, as the case may be.).\n\nThe connectives go by a number of different word-usages, e.g. \"a IMPLIES b\" is also said \"IF a THEN b\". Some of these are shown in the table.\n\nIn general, the engineering connectives are just the same as the mathematics connectives excepting they tend to evaluate with \"1\" = \"T\" and \"0\" = \"F\". This is done for the purposes of analysis/minimization and synthesis of formulas by use of the notion of \"minterms\" and Karnaugh maps (see below). Engineers also use the words logical product from Boole's notion (a*a = a) and logical sum from Jevons' notion (a+a = a).\n\nThe IF … THEN … ELSE … connective appears as the simplest form of CASE operator of recursion theory and computation theory and is the connective responsible for conditional goto's (jumps, branches). From this one connective all other connectives can be constructed (see more below). Although \" IF c THEN b ELSE a \" sounds like an implication it is, in its most reduced form, a switch that makes a decision and offers as outcome only one of two alternatives \"a\" or \"b\" (hence the name switch statement in the C programming language).\n\nThe following three propositions are equivalent (as indicated by the logical equivalence sign ≡ ):\n\n\nThus IF … THEN … ELSE—unlike implication—does not evaluate to an ambiguous \"TRUTH\" when the first proposition is false i.e. c = F in (c → b). For example, most people would reject the following compound proposition as a nonsensical \"non sequitur\" because the second sentence is \"not connected in meaning\" to the first.\n\nIn recognition of this problem, the sign → of formal implication in the propositional calculus is called material implication to distinguish it from the everyday, intuitive implication.\n\nThe use of the IF … THEN … ELSE construction avoids controversy because it offers a completely deterministic choice between two stated alternatives; it offers two \"objects\" (the two alternatives b and a), and it \"selects\" between them exhaustively and unambiguously. In the truth table below, d1 is the formula: ( (IF c THEN b) AND (IF NOT-c THEN a) ). Its fully reduced form d2 is the formula: ( (c AND b) OR (NOT-c AND a). The two formulas are equivalent as shown by the columns \"=d1\" and \"=d2\". Electrical engineers call the fully reduced formula the AND-OR-SELECT operator. The CASE (or SWITCH) operator is an extension of the same idea to \"n\" possible, but mutually exclusive outcomes. Electrical engineers call the CASE operator a multiplexer.\n\nThe first table of this section stars *** the entry logical equivalence to note the fact that \"Logical equivalence\" is not the same thing as \"identity\". For example, most would agree that the assertion \"That cow is blue\" is identical to the assertion \"That cow is blue\". On the other hand, \"logical\" equivalence sometimes appears in speech as in this example: \" 'The sun is shining' means 'I'm biking' \" Translated into a propositional formula the words become: \"IF 'the sun is shining' THEN 'I'm biking', AND IF 'I'm biking' THEN 'the sun is shining'\":\n\nDifferent authors use different signs for logical equivalence: ↔ (e.g. Suppes, Goodstein, Hamilton), ≡ (e.g. Robbin), ⇔ (e.g. Bender and Williamson). Typically identity is written as the equals sign =. One exception to this rule is found in \"Principia Mathematica\". For more about the philosophy of the notion of IDENTITY see Leibniz's law.\n\nAs noted above, Tarski considers IDENTITY to lie outside the propositional calculus, but he asserts that without the notion, \"logic\" is insufficient for mathematics and the deductive sciences. In fact the sign comes into the propositional calculus when a formula is to be evaluated.\n\nIn some systems there are no truth tables, but rather just formal axioms (e.g. strings of symbols from a set { ~, →, (, ), variables p, p, p, … } and formula-formation rules (rules about how to make more symbol strings from previous strings by use of e.g. substitution and modus ponens). the result of such a calculus will be another formula (i.e. a well-formed symbol string). Eventually, however, if one wants to use the calculus to study notions of validity and truth, one must add axioms that define the behavior of the symbols called \"the truth values\" {T, F} ( or {1, 0}, etc.) relative to the other symbols.\n\nFor example, Hamilton uses two symbols = and ≠ when he defines the notion of a valuation v of any wffs \"A\" and \"B\" in his \"formal statement calculus\" L. A valuation v is a \"function\" from the wffs of his system L to the range (output) { T, F }, given that each variable p, p, p in a wff is assigned an arbitrary truth value { T, F }.\n\nThe two definitions () and () define the equivalent of the truth tables for the ~ (NOT) and → (IMPLICATION) connectives of his system. The first one derives F ≠ T and T ≠ F, in other words \" v(\"A\") does not mean v(~\"A\")\". Definition () specifies the third row in the truth table, and the other three rows then come from an application of definition (). In particular () assigns the value F (or a meaning of \"F\") to the entire expression. The definitions also serve as formation rules that allow substitution of a value previously derived into a formula:\nSome formal systems specify these valuation axioms at the outset in the form of certain formulas such as the law of contradiction or laws of identity and nullity. The choice of which ones to use, together with laws such as commutation and distribution, is up to the system's designer as long as the set of axioms is complete (i.e. sufficient to form and to evaluate any well-formed formula created in the system).\n\nAs shown above, the CASE (IF c THEN b ELSE a ) connective is constructed either from the 2-argument connectives IF … THEN … and AND or from OR and AND and the 1-argument NOT. Connectives such as the n-argument AND (a & b & c & … & n), OR (a ∨ b ∨ c ∨ … ∨ n) are constructed from strings of two-argument AND and OR and written in abbreviated form without the parentheses. These, and other connectives as well, can then used as building blocks for yet further connectives. Rhetoricians, philosophers, and mathematicians use truth tables and the various theorems to analyze and simplify their formulas.\n\nElectrical engineering uses drawn symbols and connect them with lines that stand for the mathematicals act of substitution and replacement. They then verify their drawings with truth tables and simplify the expressions as shown below by use of Karnaugh maps or the theorems. In this way engineers have created a host of \"combinatorial logic\" (i.e. connectives without feedback) such as \"decoders\", \"encoders\", \"mutifunction gates\", \"majority logic\", \"binary adders\", \"arithmetic logic units\", etc.\n\nA definition creates a new symbol and its behavior, often for the purposes of abbreviation. Once the definition is presented, either form of the equivalent symbol or formula can be used. The following symbolism = is following the convention of Reichenbach. Some examples of convenient definitions drawn from the symbol set { ~, &, (, ) } and variables. Each definition is producing a logically equivalent formula that can be used for substitution or replacement.\n\nThe definitions above for OR, IMPLICATION, XOR, and logical equivalence are actually schemas (or \"schemata\"), that is, they are \"models\" (demonstrations, examples) for a general formula \"format\" but shown (for illustrative purposes) with specific letters a, b, c for the variables, whereas any variable letters can go in their places as long as the letter substitutions follow the rule of substitution below.\n\nSubstitution: The variable or sub-formula to be substituted with another variable, constant, or sub-formula must be replaced in all instances throughout the overall formula.\n\nReplacement: (i) the formula to be replaced must be within a tautology, i.e. \"logically equivalent\" ( connected by ≡ or ↔) to the formula that replaces it, and (ii) unlike substitution its permissible for the replacement to occur only in one place (i.e. for one formula).\n\nThe classical presentation of propositional logic (see Enderton 2002) uses the connectives formula_8. The set of formulas over a given set of propositional variables is inductively defined to be the smallest set of expressions such that:\nThis inductive definition can be easily extended to cover additional connectives.\n\nThe inductive definition can also be rephrased in terms of a closure operation (Enderton 2002). Let \"V\" denote a set of propositional variables and let \"X\" denote the set of all strings from an alphabet including symbols in \"V\", left and right parentheses, and all the logical connectives under consideration. Each logical connective corresponds to a formula building operation, a function from \"XX\" to \"XX\":\nThe set of formulas over \"V\" is defined to be the smallest subset of \"XX\" containing \"V\" and closed under all the formula building operations.\n\nThe following \"laws\" of the propositional calculus are used to \"reduce\" complex formulas. The \"laws\" can be verified easily with truth tables. For each law, the principal (outermost) connective is associated with logical equivalence ≡ or identity =. A complete analysis of all 2 combinations of truth-values for its \"n\" distinct variables will result in a column of 1's (T's) underneath this connective. This finding makes each law, by definition, a tautology. And, for a given law, because its formula on the left and right are equivalent (or identical) they can be substituted for one another.\nEnterprising readers might challenge themselves to invent an \"axiomatic system\" that uses the symbols { ∨, &, ~, (, ), variables a, b, c }, the formation rules specified above, and as few as possible of the laws listed below, and then derive as theorems the others as well as the truth-table valuations for ∨, &, and ~. One set attributed to Huntington (1904) (Suppes:204) uses eight of the laws defined below.\n\nNote that if used in an axiomatic system, the symbols 1 and 0 (or T and F) are considered to be wffs and thus obey all the same rules as the variables. Thus the laws listed below are actually axiom schemas, that is, they stand in place of an infinite number of instances. Thus ( x ∨ y ) ≡ ( y ∨ x ) might be used in one instance, ( p ∨ 0 ) ≡ ( 0 ∨ p ) and in another instance ( 1 ∨ q ) ≡ ( q ∨ 1 ), etc.\n\nIn general, to avoid confusion during analysis and evaluation of propositional formulas make liberal use parentheses. However, quite often authors leave them out. To parse a complicated formula one first needs to know the seniority, or rank, that each of the connectives (excepting *) has over the other connectives. To \"well-form\" a formula, start with the connective with the highest rank and add parentheses around its components, then move down in rank (paying close attention to the connective's scope over which the it is working). From most- to least-senior, with the predicate signs ∀x and ∃x, the IDENTITY = and arithmetic signs added for completeness:\n\nThus the formula can be parsed—but note that, because NOT does not obey the distributive law, the parentheses around the inner formula (~c & ~d) is mandatory:\n\nBoth AND and OR obey the commutative law and associative law:\n\nOmitting parentheses in strings of AND and OR: The connectives are considered to be unary (one-variable, e.g. NOT) and binary (i.e. two-variable AND, OR, IMPLIES). For example:\nHowever, a truth-table demonstration shows that the form without the extra parentheses is perfectly adequate.\n\nOmitting parentheses with regards to a single-variable NOT: While ~(a) where a is a single variable is perfectly clear, ~a is adequate and is the usual way this literal would appear. When the NOT is over a formula with more than one symbol, then the parentheses are mandatory, e.g. ~(a ∨ b).\n\nOR distributes over AND and AND distributes over OR. NOT does not distribute over AND or OR. See below about De Morgan's law:\n\nNOT, when distributed over OR or AND, does something peculiar (again, these can be verified with a truth-table):\n\nAbsorption, in particular the first one, causes the \"laws\" of logic to differ from the \"laws\" of arithmetic:\n\nThe sign \" = \" (as distinguished from logical equivalence ≡, alternately ↔ or ⇔) symbolizes the assignment of value or meaning. Thus the string (a & ~(a)) symbolizes \"1\", i.e. it means the same thing as symbol \"1\" \". In some \"systems\" this will be an axiom (definition) perhaps shown as ( (a & ~(a)) = 1 ); in other systems, it may be derived in the truth table below:\n\n\nA key property of formulas is that they can be uniquely parsed to determine the structure of the formula in terms of its propositional variables and logical connectives. When formulas are written in infix notation, as above, unique readability is ensured through an appropriate use of parentheses in the definition of formulas. Alternatively, formulas can be written in Polish notation or reverse Polish notation, eliminating the need for parentheses altogether.\n\nThe inductive definition of infix formulas in the previous section can be converted to a formal grammar in Backus-Naur form:\nIt can be shown that any expression matched by the grammar has a balanced number of left and right parentheses, and any nonempty initial segment of a formula has more left than right parentheses. This fact can be used to give an algorithm for parsing formulas. For example, suppose that an expression \"x\" begins with formula_23. Starting after the second symbol, match the shortest subexpression \"y\" of \"x\" that has balanced parentheses. If \"x\" is a formula, there is exactly one symbol left after this expression, this symbol is a closing parenthesis, and \"y\" itself is a formula. This idea can be used to generate a recursive descent parser for formulas.\n\nExample of parenthesis counting:\n\nThis method locates as \"1\" the principal connective the connective under which the overall evaluation of the formula occurs for the outer-most parentheses (which are often omitted). It also locates the inner-most connective where one would begin evaluatation of the formula without the use of a truth table, e.g. at \"level 6\".\nThe notion of valid argument is usually applied to inferences in arguments, but arguments reduce to propositional formulas and can be evaluated the same as any other propositional formula. Here a valid inference means: \"The formula that represents the inference evaluates to \"truth\" beneath its principal connective, no matter what truth-values are assigned to its variables\", i.e. the formula is a tautology.\nQuite possibly a formula will be \"well-formed\" but not valid. Another way of saying this is: \"Being well-formed is \"necessary\" for a formula to be valid but it is not \"sufficient\".\" The only way to find out if it is \"both\" well-formed \"and\" valid is to submit it to verification with a truth table or by use of the \"laws\":\n\n\nA set of logical connectives is called complete if every propositional formula is tautologically equivalent to a formula with just the connectives in that set. There are many complete sets of connectives, including formula_24, formula_25, and formula_26. There are two binary connectives that are complete on their own, corresponding to NAND and NOR, respectively. Some pairs are not complete, for example formula_27.\n\nThe binary connective corresponding to NAND is called the Sheffer stroke, and written with a vertical bar | or vertical arrow ↑. The completeness of this connective was noted in \"Principia Mathematica\" (1927:xvii). Since it is complete on its own, all other connectives can be expressed using only the stroke. For example, where the symbol \" ≡ \" represents \"logical equivalence\":\nIn particular, the zero-ary connectives formula_28 (representing truth) and formula_29 (representing falsity) can be expressed using the stroke:\n\nThis connective together with { 0, 1 }, ( or { F, T } or { formula_29, formula_28 } ) forms a complete set. In the following the IF...THEN...ELSE relation (c, b, a) = d represents ( (c → b) ∨ (~c → a) ) ≡ ( (c & b) ∨ (~c & a) ) = d\n\nExample: The following shows how a theorem-based proof of \"(c, b, 1) ≡ (c → b)\" would proceed, below the proof is its truth-table verification. ( Note: (c → b) is \"defined\" to be (~c ∨ b) ):\n\nIn the following truth table the column labelled \"taut\" for tautology evaluates logical equivalence (symbolized here by ≡) between the two columns labelled d. Because all four rows under \"taut\" are 1's, the equivalence indeed represents a tautology.\n\nAn arbitrary propositional formula may have a very complicated structure. It is often convenient to work with formulas that have simpler forms, known as normal forms. Some common normal forms include conjunctive normal form and disjunctive normal form. Any propositional formula can be reduced to its conjunctive or disjunctive normal form.\n\nReduction to normal form is relatively simple once a truth table for the formula is prepared. But further attempts to minimize the number of literals (see below) requires some tools: reduction by De Morgan's laws and truth tables can be unwieldy, but Karnaugh maps are very suitable a small number of variables (5 or less). Some sophisticated tabular methods exist for more complex circuits with multiple outputs but these are beyond the scope of this article; for more see Quine–McCluskey algorithm.\n\nIn electrical engineering a variable x or its negation ~(x) is lumped together into a single notion called a literal. A string of literals connected by ANDs is called a term. A string of literals connected by OR is called an alterm. Typically the literal ~(x) is abbreviated ~x. Sometimes the &-symbol is omitted altogether in the manner of algebraic multiplication.\n\n\nIn the same way that a 2-row truth table displays the evaluation of a propositional formula for all 2 possible values of its variables, n variables produces a 2-square Karnaugh map (even though we cannot draw it in its full-dimensional realization). For example, 3 variables produces 2 = 8 rows and 8 Karnaugh squares; 4 variables produces 16 truth-table rows and 16 squares and therefore 16 minterms. Each Karnaugh-map square and its corresponding truth-table evaluation represents one minterm.\n\nAny propositional formula can be reduced to the \"logical sum\" (OR) of the active (i.e. \"1\"- or \"T\"-valued) minterms. When in this form the formula is said to be in disjunctive normal form. But even though it is in this form, it is not necessarily minimized with respect to either the number of terms or the number of literals.\n\nIn the following table, observe the peculiar numbering of the rows: (0, 1, 3, 2, 6, 7, 5, 4, 0). The first column is the decimal equivalent of the binary equivalent of the digits \"cba\", in other words:\n\nThis numbering comes about because as one moves down the table from row to row only one variable at a time changes its value. Gray code is derived from this notion. This notion can be extended to three and four-dimensional hypercubes called Hasse diagrams where each corner's variables change only one at a time as one moves around the edges of the cube. Hasse diagrams (hypercubes) flattened into two dimensions are either Veitch diagrams or Karnaugh maps (these are virtually the same thing).\n\nWhen working with Karnaugh maps one must always keep in mind that the top edge \"wrap arounds\" to the bottom edge, and the left edge wraps around to the right edge—the Karnaugh diagram is really a three- or four- or n-dimensional flattened object.\n\nVeitch improved the notion of Venn diagrams by converting the circles to abutting squares, and Karnaugh simplified the Veitch diagram by converting the minterms, written in their literal-form (e.g. ~abc~d) into numbers. The method proceeds as follows:\n\nProduce the formula's truth table. Number its rows using the binary-equivalents of the variables (usually just sequentially 0 through n-1) for n variables.\n\nExample: ((c & d) ∨ (p & ~(c & (~d)))) = q in conjunctive normal form is:\n\nHowever, this formula be reduced both in the number of terms (from 4 to 3) and in the total count of its literals (12 to 6).\n\nUse the values of the formula (e.g. \"p\") found by the truth-table method and place them in their into their respective (associated) Karnaugh squares (these are numbered per the Gray code convention). If values of \"d\" for \"don't care\" appear in the table, this adds flexibility during the reduction phase.\n\nMinterms of adjacent (abutting) 1-squares (T-squares) can be reduced with respect to the number of their literals, and the number terms also will be reduced in the process. Two abutting squares (2 x 1 horizontal or 1 x 2 vertical, even the edges represent abutting squares) lose one literal, four squares in a 4 x 1 rectangle (horizontal or vertical) or 2 x 2 square (even the four corners represent abutting squares) lose two literals, eight squares in a rectangle lose 3 literals, etc. (One seeks out the largest square or rectangles and ignores the smaller squares or rectangles contained totally within it. ) This process continues until all abutting squares are accounted for, at which point the propositional formula is minimized.\n\nFor example, squares #3 and #7 abut. These two abutting squares can lose one literal (e.g. \"p\" from squares #3 and #7), four squares in a rectangle or square lose two literals, eight squares in a rectangle lose 3 literals, etc. (One seeks out the largest square or rectangles.) This process continues until all abutting squares are accounted for, at which point the propositional formula is said to be minimized.\n\nExample: The map method usually is done by inspection. The following example expands the algebraic method to show the \"trick\" behind the combining of terms on a Karnaugh map:\n\nObserve that by the Idempotency law (A ∨ A) = A, we can create more terms. Then by association and distributive laws the variables to disappear can be paired, and then \"disappeared\" with the Law of contradiction (x & ~x)=0. The following uses brackets [ and ] only to keep track of the terms; they have no special significance:\n\nGiven the following examples-as-definitions, what does one make of the subsequent reasoning:\n\nThen assign the variable \"s\" to the left-most sentence \"This sentence is simple\". Define \"compound\" c = \"not simple\" ~s, and assign c = ~s to \"This sentence is compound\"; assign \"j\" to \"It [this sentence] is conjoined by AND\". The second sentence can be expressed as:\n\nIf truth values are to be placed on the sentences c = ~s and j, then all are clearly FALSEHOODS: e.g. \"This sentence is complex\" is a FALSEHOOD (it is \"simple\", by definition). So their conjunction (AND) is a falsehood. But when taken in its assembed form, the sentence a TRUTH.\n\nThis is an example of the paradoxes that result from an impredicative definition—that is, when an object m has a property P, but the object m is defined in terms of property P. The best advice for a rhetorician or one involved in deductive analysis is avoid impredicative definitions but at the same time be on the lookout for them because they can indeed create paradoxes. Engineers, on the other hand, put them to work in the form of propositional formulas with feedback.\n\nThe notion of a propositional formula appearing as one of its own variables requires a formation rule that allows the assignment of the formula to a variable. In general there is no stipulation (either axiomatic or truth-table systems of objects and relations) that forbids this from happening.\n\nThe simplest case occurs when an OR formula becomes one its own inputs e.g. p = q. Begin with (p ∨ s) = q, then let p = q. Observe that q's \"definition\" depends on itself \"q\" as well as on \"s\" and the OR connective; this definition of q is thus impredicative.\nEither of two conditions can result: oscillation or memory.\n\nIt helps to think of the formula as a black box. Without knowledge of what is going on \"inside\" the formula-\"box\" from the outside it would appear that the output is no longer a function of the inputs alone. That is, sometimes one looks at q and sees 0 and other times 1. To avoid this problem one has to know the state (condition) of the \"hidden\" variable p inside the box (i.e. the value of q fed back and assigned to p). When this is known the apparent inconsistency goes away.\n\nTo understand [predict] the behavior of formulas with feedback requires the more sophisticated analysis of sequential circuits. Propositional formulas with feedback lead, in their simplest form, to state machines; they also lead to memories in the form of Turing tapes and counter-machine counters. From combinations of these elements one can build any sort of bounded computational model (e.g. Turing machines, counter machines, register machines, Macintosh computers, etc.).\n\nIn the abstract (ideal) case the simplest oscillating formula is a NOT fed back to itself: ~(~(p=q)) = q. Analysis of an abstract (ideal) propositional formula in a truth-table reveals an inconsistency for both p=1 and p=0 cases: When p=1, q=0, this cannot be because p=q; ditto for when p=0 and q=1.\n\nOscillation with delay: If an delay (ideal or non-ideal) is inserted in the abstract formula between p and q then p will oscillate between 1 and 0: 101010...101... \"ad infinitum\". If either of the delay and NOT are not abstract (i.e. not ideal), the type of analysis to be used will be dependent upon the exact nature of the objects that make up the oscillator; such things fall outside mathematics and into engineering.\n\nAnalysis requires a delay to be inserted and then the loop cut between the delay and the input \"p\". The delay must be viewed as a kind of proposition that has \"qd\" (q-delayed) as output for \"q\" as input. This new proposition adds another column to the truth table. The inconsistency is now between \"qd\" and \"p\" as shown in red; two stable states resulting:\n\nWithout delay, inconsistencies must be eliminated from a truth table analysis. With the notion of \"delay\", this condition presents itself as a momentary inconsistency between the fed-back output variable q and p = q.\n\nA truth table reveals the rows where inconsistencies occur between p = q at the input and q at the output. After \"breaking\" the feed-back, the truth table construction proceeds in the conventional manner. But afterwards, in every row the output q is compared to the now-independent input p and any inconsistencies between p and q are noted (i.e. p=0 together with q=1, or p=1 and q=0); when the \"line\" is \"remade\" both are rendered impossible by the Law of contradiction ~(p & ~p)). Rows revealing inconsistencies are either considered transient states or just eliminated as inconsistent and hence \"impossible\".\n\nAbout the simplest memory results when the output of an OR feeds back to one of its inputs, in this case output \"q\" feeds back into \"p\". Given that the formula is first evaluated (initialized) with p=0 & q=0, it will \"flip\" once when \"set\" by s=1. Thereafter, output \"q\" will sustain \"q\" in the \"flipped\" condition (state q=1). This behavior, now time-dependent, is shown by the state diagram to the right of the once-flip.\n\nThe next simplest case is the \"set-reset\" flip-flop shown below the once-flip. Given that r=0 & s=0 and q=0 at the outset, it is \"set\" (s=1) in a manner similar to the once-flip. It however has a provision to \"reset\" q=0 when \"r\"=1. And additional complication occurs if both set=1 and reset=1. In this formula, the set=1 \"forces\" the output q=1 so when and if (s=0 & r=1) the flip-flop will be reset. Or, if (s=1 & r=0) the flip-flop will be set. In the abstract (ideal) instance in which s=1 ⇒ s=0 & r=1 ⇒ r=0 simultaneously, the formula q will be indeterminate (undecidable). Due to delays in \"real\" OR, AND and NOT the result will be unknown at the outset but thereafter predicable.\n\nThe formula known as \"clocked flip-flop\" memory (\"c\" is the \"clock\" and \"d\" is the \"data\") is given below. It works as follows: When c = 0 the data d (either 0 or 1) cannot \"get through\" to affect output q. When c = 1 the data d \"gets through\" and output q \"follows\" d's value. When c goes from 1 to 0 the last value of the data remains \"trapped\" at output \"q\". As long as c=0, d can change value without causing q to change.\n\n\nThe state diagram is similar in shape to the flip-flop's state diagram, but with different labelling on the transitions.\n\nBertrand Russell (1912:74) lists three laws of thought that derive from Aristotle: (1) The law of identity: \"Whatever is, is.\", (2) The law of contradiction: \"Nothing cannot both be and not be\", and (3) The law of excluded middle: \"Everything must be or not be.\"\n\nThe use of the word \"everything\" in the law of excluded middle renders Russell's expression of this law open to debate. If restricted to an expression about BEING or QUALITY with reference to a finite collection of objects (a finite \"universe of discourse\") -- the members of which can be investigated one after another for the presence or absence of the assertion—then the law is considered intuitionistically appropriate. Thus an assertion such as: \"This object must either BE or NOT BE (in the collection)\", or \"This object must either have this QUALITY or NOT have this QUALITY (relative to the objects in the collection)\" is acceptable. See more at Venn diagram.\n\nAlthough a propositional calculus originated with Aristotle, the notion of an \"algebra\" applied to propositions had to wait until the early 19th century. In an (adverse) reaction to the 2000 year tradition of Aristotle's syllogisms, John Locke's \"Essay concerning human understanding (1690)\" used the word semiotics (theory of the use of symbols). By 1826 Richard Whately had critically analyzed the syllogistic logic with a sympathy toward Locke's semiotics. George Bentham's work (1827) resulted in the notion of \"quantification of the predicate\" (1827) (nowadays symbolized as ∀ ≡ \"for all\"). A \"row\" instigated by William Hamilton over a priority dispute with Augustus De Morgan \"inspired George Boole to write up his ideas on logic, and to publish them as MAL [Mathematical Analysis of Logic] in 1847\" (Grattin-Guinness and Bornet 1997:xxviii).\n\nAbout his contribution Grattin-Guinness and Bornet comment:\n\nGottlob Frege's massive undertaking (1879) resulted in a formal calculus of propositions, but his symbolism is so daunting that it had little influence excepting on one person: Bertrand Russell. First as the student of Alfred North Whitehead he studied Frege's work and suggested a (famous and notorious) emendation with respect to it (1904) around the problem of an antinomy that he discovered in Frege's treatment ( cf Russell's paradox ). Russell's work led to a collatoration with Whitehead that, in the year 1912, produced the first volume of \"Principia Mathematica\" (PM). It is here that what we consider \"modern\" propositional logic first appeared. In particular, PM introduces NOT and OR and the assertion symbol ⊦ as primitives. In terms of these notions they define IMPLICATION → ( def. *1.01: ~p ∨ q ), then AND (def. *3.01: ~(~p ∨ ~q) ), then EQUIVALENCE p ←→ q (*4.01: (p → q) & ( q → p ) ).\n\n\nComputation and switching logic:\n\n"}
{"id": "51495200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51495200", "title": "Prosodic bootstrapping", "text": "Prosodic bootstrapping\n\nProsodic bootstrapping (also known as phonological bootstrapping) in linguistics refers to the hypothesis that learners of a primary language (L1) use prosodic features such as pitch, tempo, rhythm, amplitude, and other auditory aspects from the speech signal as a cue to identify other properties of grammar, such as syntactic structure. Acoustically signaled prosodic units in the stream of speech may provide critical perceptual cues by which infants initially discover syntactic phrases in their language. Although these features by themselves are not enough to help infants learn the entire syntax of their native language, they provide various cues about different grammatical properties of the language, such as identifying the ordering of heads and complements in the language using stress prominence, indicating the location of phrase boundaries, and word boundaries. It is argued that prosody of a language plays an initial role in the acquisition of the first language helping children to uncover the syntax of the language, mainly due to the fact that children are sensitive to prosodic cues at a very young age.\n\nThe argument for prosodic bootstrapping was first introduced by Gleitman and Wanner (1982), who observed that infants might use prosodic cues (particularly acoustic cues) to discover underlying grammatical information about their native language. These cues (e.g intonation contour in a question phrase, lengthening a final segment) could aid infants in dividing the speech input into different lexical units, and furthermore aid in placing these units into syntactic phrases appropriate to the language.\n\nProsodic bootstrapping may also provide an explanation to the problem as to how infants segment continuous input. Just like adult speakers, children are exposed to continuous speech. Hearing continuous speech poses a problem for children learning their native language because pauses in speech do not align with word boundaries. As a result, children have to construct word representations from the speech that they hear.\n\nA study conducted by Christophe et al (1994) showed that infants, aging three-days old, are sensitive to acoustic properties of a language. It was shown that three-day olds are able to discriminate bisyllabic stimuli with the same segments based on whether they were extracted from within a word or across a word boundary. The duration of the word initial consonant and the word final vowel are the cues for the existence of a word boundary, which infants may use to learn about syntactic structure.\n\nAnother main support for the prosodic bootstrapping hypothesis is that the use of prosodic elements to segment parts of speech can occur at a very early age, as early as 3 days, where infants have shown the ability to differentiate languages based on phonological characteristics alone, and the fact that the use of prosodic cues occurs before the use of lexical or syntactic data. This has led to hypothesis of \"bootstrapping from the signal\"/\"prosodic bootstrapping\", which has three main elements: \n\nA phonological phrase boundary indicates how the continuous speech stream is broken up into smaller units, which infants use to pick out and more closely identify individual parts of the sentence. A phonological phrase can contain between four to seven syllables, and can be detected by infants, due to the fact that the edges of the phrases are either strengthened or lengthened. Various studies have been done to test if prosody helps with acquisition of syntax, morphology, and phonology.\n\nAnother acoustic cue that indicates a prosodic boundary is the duration of a pause. These pauses will usually be longer in duration at the edge of a word boundary, when referring to clause boundaries. For example, the two sentences below, while seemingly similar on the surface representation, have different prosodic structure, which correlates to the different syntactic structure (\"...\" = longer duration of pause in speech): \nUsing different durations of pause, the underlying syntactic structure can be better distinguished by the listener.\n\nFor infants who are learning their native language, it is difficult to extract words from speech waves because pronounced words are not separated by silence. There are several proposals for lexical acquisition. The first is that children hear words in isolation: if a new piece goes between two words that are known, the new piece must be a new word. The second proposal is that there are some cues in the speech that give signal to the presence of a word boundary: duration, pitch, energy.\n\nThe fact that speech is presented in a continuous stream without pause only makes the task of acquiring a language more difficult for infants. It has been proposed that prosodic features such as the strength of certain sounds, relative to their location in the word, can be used to break apart and identify fragments within the speech stream, in order to differentiate between potentially ambiguous sentences. In English for example, the final [d] in the word \"bold\" tends to be \"weak\", in that it is not fully released. On the other hand, an initial [d] in a word such as \"dime\" is more clearly released, opposed to its word-final counterpart. This difference in strong v. weak sounds may help to better identify where the sound occurs in the word, whether at the beginning or the end.\n\nStudies have shown that phonological boundaries can be interpreted as word boundaries, which further aids the child in the task of developing a lexicon. For example, Millotte et al (2010) tested 16-month olds, observing how children use phonological phrase boundaries to constrain lexical access. When infants heard a prosodic boundary, they were able to detect the existence of a word boundary. In the experiments authors used the conditioned head-turn procedure which showed that when infants were trained to turn their heads for a bisyllabic word, they responded to sentences that contained this word more often than to those that contained both syllables of this word, but separated by a phonological phrase boundary.\n\nBecause prosodic boundaries will never occur inside of a word, thus infants will not be constrained in how they identify words in the speech signal. For example, children can differentiate between words such as \"dice\" and \"red ice\", even though both are phonologically similar. This is because a prosodic boundary will not appear in the middle of the word *(d][ice) but around the word instead ([dice]).\n\nChildren use phonological phrase boundaries to constrain lexical access. They infer the existence of a word boundary given a prosodic boundary. If two sequences differ in prosody while being made up of identical segments (pay per vs. paper), children treat them as different sequences. Studies that measured cues from prosody to phonological phrases have been done in a variety of languages that differ from each other, providing support that phonological phrases could possibly aid in acquiring lexicon universally.\n\nIn addition to helping to identify lexical items, a key element of prosodic bootstrapping involves using prosodic cues to identify syntactic knowledge about the language. Because prosodic phrase boundaries are correlated to syntactic boundaries, listeners can determine the syntactic category of a word, using only prosodic boundary information. Christophe et al. (2008) demonstrated that adults could use prosodic phrases to determine the syntactic category of ambiguous words. Listeners were provided two sentences with an ambiguous word [mɔʀ], which could either belong to a verb category (\"mord\", translated as \"it bites\") or a noun category (\"mort\", translated as the adjective \"dead\").\nThe table above depicts the two sentences heard by French-speaking adults in Christophe et al. (2008), where the emboldened word is the phonetically ambiguous word, and the brackets represent phonological phrase boundaries. Using the position of the prosodic boundaries, adults were able to determine which category the ambiguous word [mɔʀ] belonged to, since the word is assigned to a different phonological phrase, depending on its syntactic category and semantic meaning in the sentence.\n\nAn important tool for acquiring syntax is the use of function words (e.g. articles, verb morphemes, prepositions) to point out syntactic constituent boundaries. These function words frequently occur in language, and generally appear at the borders of prosodic units. Because of their high frequency in the input, and the fact that they tend to have only one to two syllables, infants are able to pick out these function words when they occur at the edges of a prosodic unit. In turn, the function words can help learners determine the syntactic category of the neighboring words (e.g., learning that the word \"the\" [ðə] introduces a noun phrase, and that suffixes such as \"-ed\" require a verb to precede it). For example, in the sentence \"The turtle is eating a pigeon\", through the use of function words such as \"the\" and the auxiliary verb \"is\", children can get better sense as to where prosodic boundaries fall, resulting in a division such as [The turtle][is eating][a pigeon], where brackets indicate a boundary. As a result, infants tend to look out for these words to better identify the beginnings and ends of the prosodic units. Noun articles like \"the\" or \"a\", in English for example, can only be followed by noun, since they are the only words that can fit this category; one would never hear a sentence such as \"The *destroy was widespread\". Likewise, the use of verb morphemes (e.g past tense \"-ed\" [d]/[t], continuous \"-ing\" [iŋ], auxiliary \"is\" [ɪz]) indicate that a verb must precede it, and indicate that no other word can fill the category besides a verb (e.g. *\"I saw that he *happyed yesterday\").\n\nIn a study by Carvalho et al (2016), experimenters tested preschool children, where they showed that by the age of 4 prosody is used in real time to determine what kind of syntactic structure sentences could have. The children in the experiments were able to determine the target word as a noun when it was in a sentence with a prosodic structure typical for a noun and as a verb when it was in a sentence with a prosodic structure typical for a verb. Children by the age of 4 use phrasal prosody to determine the syntactic structure of different sentences.\n\nRhythm is an important aspect of prosody in terms of syllable timing and emphasis, and varies from language to language. Languages are grouped into different categories based on their rhythm, primarily in stress based, rhythm (syllable) based, and mora based categories. Infants around 6 months of age have shown to be able to differentiate between different languages solely on the basis of these particular stress differences. More specifically, infants by 2 months of age can from vague categories of different rhythmic structures, those that are native classes, and those that are nonnative. Before reaching 2 months, infants can distinguish between languages of any class, but by the age of 2 months can only put languages in the native or nonnative class. For example, English speaking infants will have a hard time differentiating between English and Dutch (since both are stress based languages), but will be able to distinguish Russian (a stress based language) and Japanese (a mora based language). By 2 months however, an English speaking baby will group syllable-timed and mora-timed languages into one \"nonnative\" group, and thus will have a hard time differentiating languages such as French (syllable-timed) and Japanese (mora-timed). This stress variance is also a useful tool for bilingual infants, and acts as a strong indicator when differentiating between different languages being learned.\n\nThe question of whether the head direction parameter can be detected using prosodic cues has been tested with French babies listening to Turkish sentences, in order to determine whether or not 6 to 12 weeks old babies are sensitive to prosodic prominence in speech. Setting the head direction parameter allows infants to acquire a hierarchal branching structure for a particular language, which determines whether the language is left-headed (right-branching) or right-headed (left-branching). This particular experiment (Christophe et al. 2003) had 6- to 12-week-old babies listening to modified \"nonsense\" (the modified French and modified Turkish sentences in the table below) sentences that were neither French nor Turkish, but only differed in the fact that the Turkish based sentences were head final and French based sentenced were head initial. The reasoning behind this is that infants might be able detect prominence within these phonological phrases, as prominence has been shown to follow a systematic pattern with languages; head-initial languages have prominence on the right (French), while head-final languages have prominence on the left (Turkish).\n\nThese nonsense sentences were created in order to eliminate any non-prosodic interference (e.g phonological differences, different number of syllables, etc.) thus babies would only be able to differentiate between the two languages based on the prominence of prosodic cues in the sentences. \nThe table above depicts the sentences heard by the French babies (translated as \"The large orangoutang was nervous\"), where the bolded and enlarged letter indicates word stress and prominence (Christophe et al. 2003). As predicted, French babies tended to prefer the modified nonsense French phrases, based solely on prosodic prominence, given by the location of the head direction parameter.\n\nJusczyk et al (1992) tested 9 month-olds, where they showed that infants are sensitive to acoustic correlates of main phrasal units that are present in the prosody of English sentences. The prosodic markers in the input are longer durations of the syllable that precedes a main phrasal boundary and declinations in fundamental frequency.\n\nSeveral language models have been used to show that in a computational simulation, prosody can help children acquire syntax.\n\nIn one study, Gutman et al (2015) build a computational model that used prosodic structure and function words to jointly determine the syntactic categories of words. The model assigned syntactic labels to prosodic phrases with success, using phrasal prosody to determine the boundaries of phrases, and function words at the edges for classification. The study presented the model of how early syntax acquisition is possible with the help of prosody: children access phrasal prosody and pay attention to words placed at the edges of prosodic boundaries. The idea behind the computational implementation is that prosodic boundaries signal syntactic boundaries and function words that are used to label the prosodic phrases. As an example, a sentence \"She's eating a cherry\" has a prosodic structure such as [She's eating] [a cherry] where the skeleton of a syntactic structure is [VN NP] (VN is for verbal nucleus where a phrase contains a verb and adjacent words such as auxiliaries and subject pronouns). Here, children may utilize their knowledge of function words and prosodic boundaries in order to create an approximation of syntactic structure.\n\nIn a study by Pate et al (2011), where a computational language model was presented, it was shown that acoustic cues can be helpful for determining syntactic structure when they are used with lexical information. Combining acoustic cues with lexical cues may usefully provide children with initial information about the place of syntactic phrases which supports the prosodic bootstrapping hypothesis.\n\nA key criticism of the bootstrapping theory in general is that these mechanisms (whether they be syntactic, semantic, or prosodic) serve mainly as a starting point for learning the language. That is, the bootstrapping mechanisms are only useful up to a certain point in linguistic development for infants, and thus there might be some other mechanism that might be used later on, since the bootstrapping mechanisms primarily use information that is not controlled for \"cross-linguistic variation\" (information that varies from language to language).\n\nRegarding prosodic bootstrapping in particular, there is speculation on how accurately prosodic phrases map to syntactic structure. That is, phrases with identical syntactic structure can have different possible prosodic structures. In the sentence \"The cat chased the rat that ate the cheese.\", the prosodic structure would resemble:\n\n[The cat] [chased the rat] [that ate the cheese]\n\nHowever, the prosodic unit [chased the rat] in this case is not a syntactic constituent, demonstrating that not every prosodic unit is a syntactic unit. Rather, one can observe that a language may not always provide one-to-one mapping from prosodic information to linguistic units. Prosody does not give children direct and systematic information from prosodic structure to linguistic structure.\n\nJusczyk (1997) argued that most people who accept this theory assume that children are drawing on \"a range of information available in the speech signal that extends beyond prosody\", further explaining that relying on prosodic information alone is not enough to learn the structure of the language.\n\n"}
{"id": "19417078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19417078", "title": "Reflective writing", "text": "Reflective writing\n\nReflective writing is an analytical practice in which the writer describes a real or imaginary scene, event, interaction, passing thought, memory, form, adding a personal reflection on the meaning of the item or incident, thought, feeling, emotion, or situation in his or her life. Many reflective writers keep in mind questions, such as \"What did I notice?\", \"How has this changed me?\" or \"What might I have done differently?\".\n\nThus, the focus is on writing that is not merely descriptive. The writer revisits the scene to note details and emotions, reflect on meaning, examine what went well or revealed a need for additional learning, and relate what transpired to the rest of life.\n\nReflective writing is also analyzing the event or idea (thinking in depth and from different perspectives, and trying to explain, often with reference to a model or theory from the subject.)\n"}
{"id": "7264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7264", "title": "Rhyming slang", "text": "Rhyming slang\n\nRhyming slang is a form of slang word construction in the English language. It is especially prevalent in the UK, Ireland and Australia. It started in the early 19th century in the East End of London; hence its alternative name, Cockney rhyming slang. In the United States, especially the criminal underworld of the West Coast between 1880 and 1920, rhyming slang has sometimes been known as Australian slang.\n\nThe construction of rhyming slang involves replacing a common word with a phrase of two or more words, the last of which rhymes with the original word; then, in almost all cases, omitting, from the end of the phrase, the secondary rhyming word (which is thereafter implied), making the origin and meaning of the phrase elusive to listeners not in the know.\n\nThe form that is followed is made clear with the following example. The rhyming phrase \"apples and pears\" evolved to mean \"stairs\". Following the pattern of omission, \"and pears\" is dropped, thus the spoken phrase \"I'm going up the apples\" means \"I'm going up the stairs\".\n\nThe following are further common examples of these phrases:\n\nThus a construction of the following type could conceivably arise: \"It nearly knocked me off me plates – the septic was wearing a syrup! I couldn't believe me mincers, so I ran up the apples, got straight on the dog to me trouble and we had a Turkish.\"\n\nIn some examples the meaning is further obscured by adding a second iteration of rhyme and truncation to the original rhymed phrase. For example, the word \"Aris\" is often used to indicate the buttocks. This is the result of a double rhyme, starting with the original rough synonym \"arse\", which is rhymed with \"bottle and glass\", leading to \"bottle\". \"Bottle\" was then rhymed with \"Aristotle\" and truncated to \"Aris\".\n\nGhil'ad Zuckermann, a linguist and revivalist, has proposed a distinction between rhyming slang based on sound only, and phono-semantic rhyming slang, which includes a semantic link between the slang expression and its referent (the thing it refers to). An example of rhyming slang based only on sound is the Cockney \"tea leaf\" (thief). An example of phono-semantic rhyming slang is the Cockney \"sorrowful tale\" ((three months in) jail), in which case the person coining the slang term sees a semantic link, sometimes jocular, between the Cockney expression and its referent.\n\nThe use of rhyming slang has spread beyond the purely dialectal and some examples are to be found in the mainstream British English lexicon, although many users may be unaware of the origin of those words.\n\nMost of the words changed by this process are nouns, but a few are adjectival e.g. \"bales\" of cotton (rotten), or the adjectival phrase \"on one's tod\" for \"on one's own\", after Tod Sloan, a famous jockey.\n\nRhyming slang is believed to have originated in the mid-19th century in the East End of London, with several sources suggesting some time in the 1840s. According to a Routledge's slang dictionary from 1972, English rhyming slang dates from around 1840 and arose in the East End of London; John Camden Hotten's 1859 \"Dictionary of Modern Slang, Cant, and Vulgar Words\" likewise states that it originated in the 1840s (\"about twelve or fifteen years ago\"), but with \"chaunters\" and \"patterers\" in the Seven Dials area of London. The reference is to travelling salesmen of certain kinds, chaunters selling sheet music and patterers offered cheap, tawdry goods at fairs and markets up and down the country. Hotten's \"Dictionary\" included the first known \"Glossary of the Rhyming Slang\", which included later mainstays such as \"frog and toad\" (the main road) and \"apples and pears (stairs), as well as many more obscure examples, e.g. \"Battle of the Nile\" (a tile, a vulgar term for a hat), \"Duke of York\" (take a walk), and \"Top of Rom\" (home).\n\nIt remains a matter of speculation whether rhyming slang was a linguistic accident, a game, or a cryptolect developed intentionally to confuse non-locals. If deliberate, it may also have been used to maintain a sense of community, or to allow traders to talk amongst themselves in marketplaces in order to facilitate collusion, without customers knowing what they were saying, or by criminals to confuse the police (see thieves' cant).\n\nThe English academic, lexicographer and radio personality Terence Dolan has suggested that rhyming slang may have been invented by Irish immigrants to London \"so the actual English wouldn't understand what they were talking about.\"\n\nMany examples of rhyming slang are based on locations in London, such as \"Peckham Rye\", meaning \"tie\" (as in necktie), which dates from the late 19th century; \"Hampstead Heath\", meaning \"teeth\" (usually as \"Hampsteads\"), which was first recorded in 1887; and \"Barnet Fair\", meaning \"hair\", which dates from the 1850s.\n\nBy the mid-20th century many rhyming slang expressions used the names of contemporary personalities, especially actors and performers: for example \"Gregory Peck\" meaning \"neck\" and also \"cheque\"; \"Ruby Murray\" meaning \"curry\"; \"Alans\", meaning \"knickers\" from Alan Whicker; \"Max Miller\" meaning \"pillow\" when pronounced /ˈpilə/ and \"Henry Halls\" for \"balls (testicles)\".\n\nThe use of personal names as rhymes continued into the late 20th century, for example \"Tony Blairs\" meaning \"flares\", as in trousers with a wide bottom (previously this was \"Lionel Blairs\" and this change illustrates the ongoing mutation of the forms of expression) and \"Britney Spears\", meaning \"beers\".\n\nMany examples have passed into common usage. Some substitutions have become relatively widespread in England in their contracted form. \"To have a butcher's\", meaning to have a look, originates from \"butcher's hook\", an S-shaped hook used by butchers to hang up meat, and dates from the late 19th century but has existed independently in general use from around the 1930s simply as \"butchers\". Similarly, \"use your loaf\", meaning \"use your head\", derives from \"loaf of bread\" and also dates from the late 19th century but came into independent use in the 1930s. To \"have a giraffe\" is commonly employed for a \"laugh\".\n\nIn some cases, false etymologies exist. For example, the term \"barney\" has been used to mean an altercation or fight since the late 19th century, although without a clear derivation. In the 2001 feature film \"Ocean's Eleven\", the explanation for the term is that it derives from Barney Rubble, the name of a cartoon character from the \"Flintstones\" television program many decades later in origin, and so an obviously incorrect explanation.\n\nRhyming slang is used mainly in London in England but can to some degree be understood across the country. Some constructions, however, rely on particular regional accents for the rhymes to work. For instance, the term \"Charing Cross\" (a place in London), used to mean \"horse\" since the mid-19th century, does not work for a speaker without the lot–cloth split, common in London at that time but not nowadays. A similar example is \"Joanna\" meaning \"piano\", which is based on the pronunciation of \"piano\" as \"pianna\" . Unique formations also exist in other parts of the United Kingdom, such as in the East Midlands, where the local accent has formed \"Derby Road\", which rhymes with \"cold\".\n\nOutside England, rhyming slang is used in many English-speaking countries in the Commonwealth of Nations, with local variations. For example, in Australian slang, the term for an English person is \"pommy\", which has been proposed as a rhyme on \"pomegranate\" rhyming with \"immigrant\".\n\nRhyming slang as such is not in general use in the United States, but a few notable exceptions include:\n\nRhyming slang is continually evolving, and new phrases are introduced all the time; new personalities replace old ones—pop culture introduces new words—as in \"I haven't a Scooby\" (from Scooby Doo, the eponymous cartoon dog of the cartoon series) meaning \"I haven't a clue\".\n\nRhyming slang is often used as a substitute for words regarded as taboo, often to the extent that the association with the taboo word becomes unknown over time. \"\" (often used to mean \"foolish person\") originates from the most famous of all fox hunts, the \"Berkeley Hunt\" meaning \"cunt\"; \"\" (often used in the context \"what you said is rubbish\") originates from \"cobbler's awls\", meaning \"balls\" (as in testicles); and \"hampton\" meaning \"prick\" (as in penis) originates from \"Hampton Wick\" (a place in London).\n\nLesser taboo terms include \"pony and trap\" for \"crap\" (as in defecate, but often used to denote nonsense or low quality); to blow a raspberry (rude sound of derision) from raspberry tart for \"fart\"; \"D'Oyly Carte (an opera company) for \"fart\"; \"Jimmy Riddle\" (an American country musician) for \"piddle\" (as in urinate), \"J. Arthur Rank\" (a film mogul), \"Jodrell Bank\" or \"ham shank\" for \"wank\", \"Bristol Cities\" (contracted to 'Bristols') for \"titties\", etc. \"Taking the Mick\" or \"taking the Mickey\" is thought to be a rhyming slang form of \"taking the piss\", where \"Mick\" came from \"Mickey Bliss\".\n\nRhyming slang terms for Jew have included \"Chelsea Blue\", \"Stick of Glue\", \"Four by Two\", \"Buckle my shoe\", and \"Front Wheel Skid\", which is a more arcane form of the insulting term \"Yid\" (which itself comes from the Yiddish word for a Jew).\n\nIn December 2004 Joe Pasquale, winner of the fourth series of ITV's \"I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!\", became well known for his frequent use of the term \"Jacobs\", for Jacob's Crackers, a rhyming slang term for knackers i.e. testicles.\n\nCary Grant's character teaches rhyming slang to his female companion in \"Mr. Lucky\" (1943), describing it as 'Australian rhyming slang'. Rhyming slang is also used and described in a scene of the 1967 film \"To Sir, with Love\" starring Sidney Poitier, where the English students tell their foreign teacher that the slang is a drag and something for old people. The closing song of the 1969 crime caper, \"The Italian Job\", (\"Getta Bloomin' Move On\" a.k.a. \"The Self Preservation Society\") contains many slang terms. \n\nRhyming slang has been used to lend authenticity to an East End setting. Examples include \"Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels\" (1998) (wherein the slang is translated via subtitles in one scene); \"The Limey\" (1999); \"Sexy Beast\" (2000); \"Snatch\" (2000); \"Ocean's Eleven\" (2001); and \"Austin Powers in Goldmember\" (2002); \"It's All Gone Pete Tong\" (2004), after BBC radio disc jockey Pete Tong whose name is used in this context as rhyming slang for \"wrong\"; \"Green Street Hooligans\" (2005). In \"Margin Call\" (2011), Will Emerson, played by London-born actor Paul Bettany, asks a friend on the telephone, \"How's the trouble and strife?\" (\"wife\").\n\nCockneys vs Zombies (2012) mocked the genesis of rhyming slang terms when a Cockney character calls zombies \"Trafalgars\" to even his Cockney fellows' puzzlement; he then explains it thus: \"Trafalgar square - fox and hare - hairy cheek - five day week - weak and feeble - pins and needles - needle and stitch - Abercrombie and Fitch - Abercrombie: zombie\".\n\nOne early US show to regularly feature rhyming slang was the Saturday morning children's show \"The Bugaloos\" (1970–72), with the character of Harmony (Wayne Laryea) often incorporating it in his dialogue.\n\nIn Britain, rhyming slang had a resurgence of popular interest beginning in the 1970s, resulting from its use in a number of London-based television programmes such as \"Steptoe and Son\" (1970–74); and \"Not On Your Nellie\" (1974–75), starring Hylda Baker as Nellie Pickersgill, alludes to the phrase \"not on your Nellie Duff\", rhyming slang for \"not on your puff\" i.e. not on your life. Similarly, \"The Sweeney\" (1975–78) alludes to the phrase \"Sweeney Todd\" for \"Flying Squad\", a rapid response unit of London’s Metropolitan Police. In \"The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin\" (1976–79), a comic twist was added to rhyming slang by way of spurious and fabricated examples which a young man had laboriously attempted to explain to his father (e.g. 'dustbins' meaning 'children', as in 'dustbin lids'='kids'; 'Teds' being 'Ted Heath' and thus 'teeth'; and even 'Chitty Chitty' being 'Chitty Chitty Bang Bang', and thus 'rhyming slang'...). It was also featured in an episode of \"The Good Life\" in the first season (1975) where Tom and Barbara purchase a wood burning range from a junk trader called Sam, who litters his language with phony slang in hopes of getting higher payment. He comes up with a fake story as to the origin of Cockney Rhyming slang and is caught out rather quickly. In \"The Jeffersons\" season 2 (1976) episode \"The Breakup: Part 2\", Mr. Bentley explains Cockney rhyming slang to George Jefferson, in that \"whistle and flute\" means \"suit\", \"apples and pears\" means \"stairs\", \"plates of meat\" means \"feet\".\n\nThe use of rhyming slang was also prominent in \"Mind Your Language\" (1977–79), \"Citizen Smith\" (1977–80), \"Minder\" (1979–94), \"Only Fools and Horses\" (1981–91), and \"EastEnders\" (1985-). \"Minder\" could be quite uncompromising in its use of obscure forms without any clarification. Thus the non-Cockney viewer was obliged to deduce that, say, \"iron\" was \"male homosexual\" ('iron'='iron hoof'='poof'). One episode in Series 5 of \"Steptoe and Son\" was entitled \"Any Old Iron\", for the same reason, when Albert thinks that Harold is 'on the turn'.\n\nIn popular music, Spike Jones and his City Slickers recorded \"So 'Elp Me\", based on rhyming slang, in 1950. The 1967 Kinks song \"Harry Rag\" was based on the usage of the name Harry Wragg as rhyming slang for \"fag\" (i.e. a cigarette). The idiom made a brief appearance in the UK-based DJ reggae music of the 1980s in the hit \"Cockney Translation\" by Smiley Culture of South London; this was followed a couple of years later by Domenick and Peter Metro's \"Cockney and Yardie\". London-based artists such as Audio Bullys and Chas & Dave (and others from elsewhere in the UK, such as The Streets, who are from Birmingham) frequently use rhyming slang in their songs.\n\nBritish-born M.C. MF Doom released an ode entitled \"Rhymin' Slang\", after settling in the UK in 2010. The track was released on the 2012 album JJ Doom album \"Keys to the Kuffs\".\n\nIn modern literature, Cockney rhyming slang is used frequently in the novels and short stories of Kim Newman, for instance in the short story collections \"The Man from the Diogenes Club\" (2006) and \"Secret Files of the Diogenes Club\" (2007), where it is explained at the end of each book. In the novel \"Moving Pictures\" by Terry Pratchett, this slang is also frequently used. \n\nIt is also parodied in Pratchett's \"Going Postal\", which features a geriatric Junior Postman by the name of Tolliver Groat, a speaker of 'Dimwell Arrhythmic Rhyming Slang', or rather, rhyming slang which \"does not actually rhyme\". Thus, a wig is a 'prunes', from 'syrup of prunes', an obvious parody of the Cockney \"syrup\" from \"syrup of figs -- wig\". There are numerous other parodies, though it has been pointed out that the result is even more impenetrable than a conventional rhyming slang and so may not be quite so illogical as it seems, given the assumed purpose of rhyming slang as a means of communicating in a manner unintelligible to all but the initiated.\n\nIn Scottish football, a number of clubs have nicknames taken from rhyming slang. Partick Thistle are known as the \"Harry Rags\", which is taken from the rhyming slang of their 'official' nickname \"the jags\". Rangers are known as the \"Teddy Bears\", which comes from the rhyming slang for \"the Gers\" (shortened version of Ran-gers). Heart of Midlothian are known as the \"Jambos\", which comes from \"Jam Tarts\" which is the rhyming slang for \"Hearts\" which is the common abbreviation of the Club's name. Hibernian are also referred to as \"The Cabbage\" which comes from Cabbage and Ribs being the rhyming slang for Hibs.\n\nJunior doctors in the United Kingdom have helped popularise rhyming slang for the Secretary of State for Health, Jeremy Hunt, amidst dispute over a new contract which has been imposed upon them. This was additionally supported in a tweet by James Blunt.\n\n"}
{"id": "50540459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50540459", "title": "Romance-speaking world", "text": "Romance-speaking world\n\nThe Romance-speaking world, romanophone, neolatin world, or Latin-speaking world, is the part of the world where Romance languages (those derived from Latin) are either official, co-official, or significantly used, comprising Latin America, Latin Europe, Romance-speaking Africa and Romance-speaking Asia.\n\nIt includes the Spanish-, Portuguese-, French-, Italian-, Romanian- and Catalan-speaking communities.\n\nIn European countries like this, the 6-continent combined-America model is usually taught.\n\n\"Spanish-speaking countries:\"\n\n\"Portuguese-speaking countries\"\n\n\"French-speaking countries\"\n\n\"Italian-speaking countries\"\n\n\"Romanian-speaking countries\"\n\n\"Catalan-speaking countries\"\n\n\"Total Romance-speaking world\"\n"}
{"id": "148951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148951", "title": "Speech disorder", "text": "Speech disorder\n\nSpeech disorders or speech impediments are a type of communication disorder where 'normal' speech is disrupted. This can mean stuttering, lisps, etc. Someone who is unable to speak due to a speech disorder is considered mute.\n\nClassifying speech into normal and disordered is more problematic than it first seems. By a strict classification, only 5% to 10% of the population has a completely normal manner of speaking (with respect to all parameters) and healthy voice; all others suffer from one disorder or another.\n\nThere are three different levels of classification when determining the magnitude and type of a speech disorders and the proper treatment or therapy:\n\n\nIn most cases the cause is unknown. However, there are various known causes of speech impediments, such as \"hearing loss, neurological disorders, brain injury, intellectual disability, drug abuse, physical impairments such as cleft lip and palate, and vocal abuse or misuse.\"\n\nMany of these types of disorders can be treated by speech therapy, but others require medical attention by a doctor in phoniatrics. Other treatments include correction of organic conditions and psychotherapy.\n\nIn the United States, school-age children with a speech disorder are often placed in special education programs. Children who struggle to learn to talk often experience persistent communication difficulties in addition to academic struggles. More than 700,000 of the students served in the public schools’ special education programs in the 2000-2001 school year were categorized as having a speech or language impediment. This estimate does not include children who have speech and language impairments secondary to other conditions such as deafness\". Many school districts provide the students with speech therapy during school hours, although extended day and summer services may be appropriate under certain circumstances.\n\nPatients will be treated in teams, depending on the type of disorder they have. A team can include SLPs, specialists, family doctors, teachers, and family members.\n\nSuffering from a speech disorder can have negative social effects, especially among young children. Those with a speech disorder can be targets of bullying because of their disorder. The bullying can result in decreased self-esteem.\n\nLanguage disorders are usually considered distinct from speech disorders, even though they are often used synonymously.\n\nSpeech disorders refer to problems in producing the sounds of speech or with the quality of voice, where language disorders are usually an impairment of either understanding words or being able to use words and do not have to do with speech production.\n\n"}
{"id": "11171507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11171507", "title": "Sphoṭa", "text": "Sphoṭa\n\nThe theory of \"\" is associated with ( 5th century), an early figure in Indic linguistic theory, mentioned in the 670s by Chinese traveller Yi-Jing.\n\nHe theorized the act of speech as being made up of three stages:\n\nAccording to George Cardona, \"Vākyapadīya is considered to be the major Indian work of its time on grammar, semantics and philosophy.\"\n\nWhile the ' theory proper (') originates with , the term has a longer history of use in the technical vocabulary of Sanskrit grammarians, and Bhartṛhari may have been building on the ideas of his predecessors, whose works are partly lost.\n\nSanskrit ' is etymologically derived from the root ' 'to burst'.\nIt is used in its technical linguistic sense by Patañjali (2nd century BCE), in reference to the \"bursting forth\" of meaning or idea on the mind as language is uttered. Patañjali's \"sphoṭa\" is the invariant quality of speech. The acoustic element (\"dhvani\") can be long or short, loud or soft, but the \"sphoṭa\" remains unaffected by individual speaker differences. Thus, a single phoneme (\"varṇa\") such as /k/, /p/ or /a/ is an abstraction, distinct from variants produced in actual enunciation. \nEternal qualities in language are already postulated by Yāska, in his \"Nirukta\" (1.1), where reference is made to another ancient grammarian, \"\", about whose work nothing is known, but who has been suggested as the original source of the concept. \nThe grammarian Vyāḍi, author of the lost text \"Saṃgraha\", may have developed some ideas in \"sphoṭa\" theory; in particular some distinctions relevant to \"dhvani\" are referred to by Bhartṛhari.\n\nThere is no use of ' as a technical term prior to Patañjali, but Pāṇini (6.1.123) refers to a grammarian named ' as one of his predecessors. This has induced Pāṇini's medieval commentators (such as Haradatta) to ascribe the first development of the ' to '.\n\nThe account of the Chinese traveller Yi-Jing places a firm \"terminus ante quem\" of AD 670 on Bhartrhari. Scholarly opinion had formerly tended to place him in the 6th or 7th century; current consensus places him in the 5th century. By some traditional accounts, he is the same as the poet Bhartṛhari who wrote the Śatakatraya.\n\nIn the , the term \"sphoṭa\" takes on a finer nuance, but there is some dissension among scholars as to what Bhartṛhari intended to say. \"Sphoṭa\" retains its invariant attribute, but sometimes its indivisibility is emphasized and at other times it is said to operate at several levels.\nIn verse I.93, Bhartṛhari states that the \"sphota\" is the universal or linguistic type — sentence-type or word-type, as opposed to their tokens (sounds).\n\nBhartṛhari develops this doctrine in a metaphysical setting, where he views \"sphoṭa\" as the language capability of man, revealing his consciousness. \nIndeed, the ultimate reality is also expressible in language, the \"śabda-brahman\", or \"Eternal Verbum\".\nEarly Indologists such as A. B. Keith felt that Bhartṛhari's \"sphoṭa\" was a mystical notion, owing to the metaphysical underpinning of Bhartṛhari's text, \"Vākyapādiya\" where it is discussed. Also, the notion of \"flash or insight\" or \"revelation\" central to the concept also lent itself to this viewpoint. However, the modern view is that it is perhaps a more psychological distinction.\n\nBhartṛhari expands on the notion of \"sphoṭa\" in Patañjali, and discusses three levels:\n\nHe makes a distinction between \"sphoṭa\", which is whole and indivisible, and \"nāda\", the sound, which is sequenced and therefore divisible. The \"sphoṭa\" is the causal root, the intention, behind an utterance, in which sense is similar to the notion of lemma in most psycholinguistic theories of speech production. However, \"sphoṭa\" arises also in the listener, which is different from the lemma position. Uttering the \"nāda\" induces the same mental state or \"sphoṭa\" in the listener - it comes as a whole, in a flash of recognition or intuition (\"pratibhā\", 'shining forth'). This is particularly true for \"vakya-sphoṭa\", where the entire sentence is thought of (by the speaker), and grasped (by the listener) as a whole.\n\nBimal K. Matilal (1990) has tried to unify these views - he feels that for Bhartṛhari the very process of thinking involves vibrations, so that thought has some sound-like properties. Thought operates by \"śabdana\"or 'speaking', - so that the mechanisms of thought are the same as that of language. Indeed, Bhartṛhari seems to be saying that thought is not possible without language. This leads to a somewhat whorfian position on the relationship between language and thought. The \"sphoṭa\" then is the carrier of this thought, as a primordial vibration.\n\nSometimes the \"nāda-sphoṭa\" distinction is posited in terms of the signifier-signified mapping, but this is a misconception. In traditional Sanskrit linguistic discourse (e.g. in Katyāyana), \"vācaka\" refers to the signifier, and 'vācya' the signified. The 'vācaka-vācya' relation is eternal for Katyāyana and the Mīmāṃsakas, but is conventional among the Nyāya. However, in Bhartṛhari, this duality is given up in favour of a more holistic view - for him, there is no independent meaning or signified; the meaning is inherent in the word or the sphoṭa itself.\n\n\"Sphoṭa\" theory remained widely influential in Indian philosophy of language and was the focus of much debate over several centuries. It was adopted by most scholars of Vyākaraṇa (grammar), but both the Mīmāṃsā and Nyāya schools rejected it, primarily on the grounds of compositionality. Adherents of the 'sphota' doctrine were holistic or non-compositional (\"a-khanḍa-pakṣa\"), suggesting that many larger units of language are understood as a whole, whereas the Mīmāṃsakas in particular proposed compositionality (\"khanḍa-pakṣa\"). According to the former, word meanings, if any, are arrived at after analyzing the sentences in which they occur. This debate had many of the features animating present day debates in language over semantic holism, for example.\n\nThe \"Mīmāṃsakas\" felt that the sound-units or the letters alone make up the word. The sound-units are uttered in sequence, but each leaves behind an impression, and the meaning is grasped only when the last unit is uttered. The position was most ably stated by Kumarila Bhatta (7th century) who argued that the 'sphoṭas' at the word and sentence level are after all composed of the smaller units, and cannot be different from their combination. However, in the end it is cognized as a whole, and this leads to the misperception of the \"sphoṭa\" as a single indivisible unit. Each sound unit in the utterance is an eternal, and the actual sounds differ owing to differences in manifestation.\n\nThe \"Nyāya\" view is enunciated among others by Jayanta (9th century), who argues against the \"Mīmāṃsā\" position by saying that the sound units as uttered are different; e.g. for the sound [g], we infer its 'g-hood' based on its similarity to other such sounds, and not because of any underlying eternal. Also, the \"vācaka-vācya\" linkage is viewed as arbitrary and conventional, and not eternal. However, he agrees with Kumarila in terms of the compositionality of an utterance.\n\nThroughout the second millennium, a number of treatises discussed the \"sphoṭa\" doctrine. Particularly notable is Nageśabhaṭṭa's \"Sphotavāda\" (18th century). Nageśa clearly defines \"sphoṭa\" as a carrier of meaning, and identifies eight levels, some of which are divisible.\n\nIn modern times, scholars of Bhartṛhari have included Ferdinand de Saussure, who did his doctoral work on the genitive in Sanskrit, and lectured on Sanskrit and Indo-European languages at the Paris and at the University of Geneva for nearly three decades. It is thought that he might have been influenced by some ideas of Bhartṛhari, particularly the \"sphoṭa\" debate. In particular, his description of the sign, as composed of the signifier and the signified, where these entities are not separable - the whole mapping from sound to denotation constitutes the sign, seems to have some colourings of \"sphoṭa\" in it. Many other prominent European scholars around 1900, including linguists such as Leonard Bloomfield and Roman Jakobson may have been influenced by Bhartṛhari.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "202777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202777", "title": "The Birth of Tragedy", "text": "The Birth of Tragedy\n\nThe Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music () is an 1872 work of dramatic theory by the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. It was reissued in 1886 as \"The Birth of Tragedy, Or: Hellenism and Pessimism\" (). The later edition contained a prefatory essay, \"\", wherein Nietzsche commented on this earliest book.\n\nNietzsche found in classical Athenian tragedy an art form that transcended the pessimism and nihilism of a fundamentally meaningless world. The Greek spectators, by looking into the abyss of human suffering and affirming it, passionately and joyously affirmed the meaning of their own existence. They knew themselves to be infinitely more than petty individuals, finding self-affirmation not in another life, not in a world to come, but in the terror and ecstasy alike celebrated in the performance of tragedies.\n\nOriginally educated as a philologist, Nietzsche discusses the history of the tragic form and introduces an intellectual dichotomy between the Dionysian and the Apollonian (very loosely: reality as disordered and undifferentiated by forms versus reality as ordered and differentiated by forms). Nietzsche claims life always involves a struggle between these two elements, each battling for control over the existence of humanity. In Nietzsche's words, \"Wherever the Dionysian prevailed, the Apollonian was checked and destroyed... wherever the first Dionysian onslaught was successfully withstood, the authority and majesty of the Delphic god Apollo exhibited itself as more rigid and menacing than ever.\" Yet neither side ever prevails due to each containing the other in an eternal, natural check or balance.\n\nNietzsche argues that the tragedy of Ancient Greece was the highest form of art due to its mixture of both Apollonian and Dionysian elements into one seamless whole, allowing the spectator to experience the full spectrum of the human condition. The Dionysian element was to be found in the music of the chorus, while the Apollonian element was found in the dialogue which gave a concrete symbolism that balanced the Dionysian revelry. Basically, the Apollonian spirit was able to give form to the abstract Dionysian.\n\nBefore the tragedy, there was an era of static, idealized plastic art in the form of sculpture that represented the Apollonian view of the world. The Dionysian element was to be found in the wild revelry of festivals and drunkenness, but, most importantly, in music. The combination of these elements in one art form gave birth to tragedy. He theorizes that the chorus was originally always satyrs, goat-men. (This is speculative, although the word “tragedy” τραγωδία is contracted from trag(o)-aoidiā = \"goat song\" from \"tragos\" = \"goat\" and \"aeidein\" = \"to sing\".) Thus, he argues, “the illusion of culture was wiped away by the primordial image of man” for the audience; they participated with and as the chorus empathetically, “so that they imagined themselves as restored natural geniuses, as satyrs.” But in this state, they have an Apollonian dream vision of themselves, of the energy they're embodying. It's a vision of the god, of Dionysus, who appears before the chorus on the stage. And the actors and the plot are the development of that dream vision, the essence of which is the ecstatic dismembering of the god and of the Bacchantes' rituals, of the inseparable ecstasy and suffering of human existence.\n\nAfter the time of Aeschylus and Sophocles, there was an age where tragedy died. Nietzsche ties this to the influence of writers like Euripides and the coming of rationality, represented by Socrates. Euripides reduced the use of the chorus and was more naturalistic in his representation of human drama, making it more reflective of the realities of daily life. Socrates emphasized reason to such a degree that he diffused the value of myth and suffering to human knowledge. For Nietzsche, these two intellectuals helped drain the ability of the individual to participate in forms of art, because they saw things too soberly and rationally. The \"participation mystique\" aspect of art and myth was lost, and along with it, much of man's ability to live creatively in optimistic harmony with the sufferings of life. Nietzsche concludes that it may be possible to reattain the balance of Dionysian and Apollonian in modern art through the operas of Richard Wagner, in a \"rebirth\" of tragedy.\n\nIn contrast to the typical Enlightenment view of ancient Greek culture as noble, simple, elegant and grandiose, Nietzsche believed the Greeks were grappling with pessimism. The universe in which we live is the product of great interacting forces; but we neither observe nor know these as such. What we put together as our conceptions of the world, Nietzsche thought, never actually addresses the underlying realities. It is human destiny to be controlled by the darkest universal realities and, at the same time, to live life in a human-dreamt world of illusions.\n\nThe issue, then, or so Nietzsche thought, is how to experience and understand the Dionysian side of life without destroying the obvious values of the Apollonian side. It is not healthy for an individual, or for a whole society, to become entirely absorbed in the rule of one or the other. The soundest (healthiest) foothold is in both. Nietzsche's theory of Athenian tragic drama suggests exactly how, before Euripides and Socrates, the Dionysian and Apollonian elements of life were artistically woven together. The Greek spectator became healthy through direct experience of the Dionysian within the protective spirit-of-tragedy on the Apollonian stage.\n\nIn January and February 1870, Nietzsche delivered two lectures about ancient Greek drama. After receiving copies of the lectures, his friends Richard and Cosima Wagner suggested that he write a book about the subject. In April 1871, he submitted a manuscript to publisher Wilhelm Engelmann. When Englemann was unresponsive, Nietzsche asked for the return of the manuscript in June. He had a portion of the book privately printed under the title \"Socrates and Greek Tragedy\" () and sent to friends. Richard Wagner received the first copy on 18 June.\n\nIn October 1871, Nietzsche submitted a revised manuscript to E. W. Fritzsch, who had published works by Wagner. Fritzsch accepted the book in November. Printing was completed at the end of December, and the book, now titled \"The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music\" (), reached bookstores on 2 January 1872. A second edition was printed by Fritzsch in 1874, but due to the publisher's financial problems, it was not bound until 1875 and had little circulation. In 1878, the remaining copies and publication rights for the first two editions were acquired by Nietzsche's new publisher, Ernst Schmeitzner.\n\nBy 1886, Nietzsche had fallen out with Schmeitzner, and Fritzsch had recovered from his financial difficulties. Fritzsch published a new edition in October 1886, retitled \"The Birth of Tragedy, Or: Hellenism and Pessimism\" (), with an added prefatory essay by Nietzsche called \"An Attempt at Self-Criticism\", commenting on the earlier editions.\n\n\"The Birth of Tragedy\" is a young man's work, and shows the influence of many of the philosophers Nietzsche had been studying. His interest in classical Greece as in some respects a rational society can be attributed in some measure to the influence of Johann Joachim Winckelmann, although Nietzsche departed from Winckelmann in many ways. In addition, Nietzsche uses the term \"naïve\" in exactly the sense used by Friedrich Schiller. Of great importance are the works of Arthur Schopenhauer, especially \"The World as Will and Representation\". The Apollonian experience bears great similarity to the experience of the world as \"representation\" in Schopenhauer's sense, and the experience of the Dionysian bears similarities to the identification with the world as \"will.\" Nietzsche opposed Schopenhauer's Buddhistic negation of the will. He argued that life is worth living despite the enormous amount of cruelty and suffering that exists.\n\nOne year before the publication of ‘’The Birth of Tragedy’’, Nietzsche wrote a fragment titled On Music and Words. In it he asserted the Schopenhauerian judgment that music is a primary expression of the essence of everything. Secondarily derivative are lyrical poetry and drama, which represent mere phenomenal appearances of objects. In this way, tragedy is born from music.\n\n\"The Birth of Tragedy\" was angrily criticized by many respected professional scholars of Greek literature. Particularly vehement was philologist Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff, who denounced Nietzsche's work as slipshod and misleading. Prompted by Nietzsche, Erwin Rohde—a friend who had written a favorable review that sparked the first derogatory debate over the book—responded by exposing Wilamowitz-Moellendorf's inaccurate citations of Nietzsche's work. Richard Wagner also issued a response to Wilamowitz-Moellendorf's critique, but his action only served to characterize Nietzsche as the composer's lackey.\n\nIn his denunciation of \"The Birth of Tragedy\", Wilamowitz says:\n\nIn suggesting the Greeks might have had problems, Nietzsche was departing from the scholarly traditions of his age, which viewed the Greeks as a happy, perhaps even naive, and simple people. The work is a web of professional philology, philosophical insight, and admiration of musical art. As a work in philology, it was almost immediately rejected, virtually destroying Nietzsche's academic aspirations. The music theme was so closely associated with Richard Wagner that it became an embarrassment to Nietzsche once he himself had achieved some distance and independence from Wagner. It stands, then, as Nietzsche's first complete, published philosophical work, one in which a battery of questions are asked, sketchily identified, and questionably answered.\n\nMarianne Cowan, in her introduction to Nietzsche's \"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\", describes the situation in these words:\n\nBy 1886, Nietzsche himself had reservations about the work, and he published a preface in the 1886 edition where he re-evaluated some of his main concerns and ideas in the text. In this post-script, Nietzsche referred to \"The Birth of Tragedy\" as \"an impossible book... badly written, ponderous, embarrassing, image-mad and image-confused, sentimental, saccharine to the point of effeminacy, uneven in tempo, [and] without the will to logical cleanliness.\" Still, he defended the \"arrogant and rhapsodic book\" for inspiring \"fellow-rhapsodizers\" and for luring them on to \"new secret paths and dancing places.\"\n\nIn 1888, in \"Ecce Homo\", Nietzsche was back on the attack. He defends \"The Birth of Tragedy\" by stating: \"...It is indifferent toward politics,—'un-German,' to use the language of the present time—it smells offensively Hegelian, and the cadaverous perfume of Schopenhauer sticks only to a few formulas. An 'idea'—the antithesis of the Dionysian and the Apollinian—translated into the metaphysical; history itself as the development of this 'idea'; in tragedy this antithesis is sublimated into a unity; under this perspective things that had never before faced each other are suddenly juxtaposed, used to illuminate each other, and comprehended... Opera, for example, and the revolution.— The two decisive innovations of the book are, first, its understanding of the Dionysian phenomenon among the Greeks: for the first time, a psychological analysis of this phenomenon is offered, and it is considered as one root of the whole of Greek art. The other is the understanding of Socratism: Socrates is recognized for the first time as an instrument of Greek disintegration, as a typical décadent. 'Rationality' against instinct. 'Rationality' at any price as a dangerous force that undermines life!— Profound, hostile silence about Christianity throughout the book. That is neither Apollinian nor Dionysian; it negates all aesthetic values—the only values that the 'Birth of Tragedy' recognizes: it is nihilistic in the most profound sense, while in the Dionysian symbol the ultimate limit of affirmation is attained. There is one allusion [The Birth of Tragedy, 24] to Christian priests as a 'vicious kind of dwarfs' who are 'subterranean' ...\"\n\nIn the title of his novel \"The Magic Mountain\", Thomas Mann alludes to a passage from \"The Birth of Tragedy\", and the influence of Nietzsche's work can be seen in the novel's character Mynheer Peepercorn, who embodies the \"Dionysian principle.\"\n\nWithin the context of a critical study of Nietzsche's \"atheist humanism\", the influential Catholic theologian Henri de Lubac considered it \"a work of genius\", and dedicated several pages of his study to explicate the relationship between Nietzsche's early thought and Christianity.\n\n\n (German)\n"}
{"id": "42896717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42896717", "title": "The Indian Antiquary", "text": "The Indian Antiquary\n\nThe Indian Antiquary, A journal of oriental research in archaeology, history, literature, language, philosophy, religion, folklore, &c, &c, (subtitle varies) was a journal of original research relating to India, published between 1872 and 1933. It was founded by the archaeologist James Burgess to enable the sharing of knowledge between scholars based in Europe and in India and was notable for the high quality of its epigraphic illustrations which enabled scholars to make accurate translations of texts that in many cases remain the definitive versions to this day. It was also pioneering in its recording of Indian folklore. It was succeeded by \"The New Indian Antiquary\" (1938-47) and the \"Indian Antiquary\" (1964-71).\n\n\"The Indian Antiquary\" was founded in 1872 by the archaeologist James Burgess CIE as a journal of original research relating to India. It was designed to enable the sharing of knowledge between scholars based in Europe and in India. \n\nThe journal was a private venture, although no contributor or editor was ever paid for their work and the editors often had to support the publication out of their own pockets. Burgess was the first editor and he continued in that role until the end of 1884 when failing eyesight forced him to hand over to John Faithfull Fleet and Richard Carnac Temple.\n\nThe late nineteenth century was marked by a great increase in the number of local historical societies in India and a similar increase in the number of Indians who could speak and write English, to the extent that by the 1920s the entire journal could have been filled with work by Indian contributors. Volumes for 1925 to 1932 were published under the authority of the Council of the Royal Anthropological Institute (1933, not). The first incarnation of the \"Antiquary\" ceased publication in 1933 with volume 62, number 783 (Dec. 1933), two years after Richard Temple's death in 1931. Several early volumes of the journal were reprinted by Swati Publications in Delhi, 1984.\n\nThe New Indian Antiquary was published between 1938 and 1947, and the Indian Antiquary (described as the \"third series\") between 1964 and 1971. (Volumes 14 to 62 of the original \"Antiquary\" were described as the \"second series\".)\n\nThe journal had an archaeological and historical focus, and in the late nineteenth century that naturally meant that epigraphy (the study of inscriptions as writing rather than as literature) would be one of the principal subjects covered in its pages. Indeed, the \"Antiquary\" was the premier source of European scholarship on Indian epigraphy until the twentieth century and the official Indian government journal of epigraphy, the \"Epigraphia Indica\", was published as a quarterly supplement to the \"Antiquary\" between 1892 and 1920.\n\nThe \"Antiquary\" was printed at Mazgaon, Bombay, by the Bombay Education Society and later the British India Press, but illustrations were produced in London by the firm of Griggs who were known for the accuracy of their work. A high standard of reproduction was essential so that scholars could work on the epigraphic material without needing to see the originals. Illustrations in the \"Antiquary\" were used by scholars such as Bhandarkar, Bhagvanlal Indraji, Georg Bühler, John Faithfull Fleet, Eggeling and B. Lewis Rice to decipher important inscriptions, and in many cases their translations remain the definitive versions to this day.\n\nOver one thousand plates were included in \"The Indian Antiquary\" and the \"Epigraphia Indica\" over the first fifty years of publication, but having the illustrations produced abroad was not without its disadvantages. On one occasion during World War I, enemy action meant that expensive plates had to be sent from London three times before they reached Bombay safely.\n\nAnother area where the \"Antiquary\" led was in recording folklore and folktales. Its publication of Punjab folktales was the first attempt to classify the events on which folk tales were based and the pioneering work on north Indian folklore of William Crooke and Pandit Ram Gharib Chaube was printed in its pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1313388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313388", "title": "Umbrella term", "text": "Umbrella term\n\nAn umbrella term is a word or phrase that covers a wide range of concepts belonging to a common category. For example, \"cryptology\" is an umbrella term that encompasses cryptography and cryptanalysis, among other fields. Similarly, an umbrella organization is a central and coordinating body representing a number of smaller, separate bodies.\n\nA blanket term is a closely related word or phrase that is used to describe multiple groups of related things. The degree of relation may vary or have a minimal relationship, but blanket terms often trade specificity for ease of use. In other words, a blanket term, by itself, gives little detail about the things that it describes or the relationships between them, but it is easy to say and remember. Blanket terms may originate as slang but eventually become integrated into the general vocabulary.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "348668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348668", "title": "Unity of the proposition", "text": "Unity of the proposition\n\nIn philosophy, the unity of the proposition is the problem of explaining how a sentence in the indicative mood expresses more than just what a list of proper names expresses.\n\nThe problem was discussed under this name by Bertrand Russell, but can be traced back to Plato. In Plato's \"Sophist\", the simplest kind of sentence consists of just a proper name and a universal term (i.e. a predicate). The name refers to or picks out some individual object, and the predicate then says something about that individual.\n\nThe difficulty is to explain how the predicate does this. If, as Plato thinks, the predicate is the name of some universal concept or form, how do we explain how the sentence comes to be true or false? If, for example, \"Socrates is wise\" consists of just a name for Socrates, and a name for the universal concept of Wisdom, how could the sentence be true \"or\" false? In either case, the \"Socrates\" signifies Socrates, and the predicate signifies Wisdom. But the sentence \"asserts\" that Socrates is wise. The assertion of wisdom must consist in the assertion of some relation between Socrates and Wisdom. What is this relation?\n\nThe problem was discussed much later by Francis Bradley. If we assume that a sentence consists of two objects and a relation that connects them, and we represent this by three names, say John, loving, Mary, how do we express the fact that John loves Mary? For \"John\", \"loving\" and \"Mary\" would name the objects they do, even if this were not a fact. This is known as Bradley's regress.\n\nThe problem became significant in the early development of set theory. Set membership is a formal representation of the relation between the two parts of the proposition, and there are certain philosophical problems connected with this, as Frege realised when he investigated the distinction between concept and object. Assume that \"Shergar is a horse\" analyses into what \"Shergar\" names (an \"Object\", according to Frege), and what \"is a horse\" names (a \"Concept\"). Objects are fundamentally different from concepts, otherwise we get the problem of the unity of the proposition. A predicate cannot function as the subject of a sentence. But what are we doing when we talk about the concept \"is a horse\"? Aren't we using the expression \"the concept \"is a horse\"\", and isn't that a subject expression, which refers (on Frege's account) to an Object? Yes, says Frege, and on that account the concept \"is a horse\" is not a concept at all. This is a dogma that even Frege's most faithful followers found difficult to swallow.\n\nThe difficulty was discussed in detail in \"The Principles of Mathematics\" by Russell, who saw no resolution.\n\nConsider e.g. \"A differs from B\". The constituents of this proposition are simply A, difference and B. The proposition relates A and B, using the words \"is ... from\" in \"A is different from B\". But if we represent this contribution by words for relations, as e.g. \"A <R> difference <R> B\" we are back to a list of terms, we are essentially back at Bradley's regress.\n\nLudwig Wittgenstein addresses the problem early on in the \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\". In section 2.01 he claims that \"states of affairs\" are combinations of objects. In section 2.03 he explains that nothing is needed to link the objects, since the objects \"hang together\". The arrangement of words that in the sentence corresponds to the arrangement or \"structure\" of objects in the state of affairs expressed by the sentence. This is the so-called picture theory of the proposition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14942624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14942624", "title": "Vocal learning", "text": "Vocal learning\n\nVocal learning is the ability to modify acoustic and syntactic sounds, acquire new sounds via imitation, and produce vocalizations. \"Vocalizations\" in this case refers only to sounds generated by the vocal organ (mammalian larynx or avian syrinx) as opposed to by the lips, teeth, and tongue, which require substantially less motor control. A rare trait, vocal learning is a critical substrate for spoken language and has only been detected in eight animal groups despite the wide array of vocalizing species; these include humans, bats, cetaceans, pinnipeds (seals and sea lions), elephants, and three distantly related bird groups including songbirds, parrots, and hummingbirds. Vocal learning is distinct from auditory learning, or the ability to form memories of sounds heard, a relatively common trait which is present in all vertebrates tested. For example, dogs can be trained to understand the word \"sit\" even though the human word is not in its innate auditory repertoire (auditory learning). However, the dog cannot imitate and produce the word \"sit\" itself as vocal learners can.\n\nHistorically, species have been classified into the binary categories of vocal learner or vocal non-learner based on their ability to produce novel vocalizations or imitate other species, with evidence from social isolation, deafening studies, and cross-fostering experiments. However, vocal learners exhibit a great deal of plasticity or variation between species, resulting in a spectrum of ability. The vocalizations of songbirds and whales have a syntactic-like organization similar to that of humans but are limited to Finite-State Grammars (FSGs), where they can generate strings of sequences with limited structural complexity. Humans, on the other hand, show deeper hierarchical relationships, such as the nesting of phrases within others, and demonstrate compositional syntax, where changes in syntactic organization generate new meanings, both of which are beyond the capabilities of other vocal learning groups Vocal learning phenotype also differ within groups and closely related species will not display the same abilities. Within avian vocal learners, for example, zebra finch songs only contain strictly linear transitions that go through different syllables in a motif from beginning to end, yet mockingbird and nightingale songs show element repetition within a range of legal repetitions, non-adjacent relationships between distant song elements, and forward and backward branching in song element transitions. Parrots are even more complex as they can imitate the speech of heterospecifics like humans and synchronize their movements to a rhythmic beat.\n\nEven further complicating the original binary classification is evidence from recent studies that suggests that there is greater variability in a non-learner's ability to modify vocalizations based on experience than previously thought. Findings in suboscine passerine birds, non-human primates, mice, and goats, has led to the proposal of the vocal learning continuum hypothesis by Erich Jarvis and Gustavo Arriaga. Based on the apparent variations seen in various studies, the continuum hypothesis reclassifies species into non-learner, limited vocal learner, moderate vocal learning, complex vocal learner and high vocal learner categories where higher tiers have fewer species. Under this system, previously identified non-human vocal learners like songbirds are considered complex learners while humans fall under the “high” category; non-human primates, mice, and goats, which are traditionally classified as non-learners, are considered limited vocal learners under this system.\n\nThe most extensively studied model organisms of vocal learning are found in birds, namely songbirds, parrots, and hummingbirds. The degree of vocal learning in each specific species varies. While many parrots and certain songbirds like canaries can imitate and spontaneously combine learned sounds during all periods of their life, other songbirds and hummingbirds are limited to a certain songs learned during their critical period.\n\nThe first evidence for audio-vocal learning in a non-human mammal was produced by Karl-Heinz Esser in 1994. Hand-reared infant lesser spear-nosed bats (\"Phyllostomos discolor\") were able to adapt their isolation calls to an external reference signal. Isolation calls in a control group that had no reference signal did not show the same adaptation.\n\nFurther evidence for vocal learning in bats appeared in 1998 when Janette Wenrick Boughman studied female greater spear-nosed bats (\"Phyllostomus hastatus\"). These bats live in unrelated groups and use group contact calls that differ among social groups. Each social group has a single call, which differs in frequency and temporal characteristics. When individual bats were introduced to a new social group, the group call began to morph, taking on new frequency and temporal characteristics, and over time, calls of transfer and resident bats in the same group more closely resembled their new modified call than their old calls.\n\nMale humpback whales (\"Megaptera novaeangliae\") sing as a form of sexual display while migrating to and from their breeding grounds. All males in a population produce the same song which can change over time, indicating vocal learning and cultural transmission, a characteristic shared by some bird populations. Songs become increasingly dissimilar over distance and populations in different oceans have dissimilar songs.\n\nWhale songs recorded along the east coast of Australia in 1996 showed introduction of a novel song by two foreign whales who had migrated from the west Australian coast to the east Australian coast. In just two years, all members of the population had switched songs. This new song was nearly identical to ones sung by migrating humpback whales on the west Australian Coast, and the two new singers who introduced the song are hypothesized to have introduced the new \"foreign\" song to the population on the east Australian coast.\n\nVocal learning has also been seen in killer whales (\"Orcinus orca\"). Two juvenile killer whales, separated from their natal pods, were seen mimicking cries of California sea lions (\"Zalophus californianus\") that were near the region they lived in. The composition of the calls of these two juveniles were also different from their natal groups, reflecting more of the sea lion calls than that of the whales.\n\nCaptive bottlenose dolphins (\"Tursiops truncatus\") can be trained to emit sounds through their blowhole in open air. Through training, these vocal emissions can be altered from natural patterns to resemble sounds like the human voice, measurable through the number of bursts of sound emitted by the dolphin. In 92% of exchanges between humans and dolphins, the number of bursts equaled ±1 of the number of syllables spoken by a human. Another study used an underwater keyboard to demonstrate that dolphins are able to learn various whistles in order to do an activity or obtain an object. Complete mimicry occurred within ten attempts for these trained dolphins. Other studies of dolphins have given even more evidence of spontaneous mimicry of species-specific whistles and other biological and computer-generated signals.\n\nSuch vocal learning has also been identified in wild bottlenose dolphins. Bottlenose dolphins develop a distinct signature whistle in the first few months of life, which is used to identify and distinguish itself from other individuals. This individual distinctiveness could have been a driving force for evolution by providing higher species fitness since complex communication is largely correlated with increased intelligence. However, vocal identification is present in vocal non-learners as well. Therefore, it is unlikely that individual identification was a primary driving force for the evolution of vocal learning. Each signature whistle can be learned by other individuals for identification purposes and are used primarily when the dolphin in question is out of sight. Bottlenose dolphins use their learned whistles in matching interactions, which are likely to be used while addressing each other, signalling alliance membership to a third party, or preventing deception by an imitating dolphin. Mate attraction and territory defense have also been seen as possible contributors to vocal learning evolution. Studies on this topic point out that while both vocal learners and non-learners use vocalizations to attract mates or defend territories, there is one key difference: variability. Vocal learners can produce a more varied arrangement of vocalizations and frequencies, which studies show may be more preferred by females. For example, observed that male Atlantic bottlenose dolphins may initiate a challenge by facing another dolphin, opening its mouth, thereby exposing its teeth, or arching its back slightly and holding its head downward. This behavior is more along the lines of visual communication but still may or may not be accompanied by vocalizations such as burst-pulsed sounds. The burst-pulsed sounds, which are more complex and varied than the whistles, are often utilized to convey excitement, dominance or aggression such as when they are competing for the same piece of food. The dolphins also produce these forceful sounds when in the presence of other individuals moving towards the same prey. On the sexual side saw that dolphins may solicit a sexual response from another by swimming in front of it, looking back, and rolling on its side to display the genital region. These observations provide yet another example of visual communication where dolphins exhibit different postures and non-vocal behaviors to communicate with others that also may or may not be accompanied by vocalizations. Sexual selection for greater variability, and thus in turn vocal learning, may then be a major driving force for the evolution of vocal learning.\n\nCaptive harbor seals (\"Phoca vitulina\") were recorded mimicking human words such as \"hello\", \"Hoover\" (the seal's own name) and producing other speech-like sounds. Most of the vocalizations occurred during the reproductive season.\n\nMore evidence of vocal learning in seals occurs in southern elephant seals (\"Mirounga leonine\"). Young males imitate the vocal cries of successful older males during their breeding season. northern and southern elephant seals have a highly polygynous mating system with a vast disparity in mating success. In other words, few males guard huge harems of females, eliciting intense male-male competition. Antagonistic vocal cries play an important role in inter-male competitions and are hypothesized to demonstrate the resource-holding potential of the emitter. In both species, antagonistic vocal cries vary geographically and are structurally complex and individually distinct. Males displays unique calls, which can be identified by the specific arrangement of syllable and syllable parts.\n\nHarem holders frequently vocalize to keep peripheral males away from females, and these vocalizations are the dominant component in a young juvenile's acoustic habitat. Successful vocalizations are heard by juveniles, who then imitate these calls as they get older in an attempt to obtain a harem for themselves. Novel vocal types expressed by dominant males spread quickly through populations of breeding elephant seals and are even imitated by juveniles in the same season.\n\nGenetic analysis indicated that successful vocal patterns were not passed down hereditarily, indicating that this behavior is learned. Progeny of successful harem holders do not display their father's vocal calls and the call that makes one male successful often disappears entirely from the population.\n\nMlaika, a ten-year-old adolescent female African elephant, has been recorded imitating truck sounds coming from the Nairobi-Mombasa highway three miles away. Analysis of Mlaika's truck-like calls show that they are different from the normal calls of African elephants, and that her calls are a general model of truck sounds, not copies of the sounds of trucks recorded at the same time of the calls. In other words, Mlaika's truck calls are not imitations of the trucks that she hears, but rather, a generalized model she developed over time.\n\nOther evidence of vocal learning in elephants occurred in a cross-fostering situation with a captive African elephant. At the Basel Zoo in Switzerland, Calimero, a male African elephant, was kept with two female Asian elephants. Recordings of his cries shows evidence of chirping noises, typically only produced by Asian elephants. The duration and frequency of these calls differs from recorded instances of chirping calls from other African elephants and more closely resembles the chirping calls of Asian elephants.\n\nThe following species are not formally considered vocal learners, but some evidence has suggested they may have limited abilities to modify their vocalizations. Further research is needed in these species to fully understand their learning abilities.\n\nEarly research asserted that primate calls are fully formed at an early age in development, yet recently some studies have suggested these calls are modified later in life. In 1989, Masataka and Fujita cross-fostered Japanese and rhesus monkeys in the same room and demonstrated that foraging calls were learned directly from their foster mothers, providing evidence of vocal learning. However, when another independent group was unable to reproduce these results, Masataka and Fujita's findings were questioned. Adding to the evidence against vocal learning in non-human primates is the suggestion that regional differences in calls maybe be attributed to genetic differences between populations and not vocal learning.\n\nOther studies argue that non-human primates do have some limited vocal learning ability, demonstrating that they can modify their vocalizations in a limited fashion through laryngeal control and lip movements. For example, chimpanzees in both captivity and in the wild have been recorded producing novel sounds to attract attention. By puckering their lips and making a vibrating sounds, they can make a \"raspberry\" call, which has been imitated by both naïve captive and wild individuals. There is also evidence of an orangutan learning to whistle by copying a human, an ability previously unseen in the species. A cross-fostering experiment with marmosets and macaques showed convergence in pitch and other acoustic features in their supposedly innate calls, demonstrating the ability, albeit limited, for vocal learning.\n\nMice produce long sequences of vocalizations or \"songs\" that are used for both isolation calls in pups when cold or removed from nest and for courtship when males sense a female or detect pheromones in their urine. These ultrasonic vocalizations consist of discrete syllables and patterns, with species-specific differences. Males tend to use particular syllable types that can be used to differentiate individuals.\n\nThere has been intense debate on whether these songs are innate or learned. In 2011, Kikusui \"et al\". cross-fostered two strains of mice with distinct song phenotypes and discovered that strain-specific characteristics of each song persisted in the offspring, indicating that these vocalizations are innate. However, a year later work by Arriaga et al. contradicted these results as their study found a motor cortex region active during singing, which projects directly to brainstem motor neurons and is also important for keeping songs stereotyped and on pitch. Vocal control by forebrain motor areas and direct cortical projections to vocal motor neurons are both features of vocal learning. Furthermore, male mice were shown to depend on auditory feedback to maintain some ultrasonic song features, and sub-strains with differences in their songs were able to match each other’s pitch when cross-housed under competitive social conditions.\n\nWith this conflicting evidence, it remains unclear whether mice are vocal non-learners or limited vocal learners.\n\nWhen goats are placed in different social groups, they modify their calls to show more similarity to that of the group, which provides evidence they may be limited vocal learners according to Erich Jarvis' continuum hypothesis.\n\nAs vocal learning is such a rare trait that evolved in distant groups, there are many theories to explain the striking similarities between vocal learners, especially within avian vocal learners.\n\nThere are several proposed hypotheses that explain the selection for vocal learning based on environment and behavior. These include:\n\nWith the many possible advantages outlined above, it still remains unclear as to why vocal learning is so rare. One proposed explanation is that predatory pressure applies a strong selective force against vocal learning. If mates prefer more variable vocalizations, predators may also be more strongly attracted to more variable vocalizations. As innate calls are typically constant, predators quickly habituate to these vocalizations and ignore them as background noise. In contrast, the variable vocalizations of vocal learners are less likely to be ignored, possibly increasing the predation rate among vocal learners. In this case, relaxed predation pressure or some mechanism to overcome increased predation must first develop to facilitate the evolution of vocal learning. Supporting this hypothesis is the fact that many mammalian vocal learners including humans, whales, and elephants have very few major predators. Similarly, several avian vocal learners have behaviors that are effective in avoiding predators, from the rapid flight and escape behavior of hummingbirds to predator mobbing in parrots and songbirds.\n\nWhile little research has been done in this area, some studies have supported the predation hypothesis. One study showed that Bengalese finches bred in captivity for 250 years without predation or human selection for singing behavior show increased variability in syntax than their conspecifics in the wild. A similar experiment with captive zebra finches demonstrated the same result as captive birds had increased song variability, which was then preferred by females. Although these studies are promising, more research is needed in this area to compare predation rates across vocal learners and non-learners.\n\nModern birds supposedly evolved from a common ancestor around the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary at the time of the extinction of dinosaurs, about 66 million years ago. Out of the thirty avian orders, only three evolved vocal learning and all have incredibly similar forebrain structures despite the fact that they are distantly related (for example, parrots and songbirds are as distantly related as humans and dolphins). Phylogenetic comparisons have suggested that vocal learning evolved among birds at least two or three independent times, in songbirds, parrots, and hummingbirds. Depending on the interpretation of the trees, there were either three gains in all three lineages or two gains, in hummingbirds and the common ancestor of parrots and songbirds, with a loss in the suboscine songbirds. There are several hypotheses to explain this phenomenon:\n\nCurrently, it remains unclear as to which of these hypotheses is the most accurate.\n\nIn primates, only humans are known to be capable of complex vocal learning. Similar to the first hypothesis relating to birds, one explanation is that vocal learning evolved independently in humans. An alternative hypothesis suggests evolution from a primate common ancestor capable of vocal learning, with the trait subsequently being lost at least eight other times. Considering the most parsimonious analysis, it seems unlikely that the number of independent gains (one in humans) would be exceeded so greatly by the number of independent losses (at least eight), which supports the independent evolution hypothesis.\n\nAs avian vocal learners are the most amenable to experimental manipulations, the vast majority of work to elucidate the neurobiological mechanisms of vocal learning has been conducted with zebra finches, with a few studies focusing on budgerigars and other species. Despite variation in vocal learning phenotype, the neural circuitry necessary for producing learned song is conserved in songbirds, parrots, and hummingbirds. As opposed to their non-learner avian counterparts such as quail, doves, and pigeons, these avian vocal learners contain seven distinct cerebral song nuclei, or distinct brain areas associated with auditory learning and song production defined by their gene expression patterns. As current evidence suggests independent evolution of these structures, the names of each equivalent vocal nucleus are different per bird group, as shown in the table below.\n\nVocal nuclei are found in two separate brain pathways, which will be described in songbirds as most research has been conducted in this group, yet it should be noted that connections are similar in parrots and hummingbirds. Projections of the anterior vocal pathway in the hummingbird remain unclear and so are not listed in the table above.\n\nThe posterior vocal pathway (also known as vocal motor pathway), involved in the production of learned vocalizations, begins with projections from a nidopallial nucleus, the HVC in songbirds. The HVC then projects to the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA). The RA connects to the midbrain vocal center DM (dorsal medial nucleus of the midbrain) and the brainstem (nXIIts) vocal motor neurons that control the muscles of the syrinx, a direct projection similar to the projection from LMC to the nucleus ambiguus in humans The HVC is considered the syntax generator while the RA modulates the acoustic structure of syllables. Vocal non-learners do possess the DM and twelfth motor neurons (nXIIts), but lack the connections to the arcopallium. As a result, they can produce vocalizations, but not learned vocalizations.\n\nThe anterior vocal pathway (also known as vocal learning pathway) is associated with learning, syntax, and social contexts, starting with projections from the magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (MAN) to the striatal nucleus Area X. Area X then projects to the medial nucleus of dorsolateral thalamus (DLM), which ultimately projects back to MAN in a loop The lateral part of MAN (LMAN) generates variability in song, while Area X is responsible for stereotypy, or the generation of low variability in syllable production and order after song crystallization.\n\nDespite the similarities in vocal learning neural circuits, there are some major connectivity differences between the posterior and anterior pathways among avian vocal learners. In songbirds, the posterior pathway communicates with the anterior pathway via projections from the HVC to Area X; the anterior pathway sends output to the posterior pathway via connections from LMAN to RA and medial MAN (MMAN) to HVC. Parrots, on the other hand, have projections from the ventral part of the AAC (AACv), the parallel of the songbird RA, to the NAOc, parallel of the songbird MAN, and the oval nucleus of the mesopallium (MO). The anterior pathway in parrots connects to the posterior pathway via NAOc projections to the NLC, parallel of the songbird HVC, and AAC. Thus, parrots do not send projections to the striatal nucleus of the anterior pathway from their posterior pathway as do songbirds. Another crucial difference is the location of the posterior vocal nuclei among species. Posterior nuclei are located in auditory regions for songbirds, laterally adjacent to auditory regions in hummingbirds, and are physically separate from auditory regions in parrots. Axons must therefore take different routes to connect nuclei in different vocal learning species. Exactly how these connectivity differences affect song production and/or vocal learning ability remains unclear.\n\nAn auditory pathway that is used for auditory learning brings auditory information into the vocal pathway, but the auditory pathway is not unique to vocal learners. Ear hair cells project to cochlear ganglia neurons to auditory pontine nuclei to midbrain and thalamic nuclei and to primary and secondary pallial areas. A descending auditory feedback pathway exists projecting from the dorsal nidopallium to the intermediate arcopallium to shell regions around the thalamic and midbrain auditory nuclei. Remaining unclear is the source of auditory input into the vocal pathways described above. It is hypothesized that songs are processed in these areas in a hierarchical manner, with the primary pallial area responsible for acoustic features (field L2), the secondary pallial area (fields L1 and L3 as well as the caudal medial nidopallium or NCM) determining sequencing and discrimination, and the highest station, the caudal mesopallium (CM), modulating fine discrimination of sounds. Secondary pallial areas including the NCM and CM are also thought to be involved in auditory memory formation of songs used for vocal learning, but more evidence is needed to substantiate this hypothesis.\n\nThe development of the sensory modalities necessary for song learning occurs within a “critical period” of development that varies among avian vocal learners. Closed-ended learners such as the zebra finch and aphantochroa hummingbird can only learn during a limited time period and subsequently produce highly stereotyped or non-variable vocalizations consisting of a single, fixed song which they repeat their entire lives. In contrast, open-ended learners, including canaries and various parrot species, display significant plasticity and continue to learn new songs throughout the course of their lives.\n\nIn the male zebra finch, vocal learning begins with a period of sensory acquisition or auditory learning where juveniles are exposed to the song of an adult male “tutor” at about posthatch day 30 to 60. During this stage, juveniles listen and memorize the song pattern of their tutor and produce subsong, characterized by the production of highly variable syllables and syllable sequences. Subsong is thought to be analogous to babbling in human infants. Subsequently during the sensorimotor learning phase at posthatch day 35 to 90, juveniles practice the motor commands required for song production and use auditory feedback to alter vocalizations to match the song template. Songs during this period are plastic as specific syllables begin to emerge but are frequently in the wrong sequence, errors that are similar to phonological mistakes made by young children when learning a language. As the bird ages, its song becomes more stereotyped until at posthatch day 120 the song syllables and sequence are crystallized or fixed. At this point, the zebra finch can no longer learn new songs and thus sings this single song for the duration of its life.\n\nThe neural mechanisms behind the closing of the critical period remain unclear, but early deprivation of juveniles from their adult tutors has been shown to extend the critical period of song acquisition “Synapse selection” theories hypothesize that synaptic plasticity during the critical period is gradually reduced as dendritic spines are pruned through activity-dependent synaptic rearrangement The pruning of dendritic spines in the LMAN song nucleus was delayed in isolated zebra finches with extended critical periods, suggesting that this form of synaptic reorganization may be important in closing the critical period. However, other studies have shown that birds reared normally as well as isolated juveniles have similar levels of dendritic pruning despite an extended critical period in the latter group, demonstrating that this theory does not completely explain critical period modulation.\n\nPrevious research has suggested that the length of the critical period may be linked to differential gene expression within song nuclei, thought to be caused by neurotransmitter binding of receptors during neural activation. One key area is the LMAN song nucleus, part of the specialized cortical-basal-ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop in the anterior forebrain pathway, which is essential for vocal plasticity. While inducing deafness in songbirds usually disrupts the sensory phase of learning and leads to production of highly abnormal song structures, lesioning of LMAN in zebra finches prevents this song deterioration, leading to the earlier development of stable song. One of the neurotransmitter receptors shown to affect LMAN is the N- methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor (NMDAR), which is required for learning and activity-dependent gene regulation in the post-synaptic neuron. Infusions of the NMDAR antagonist APV (R-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate) into the LMAN song nucleus disrupts the critical period in the zebra finch.NMDAR density and mRNA levels of the NR1 subunit also decrease in LMAN during early song development. When the song becomes crystallized, expression of the NR2B subunit decreases in LMAN and NMDAR-mediated synaptic currents shorten. It has been hypothesized that LMAN actively maintains RA microcircuitry in a state permissive for song plasticity and in a process of normal development it regulates HVC-RA synapses.\n\nHumans seem to have analogous anterior and posterior vocal pathways which are implicated in speech production and learning. Parallel to the avian posterior vocal pathway mentioned above is the motor cortico-brainstem pathway. Within this pathway, the face motor cortex projects to the nucleus ambiguous of the medulla, which then projects to the muscles of the larynx. Humans also have a vocal pathway that is analogous to the avian anterior pathway. This pathway is a cortico-basal ganglia-thalamic-cortico loop which begins at a strip of the premotor cortex, called the cortical strip, which is responsible for speech learning and syntax production. The cortical strip includes spans across five brain regions: the anterior insula, Broca’s area, the anterior dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex, the anterior pre-supplementary motor area, and the anterior cingulate cortex. This cortical strip has projections to the anterior striatum which projects to the globus pallidus to the anterior dorsal thalamus back to the cortical strip. All of these regions are also involved in syntax and speech learning.\n\nIn addition to the similarities in the neurobiological circuits necessary for vocalizations between animal vocal learners and humans, there are also a few genetic similarities. The most prominent of these genetic links are the FOXP1 and FOXP2 genes, which code for forkhead box (FOX) proteins P1 and P2, respectively. FOXP1 and FOXP2 are transcription factors which play a role in the development and maturation of the lungs, heart, and brain, and are also highly expressed in brain regions of the vocal learning pathway, including the basal ganglia and the frontal cortex. In these regions (i.e. the basal ganglia and frontal cortex), FOXP1 and FOXP2 are thought to be essential for brain maturation and development of speech and language.\n\nOrthologues of FOXP2 are found in a number of vertebrates including mice and songbirds, and have been implicated in modulating plasticity of neural circuits. In fact, although mammals and birds are very distant relatives and diverged more than 300 million years ago, the FOXP2 gene in zebra finches and mice differs at only five amino acid positions, and differs between zebra finches and humans at only eight amino acid positions. In addition, researchers have found that patterns of expression of FOXP1 and FOXP2 are amazingly similar in the human fetal brain and the songbird.\n\nThese similarities are especially interesting in the context of the aforementioned avian song circuit. FOXP2 is expressed in the avian Area X, and is especially highly expressed in the striatum during the critical period of song plasticity in songbirds. In humans, FOXP2 is highly expressed in the basal ganglia, frontal cortex, and insular cortex, all thought to be important nodes in the human vocal pathway. Thus, mutations in the FOXP2 gene are proposed to have detrimental effects on human speech and language, such as grammar, language processing, and impaired movement of the mouth, lips, and tongue, as well as potential detrimental effects on song learning in songbirds. Indeed, FOXP2 was the first gene to be implicated in the cognition of speech and language in a family of individuals with a severe speech and language disorder.\n\nAdditionally, it has been suggested that due to the overlap of FOXP1 and FOXP2 expression in songbirds and humans, mutations in FOXP1 may also result in speech and language abnormalities seen in individuals with mutations in FOXP2.\n\nThese genetic links have important implications for studying the origin of language because FOXP2 is so similar among vocal learners and humans, as well as important implications for understanding the etiology of certain speech and language disorders in humans.\n\nCurrently, no other genes have been linked as compellingly to vocal learning in animals or humans.\n\n"}
{"id": "14428575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14428575", "title": "Vocology", "text": "Vocology\n\nVocology is the science and practice of vocal habilitation. Its concerns include the nature of speech and language pathology, the defects of the vocal tract (laryngology), the remediation of speech therapy, and the voice training (voice therapy) and voice pedagogy of song and speech for actors and public speakers.\n\nIn its broadest sense, vocology is the study of voice, but as a professional discipline it has a narrower focus: the science and practice of voice habilitation, which includes evaluation, diagnosis, and intervention.\n\nVocology was invented (simultaneously, but independently) by Ingo Titze, and an otolaryngologist at Washington University, Prof. George Gates. Titze defines vocology as \"the science and practice of voice habilitation, with a strong emphasis on habilitation\". To habilitate means to “enable”, to “equip for”, to “capacitate”; in other words, to assist in performing whatever function that needs to be performed\". He goes on that this \"is more than repairing a voice or bringing it back to a former state ... rather, it is the process of strengthening and equipping the voice to meet very specific and special demands\".\n\nIt is not yet its own professional degree, thus it only assists the voice medicine team. Usually a person practicing vocology is a voice coach with additional training in the voice medical arts, a prepared voice/singing teacher, or a speech pathologist with additional voice performance training—so they can better treat the professional voice user. The study of vocology is recognized academically by courses and institutes in India, Italy and the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\nReflecting the increased recognition of vocology, the \"Scandinavian Journal of Logopedics & Phoniatrics\" and \"Voice\" merged in 1996 with the new name \"Logopedics, Phoniatrics, Vocology\". Additionally, a new association bearing the name of vocology (Pan-American Vocology Association) has also been started.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "664811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=664811", "title": "Writer's block", "text": "Writer's block\n\nWriter's block is a condition, primarily associated with writing, in which an author loses the ability to produce new work, or experiences a creative slowdown. The condition ranges in difficulty from coming up with original ideas to being unable to produce a work for years. Throughout history, writer's block has been a documented problem.\n\nProfessionals who have struggled with the affliction include authors such as F. Scott Fitzgerald and Joseph Mitchell, comic strip cartoonist Charles M. Schulz, composer Sergei Rachmaninoff, and songwriter Adele. Research concerning this topic was done in the late 1970s and 1980s. During this time, researchers were influenced by the Process and Post-Process movements, and therefore focused specifically on the writer's processes. The condition was first described in 1947 by psychoanalyst Edmund Bergler. However, some great writers may have already suffered from writer’s block years before Bergler described it, such as Herman Melville, who quit writing novels a few years after writing \"Moby-Dick\".\n\nWriter's block may have several causes. Some are creative problems that originate within an author's work itself. A writer may run out of inspiration, or be distracted by other events. A fictional example can be found in George Orwell's novel \"Keep the Aspidistra Flying\", in which the protagonist Gordon Comstock struggles in vain to complete an epic poem describing a day in London: \"It was too big for him, that was the truth. It had never really progressed, it had simply fallen apart into a series of fragments.\"\n\nOther blocks may be produced by adverse circumstances in a writer's life or career: physical illness, depression, the end of a relationship, financial pressures, or a sense of failure. The pressure to produce work may in itself contribute to writer's block, especially if they are compelled to work in ways that are against their natural inclination (i.e. with a deadline or an unsuitable style or genre). Writer's block may also come from feeling intimidated by one's previous big successes. The writer Elizabeth Gilbert, reflecting on her post-bestseller prospects, proposed that such a pressure might be released by interpreting creative writers as \"having\" genius rather than \"being\" a genius.\n\nIt has been suggested that writer's block is more than just a mentality. Under stress, a human brain will \"shift control from the cerebral cortex to the limbic system\". The limbic system is associated with the instinctual processes, such as \"fight or flight\" response; and behavior that is based on \"deeply engrained training\". The limited input from the cerebral cortex hinders a person's creative processes, which are replaced by the behaviors associated with the limbic system. The person is often unaware of the change, which may lead them to believe they are creatively \"blocked\". In her 2004 book \"The Midnight Disease: The Drive to Write, Writer's Block, and the Creative Brain\" (), the writer and neurologist Alice W. Flaherty has argued that literary creativity is a function of specific areas of the brain, and that block may be the result of brain activity being disrupted in those areas.\n\nFor a composition perspective, Lawrence Oliver says, in his article, \"Helping Students Overcome Writer's Block\", \"Students receive little or no advice on how to generate ideas or explore their thoughts, and they usually must proceed through the writing process without guidance or corrective feedback from the teacher, who withholds comments and criticism until grading the final product.\" He says, students \"learn to write by writing\", and often they are insecure and/or paralyzed by rules.\n\nPhyllis Koestenbaum wrote in her article \"The Secret Climate the Year I Stopped Writing\" about her trepidation toward writing, claiming it was tied directly to her instructor's response. She says, \"I needed to write to feel, but without feeling I couldn't write.\" To contrast Koestenbaum experience, Nancy Sommers expressed her belief that papers do not end when students finish writing and that neither should instructors' comments. She urges a \"partnership\" between writers and instructors so that responses become a conversation.\n\nJames Adams notes in his book, \"Conceptual Blockbusting\", various reasons blocks occur include fear of taking a risk, \"chaos\" in the pre-writing stage, judging versus generating ideas, an inability to incubate ideas, or a lack of motivation.\n\nAs far as strategies for coping with writer's block Clark describes: class and group discussion, journals, free writing and brainstorming, clustering, list making, and engaging with the text. To overcome writing blocks, Oliver suggests asking writers questions to uncover their writing process. Then he recommends solutions such as systematic questioning, freewriting, and encouragement. A recent study of 2500 writers aimed to find techniques that writers themselves use to overcome writer's block. The research discovered a range of solutions from altering the time of day to write and setting deadlines to lowering expectations and using mindfulness meditation. \n\nGarbriele Lusser Rico's concern with the mind links to brain lateralization, also explored by Rose and Linda Flowers and John R. Hayes among others. Rico's book, \"Writing the Natural Way\" looks into invention strategies, such as clustering, which has been noted to be an invention strategy used to help writers overcome their blocks, and further emphasizes the solutions presented in works by Rose, Oliver, and Clark. Similar to Rico, James Adams discusses right brain involvement in writing. While Downey purposes that he is basing his approach in practical concerns, his concentration on right brain techniques speaks to cognitive theory approach similar to Rico's and a more practical advice for writers to approach their writer's block.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13366106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13366106", "title": "Writing material", "text": "Writing material\n\nWriting material refers to the materials that provide the surfaces on which humans use writing instruments to inscribe writings. The same materials can also be used for symbolic or representational drawings. Building material on which writings or drawings are produced are not included. The gross characterization of writing materials is by the material constituting the writing surface (for example, paper) and the number, size, and usage and storage configuration of multiple surfaces (for example, paper sheets) into a single object (for example, a spiral notebook). Writing materials are often paired with specific types of writing instruments. Other important attributes of a writing material are its reusability, its permanence, and its resistance to fraudulent misuse.\n\nBecause drawing preceded writing, the first remains of writing materials are the stone walls of the caves on which the famous images were drawn. Another precursor were tally sticks used to record the count of objects or the passage of discrete units of time (days). Tally sticks have been found made of wood and of bone. Knotted ropes and similar materials were also used for tallies. Such materials did not take a great deal of preparation for their use for drawing or writing. Animal hides also had potential for use as a material for writing or drawing, although the drawings and writings may have been decorative or to convey status or religious meaning. Among the barks of trees, birch bark is very well suited for use as a writing material and was so used both in Northern Europe and among native peoples in North America.\n\nFour other classes of material were sometimes used for writing: clay, wax, cloth, and metal. The value of metal for useful implements may have made it less than useful for practical writing and drawing. The very hardness of many metals that made them useful also made it an inconvenient material for many kinds of writing. But foils or sheets of soft metals like lead were usable. Lead sheets were used for curse tablets, as well as personal correspondence.\n\nCloth probably shared its mode of use with animal skins. Clay introduces the useful combination of extreme ease of making the inscription with the potential for rendering it fairly permanent. Unglazed pottery can readily accept inscription even after firing. Wax offers another novel combination of advantage: a reusable surface, easily inscribed and erased, and easy combination with materials like wood that give it durability. Stone tablets, clay and wooden writing tablets, and wax-covered wooden tablets are some of the first specialized configurations of materials in flat surfaces specifically for writing.\n\nUnglazed pottery shards were used almost as a kind of scratch paper, as ostraka, for tax receipts and, in Athens, to record the individual nominations of Greek leaders for ostracism.\n\nThe archaeological record contains either examples of these materials used for drawing or writing or it has indirect indications of their use for writing, drawing, or tallying.\n\nIn western civilisations, early use of papyrus was soon replaced by parchment made by treating animal hide. A wide variety of parchments from various animal skins, with different texture, quality and hue were widely used for codices, religious and cultural texts. This was replaced by the advent and increasing access and availability of paper.\n\nIn eastern civilisations such as India, the principal writing media were birch bark or \"bhurjapatra\" (Sanskrit) and dried palm leaves. The use of paper began only after the 10th century. However birch bark and palm leaf continue to be used even today on a limited scale in a rural milieu for the use of horoscopes, wedding invitations and other cultural uses.\n\nIn China, the early material was animal bones, later silk, bamboo and wooden slips, until the 2nd century when paper was invented.\n\nWriting seems to have become more widespread with the invention of papyrus in Egypt. Parchment, using sheepskins left after the wool was removed for cloth, was sometimes cheaper than papyrus, which had to be imported outside Egypt. With the invention of wood-pulp paper, the cost of writing material began a steady decline.\n\nThe dramatic increase in demand foray paper associated with the printing press stimulated dramatic cost reduction efforts. Specialized materials developed for printing have also been made available for writing. The invention of the typewriter was a major step, making possible reliable production of legible written materials by organizations and individual writers.\n\nElectronic media have utilized the keyboard developed for the typewriter, electrical and electronic circuitry and storage devices, and the viewing screen developed for reading electronic signals to separate the medium for writing from the medium for reading.\n\n\n"}
