{"id": "58548643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58548643", "title": "AKTIP (therapeutic institute)", "text": "AKTIP (therapeutic institute)\n\nAKTIP – Konzultační a terapeutický institut Praha (The Consultation and Therapeutic Institute Prague) is a private institute run by the public business company Progressive consulting, offering services in the field of psychosomatic care. The head of the institute is psychiatrist Jarmila Klímová.\n\nControversy about the methods of the institute emerges when the documentary Infiltrace: Obchod se zdravím (Infiltration: Health Business) was broadcast by Czech television on May 21, 2018.\nThe documentary revealed that the company uses unethical techniques to the detriment of its patients for its financial gain, including pseudoscience, manipulation, and incitement of fear of cancer and anxiety. AKTIP offers examinations and healing by instrumentation and homeopathic preparations of doubtful effectiveness for various somatic diseases, including thyroid disease.\nAlthough it has physicians on staff, this institution is not a legitimate provider of health services. It is not a medical facility.\n\nAKTIP is the holder of the Silver Erratic Boulder award in the category of teams for 2016.\n\"“An eventual client meets here imaginary care in a wide range of disciplines. His complex problems will be treated by a graphologist, an expert in oriental diagnostics and bioresonance therapy will also supply its part of information. If it fails, a miraculous ANESA device, known as the non-invasive AMP blood analyzer (Golden Erratic Boulder award for 2011), will come to the scene”\", said Sisyfos.\n\nIn the awards report its representatives also cite the statement of the head of AKTIP Jarmila Klímová that the human body is set for 400 years of life. \"“If we really lived only by biological hours, we could be at rest between 380 and 460 years, because this age is set up for our body ... And why do we live only 60 or 80 years? No, because the most important influence outside of ourselves, which fundamentally affects the length and quality of life, we do not accept.”\"\n\nThe practices of AKTIP was already criticized by the Czech Oncological Society in 2014.\nProcedures used by AKTIP employees have been critically evaluated by doctors (f.ex. by cardiologist Věra Adámková) The psychologist Petr Weiss described AKTIP's practices as charlatan fabrications, fraud, and money-pulling activities.\n\nAccording to the President of the Czech Medical Chamber Milan Kubka, AKTIP's position in the future could be solved by a law on healers that would force \"all such charlatan institutions\" to mandatory registration. \"“This institution only looks like a medical facility, and that's a scam from my point of view.”\"\n\nSisyfos, in response to the AKTIP case, has published an article analyzing the principles of some devices used by individual \"consultants\" of AKTIP. This article also expresses concern that AKTIP is not an exceptional case, but that it is a fairly common phenomenon among institutions that provide services of alternative medicine.\n\n"}
{"id": "42766846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42766846", "title": "Bacteriologist (Professional)", "text": "Bacteriologist (Professional)\n\nA bacteriologist is a professional trained in bacteriology a subdivision of microbiology. The duties of a bacteriologist include prevention, diagnosis and prognosis of diseases, as well as health care, and they may carry out various functions such as epidemiological surveillance, quality auditing with biotechnology development, basic research, management and teaching related to the career, scientist management, laboratory coordination and blood banks.\n\nThe name can vary depending on the official laws of each country and how they are established in the society and therefore they would have a different official name. Whether they have different official name among the countries, the background almost is similar.\nCalled Medical Laboratory Scientist or Bachelor of science in the United States depending on their training, bacteriologists to homologate their title in the United States are called Bachelor of Bacteriology.\n\nThe main aim of a bacteriologist is prognosticate, diagnose and the disease surveillance by a huge range of laboratory test, all of them in the context of health care. Hence, a bacteriologist plays a role in research, management of the health care, promoting health and disease prevention.\n\nThere are plenty of methods and procedures used by the bacteriologist in the clinical laboratory whose purpose is the diagnosis of various diseases, some of these techniques are:\n\nTechniques in Clinical Chemistry: used for determination of various analyses in various biological fluids, different reagents are used to play colorimetric techniques and enzyme kinetics, among others. The result of these reactions were measured by spectrometer or other similar physical techniques to quantitatively determine the value of an analyte, so as measured quantitatively analytes such as creation, BUN, lipid profile, total protein, glucose, direct bilirubin and overall, among others.\n\nTechniques in Immunology: many of the immunological techniques used in clinical laboratory are based on the ability of antibodies to bind to specific antigens either in vitro or vivo, is how this feature that is exploited by the professional laboratory diagnose various diseases and / or semi-quantitative or quantitative determination of various analytes, among the various techniques used in immunology section include: immunology Test as ELISA (Enzyme-linked immunodeficient assay) for its acronym in English, with agglutination techniques latex particles coated with antibody or antigen, agglutination techniques, articulation chromatography techniques, microorganisms stereotyping techniques, fluorescence, among many others. Some of the tests performed in this section mentioned techniques are: rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies by agglutination with latex particles, c-reactive protein, chromatography for determination of Human Chorionic Gonadotropin, HIV 1 and 2, hepatitis B virus, ELISA for determination of hormones and the presence of other microorganisms causing diseases among other tests.\n\nTechniques in Microbiology: mainly used to determine infectious diseases the causative agent of the disease, regardless of whether it is caused by a bacterium, virus, fungi or parasites, bacteriologist through various coloration's, microscopic observation, specific crops for growth of each organism, biochemical tests whether manual, semi-automated or automated used to determine the genus and species of the organism causing the disease. a bacteriologist should be able to identify and name any parasitic observe microscopic structure, recently antimicrobial susceptibility tests have become very important for the emergence of multi-resistant bacterial strains in clinical microbiology section of the laboratory tests performed bacteriologists antimicrobial susceptibility to determine which antibiotics should treat various infectious diseases.\n\nTechniques in Hematology: Section of Hematology various examinations are performed as: Table He mic, FSP (peripheral blood smear), reticulated count, observation and identification of parasites, determining blood type and RH, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, among other . Bacteriologists in specialized clinical laboratory hematology specialists perform more specific tests for diagnosis of hematologic diseases such as leukemia, anemia, regardless of etiology or other genetic alterations by various techniques such wherein phenotype cell markers studies performed by flow optometry, molecular biology techniques molecular as electroscopes, PCR and other tests such as: osmotic fragility, analysis of bone marrow aspirates, among others.\n\nTechniques in Molecular Biology and Genetics: in specialized clinical laboratory services are included with molecular biology and genetics where the bacteriologist makes techniques such as chain reaction (PCR), electroscopes, Southern blot, Western blot, and DNA sequencing techniques genetically among others, which can be quite useful for diagnosis of various diseases.\n\nTechniques in Blood Bank and Transfusion Unit: Section blood bank and / or transfusion unit performs professional laboratory testing donated blood units to ensure they are in good condition to be transfused to a patient, tests are done as presence or absence of infectious agents that produce diseases such as HIV, Sagas disease, Hepatitis, HTLV I, syphilis and others. Equally prepared and necessary processes are separated by centrifugal units of RBCs, precipitate, and platelet units reductionist procedures among others. Different unit processes in transfusion procedures are performed to measure the compatibility of the donor - recipient, the bacteriologist must verify the absence of antibodies that produce severe thrombolytic reactions at the time of transfusion between these procedures include: cross match minor, major crosspatch, determining blood type and RH, direct Combs, Combos indirect detection of antibodies and antibodies.\n\nAll manual or automated procedures require the strictest quality control. Checks should be made internal and external quality, make the appropriate calibrations, maintenance of equipment when necessary and properly validate every bacteriologist should follow the protocols are conducted in the clinical laboratory for quality control concerns, besides being constantly updated theoretical and academic in this way make a correct clinical correlation and ensure the accuracy of the results reported to the doctor.\n\nOne of the most important properties that should be a bacteriologist is his biosecurity. A bacteriologist should work with the right equipment depending on the level of the laboratory where the work and the danger of working with samples, this equipment includes: gown, masks, goggles biosecurity, latex gloves, biohazard cabinet, if it is a laboratory where highly dangerous microorganisms work bacteriologist must use special biosafety suits.\n\nSome of the samples analyzed by bacteriologists are:\n\n\nMany medical diagnoses are based on the various examinations conducted by the bacteriologist in the clinical laboratory\n\nA bacteriologist has general knowledge in bacteriology, hematology, parasitology, mycology, virology, immunology, genetics, cytogenetics, molecular biology, quality control, biotechnology, among other disciplines. The bacteriologist can reinforce the knowledge acquired through specialization, diploma, masters and doctoral degrees recognized by official institutions.\n\nA bacteriologist performs in different fields as either professional or coordinator of clinical laboratory and blood banks, scientific research groups, microbiological quality control, quality control in clinical laboratory equipment epidemiology and public health, clinical laboratory veterinarian forensic clinical laboratory teaching in the fields of competence, among others. Besides this is the duty of bacteriologist transmit their knowledge to practitioners and bacteriologists future clinical laboratory professionals.\n\n\nA bacteriologist have the obligation of have the following attitudes;\n\nIn Colombia is regulated by the Bacteriologist National School \"“Colegio Nacional de Bacteriólogo (CNB)”\" which determine whether the professional is ready or not to perform the professional career by the obtaining of a professional card. that qualify to the professional to perform the professional career, it is regulated by the law (Article 2 of Act 1193 of 2008 which amends Act 841 of 2003), which determines;\n\"The National Association of Bacteriologists assumes the functions of issuing of the professional card referred in Article 5 of Act, the Professional Cards, meanwhile inscriptions or records Bacteriologists will be issued by the Ministries of Health of the different departments\"\n\n\"“While the National Association of Bacteriologists acts as the issue of the professional card referred to in Article 5 of this Law, the Professional Cards, inscriptions or records Bacteriologists will be issued by the Ministries of Health of the different departments”\"\n\nIn Bioethical see National Court and Ethics Bacteriology know will handle disciplinary proceedings on appeal - Bioethics - ethics - which identify professionals who practice in the profession of bacteriology in Colombia for petty offenses established in the existing laws matter. under Article 8 of Law 1193 of 2008.\n\nCurrently, to carry out the career in a different country of the initial studies, it is necessary to do a type approval or validation. As long as the professional be interested to work in the destiny country.\n\nIt is not necessary the approval or validate, when the professionals pretend to improve the knowledge in a Hague member country (Hague Convention), As long as the interested provided the correct documents legalization performed by the apostille convention, thus as ask for the postgraduates certificate access in accordance with paragraph c of Article 14 of Act 30 of 1992 (within Colombia), It is necessary determine whether the destiny country is on the haya member list.\n\nIn Colombia, 28 April is celebrated as Bacteriologist's day. However, in other countries this does not exist or is not celebrated. An international day is not present.\n\nThis are some of the laws/acts that regulated to bacteriologist; (Spanish)\n\nFurther information is at the web site of “CNB”, Colombian universities or well you can check each of the Laws/Acts given above.\n\n"}
{"id": "40319313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40319313", "title": "Biomesotherapy", "text": "Biomesotherapy\n\nBiomesotherapy is an alternative therapy practice that combines homotoxicology, mesotherapy, and acupuncture. Saline solution and homeopathic formulations are injected subcutaneously at specific acupuncture or trigger points, and homeopathic formulations are administered orally during treatment sessions. Biomesotherapy is used for pain management and general well-being.\n\n\"This article incorporates public domain text from the CDC as cited.\"\n"}
{"id": "4472724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4472724", "title": "Broca's Brain", "text": "Broca's Brain\n\nBroca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science is a 1979 book by astrophysicist Carl Sagan. Its chapters were originally articles published between 1974 and 1979 in various magazines, including \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"The New Republic\", \"Physics Today\", \"Playboy\" and \"Scientific American\". In the introduction, Sagan wrote:\n\nThe title essay is named in honor of the French physician, anatomist and anthropologist, Paul Broca (1824–1880). He is best known for his discovery that different functions are assigned to different parts of the brain. He believed that by studying the brains of cadavers and correlating the known experiences of the former owners of the organs, human behavior could eventually be discovered and understood. To that end, he saved hundreds of human brains in jars of formalin; among the collection is his own neural organ. When Sagan finds it in Musée de l'Homme, he poses questions that challenge some core ideas of human existence such as \"How much of that man known as Paul Broca can still be found in this jar?\"—a question that evokes both religious and scientific argument.\n\nA major part of the book is devoted to debunking \"paradoxers\" who either live at the edge of science or are outright charlatans. An example of this is the controversy surrounding Immanuel Velikovsky's ideas presented in the book \"Worlds in Collision\". Another large part of the book discusses naming conventions for the members of our solar system and their physical features. Sagan also discusses Science fiction at some length. Here, he mentions Robert A. Heinlein as being one of his favorite science fiction authors in his childhood. Near death experiences and their cultural ambiguity is another topic of the essays. Sagan also criticizes ideas developed in Robert K. G. Temple's book \"The Sirius Mystery\", published three years earlier in 1975.\n\nIn the final section of the book, \"Ultimate Questions.\" Sagan writes:\n\n"}
{"id": "57896735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57896735", "title": "CEASE therapy", "text": "CEASE therapy\n\nCEASE (Complete Elimination of Autistic Spectrum Expression) therapy is used by naturopaths (particularly homeopaths) who claim, without evidence, that it can treat or even cure people with autism. It involves a mixture of supplements, high-dose vitamin C, 'orthomolecular support', dietary restrictions and homeopathy and was developed by the late Tinus Smits - a Dutch doctor. Smits claimed to have used it to treat over 300 children with autism. The therapy became more notable in 2017/2018 because of regulatory action taken by professional bodies in The Netherlands, UK and Canada following a series of complaints about unfounded claims. \n\nSmits in the book \"Autism Beyond Despair - CEASE Therapy\" stated that autistic children should never be vaccinated. \n\nIn October 2017 the Dutch Advertising Code Foundation (Stichting Reclame Code) found that the official website for CEASE therapy was in breach of advertising regulations.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Professional Standards Authority (PSA) placed some requirements on the Society of Homeopaths (SoH) when they reaccredited their members' register under their Accredited Register scheme, due to concerns about the way in which members marketed CEASE therapy. The PSA asked the SoH to confirm \"what action it will take to ensure children are safe as a condition of its re-accreditation\". In June 2018 the Society of Homeopaths published a position statement advising their members not to imply any cure of autism when marketing CEASE therapy. It has been estimated that more than 120 homeopaths are offering CEASE in the UK though not all are SoH members. In July 2015 the UK's Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) found Teddington Homeopathy's marketing of CEASE therapy in breach of the Advertising Standards Code. The following month the ASA added the company to its list of non-compliant online advertisers for \"making unproven efficacy claims for CEASE therapy\". In July 2018 the ASA upheld an adjudication against Bubbling Life's website, determining that the claims relating to CEASE, vaccination, autism and ASD could discourage customers from seeking appropriate advice or treatment. \n\nIn British Columbia, Canada, the Board of the College of Naturopathic Physicians investigated three CEASE practitioners following complaints from the public and subsequently \"determined that naturopathic doctors in British Columbia must not advertise or offer CEASE therapy\". As well as this prohibition the College's updated position statements also clarify that naturopathic doctors in BC must not offer anti-vaccination materials or advice (including on social media) and must not imply that vaccination causes autism.\n\n"}
{"id": "20546074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20546074", "title": "Chief scientific officer", "text": "Chief scientific officer\n\nA chief science officer (C.S.O.) is a position at the head of scientific research operations at organizations or companies performing significant scientific research projects.\n\nA C.S.O. typically is responsible for envisioning and developing research capabilities (human, methodological, and technological), for developing evidence of the validity and utility of research products, and for communicating with the scientific and customer communities concerning capabilities and scientific product offerings. \n\nIn some organizations, the same person may hold this title along with that of chief technology officer (C.T.O.). Alternatively, a company could have one or the other, or both occupied by separate people. Often, C.S.Os exists in heavily research-oriented companies, while C.T.Os exists in product development focused companies. The typical category of research and development that exists in many science and technology companies can be led by either post, depending upon which area is the organization's primary focus. \n\nA C.S.O. almost always has a pure science background and an advanced degree, whereas a C.T.O. often has a background in engineering or business development.\n\nSome academic research organizations, such as the Fox Chase Cancer Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, and the San Diego Supercomputer Center have adopted a similar title of C.S.O. Typically, their role is to evaluate and set scientific priorities and coordinate the administrative structure that supports scientists. A C.S.O. commonly has a scientific or academic background, yet they may or may not be practicing scientists or academics.\n\nIn the National Health Service, the C.S.O. is the head of profession for the 53,000 healthcare scientists working in the organization and its associated bodies. The C.S.O. is one of six NHS professional officers (including the chief medical officer and the chief nursing officer) who are employed within NHS England. These roles lead their own professional groups as well as providing expert knowledge about their specific disciplines to the NHS and wider health and care system.\n\nThe C.S.O. provides professional leadership and expert clinical advice across the health system, as well as working alongside senior clinical leaders within NHS England and the broader commissioning system. The C.S.O. is also responsibility for delivering the government's strategy for a modernised healthcare science workforce, Modernising Scientific Careers.\n\nProfessor Dame Sue Hill has been the C.S.O. since October 2002 first within the department of health and subsequently NHS England . The role was strengthened in March 2013, with the appointment of a deputy C.S.O.\n\n"}
{"id": "2582448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2582448", "title": "Cosmic pluralism", "text": "Cosmic pluralism\n\nCosmic pluralism, the plurality of worlds, or simply pluralism, describes the philosophical belief in numerous \"worlds\" (planets, dwarf planets or natural satellites) in addition to Earth (possibly an infinite number), which may harbour extraterrestrial life.\n\nThe debate over pluralism began as early as the time of Anaximander (c. 610 – c. 546 BC) as a metaphysical argument, long predating the scientific Copernican conception that the Earth is one of numerous planets. It has continued, in a variety of forms, until the modern era.\n\nIn Greek times, the debate was largely philosophical and did not conform to present notions of cosmology. Cosmic pluralism was a corollary to notions of infinity and the purported multitude of life-bearing worlds were more akin to parallel universes (either contemporaneously in space or infinitely recurring in time) than to different solar systems. After Anaximander opened the door to an infinite universe, a strong pluralist stance was adopted by the atomists, notably Leucippus, Democritus, and Epicurus. While these were prominent thinkers, their opponents—Plato and Aristotle—had greater effect. They argued that the Earth is unique and that there can be no other systems of worlds. This stance neatly dovetailed with later Christian ideas and pluralism was effectively suppressed for approximately a millennium.\n\nMany medieval Muslim scholars endorsed the idea of cosmic pluralism. Imam Muhammad al-Baqir (676–733) wrote \"Maybe you see that God created only this single world and that God did not create humans besides you. Well, I swear by God that God created thousands and thousands of worlds and\nthousands and thousands of humankind.\"\n\nFakhr ad-Din ar-Razi (1149–1209), in dealing with his conception of physics and the physical world in his Matalib, rejects the Aristotelian and Avicennian notion of the Earth's centrality within the universe. Instead he argues that there are \"a thousand thousand worlds (alfa alfi 'awalim) beyond this world such that each one of those worlds be bigger and more massive than this world as well as having the like of what this world has.\" To support his theological argument, he cites the Qur'anic verse, \"All praise belongs to God, Lord of the Worlds,\" in surah fatiha emphasizing the term \"Worlds.\"\n\nTwo Qur'anic verses support the idea of God being Lord of multiple worlds: 1:2 and 41:09. Qur'an 16:8 says \"He has created other things of which ye have no knowledge.\"\n\nCosmic pluralism was depicted in fictional Arabic literature. \"The Adventures of Bulukiya\", a tale from the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" (\"Arabian Nights\"), depicted a cosmos consisting of different worlds, some larger than Earth and each with their own inhabitants.\n\nEventually the Ptolemaic-Aristotelian system was challenged and pluralism reasserted, first tentatively by scholastics and then more seriously by followers of Copernicus. The telescope appeared to prove that a multitude of life was reasonable and an expression of God's creative omnipotence; still powerful theological opponents, meanwhile, continued to insist that although the Earth may have been displaced from the center of the cosmos, it was still the unique focus of God's creation. Thinkers such as Johannes Kepler were willing to admit the possibility of pluralism without truly supporting it.\n\nGiordano Bruno introduced in his works the idea of multiple worlds instantiating the infinite possibilities of a pristine, indivisible One. Bruno (from the mouth of his character Philotheo) in his \"De l'infinito universo et mondi\" (1584) claims that \"innumerable celestial bodies, stars, globes, suns and earths may be sensibly perceived therein by us and an infinite number of them may be inferred by our own reason.\"\n\nTeaching this was among the charges the Inquisition made against him.\n\nDuring the Scientific Revolution and the later Enlightenment, cosmic pluralism became a mainstream possibility. Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle's \"Entretiens sur la pluralité des mondes\" (\"Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds\") of 1686 was an important work from this period, speculating on pluralism and describing the new Copernican cosmology. Pluralism was also championed by philosophers such as John Locke, astronomers such as William Herschel and even politicians, including John Adams and Benjamin Franklin. As greater scientific skepticism and rigour were applied to the question it ceased to be simply a matter of philosophy and theology and was properly bounded by astronomy and biology.\n\nThe French astronomer Camille Flammarion was one of the chief proponents of cosmic pluralism during the latter half of the nineteenth century. His first book, \"La pluralité des mondes habités\" (1862) was a great popular success, going through 33 editions in its first twenty years. Flammarion was one of the first people to put forward the idea that extraterrestrial beings were genuinely alien, and not simply variations of earthly creatures.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries the term \"cosmic pluralism\" became largely archaic as knowledge diversified and the speculation on extraterrestrial life focused on particular bodies and observations. The historic debate continues to have modern parallels, however. Carl Sagan and Frank Drake, for instance, could well be considered \"pluralists\" while proponents of the Rare Earth hypothesis are modern skeptics.\n\nModern Islamic scholars like Abdullah Yusuf Ali point to the Qur'an (42:29) to argue for life on other planets: \"And among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the living creatures that He has scattered through them\". The verses uses the word \"da’bbah\", which denotes living creatures on the surface of a planet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5828", "title": "Cryptozoology", "text": "Cryptozoology\n\nCryptozoology is a pseudoscience and subculture that aims to prove the existence of entities from the folklore record, such as Bigfoot, the chupacabra, or Mokele-mbembe. Cryptozoologists refer to these entities as \"cryptids\", a term coined by the subculture. Because it does not follow the scientific method, cryptozoology is considered a pseudoscience by the academic world: it is neither a branch of zoology nor folkloristics.\n\nOriginally founded in the 1950s by zoologists Bernard Heuvelmans and Ivan T. Sanderson, scholars have noted that the pseudoscience rejected mainstream approaches from an early date, and that adherents often express hostility to mainstream science. Scholars have studied cryptozoologists and their influence (including the pseudoscience's association with young Earth creationism), and have noted parallels in cryptozoology and other pseudosciences such as ghost hunting and ufology.\n\nAs a field, cryptozoology originates from the works of colleagues Bernard Heuvelmans, a Belgian zoologist, and Ivan T. Sanderson, a Scottish zoologist. Notably, Heuvelmans published \"On the Track of Unknown Animals\" (French \"Sur la Piste des Bêtes Ignorées\") in 1955, a landmark work among cryptozoologists that was followed by numerous other like works. Similarly, Sanderson published a series of books that assisted in developing hallmarks of cryptozoology, including \"Abominable Snowmen: Legend Come to Life\" (1961).\n\nThe term \"cryptozoology\" dates from cryptozoologist circles from 1959 or before – Heuvelmans attributes the coinage of the term \"cryptozoology\" ('the study of hidden animals') to Sanderson. Patterned after \"cryptozoology\", the term \"cryptid\" was coined in 1983 by cryptozoologist J. E. Wall in the Summer issue of the International Society of Cryptozoology newsletter. According to Wall \"[It has been] suggested that new terms be coined to replace sensational and often misleading terms like 'monster'. My suggestion is 'cryptid', meaning a living thing having the quality of being hidden or unknown.\" The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines the noun \"cryptid\" as \"an animal whose existence or survival to the present day is disputed or unsubstantiated; any animal of interest to a cryptozoologist\". While used by most cryptozoologists, the term \"cryptid\" is not used by academic zoologists.\n\nWhile biologists regularly identify new species, cryptozoologists often focus on creatures from the folklore record. Most famously, these include the Loch Ness Monster, Bigfoot, the chupacabra, as well as other \"imposing beasts that could be labeled as monsters\". In their hunt for these entities, cryptozoologists may employ devices such as motion-sensitive cameras, night-vision equipment, and audio-recording equipment. While there have been attempts to codify cryptozoological approaches, unlike biologists, zoologists, botanists, and other academic disciplines, however, \"there are no accepted, uniform, or successful methods for pursuing cryptids\". Some scholars have identified precursors to modern cryptozoology in certain medieval approaches to the folklore record, and the psychology behind the cryptozoology approach has been the subject of academic study.\n\nFew cryptozoologists have a formal science education, and fewer still have a science background directly relevant to cryptozoology. Adherents often misrepresent the academic backgrounds of cryptozoologists. According to writer Daniel Loxton and paleontologist Donald Prothero, \"Cryptozoologists have often promoted 'Professor Roy Mackal, PhD.' as one of their leading figures and one of the few with a legitimate doctorate in biology. What is rarely mentioned, however, is that he had no training that would qualify him to undertake competent research on exotic animals. This raises the specter of 'credential mongering', by which an individual or organization feints a person's graduate degree as proof of expertise, even though his or her training is not specifically relevant to the field under consideration.\" Besides Heuvalmans, Sanderson, and Mackal, notable cryptozoologists with academic backgrounds include Grover Krantz, Karl Shuker, and Richard Greenwell.\n\nA subset of cryptozoology promotes the pseudoscience of Young Earth creationism, rejecting conventional science in favor of a Biblical interpretation and promoting concepts such as \"living dinosaurs\". Science writer Sharon A. Hill observes that the Young Earth creationist segment of cryptozoology is \"well-funded and able to conduct expeditions with a goal of finding a living dinosaur that they think would invalidate evolution.\" Anthropologist Jeb J. Card says that \"Creationists have embraced cryptozoology and some cryptozoological expeditions are funded by and conducted by creationists hoping to disprove evolution.\" In a 2013 interview, paleontologist Donald Prothero notes an uptick in creationist cryptozoologists. He observes that \"[p]eople who actively search for Loch Ness monsters or Mokele Mbembe do it entirely as creationist ministers. They think that if they found a dinosaur in the Congo it would overturn all of evolution. It wouldn't. It would just be a late-occurring dinosaur, but that's their mistaken notion of evolution.\"\n\nThe 2003 discovery of the fossil remains of \"Homo floresiensis\" was cited by paleontologist Henry Gee, a senior editor at the journal \"Nature\", as possible evidence that \"in geological terms, makes it more likely that stories of other mythical, human-like creatures such as yetis are founded on grains of truth.\" \"Cryptozoology,\" Gee says, \"can come in from the cold.\"\n\nHowever, cryptozoology is widely criticised for an array of reasons and is rejected by the academic world. There is a broad consensus from academics that cryptozoology is a pseudoscience. The field is regularly criticized for reliance on anecdotal information and because in the course of investigating animals that most scientists believe are unlikely to have existed, cryptozoologists do not follow the scientific method. Hill notes that \"there is no academic course of study in cryptozoology or no university degree program that will bestow the title 'cryptozoologist'.\"\n\nAnthropologist Jeb J. Card summarizes cryptozoology in a survey of pseudoscience and pseudoarchaeology:\n\nCard notes that \"cryptozoologists often show their disdain and even hatred for professional scientists, including those who enthusiastically participated in cryptozoology\", which he traces back to Heuvelmans's early \"rage against critics of cryptozoology\". He finds parallels with cryptozoology and other pseudosciences, such as ghost hunting and ufology, and compares the approach of cryptozoologists to colonial big-game hunters, and to aspects of European imperialism. According to Card, \"Most cryptids are framed as the subject of indigenous legends typically collected in the hayday of comparative folklore, though such legends may be heavily modified or worse. Cryptozoology's complicated mix of sympathy, interest, and appropriation of indigenous culture (or non-indigenous construction of it) is also found in New Age circles and dubious \"Indian burial grounds\" and other legends ... invoked in hauntings such as the \"Amityville\" hoax ...\".\n\nIn a 2011 foreword for \"The American Biology Teacher\", then National Association of Biology Teachers president Dan Ward uses cryptozoology as an example of \"technological pseudoscience\" that may confuse students about the scientific method. Ward says that \"Cryptozoology … is not valid science or even science at all. It is monster hunting.\" Historian of science Brian Regal includes an entry for cryptozoology in his \"Pseudoscience: A Critical Encyclopedia\" (2009). Regal says that \"as an intellectual endeavor, cryptozoology has been studied as much as cryptozoologists have sought hidden animals\".\n\nIn a 1992 issue of \"Folklore\", folklorist Véronique Campion-Vincent says:\n\nCampion-Vincent says that \"four currents can be distinguished in the study of mysterious animal appearances\": \"Forteans\" (\"compiler[s] of anomalies\" such as via publications like the \"Fortean Times\"), \"occultists\" (which she describes as related to \"Forteans\"), \"folklorists\", and \"cryptozoologists\". Regarding cryptozoologists, Campion-Vincent says that \"this movement seems to deserve the appellation of parascience, like parapsychology: the same corpus is reviewed; many scientists participate, but for those who have an official status of university professor or researcher, the participation is a private hobby\".\n\nIn her \"Encyclopedia of American Folklore\", academic Linda Watts says that \"folklore concerning unreal animals or beings, sometimes called monsters, is a popular field of inquiry\" and describes cryptozoology as an example of \"American narrative traditions\" that \"feature many monsters\".\n\nIn his analysis of cryptozoology, folklorist Peter Dendle says that \"cryptozoology devotees consciously position themselves in defiance of mainstream science\" and that:\n\nIn a paper published in 2013, Dendle refers to cryptozoologists as \"contemporary monster hunters\" that \"keep alive a sense of wonder in a world that has been very thoroughly charted, mapped, and tracked, and that is largely available for close scrutiny on Google Earth and satellite imaging\" and that \"on the whole the devotion of substantial resources for this pursuit betrays a lack of awareness of the basis for scholarly consensus (largely ignoring, for instance, evidence of evolutionary biology and the fossil record).\"\n\nAccording to historian Mike Dash, few scientists doubt there are thousands of unknown animals, particularly invertebrates, awaiting discovery; however, cryptozoologists are largely uninterested in researching and cataloging newly discovered species of ants or beetles, instead focusing their efforts towards \"more elusive\" creatures that have often defied decades of work aimed at confirming their existence.\n\nPaleontologist George Gaylord Simpson (1984) lists cryptozoology among examples of human gullibility, along with creationism:\n\nPaleontologist Donald Prothero (2007) cites cryptozoology as an example of pseudoscience, and categorizes it along with Holocaust denial and UFO abductions claims as aspects of American culture that are \"clearly baloney\".\n\nIn \"Scientifical Americans: The Culture of Amateur Paranormal Researchers\" (2017), Hill surveys the field and discusses aspects of the subculture, noting internal attempts at creating more scientific approaches and the involvement of Young Earth creationists and a prevalence of hoaxes. She concludes that many cryptozoologists are \"passionate and sincere in their belief that mystery animals exist. As such, they give deference to every report of a sighting, often without criticial questioning. As with the ghost seekers, cryptozoologists are convinced that they will be the ones to solve the mystery and make history. With the lure of mystery and money undermining diligent and ethical research, the field of cryptozoology has serious credibility problems.\"\n\nThere have been several organizations, of varying types, dedicated or related to cryptozoology. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "43779883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43779883", "title": "Dragendorff's reagent", "text": "Dragendorff's reagent\n\nDragendorff's reagent is a color reagent to detect alkaloids in a test sample. Alkaloids, if present in the solution of sample, will react with Dragendorff's reagent and produce an orange or orange red precipitate. This reagent was invented by the German pharmacologist, Johann Georg Dragendorff (1836–1898) at the University of Dorpat.\n\nDragendroff's reagent is a solution of potassium bismuth iodide prepared from basic bismuth nitrate (Bi(NO)), tartaric acid, and potassium iodide (KI).\n"}
{"id": "6997477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6997477", "title": "Engineering technician", "text": "Engineering technician\n\nAn engineering technician is primarily trained in the skills and techniques related to a specific branch of engineering, with a practical understanding of the relevant engineering concepts. Engineering technicians often assist engineers and technologists in projects relating to research and development, or focus on post-development activities like implementation or operation. An engineering technician is between a skilled craft worker and a technologist.\n\nThe Dublin Accord was signed in 2002 as an international agreement for the recognition of engineering technician qualifications. The Dublin Accord is analogous to the Washington Accord for engineers and the Sydney Accord for engineering technologists.\n\nEngineering technicians help solve technical problems in many ways. They build or set up equipment, conduct experiments, and collect data and calculate results. They might also help to make a model of new equipment. Some technicians work in quality control, where they check products, do tests, and collect data. In manufacturing, they help to design and develop products. They also find ways to produce things efficiently.There are multiple fields in this job such as; software design, repair, etc.\nThey may also be people who produce technical drawings or engineering drawings.\n\nEngineering technician diplomas and 2-year degrees are generally offered by technical schools and non-university higher education institutions like colleges of further education, industrial schools, and community colleges. Many 4-year colleges and universities offer bachelor's degrees in engineering technology, but engineering technologists are somewhat different from technicians. In some countries, there were vocational education schools that may have also conferred the title without awarding any degrees.\n\nBoth Portugal and Spain use the title of \"engenharia técnica\"/\"ingeniería técnica\", literally \"technical engineering\", for the professionals who were awarded a short-cycle 3- to 4-year undergraduate degree (associate degree or bachelor's degree) in a technical engineering field by colleges or technical engineering institutes in the case of Portugal, and universities in Spain. Spanish \"technical engineers\" have full competency in their respective professional field of engineering, being the difference that the three or four year Engineers have competence only in their speciality (Mechanical, Electrical, Chemical, etc.)and the \"Engineering Superior School\" Engineers have wider competences.\n\nIn the United States, the Technology Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) grants 2-year associate degree programs to students that meet a set of specified standards. These programs include at least a college algebra and trigonometry course and, if needed, one or two basic science courses at any accredited school. The number of math and science prerequisite courses depends on the branch of engineering that the student chooses.\n\nEngineering technicians apply scientific and engineering skills usually gained in post secondary programs below the bachelor's degree level or through short-cycle bachelor's degrees. However, some university institutions award undergraduate degrees in the field of engineering which may confer the title of Engineering technician to the student, who is, however, eligible to become a fully chartered engineer after further studies at the master's degree level. Engineering technicians are called professional engineers in the UK only.\n\nIn Canada, the term certified engineering technician is protected by legislation and can only be used by technicians certified by provincial member organizations of the Canadian Council of Technicians and Technologists, such as the Ontario Association of Certified Engineering Technicians and Technologists and the Association of Science and Engineering Technology Professionals of Alberta.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term Engineering Technician and post-nominals EngTech are protected in civil law, and can only be used by technicians registered with the Engineering Council UK.\n\nThe term engineer is not protected in the UK, however those holding EngTech accreditation can be employed as Engineers, providing they have the additional experience/qualifications. In the UK the term \"Engineer\" is used by thousands of unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled trades.\n\nIn the eyes of professional engineers (but not the public) It is more acceptable to reserve the title 'Engineer' until you can fulfil the criteria required by the Engineering Council UK for Incorporated Engineer (IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng) status - A Bachelors / Masters Engineer Degree and additional professional practice experience (minimum 4 years), as well as a nominated sponsor who can verify your claims is the most common method for IEng/CEng accreditation.\n\nThis procedure helps reduce the saturation of the term 'Engineer', a concern to many who have completed years of undergraduate and postgraduate study and often work as 'Junior Support Engineers' for a number of years after graduation before being able to confidently state their profession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10515", "title": "Extrasensory perception", "text": "Extrasensory perception\n\nExtrasensory perception or ESP, also called sixth sense or second sight, includes claimed reception of information not gained through the recognized physical senses, but sensed with the mind. The term was adopted by Duke University psychologist J. B. Rhine to denote psychic abilities such as intuition, telepathy, psychometry, clairaudience, and clairvoyance, and their trans-temporal operation as precognition or retrocognition.\n\nParapsychology is the study of paranormal psychic phenomena, including ESP. Parapsychology has been criticized for continuing investigation despite being unable to provide convincing evidence for the existence of any psychic phenomena after more than a century of research. The scientific community rejects ESP due to the absence of an evidence base, the lack of a theory which would explain ESP and the lack of positive experimental results; it considers ESP to be pseudoscience.\n\nIn the 1930s, at Duke University in North Carolina, J. B. Rhine and his wife Louisa E. Rhine conducted investigation into extrasensory perception. While Louisa Rhine concentrated on collecting accounts of spontaneous cases, J. B. Rhine worked largely in the laboratory, carefully defining terms such as ESP and \"psi\" and designing experiments to test them. A simple set of cards was developed, originally called Zener cards – now called ESP cards. They bear the symbols circle, square, wavy lines, cross, and star; there are five cards of each in a pack of 25.\n\nIn a telepathy experiment, the \"sender\" looks at a series of cards while the \"receiver\" guesses the symbols. To try to observe clairvoyance, the pack of cards is hidden from everyone while the receiver guesses. To try to observe precognition, the order of the cards is determined after the guesses are made. Later he used dice to test for psychokinesis.\n\nThe parapsychology experiments at Duke evoked criticism from academics and others who challenged the concepts and evidence of ESP. A number of psychological departments attempted to repeat Rhine's experiments with failure. W. S. Cox (1936) from Princeton University with 132 subjects produced 25,064 trials in a playing card ESP experiment. Cox concluded \"There is no evidence of extrasensory perception either in the 'average man' or of the group investigated or in any particular individual of that group. The discrepancy between these results and those obtained by Rhine is due either to uncontrollable factors in experimental procedure or to the difference in the subjects.\" Four other psychological departments failed to replicate Rhine's results.\n\nIn 1938, the psychologist Joseph Jastrow wrote that much of the evidence for extrasensory perception collected by Rhine and other parapsychologists was anecdotal, biased, dubious and the result of \"faulty observation and familiar human frailties\". Rhine's experiments were discredited due to the discovery that sensory leakage or cheating could account for all his results such as the subject being able to read the symbols from the back of the cards and being able to see and hear the experimenter to note subtle clues.\n\nIn the 1960s parapsychologists became increasingly interested in the cognitive components of ESP, the subjective experience involved in making ESP responses, and the role of ESP in psychological life. This called for experimental procedures that were not limited to Rhine's favored forced-choice methodology. Such procedures have included dream telepathy experiments, and the ganzfeld experiments (a mild sensory deprivation procedure).\n\nThe scientific consensus does not view extrasensory perception as a real phenomenon. Skeptics have pointed out that there is no viable theory to explain the mechanism behind ESP, and that there are historical cases in which flaws have been discovered in the experimental design of parapsychological studies.\n\nThere are many criticisms pertaining to experiments involving extrasensory perception, particularly surrounding methodological flaws. These flaws are not unique to a single experimental design, and are effective in discrediting much of the positive research surrounding ESP. Many of the flaws seen in the Zener cards experiment are present in the Ganzfeld experiment as well. First is the stacking effect, an error that occurs in ESP research. Trial-by-trial feedback given in studies using a “closed” ESP target sequence (e.g., a deck of cards) violates the condition of independence used for most standard statistical tests. Multiple responses for a single target cannot be evaluated using statistical tests that assume independence of responses. This increases likelihood of card counting and in turn, increases the chances for the subject to guess correctly without using ESP. Another methodological flaw involves cues through sensory leakage. For example, when the subject receives a visual cue. This could be the reflection of a Zener card in the holder’s glasses. In this case, the subject is able to guess the card correctly because they can see it in the reflection, not because of ESP. Finally, poor randomization of target stimuli could be happening. Poor shuffling methods can make the orders of the cards easier to predict, or the cards could’ve been marked and manipulated, again, making it easier to predict which cards come next.\nThe results of a meta-analysis found that when these errors were corrected and accounted for, there was still no significant effect of ESP. Many of the studies only appeared to have significant occurrence of ESP, when in fact, this result was due to the many methodological errors in the research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9588", "title": "Extraterrestrial life", "text": "Extraterrestrial life\n\nExtraterrestrial life, also called alien life (or, if it is a sentient or relatively complex individual, an \"extraterrestrial\" or \"alien\"), is life that occurs outside of Earth and that probably did not originate from Earth. These hypothetical life forms may range from simple prokaryotes to beings with civilizations far more advanced than humanity. The Drake equation speculates about the existence of intelligent life elsewhere in the universe. The science of extraterrestrial life in all its forms is known as exobiology.\n\nSince the mid-20th century, there has been an ongoing search for signs of extraterrestrial life. This encompasses a search for current and historic extraterrestrial life, and a narrower search for extraterrestrial intelligent life. Depending on the category of search, methods range from the analysis of telescope and specimen data to radios used to detect and send communication signals.\n\nThe concept of extraterrestrial life, and particularly extraterrestrial intelligence, has had a major cultural impact, chiefly in works of science fiction. Over the years, science fiction communicated scientific ideas, imagined a wide range of possibilities, and influenced public interest in and perspectives of extraterrestrial life. One shared space is the debate over the wisdom of attempting communication with extraterrestrial intelligence. Some encourage aggressive methods to try for contact with intelligent extraterrestrial life. Others—citing the tendency of technologically advanced human societies to enslave or wipe out less advanced societies—argue that it may be dangerous to actively call attention to Earth.\n\nAlien life, such as microorganisms, has been hypothesized to exist in the Solar System and throughout the universe. This hypothesis relies on the vast size and consistent physical laws of the observable universe. According to this argument, made by scientists such as Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking, as well as well-regarded thinkers such as Winston Churchill, it would be improbable for life \"not\" to exist somewhere other than Earth. This argument is embodied in the Copernican principle, which states that Earth does not occupy a unique position in the Universe, and the mediocrity principle, which states that there is nothing special about life on Earth. The chemistry of life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the universe was only 10–17 million years old. Life may have emerged independently at many places throughout the universe. Alternatively, life may have formed less frequently, then spread—by meteoroids, for example—between habitable planets in a process called panspermia. In any case, complex organic molecules may have formed in the protoplanetary disk of dust grains surrounding the Sun before the formation of Earth. According to these studies, this process may occur outside Earth on several planets and moons of the Solar System and on planets of other stars.\n\nSince the 1950s, scientists have proposed that \"habitable zones\" around stars are the most likely places to find life. Numerous discoveries in such zones since 2007 have generated numerical estimates of Earth-like planets —in terms of composition—of many billions. As of 2013, only a few planets have been discovered in these zones. Nonetheless, on 4 November 2013, astronomers reported, based on \"Kepler\" space mission data, that there could be as many as 40 billion Earth-sized planets orbiting in the habitable zones of Sun-like stars and red dwarfs in the Milky Way, 11 billion of which may be orbiting Sun-like stars. The nearest such planet may be 12 light-years away, according to the scientists. Astrobiologists have also considered a \"follow the energy\" view of potential habitats.\n\nA study published in 2017 suggests that due to how complexity evolved in species on Earth, the level of predictability for alien evolution elsewhere would make them look similar to life on our planet. One of the study authors, Sam Levin, notes \"Like humans, we predict that they are made-up of a hierarchy of entities, which all cooperate to produce an alien. At each level of the organism there will be mechanisms in place to eliminate conflict, maintain cooperation, and keep the organism functioning. We can even offer some examples of what these mechanisms will be.\" There is also research in assessing the capacity of life for developing intelligence. It has been suggested that this capacity arises with the number of potential niches a planet contains, and that the complexity of life itself is reflected in the information density of planetary environments, which in turn can be computed from its niches.\n\nLife on Earth requires water as a solvent in which biochemical reactions take place. Sufficient quantities of carbon and other elements, along with water, might enable the formation of living organisms on terrestrial planets with a chemical make-up and temperature range similar to that of Earth. More generally, life based on ammonia (rather than water) has been suggested, though this solvent appears less suitable than water. It is also conceivable that there are forms of life whose solvent is a liquid hydrocarbon, such as methane, ethane or propane.\n\nAbout 29 chemical elements play an active positive role in living organisms on Earth. About 95% of living matter is built upon only six elements: carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur. These six elements form the basic building blocks of virtually all life on Earth, whereas most of the remaining elements are found only in trace amounts. The unique characteristics of carbon make it unlikely that it could be replaced, even on another planet, to generate the biochemistry necessary for life. The carbon atom has the unique ability to make four strong chemical bonds with other atoms, including other carbon atoms. These covalent bonds have a direction in space, so that carbon atoms can form the skeletons of complex 3-dimensional structures with definite architectures such as nucleic acids and proteins. Carbon forms more compounds than all other elements combined. The great versatility of the carbon atom makes it the element most likely to provide the bases—even exotic ones—for the chemical composition of life on other planets.\n\nSome bodies in the Solar System have the potential for an environment in which extraterrestrial life can exist, particularly those with possible subsurface oceans. Should life be discovered elsewhere in the Solar System, astrobiologists suggest that it will more likely be in the form of extremophile microorganisms. According to NASA's 2015 Astrobiology Strategy, \"Life on other worlds is most likely to include microbes, and any complex living system elsewhere is likely to have arisen from and be founded upon microbial life. Important insights on the limits of microbial life can be gleaned from studies of microbes on modern Earth, as well as their ubiquity and ancestral characteristics.\"\n\nMars may have niche subsurface environments where microbial life might exist. A subsurface marine environment on Jupiter's moon Europa might be the most likely habitat in the Solar System, outside Earth, for extremophile microorganisms.\n\nThe panspermia hypothesis proposes that life elsewhere in the Solar System may have a common origin. If extraterrestrial life was found on another body in the Solar System, it could have originated from Earth just as life on Earth could have been seeded from elsewhere (exogenesis). The first known mention of the term 'panspermia' was in the writings of the 5th century BC Greek philosopher Anaxagoras. In the 19th century it was again revived in modern form by several scientists, including Jöns Jacob Berzelius (1834), Kelvin (1871), Hermann von Helmholtz (1879) and, somewhat later, by Svante Arrhenius (1903).\nSir Fred Hoyle (1915–2001) and Chandra Wickramasinghe (born 1939) are important proponents of the hypothesis who further contended that life forms continue to enter Earth's atmosphere, and may be responsible for epidemic outbreaks, new diseases, and the genetic novelty necessary for macroevolution.\n\nDirected panspermia concerns the deliberate transport of microorganisms in space, sent to Earth to start life here, or sent from Earth to seed new stellar systems with life.\nThe Nobel prize winner Francis Crick, along with Leslie Orgel proposed that seeds of life may have been purposely spread by an advanced extraterrestrial civilization, but considering an early \"RNA world\" Crick noted later that life may have originated on Earth.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Venus was often thought to be similar to Earth in terms of habitability, but observations since the beginning of the Space Age have revealed that Venus's surface is inhospitable to Earth-like life. However, between an altitude of 50 and 65 kilometers, the pressure and temperature are Earth-like, and it has been speculated that thermoacidophilic extremophile microorganisms might exist in the acidic upper layers of the Venusian atmosphere. Furthermore, Venus likely had liquid water on its surface for at least a few million years after its formation.\n\nLife on Mars has been long speculated. Liquid water is widely thought to have existed on Mars in the past, and now can occasionally be found as low-volume liquid brines in shallow Martian soil. The origin of the potential biosignature of methane observed in Mars' atmosphere is unexplained, although hypotheses not involving life have also been proposed.\n\nThere is evidence that Mars had a warmer and wetter past: dried-up river beds, polar ice caps, volcanoes, and minerals that form in the presence of water have all been found. Nevertheless, present conditions on Mars' subsurface may support life. Evidence obtained by the \"Curiosity\" rover studying Aeolis Palus, Gale Crater in 2013 strongly suggests an ancient freshwater lake that could have been a hospitable environment for microbial life.\n\nCurrent studies on Mars by the \"Curiosity\" and \"Opportunity\" rovers are searching for evidence of ancient life, including a biosphere based on autotrophic, chemotrophic and/or chemolithoautotrophic microorganisms, as well as ancient water, including fluvio-lacustrine environments (plains related to ancient rivers or lakes) that may have been habitable. The search for evidence of habitability, taphonomy (related to fossils), and organic carbon on Mars is now a primary NASA objective.\n\nCeres, the only dwarf planet in the asteroid belt, has a thin water-vapor atmosphere. Frost on the surface may also have been detected in the form of bright spots. The presence of water on Ceres has led to speculation that life may be possible there.\n\nCarl Sagan and others in the 1960s and 1970s computed conditions for hypothetical microorganisms living in the atmosphere of Jupiter. The intense radiation and other conditions, however, do not appear to permit encapsulation and molecular biochemistry, so life there is thought unlikely. In contrast, some of Jupiter's moons may have habitats capable of sustaining life. Scientists have indications that heated subsurface oceans of liquid water may exist deep under the crusts of the three outer Galilean moons—Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto. The EJSM/Laplace mission is planned to determine the habitability of these environments.\n\nJupiter's moon Europa has been subject to speculation about the existence of life due to the strong possibility of a liquid water ocean beneath its ice surface. Hydrothermal vents on the bottom of the ocean, if they exist, may warm the ice and could be capable of supporting multicellular microorganisms. It is also possible that Europa could support aerobic macrofauna using oxygen created by cosmic rays impacting its surface ice.\n\nThe case for life on Europa was greatly enhanced in 2011 when it was discovered that vast lakes exist within Europa's thick, icy shell. Scientists found that ice shelves surrounding the lakes appear to be collapsing into them, thereby providing a mechanism through which life-forming chemicals created in sunlit areas on Europa's surface could be transferred to its interior.\n\nOn 11 December 2013, NASA reported the detection of \"clay-like minerals\" (specifically, phyllosilicates), often associated with organic materials, on the icy crust of Europa. The presence of the minerals may have been the result of a collision with an asteroid or comet according to the scientists. The \"Europa Clipper\", which would assess the habitability of Europa, is planned for launch in 2025. Europa's subsurface ocean is considered the best target for the discovery of life.\n\nTitan and Enceladus have been speculated to have possible habitats supportive of life.\n\nEnceladus, a moon of Saturn, has some of the conditions for life, including geothermal activity and water vapor, as well as possible under-ice oceans heated by tidal effects. The \"Cassini–Huygens\" probe detected carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen—all key elements for supporting life—during its 2005 flyby through one of Enceladus's geysers spewing ice and gas. The temperature and density of the plumes indicate a warmer, watery source beneath the surface.\n\nTitan, the largest moon of Saturn, is the only known moon in the Solar System with a significant atmosphere. Data from the \"Cassini–Huygens\" mission refuted the hypothesis of a global hydrocarbon ocean, but later demonstrated the existence of liquid hydrocarbon lakes in the polar regions—the first stable bodies of surface liquid discovered outside Earth. Analysis of data from the mission has uncovered aspects of atmospheric chemistry near the surface that are consistent with—but do not prove—the hypothesis that organisms there if present, could be consuming hydrogen, acetylene and ethane, and producing methane.\n\nSmall Solar System bodies have also been speculated to host habitats for extremophiles. Fred Hoyle and Chandra Wickramasinghe have proposed that microbial life might exist on comets and asteroids.\n\nModels of heat retention and heating via radioactive decay in smaller icy Solar System bodies suggest that Rhea, Titania, Oberon, Triton, Pluto, Eris, Sedna, and Orcus may have oceans underneath solid icy crusts approximately 100 km thick. Of particular interest in these cases is the fact that the models indicate that the liquid layers are in direct contact with the rocky core, which allows efficient mixing of minerals and salts into the water. This is in contrast with the oceans that may be inside larger icy satellites like Ganymede, Callisto, or Titan, where layers of high-pressure phases of ice are thought to underlie the liquid water layer.\n\nHydrogen sulfide has been proposed as a hypothetical solvent for life and is quite plentiful on Jupiter's moon Io, and may be in liquid form a short distance below the surface.\n\nThe scientific search for extraterrestrial life is being carried out both directly and indirectly. , 3,667 exoplanets in 2,747 systems have been identified, and other planets and moons in our own solar system hold the potential for hosting primitive life such as microorganisms.\n\nScientists search for biosignatures within the Solar System by studying planetary surfaces and examining meteorites. Some claim to have identified evidence that microbial life has existed on Mars. An experiment on the two Viking Mars landers reported gas emissions from heated Martian soil samples that some scientists argue are consistent with the presence of living microorganisms. Lack of corroborating evidence from other experiments on the same samples suggests that a non-biological reaction is a more likely hypothesis. In 1996, a controversial report stated that structures resembling nanobacteria were discovered in a meteorite, ALH84001, formed of rock ejected from Mars.\n\nIn February 2005, NASA scientists reported that they may have found some evidence of present life on Mars. The two scientists, Carol Stoker and Larry Lemke of NASA's Ames Research Center, based their claim on methane signatures found in Mars's atmosphere resembling the methane production of some forms of primitive life on Earth, as well as on their own study of primitive life near the Rio Tinto river in Spain. NASA officials soon distanced NASA from the scientists' claims, and Stoker herself backed off from her initial assertions. Though such methane findings are still debated, support among some scientists for the existence of life on Mars exists.\n\nIn November 2011, NASA launched the Mars Science Laboratory that landed the \"Curiosity\" rover on Mars. It is designed to assess the past and present habitability on Mars using a variety of scientific instruments. The rover landed on Mars at Gale Crater in August 2012.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis stipulates that any planet with a robust population of life will have an atmosphere in chemical disequilibrium, which is relatively easy to determine from a distance by spectroscopy. However, significant advances in the ability to find and resolve light from smaller rocky worlds near their star are necessary before such spectroscopic methods can be used to analyze extrasolar planets. To that effect, the Carl Sagan Institute was founded in 2014 and is dedicated to the atmospheric characterization of exoplanets in circumstellar habitable zones. Planetary spectroscopic data will be obtained from telescopes like WFIRST and ELT.\n\nIn August 2011, findings by NASA, based on studies of meteorites found on Earth, suggest DNA and RNA components (adenine, guanine and related organic molecules), building blocks for life as we know it, may be formed extraterrestrially in outer space. In October 2011, scientists reported that cosmic dust contains complex organic matter (\"amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure\") that could be created naturally, and rapidly, by stars. One of the scientists suggested that these compounds may have been related to the development of life on Earth and said that, \"If this is the case, life on Earth may have had an easier time getting started as these organics can serve as basic ingredients for life.\"\n\nIn August 2012, and in a world first, astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule, glycolaldehyde, in a distant star system. The molecule was found around the protostellar binary \"IRAS 16293-2422\", which is located 400 light years from Earth. Glycolaldehyde is needed to form ribonucleic acid, or RNA, which is similar in function to DNA. This finding suggests that complex organic molecules may form in stellar systems prior to the formation of planets, eventually arriving on young planets early in their formation.\n\nProjects such as SETI are monitoring the galaxy for electromagnetic interstellar communications from civilizations on other worlds. If there is an advanced extraterrestrial civilization, there is no guarantee that it is transmitting radio communications in the direction of Earth or that this information could be interpreted as such by humans. The length of time required for a signal to travel across the vastness of space means that any signal detected would come from the distant past.\n\nThe presence of heavy elements in a star's light-spectrum is another potential biosignature; such elements would (in theory) be found if the star was being used as an incinerator/repository for nuclear waste products.\n\nSome astronomers search for extrasolar planets that may be conducive to life, narrowing the search to terrestrial planets within the habitable zone of their star. Since 1992 over two thousand exoplanets have been discovered ( planets in planetary systems including multiple planetary systems as of ).\nThe extrasolar planets so far discovered range in size from that of terrestrial planets similar to Earth's size to that of gas giants larger than Jupiter. The number of observed exoplanets is expected to increase greatly in the coming years.\n\nThe \"Kepler\" space telescope has also detected a few thousand candidate planets, of which about 11% may be false positives.\n\nThere is at least one planet on average per star. About 1 in 5 Sun-like stars have an \"Earth-sized\" planet in the habitable zone, with the nearest expected to be within 12 light-years distance from Earth. Assuming 200 billion stars in the Milky Way, that would be 11 billion potentially habitable Earth-sized planets in the Milky Way, rising to 40 billion if red dwarfs are included. The rogue planets in the Milky Way possibly number in the trillions.\n\nThe nearest known exoplanet is Proxima Centauri b, located from Earth in the southern constellation of Centaurus.\n\n, the least massive planet known is PSR B1257+12 A, which is about twice the mass of the Moon. The most massive planet listed on the NASA Exoplanet Archive is DENIS-P J082303.1-491201 b, about 29 times the mass of Jupiter, although according to most definitions of a planet, it is too massive to be a planet and may be a brown dwarf instead. Almost all of the planets detected so far are within the Milky Way, but there have also been a few possible detections of extragalactic planets. The study of planetary habitability also considers a wide range of other factors in determining the suitability of a planet for hosting life.\n\nOne sign that a planet probably already contains life is the presence of an atmosphere with significant amounts of oxygen, since that gas is highly reactive and generally would not last long without constant replenishment. This replenishment occurs on Earth through photosynthetic organisms. One way to analyze the atmosphere of an exoplanet is through spectrography when it transits its star, though this might only be feasible with dim stars like white dwarfs.\n\nThe science of astrobiology considers life on Earth as well, and in the broader astronomical context. In 2015, \"remains of biotic life\" were found in 4.1 billion-year-old rocks in Western Australia, when the young Earth was about 400 million years old. According to one of the researchers, \"If life arose relatively quickly on Earth, then it could be common in the universe.\"\n\nIn 1961, University of California, Santa Cruz, astronomer and astrophysicist Frank Drake devised the Drake equation as a way to stimulate scientific dialogue at a meeting on the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI). The Drake equation is a probabilistic argument used to estimate the number of active, communicative extraterrestrial civilizations in the Milky Way galaxy. The equation is best understood not as an equation in the strictly mathematical sense, but to summarize all the various concepts which scientists must contemplate when considering the question of life elsewhere. The Drake equation is:\nwhere:\n\nand\n\nDrake's proposed estimates are as follows, but numbers on the right side of the equation are agreed as speculative and open to substitution:\n\nformula_2\n\nThe Drake equation has proved controversial since several of its factors are uncertain and based on conjecture, not allowing conclusions to be made. This has led critics to label the equation a guesstimate, or even meaningless.\n\nBased on observations from the \"Hubble Space Telescope\", there are between 125 and 250 billion galaxies in the observable universe. It is estimated that at least ten percent of all Sun-like stars have a system of planets, i.e. there are stars with planets orbiting them in the observable universe. Even if it is assumed that only one out of a billion of these stars has planets supporting life, there would be some 6.25 billion life-supporting planetary systems in the observable universe.\n\nA 2013 study based on results from the \"Kepler\" spacecraft estimated that the Milky Way contains at least as many planets as it does stars, resulting in 100–400 billion exoplanets. Also based on \"Kepler\" data, scientists estimate that at least one in six stars has an Earth-sized planet.\n\nThe apparent contradiction between high estimates of the probability of the existence of extraterrestrial civilizations and the lack of evidence for such civilizations is known as the Fermi paradox.\n\nCosmic pluralism, the plurality of worlds, or simply pluralism, describes the philosophical belief in numerous \"worlds\" in addition to Earth, which might harbor extraterrestrial life. Before the development of the heliocentric theory and a recognition that the Sun is just one of many stars, the notion of pluralism was largely mythological and philosophical. Medieval Muslim writers like Fakhr al-Din al-Razi and Muhammad al-Baqir supported cosmic pluralism on the basis of the Qur'an.\n\nWith the scientific and Copernican revolutions, and later, during the Enlightenment, cosmic pluralism became a mainstream notion, supported by the likes of Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle in his 1686 work \"Entretiens sur la pluralité des mondes\". Pluralism was also championed by philosophers such as John Locke, Giordano Bruno and astronomers such as William Herschel. The astronomer Camille Flammarion promoted the notion of cosmic pluralism in his 1862 book \"La pluralité des mondes habités\". None of these notions of pluralism were based on any specific observation or scientific information.\n\nThere was a dramatic shift in thinking initiated by the invention of the telescope and the Copernican assault on geocentric cosmology. Once it became clear that Earth was merely one planet amongst countless bodies in the universe, the theory of extraterrestrial life started to become a topic in the scientific community. The best known early-modern proponent of such ideas was the Italian philosopher Giordano Bruno, who argued in the 16th century for an infinite universe in which every star is surrounded by its own planetary system. Bruno wrote that other worlds \"have no less virtue nor a nature different to that of our earth\" and, like Earth, \"contain animals and inhabitants\".\n\nIn the early 17th century, the Czech astronomer Anton Maria Schyrleus of Rheita mused that \"if Jupiter has (...) inhabitants (...) they must be larger and more beautiful than the inhabitants of Earth, in proportion to the [characteristics] of the two spheres\".\n\nIn Baroque literature such as \"The Other World: The Societies and Governments of the Moon\" by Cyrano de Bergerac, extraterrestrial societies are presented as humoristic or ironic parodies of earthly society.\nThe didactic poet Henry More took up the classical theme of the Greek Democritus in \"Democritus Platonissans, or an Essay Upon the Infinity of Worlds\" (1647).\nIn \"The Creation: a Philosophical Poem in Seven Books\" (1712), Sir Richard Blackmore observed: \"We may pronounce each orb sustains a race / Of living things adapted to the place\". With the new relative viewpoint that the Copernican revolution had wrought, he suggested \"our world's sunne / Becomes a starre elsewhere\". Fontanelle's \"Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds\" (translated into English in 1686) offered similar excursions on the possibility of extraterrestrial life, expanding, rather than denying, the creative sphere of a Maker.\n\nThe possibility of extraterrestrials remained a widespread speculation as scientific discovery accelerated. William Herschel, the discoverer of Uranus, was one of many 18th–19th-century astronomers who believed that the Solar System is populated by alien life. Other luminaries of the period who championed \"cosmic pluralism\" included Immanuel Kant and Benjamin Franklin. At the height of the Enlightenment, even the Sun and Moon were considered candidates for extraterrestrial inhabitants.\n\nSpeculation about life on Mars increased in the late 19th century, following telescopic observation of apparent Martian canals—which soon, however, turned out to be optical illusions. Despite this, in 1895, American astronomer Percival Lowell published his book \"Mars,\" followed by \"Mars and its Canals\" in 1906, proposing that the canals were the work of a long-gone civilization. The idea of life on Mars led British writer H. G. Wells to write the novel \"The War of the Worlds\" in 1897, telling of an invasion by aliens from Mars who were fleeing the planet's desiccation.\n\nSpectroscopic analysis of Mars's atmosphere began in earnest in 1894, when U.S. astronomer William Wallace Campbell showed that neither water nor oxygen was present in the Martian atmosphere.\nBy 1909 better telescopes and the best perihelic opposition of Mars since 1877 conclusively put an end to the canal hypothesis.\n\nThe science fiction genre, although not so named during the time, developed during the late 19th century. Jules Verne's \"Around the Moon\" (1870) features a discussion of the possibility of life on the Moon, but with the conclusion that it is barren.\nStories involving extraterrestrials are found in e.g. Garrett P. Serviss's \"Edison's Conquest of Mars\" (1898), an unauthorized sequel to\n\"The War of the Worlds\" by H. G. Wells was published in 1897 which stands at the beginning of the popular idea of the \"Martian invasion\" of Earth prominent in 20th-century pop culture.\n\nMost unidentified flying objects or UFO sightings can be readily explained as sightings of Earth-based aircraft, known astronomical objects, or as hoaxes. Nonetheless, a certain fraction of the public believe that UFOs might actually be of extraterrestrial origin, and, indeed, the notion has had influence on popular culture.\n\nThe possibility of extraterrestrial life on the Moon was ruled out in the 1960s, and during the 1970s it became clear that most of the other bodies of the Solar System do not harbor highly developed life, although the question of primitive life on bodies in the Solar System remains open.\n\nThe failure so far of the SETI program to detect an intelligent radio signal after decades of effort has at least partially dimmed the prevailing optimism of the beginning of the space age. Notwithstanding, belief in extraterrestrial beings continues to be voiced in pseudoscience, conspiracy theories, and in popular folklore, notably \"Area 51\" and legends. It has become a pop culture trope given less-than-serious treatment in popular entertainment.\n\nIn the words of SETI's Frank Drake, \"All we know for sure is that the sky is not littered with powerful microwave transmitters\". Drake noted that it is entirely possible that advanced technology results in communication being carried out in some way other than conventional radio transmission. At the same time, the data returned by space probes, and giant strides in detection methods, have allowed science to begin delineating habitability criteria on other worlds, and to confirm that at least other planets are plentiful, though aliens remain a question mark. The Wow! signal, detected in 1977 by a SETI project, remains a subject of speculative debate.\n\nIn 2000, geologist and paleontologist Peter Ward and astrobiologist Donald Brownlee published a book entitled \"Rare Earth: Why Complex Life is Uncommon in the Universe\". In it, they discussed the Rare Earth hypothesis, in which they claim that Earth-like life is rare in the universe, whereas microbial life is common. Ward and Brownlee are open to the idea of evolution on other planets that is not based on essential Earth-like characteristics (such as DNA and carbon).\n\nTheoretical physicist Stephen Hawking in 2010 warned that humans should not try to contact alien life forms. He warned that aliens might pillage Earth for resources. \"If aliens visit us, the outcome would be much as when Columbus landed in America, which didn't turn out well for the Native Americans\", he said. Jared Diamond had earlier expressed similar concerns.\n\nIn November 2011, the White House released an official response to two petitions asking the U.S. government to acknowledge formally that aliens have visited Earth and to disclose any intentional withholding of government interactions with extraterrestrial beings. According to the response, \"The U.S. government has no evidence that any life exists outside our planet, or that an extraterrestrial presence has contacted or engaged any member of the human race.\" Also, according to the response, there is \"no credible information to suggest that any evidence is being hidden from the public's eye.\" The response noted \"odds are pretty high\" that there may be life on other planets but \"the odds of us making contact with any of them—especially any intelligent ones—are extremely small, given the distances involved.\"\n\nIn 2013, the exoplanet Kepler-62f was discovered, along with Kepler-62e and Kepler-62c. A related special issue of the journal \"Science\", published earlier, described the discovery of the exoplanets.\n\nOn 17 April 2014, the discovery of the Earth-size exoplanet Kepler-186f, 500 light-years from Earth, was publicly announced; it is the first Earth-size planet to be discovered in the habitable zone and it has been hypothesized that there may be liquid water on its surface.\n\nOn 13 February 2015, scientists (including Geoffrey Marcy, Seth Shostak, Frank Drake and David Brin) at a convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, discussed Active SETI and whether transmitting a message to possible intelligent extraterrestrials in the Cosmos was a good idea; one result was a statement, signed by many, that a \"worldwide scientific, political and humanitarian discussion must occur before any message is sent\".\n\nOn 20 July 2015, British physicist Stephen Hawking and Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, along with the SETI Institute, announced a well-funded effort, called the Breakthrough Initiatives, to expand efforts to search for extraterrestrial life. The group contracted the services of the 100-meter Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope in West Virginia in the United States and the 64-meter Parkes Telescope in New South Wales, Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "22739648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22739648", "title": "Frame (literary journal)", "text": "Frame (literary journal)\n\nFrame, Journal of Literary Studies is a biannual journal run by (former) students of literature and literary theory (most from Utrecht University). Since its establishment in 1984 it has been the only Dutch publication forum that allows for a centered discussion on comparative literary studies. The journal publishes articles by international researchers as well as academic lectures, interviews, and critical reviews. \nIssues of \"Frame\" usually concentrate on a topic that resonates with cutting-edge research, debates, and discussions within the field of contemporary literary studies, and its editors select articles that provide readers with wide-ranging insight into the current topic. In the special \"Masterclass\" section, \"Frame\" offers Master students of literature the opportunity to acquire much-needed publishing experience. The journal furthermore offers room for conference announcements, symposiums or workshop reports, lectures, and interviews.\n\nIn the past, \"Frame\" has had the opportunity to work with well-known researchers such as Jonathan Culler, N. Katherine Hayles, J. Hillis Miller and Martha Nussbaum\n\n"}
{"id": "39893334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39893334", "title": "FuseNet", "text": "FuseNet\n\nFuseNet is an organization that unites, coordinates and sponsors European educational efforts in the field of nuclear fusion in order to increase, enhance, and broaden fusion training and education activities in Europe.\n\nThe FuseNet project exists of the establishment of a European Fusion Education Network (FuseNet) for education in fusion science and technology. The purpose of FuseNet is to coordinate and facilitate fusion education, to share best practices, to jointly develop educational tools, to organize educational events. The members of FuseNet have jointly established academic criteria for the award of European Fusion Doctorate and Master Certificates. These criteria are set to stimulate a high level of fusion education throughout Europe.\n\nThe FuseNet project started in October 2008 as a Coordination and Support Action under the seventh Framework Programme, with financial support of the European Commission. The project consists of eleven focused work packages, with a total budget of 2 Million Euro. The project runs until October 1, 2013 and is bringing together a broad representation from the European fusion community with 36 participants from 18 countries, of which 22 Universities and 14 Euratom Associations.\n\nThe project consists of four groups of coordination actions: the establishment and running of the FuseNet network; development of individual learning opportunities and common educational goals; development of educational materials and hands-on experiments; and funding of joint educational activities.\n\nThe FuseNet Association is an independent legal entity that was founded in December 2010 to form the sustainable continuation of the activities started by the equally named FuseNet project. The association provides a platform for the coordination of European fusion education activities, the initiation, development and implementation of new EU-wide actions, and for the exchange and dissemination of fusion education information. All European organizations that are active in the field of fusion education and research are welcome to join the association.\nFuseNet is the umbrella organization and single voice for the training and education of the next generation fusion engineers and scientists. FuseNet is recognized as such by the European Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "898161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898161", "title": "Geopark", "text": "Geopark\n\nA geopark is a unified area that advances the protection and use of geological heritage in a sustainable way, and promotes the economic well-being of the people who live there. There are global geoparks and national geoparks.\n\nA UNESCO definition of \"global geopark\" is a unified area with a geological heritage of international significance. Geoparks use that heritage to promote awareness of key issues facing society in the context of our dynamic planet. Many geoparks promote awareness of geological hazards, including volcanoes, earthquakes and tsunamis and many help prepare disaster mitigation strategies with local communities. Geoparks embody records of past climate changes and are indicators of current climate changes as well as demonstrating a \"best practise\" approach to using renewable energy and employing the best standards of \"green tourism\". Tourism industry promotion in geoparks, as a geographically sustainable and applicable tourism model, aims to sustain, and even enhance, the geographical character of a place.\n\nGeoparks also inform about the sustainable use and need for natural resources, whether they are mined, quarried or harnessed from the surrounding environment while at the same time promoting respect for the environment and the integrity of the landscape. Geoparks are not a legislative designation though the key heritage sites within a geopark are often protected under local, regional or national legislation. The multidisciplinary nature of the concept of geopark and tourism promotion in geoparks differentiates itself from other models of sustainable tourism. In fact, sustainable tourism promotion within geoparks encompasses many of the features of sustainable tourism including geo-tourism (geo-site tourism: as a basic factor), community-based tourism and integrated rural tourism (as a vital need), ecotourism, and cultural heritage tourism.\n\nThe Global Geoparks Network (GGN) is supported by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Many national geoparks and other local geoparks projects also exist which are not included in the Global Geoparks Network.\n\nThe geoparks initiative was launched by UNESCO in response to the perceived need for an international initiative that recognizes sites representing an earth science interest. Global Geoparks Network aims at enhancing the value of such sites while at the same time creating employment and promoting regional economic development. The Global Geoparks Network works in synergy with UNESCO's World Heritage Centre and Man and the Biosphere (MAB) World Network of Biosphere Reserves.\n\nThe Global Geoparks Network (GGN) is a UNESCO activity established in 1998. According to UNESCO, for a geopark to apply to be included in the GGN, it needs to:\n\n\nSee Members of the Global Geoparks Network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30427088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30427088", "title": "Google Science Fair", "text": "Google Science Fair\n\nThe Google Science Fair is a worldwide (excluding Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Myanmar/Burma, Syria, Zimbabwe and any other U.S. sanctioned country) online science competition sponsored by Google, Lego, Virgin Galactic, National Geographic and \"Scientific American\". It occurred annually between 2011 and 2016.\n\nThe first Google Science Fair was announced in January 2011; entries were due on April 7, 2011 and judging occurred in July 2011. The competition is open to 13- to 18-year-old students around the globe, who formulate a hypothesis, perform an experiment, and present their results. All students must have an internet connection and a free Google Account to participate, and the projects must be in English, German, Italian, Spanish, or French. The final submission must include ten sections, which are the summary, an \"About Me\" page, the steps of the project, and a works cited page.\nEntries are judged on eight core criteria, which include the student's presentation, question, hypothesis, research, experiment, data, observations, and conclusion. Prizes are awarded to three finalists. The grand prize includes a National Geographic trip to the Galapagos Islands, a US $50,000 scholarship, and an \"experience\" at a small broken shack for a small organization; finalists will receive a US $15,000 scholarship and assorted packages from sponsoring organizations. While Larry Page and Sergey Brin were PhD students at Stanford University in California, they created Google in January 1996 as a research project; Google employee Tom Oliveri highlighted the company's early days: \"Science fairs help students to explore their vision and curiosity through science. Our company was founded on an experiment. We firmly believe that science can change the world,\" he stated.\n\nThe on-line site also contains a number of highlighted guest interviews with selected individuals, each well established and prominent in their field of science, with the aim being for them to act as inspiration to young students. The individuals chosen include Mitch Resnick, Spencer Wells, Kevin Warwick, and Mariette DiChristina.\n\nShree Bose, a 17-year-old girl in Texas, won the grand prize and $50,000 for her research on the chemotherapy drug, cisplatin, that is commonly taken by women with ovarian cancer, tackling the problem of cancer cells growing resistant to cisplatin over time.\n\nNaomi Shah of Portland, OR, won the age 15–16 category with a study of the effects of air quality on lungs, particularly for people who have asthma. Ms. Shah recruited 103 test subjects, performed 24-hour air quality measurements at their homes and workplaces and had each blow into a device that measured the force of their breath.\n\nLauren Hodge of York, PA, won the age 13–14 category for research on whether marinades reduce the amount of cancer-causing compounds produced by the grilling of meat. She found that lemon juice and brown sugar cut the level of carcinogens sharply, while soy sauce increased them.\n\nPeople around the world (90 countries) had the opportunity to vote for their favorite projects in Google’s online voting gallery. Google has had more than 100,000 votes and the competition was really tight. Nimal Subramanian won the People’s Choice Award for receiving the most among the 60 semi-finalists. The public really loved Nimal's project on Cancer Busters. Nimal received a $10,000 scholarship.\n\nBrittany Wenger, who was 17, won the grand prize with her \"Global Neural Network Cloud Service for Breast Cancer\". Designed to noninvasively diagnose malignant cancerous tumors, it successfully detected over 99% of malignant breast tumors in a test set. She received $50,000, a trip to the Galapagos Islands, mentoring and internship opportunities for winning the competition.\n\nIván Hervías Rodríguez, Marcos Ochoa, and Sergio Pascual, all of Spain, won the 15-16 age group using microscopy to examine microscopic creatures in aquatic ecosystems.\n\nJonah Kohn won the age 13-14 group by designing and building a device designed to enhance the listening experience of those with hearing loss. His device attached to different parts of the body, translating sound into tactile stimulation.\n\nThe winners of the 2013 Google Science Fair were:\n\n13-14 age category: Viney Kumar (Australia) — The PART (Police and Ambulances Regulating Traffic) Program. Viney’s project looked for new ways to provide drivers with more notice when an emergency vehicle is approaching, so they can take evasive action to get out of the emergency vehicle’s way.\n\n15-16 age category: Ann Makosinski (Canada) — The Hollow Flashlight. Using Peltier tiles and the temperature difference between the palm of the hand and ambient air, Ann designed a flashlight that provides bright light without batteries or moving parts.\n\n17-18 age category Grand Prize Winner: Eric Chen (USA) — Computer-aided Discovery of Novel Influenza Endonuclease Inhibitors to Combat Flu Pandemic. Combining computer modeling and biological studies, Eric’s project looks at influenza endonuclease inhibitors as leads for a new type of anti-flu medicine, effective against all influenza viruses including pandemic strains.\n\nThe 2014 Google Science Fair started accepting entries on February 12, 2014 and the entries closed on May 13, 2014. And the results for the local, regional and Science in Action award nominees were declared. The Grand Prize was won by three girls from Ireland, Ciara Judge (16), Emer Hickey (16) and Sophie Healey (17). They were the first group winners of the competition and the youngest winners to date (they also won the 15-16 age category prize). Their project was entitled 'Combating the Global Food Crisis: Diazatroph Bacteria as a Cereal Crop Growth Promoter.'\n\nThe 13-14 age category was won by Mihir Garimella (14) from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with a project titled 'Fruit-fly Inspired Robots.' Hayley Todesco (17) of Canada won the 17-18 age category with her project titled 'Cleaning up Oil Sands Waste.'\n\nAlong with the overall prizes for each category, a number of special awards were also announced. Kenneth Shinozuka (15) was declared as the Science In Action Award winner in recognition of the practical potential of his project 'Wearable Sensors for Aging Society.' Arsh Shah Dilbagi (16) from India won the Voter's Choice Award for creating an augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) device that converts breath into words, enabling mute people to speak.\n\nThe 2015 Google Science Fair closed for entries on May 18, 2015 with regional finalists announced in London on July 7, 2015. These included Lauren McKenzie (14) who built an automatic soil watering system, Shadab Karnachi (14) who designed a low-cost gaming device for people with visual impairments and Peter He (14) who developed an innovative wireless virtual reality system.\n\nThe global finalists were announced on August 4, 2015 and the winners on September 21, 2015. The Grand Prize was won by Olivia Hallisey (16) with her project ‘Temperature-Independent, Portable, and Rapid Field Detection of Ebola via a Silk-Derived Lateral-Flow System’. The Google Technologist Award was won by Girish Kumar (17) for his project ‘Revup: Automatically Generating Questions from Educational Texts’ and the Incubator Award was won by Elliott Sarrey (14) with his project ‘Bot2karot: Manage Your Vegetable Garden via Your Smartphone’. The Lego Education Builder Award won by Anurudh Ganesan (15), the Virgin Galactic Pioneer Award won by Jeff Cheema (15), the Scientific American Innovator Award won by Krtin Nithiyanandam (15), the National Geographic Explorer Award won by Deepika Kurup (17) and the Community Impact Award won by Lalita Prasida.\n\nThe 2016 Google Science Fair closed its entries on May 17, 2016, the Global 16 Finalist were announced on August 11, 2016. The final event took place during 24 to 27 September 2016 at Mountain View, California. Sixteen finalists competed for top five awards. The first two rounds had two age groups 13-15 and 16-18. However, unlike previous years, top awards during the finalist event did not distinguish between the two age groups of the previous rounds, thus making it particularly challenging event for the contestant compared to all previous years.\n\nThe Grand Prize was won by Kiara Nirghin (16) of South Africa for her project 'Fighting Drought with Fruit'. The Lego Education Builder award was won by Anushka Naiknaware (13) of United States, the youngest contestant to win a top award ever, for 'Smart Wound Care for the Future'. The National Geographic Explorer award was won by Mphatso Simbao (18) of Zambia. The Scientific American Innovator Award was won by a team of three for 'Fighting Foam Waste with Recycled Filters' from the US [Ashton (14), Luke (14) and Julia (14)]. The Virgin Galactic Pioneer award was won by Charlie Fenske (16) for 'Making Rockets more Efficient', also from the United States.\n\nThe competition did not begin as usual in May, 2017. Starting from the late summer, the official website stated that \"We're conducting some experiments\" and \"Coming Fall 2017\". The submissions of competition in 2018 began on 13th September 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5176764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5176764", "title": "Hardness comparison", "text": "Hardness comparison\n\nThere are a large number of hardness testing methods available (e.g. Vickers, Brinell, Rockwell, Meyer and Leeb). Although it is impossible in many cases to give an exact conversion, it is possible to give an approximate material-specific comparison table e.g. for steels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2334800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2334800", "title": "Highly optimized tolerance", "text": "Highly optimized tolerance\n\nIn applied mathematics, highly optimized tolerance (HOT) is a method of generating power law behavior in systems by including a global optimization principle. For some systems that display a characteristic scale, a global optimization term could potentially be added that would then yield power law behavior. It has been used to generate and describe internet-like graphs, forest fire models and may also apply to biological systems.\n\nThe following is taken from Sornette's book.\n\nConsider a random variable, formula_1, that takes on values formula_2 with probability formula_3. Furthmore, lets assume for another parameter formula_4\nfor some fixed formula_6. We then want to minimize\nsubject to the constraint\nUsing Lagrange multipliers, this gives\ngiving us a power law. The global optimization of minimizing the energy along with the power law dependence between formula_2 and formula_4 gives us a power law distribution in probability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15983150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15983150", "title": "Himalayan salt", "text": "Himalayan salt\n\nHimalayan salt is rock salt or halite from the Punjab region of Pakistan. Numerous health claims have been made concerning himalayan salt, but there is no scientific evidence that it is healthier than common table salt; such claims are considered pseudoscience.\n\nAlthough its salt is sometimes marketed as \"Jurassic Sea Salt\", this salt deposit comes from a seabed of the Permian and Cretaceous eras 100 to 200 million years ago. The first records of mining are from the Janjua people in the 1200s. Himalayan salt is mostly mined at the Khewra Salt Mine in Khewra, Jhelum District, Punjab, which is situated in the foothills of the Salt Range hill system in the Punjab province of the Pakistan Indo-Gangetic Plain.\n\nHimalayan salt is chemically similar to table salt. Some salts mined in the Himalayas are not suitable for use as food or industrial use without purification due to impurities. Some salt crystals from this region have an off-white to transparent color, while impurities in some veins of salt give it a pink, reddish, or beet-red color.\n\nHimalayan salt is used to flavor food. There is no evidence that it is healthier than common table salt. In the United States, where the salts are manufactured as dietary supplement capsules bearing false claims of health benefits, the Food and Drug Administration warned one manufacturer about inadequate manufacturing practices and illegal advertising. \n\nBlocks of salt are also used as serving dishes, baking stones, and griddles. Himalayan salt is also manufactured into trendy glowing salt lamps, which are hollowed then lit with electric lighting. Numerous health claims have been made concerning salt lamps, but no scientific evidence supports these claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "1629075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1629075", "title": "Ignition tube", "text": "Ignition tube\n\nAn ignition tube is a piece of laboratory equipment. It is a laboratory tube used much in the same way as a boiling tube except not being as large and thick-walled. It is primarily used to hold small quantities of substances which are undergoing direct heating by a Bunsen burner or other heat source. \n\nIgnition tubes are used in the sodium fusion test.\n\nIgnition tubes are often difficult to clean due to the small bore. When used to heat substances strongly, some char may stick to the walls as well. They are usually disposable.\n\n"}
{"id": "20806428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20806428", "title": "Institute for Science and Society", "text": "Institute for Science and Society\n\nThe Institute for Science and Society (ISS) was an international centre of excellence in Science and Technology Studies located at the University of Nottingham, UK.\n\nIt was founded in 1998 as the Genetics and Society Unit (GSU) and was later (2001) renamed the Institute for the Study of Genetics, Biorisks and Society (IGBiS) before its remit was expanded in 2006 to cover the social, legal, ethical and cultural implications of any field of science, medicine or technology, at which point it became ISS. The Institute was restructured in 2010 and mostly merged into the School of Sociology and Social Policy.\n\nThe Institute for Science and Society was a multidisciplinary centre drawing on a wide range of social sciences and humanities disciplines to conduct research into cutting edge aspects of the mutual relationship between science and society. Historically, the Institute's agenda was dominated by topics in the bio-sciences, broadly conceived, but it became increasingly involved in partnerships around physical science issues like nanotechnology, sustainable energy use and climate change. \n\nThe Institute is now physically part of the School of Sociology and Social Policy at the University of Nottingham, but works virtually across the University under the University's Priority Group scheme as the Science and Technology Studies Priority Group.\n\nSince its foundation, the Institute has been variously supported by grants and contracts from the Leverhulme and Wellcome Trusts, the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), the Medical Research Council (MRC), The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), the European Union and the National Health Service (NHS).\n\nDr. Sujatha Raman and Professor Brigitte Nerlich are the current co-directors of the Institute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40008618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40008618", "title": "International Journal of Science and Mathematics Education", "text": "International Journal of Science and Mathematics Education\n\nThe International Journal of Science and Mathematics Education is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Springer Science+Business Media on behalf of the National Science Council of Taiwan. It covers science and mathematics education topics and research methods, particularly ones with cross-curricular dimensions or which explore the area from different cultural perspectives. The journal was established in 2004 with Fou-Lai Lin (National Taiwan Normal University) as editor-in-chief; the position is held by Huann-shyang Lin (National Sun Yat-sen University).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2012 impact factor of 0.460, ranking it 140th out of 216 journals in the category \"Education and Educational Research\".\n"}
{"id": "41288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41288", "title": "Inverse-square law", "text": "Inverse-square law\n\nThe inverse-square law, in physics, is any physical law stating that a specified physical quantity or intensity is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the source of that physical quantity. The fundamental cause for this can be understood as geometric dilution corresponding to point-source radiation into three-dimensional space (see diagram).\n\nRadar energy expands during both the signal transmission and also on the reflected return, so the inverse square for both paths means that the radar will receive energy according to the inverse fourth power of the range.\n\nIn order to prevent dilution of energy while propagating a signal, certain methods can be used such as a waveguide, which acts like a canal does for water, or how a gun barrel restricts hot gas expansion to one dimension in order to prevent loss of energy transfer to a bullet.\n\nMathematically notated (see ∝):\n\nIt can also be mathematically expressed as:\n\nor as the formulation of a constant quantity:\n\nThe divergence of a vector field which is the resultant of radial inverse-square law fields with respect to one or more sources is everywhere proportional to the strength of the local sources, and hence zero outside sources. Newton's law of universal gravitation follows an inverse-square law, as do the effects of electric, magnetic, light, sound, and radiation phenomena.\n\nThe inverse-square law generally applies when some force, energy, or other conserved quantity is evenly radiated outward from a point source in three-dimensional space. Since the surface area of a sphere (which is 4π\"r\" ) is proportional to the square of the radius, as the emitted radiation gets farther from the source, it is spread out over an area that is increasing in proportion to the square of the distance from the source. Hence, the intensity of radiation passing through any unit area (directly facing the point source) is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the point source. Gauss's law is similarly applicable, and can be used with any physical quantity that acts in accordance with the inverse-square relationship.\n\nGravitation is the attraction between objects that have mass. Newton's law states:\n\nIf the distribution of matter in each body is spherically symmetric, then the objects can be treated as point masses without approximation, as shown in the shell theorem. Otherwise, if we want to calculate the attraction between massive bodies, we need to add all the point-point attraction forces vectorially and the net attraction might not be exact inverse square. However, if the separation between the massive bodies is much larger compared to their sizes, then to a good approximation, it is reasonable to treat the masses as a point mass located at the object's center of mass while calculating the gravitational force.\n\nAs the law of gravitation, this law was suggested in 1645 by Ismael Bullialdus. But Bullialdus did not accept Kepler’s second and third laws, nor did he appreciate Christiaan Huygens’s solution for circular motion (motion in a straight line pulled aside by the central force). Indeed, Bullialdus maintained the sun's force was attractive at aphelion and repulsive at perihelion. Robert Hooke and Giovanni Alfonso Borelli both expounded gravitation in 1666 as an attractive force (Hooke’s lecture \"On gravity\" at the Royal Society, London, on 21 March; Borelli's \"Theory of the Planets\", published later in 1666). Hooke's 1670 Gresham lecture explained that gravitation applied to \"all celestiall bodys\" and added the principles that the gravitating power decreases with distance and that in the absence of any such power bodies move in straight lines. By 1679, Hooke thought gravitation had inverse square dependence and communicated this in a letter to Isaac Newton: \n\"my supposition is that the attraction always is in duplicate proportion to the distance from the center reciprocall\".\n\nHooke remained bitter about Newton claiming the invention of this principle, even though Newton's 1686 \"Principia\" acknowledged that Hooke, along with Wren and Halley, had separately appreciated the inverse square law in the solar system, as well as giving some credit to Bullialdus.\n\nThe force of attraction or repulsion between two electrically charged particles, in addition to being directly proportional to the product of the electric charges, is inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them; this is known as Coulomb's law. The deviation of the exponent from 2 is less than one part in 10.\n\nThe intensity (or illuminance or irradiance) of light or other linear waves radiating from a point source (energy per unit of area perpendicular to the source) is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the source; so an object (of the same size) twice as far away, receives only one-quarter the energy (in the same time period).\n\nMore generally, the irradiance, \"i.e.,\" the intensity (or power per unit area in the direction of propagation), of a spherical wavefront varies inversely with the square of the distance from the source (assuming there are no losses caused by absorption or scattering).\n\nFor example, the intensity of radiation from the Sun is 9126 watts per square meter at the distance of Mercury (0.387 AU); but only 1367 watts per square meter at the distance of Earth (1 AU)—an approximate threefold increase in distance results in an approximate ninefold decrease in intensity of radiation.\n\nFor non-isotropic radiators such as parabolic antennas, headlights, and lasers, the effective origin is located far behind the beam aperture. If you are close to the origin, you don't have to go far to double the radius, so the signal drops quickly. When you are far from the origin and still have a strong signal, like with a laser, you have to travel very far to double the radius and reduce the signal. This means you have a stronger signal or have antenna gain in the direction of the narrow beam relative to a wide beam in all directions of an isotropic antenna.\n\nIn photography and stage lighting, the inverse-square law is used to determine the \"fall off\" or the difference in illumination on a subject as it moves closer to or further from the light source. For quick approximations, it is enough to remember that doubling the distance reduces illumination to one quarter; or similarly, to halve the illumination increase the distance by a factor of 1.4 (the square root of 2), and to double illumination, reduce the distance to 0.7 (square root of 1/2). When the illuminant is not a point source, the inverse square rule is often still a useful approximation; when the size of the light source is less than one-fifth of the distance to the subject, the calculation error is less than 1%.\n\nThe fractional reduction in electromagnetic fluence (Φ) for indirectly ionizing radiation with increasing distance from a point source can be calculated using the inverse-square law. Since emissions from a point source have radial directions, they intercept at a perpendicular incidence. The area of such a shell is 4π\"r\" where \"r\" is the radial distance from the center. The law is particularly important in diagnostic radiography and radiotherapy treatment planning, though this proportionality does not hold in practical situations unless source dimensions are much smaller than the distance. As stated in fourier theory of heat \"as the point source is magnification by distances , its radiation is dilute proportional to the sin of the angle, of the increasing circumference arc from the point of origin\"\n\nLet the total power radiated from a point source, for example, an omnidirectional isotropic radiator, be \"P\". At large distances from the source (compared to the size of the source), this power is distributed over larger and larger spherical surfaces as the distance from the source increases. Since the surface area of a sphere of radius \"r\" is \"A\" = 4\"πr\", the intensity \"I\" (power per unit area) of radiation at distance \"r\" is\n\nThe energy or intensity decreases (divided by 4) as the distance \"r\" is doubled; measured in dB it would decrease by 6.02 dB per doubling of distance.\n\nIn acoustics, the sound pressure of a spherical wavefront radiating from a point source decreases by 50% as the distance \"r\" is doubled; measured in dB, the decrease is still 6.02 dB, since dB represents an intensity ratio. The pressure ratio (as opposed to power ratio) is not inverse-square, but is inverse-proportional (inverse distance law):\n\nThe same is true for the component of particle velocity formula_6 that is in-phase with the instantaneous sound pressure formula_7:\n\nIn the near field is a quadrature component of the particle velocity that is 90° out of phase with the sound pressure and does not contribute to the time-averaged energy or the intensity of the sound. The sound intensity is the product of the RMS sound pressure and the \"in-phase\" component of the RMS particle velocity, both of which are inverse-proportional. Accordingly, the intensity follows an inverse-square behaviour:\n\nFor an irrotational vector field in three-dimensional space, the inverse-square law corresponds to the property that the divergence is zero outside the source. This can be generalized to higher dimensions. Generally, for an irrotational vector field in \"n\"-dimensional Euclidean space, the intensity \"I\" of the vector field falls off with the distance \"r\" following the inverse (\"n\" − 1) power law\n\ngiven that the space outside the source is divergence free. \n\nJohn Dumbleton of the 14th-century Oxford Calculators, was one of the first to express functional relationships in graphical form. He gave a proof of the mean speed theorem stating that \"the latitude of a uniformly difform movement corresponds to the degree of the midpoint\" and used this method to study the quantitative decrease in intensity of illumination in his \"Summa logicæ et philosophiæ naturalis\" (ca. 1349), stating that it was not linearly proportional to the distance, but was unable to expose the Inverse-square law.\n\nIn proposition 9 of Book 1 in his book \"Ad Vitellionem paralipomena, quibus astronomiae pars optica traditur\" (1604), the astronomer Johannes Kepler argued that the spreading of light from a point source obeys an inverse square law:\n\nOriginal: \"Sicut se habent spharicae superificies, quibus origo lucis pro centro est, amplior ad angustiorem: ita se habet fortitudo seu densitas lucis radiorum in angustiori, ad illamin in laxiori sphaerica, hoc est, conversim. Nam per 6. 7. tantundem lucis est in angustiori sphaerica superficie, quantum in fusiore, tanto ergo illie stipatior & densior quam hic.\"\n\n\"Translation\": Just as [the ratio of] spherical surfaces, for which the source of light is the center, [is] from the wider to the narrower, so the density or fortitude of the rays of light in the narrower [space], towards the more spacious spherical surfaces, that is, inversely. For according to [propositions] 6 & 7, there is as much light in the narrower spherical surface, as in the wider, thus it is as much more compressed and dense here than there.\n\nIn 1645 in his book \"Astronomia Philolaica\" …, the French astronomer Ismaël Bullialdus (1605 – 1694) refuted Johannes Kepler's suggestion that \"gravity\" weakens as the inverse of the distance; instead, Bullialdus argued, \"gravity\" weakens as the inverse square of the distance:\n\nOriginal: \"Virtus autem illa, qua Sol prehendit seu harpagat planetas, corporalis quae ipsi pro manibus est, lineis rectis in omnem mundi amplitudinem emissa quasi species solis cum illius corpore rotatur: cum ergo sit corporalis imminuitur, & extenuatur in maiori spatio & intervallo, ratio autem huius imminutionis eadem est, ac luminus, in ratione nempe dupla intervallorum, sed eversa.\"\n\n\"Translation\": As for the power by which the Sun seizes or holds the planets, and which, being corporeal, functions in the manner of hands, it is emitted in straight lines throughout the whole extent of the world, and like the species of the Sun, it turns with the body of the Sun; now, seeing that it is corporeal, it becomes weaker and attenuated at a greater distance or interval, and the ratio of its decrease in strength is the same as in the case of light, namely, the duplicate proportion, but inversely, of the distances [that is, 1/d²].\n\nIn England, the Anglican bishop Seth Ward (1617 – 1689) publicized the ideas of Bullialdus in his critique \"In Ismaelis Bullialdi astronomiae philolaicae fundamenta inquisitio brevis\" (1653) and publicized the planetary astronomy of Kepler in his book \"Astronomia geometrica\" (1656).\n\nIn 1663–1664, the English scientist Robert Hooke was writing his book \"Micrographia\" (1666) in which he discussed, among other things, the relation between the height of the atmosphere and the barometric pressure at the surface. Since the atmosphere surrounds the earth, which itself is a sphere, the volume of atmosphere bearing on any unit area of the earth's surface is a truncated cone (which extends from the earth's center to the vacuum of space; obviously only the section of the cone from the earth's surface to space bears on the earth's surface). Although the volume of a cone is proportional to the cube of its height, Hooke argued that the air's pressure at the earth's surface is instead proportional to the height of the atmosphere because gravity diminishes with altitude. Although Hooke did not explicitly state so, the relation that he proposed would be true only if gravity decreases as the inverse square of the distance from the earth's center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23551125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23551125", "title": "Iron stress repressed RNA", "text": "Iron stress repressed RNA\n\nIron stress repressed RNA (IsrR) is a cis-encoded antisense RNA which regulates the expression of the photosynthetic protein isiA. IsiA expression is activated by the Ferric uptake regulator protein (Fur) under iron stress conditions. IsiA enhances photosynthesis by forming a ring around photosystem I which acts as an additional antenna complex.\n\nIsrR is abundant when there is a sufficient iron concentration. IsrR is encoded for within the opposite stand of isiA gene and contains a conserved stem loop secondary structure. Under sufficient iron conditions IsrR binds to its complementary region which corresponds to the central third of the isiA mRNA. The resulting duplex RNA is then targeted for degradation. This allows the antisense RNA to act as a reversible switch that responds to changes in environmental conditions to modulate the expression of the isiA protein.\n\nIsrR was originally identified within cyanobacteria but may be conserved throughout a number of photosynthetic species from multiple kingdoms. At present, IsrR is the only non coding RNA identified that has a regulatory role on photosynthetic proteins.\n\n"}
{"id": "48472418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48472418", "title": "John Penick", "text": "John Penick\n\nJohn E. Penick is an American professor of science education who has taught in high schools, community college, and at several universities in the United States and abroad. Author of more than 200 articles in professional journals and 40 books and monographs, Penick is best known for promoting innovative programs and processes for enhancing undergraduate teacher education. Many of his innovations were based on his studies of exemplary teachers in the United States, studies that focused on determining the roles of effective teachers.\n\nIn addition to his work with undergraduates, Penick has conducted workshops and presentations for teachers in almost every state of the U.S., speaking about and demonstrating how research can inform teacher practice and conditions. Widening his scope, Penick has worked extensively with a variety of international universities, ministries of education, and organizations in 35 countries.\n\nPenick received his B.S. in zoology and chemistry (1966) and his M.A. in biology education (1969) from the University of Miami. He received his Ph.D. in Science Education from The Florida State University in 1973. At Florida State he was mentored by Professor Dorothy M. Schlitt, known for her innovative ideas related to science teacher education. At Florida State, Penick was also significantly influenced by Professors Charles Matthews and Ron Good. While at Florida State Penick met fellow student James A. Shymansky, with whom he would continue to work for many years.\n\nFollowing his graduation in 1973, Penick became assistant professor at Loyola University of Chicago, where he taught and was Director of Teacher Education in his second year. In 1975 Penick left Loyola for the University of Iowa, where his classmate, James A. Shymansky, had been for two years. At Iowa, Penick was promoted to Associate Professor (1977) and Professor (1982) and eventually was named Department Chair (1982). While at Iowa, Penick worked closely with Vincent Lunetta in developing and expanding a preservice science teacher education program, initially funded by the National Science Foundation, called Iowa UPSTEP. During Penick’s years at the University of Iowa, the department of science education was noted as being large, dynamic, and highly productive of scholarly publications and outstanding students at every level. In 1985 he was a senior Fulbright Scholar at the University of Lisbon (Portugal) and The Technion (Haifa, Israel).\n\nAfter more than 22 years at the University of Iowa, Penick was named Head of the Department of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Education at North Carolina State University. As Department Head, Penick emphasized research productivity and hired a number of new faculty members. During his more than 10 years as Head, the value of grants obtained by his department grew significantly and his department grew in research productivity.\n\nFollowing his retirement from NC State in 2009, Penick accepted a position as Director for Research and Development at Sangari do Brasil, in Sao Paulo Brazil. With the creation of Sangari USA, Penick became vice president for research and development of the American subsidiary. He retired from Sangari in 2011 and currently resides in Miami Florida.\n\nActive academically, Penick has been or is on the editorial boards of a number of journals. Penick has received formal recognition from a number of groups, including the Association for Science Teacher Education (ASTE), which has presented him with its Outstanding Research award (1976, with James A. Shymansky), Outstanding Mentor award (1997), and named him Outstanding Science Educator in 1987. Penick was elected president of ASTE in 2002-2003. The National Science Teachers Association (NSTA), of which he was president in 2003-2004, awarded him with several awards before naming him to receive the Robert H. Carleton award, its highest honor, in 2013. President of the National Association of Biology Teachers in 1989, he has also received its highest award, Honorary Membership. Epsilon Pi Tau, the national honorary for technology education presented Penick with a Distinguished Service Citation in 2003 for his contributions to technology education. In 1987 and again in 2015, the Florida State University College of Education presented him with the Distinguished Educator award, its highest award, for his contributions to education.\n\nBorn while his father, Edgar C. Penick Jr., was stationed at Langley Virginia during WW II, young John lived in Austin Texas prior to his family moving to Miami Florida in 1947, where, like many others, he dreamed of being the undersea explorer, Jacques Cousteau. After earning his B.S., Penick finished a year of graduate work there in Zoology before becoming a high school biology and chemistry teacher at Miami Jackson Senior High School. After his masters degree, Penick taught one summer at Miami-Dade Community College before being named department head at Miami Jackson. During the 1972-73 school year, he taught high school biology at the Florida State University lab school, with Professor Dorothy Schlitt, Sharyl Bender, and Judy Lewis . A 1978 article describes the innovations they implemented during that experience.\n\nPenick married his high school sweetheart, Nell Inman in 1966 and, after she taught English at Jackson High School for three years, they had two children, Lucas (1969) and Megan (1973). Nell Inman Penick received her Ph.D. in Counseling and Human Development from the University of Iowa in 1990 and had a private practice for marriage and family therapy for 20 years in Iowa and North Carolina, Lucas is a private teacher and tutor, primarily in science and mathematics, in Miami and Megan is an attorney in New York City. Megan, with her husband, Yong Jae Lee, has given her parents three grandchildren, Juliet Lee (2006), Renee Lee (2008), and Lia Lee (2010).\n"}
{"id": "3981465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3981465", "title": "Juice fasting", "text": "Juice fasting\n\nJuice fasting, also known as juice cleansing, is a fad diet in which a person consumes only fruit and vegetable juices while abstaining from solid food consumption. It is used for detoxification, an alternative medicine treatment, and is often part of detox diets. The diet can typically last for two to seven days and involve a number of fruits and vegetables and even spices that are not among the juices typically sold or consumed in the average Western diet. \n\nThis diet is sometimes promoted with implausible and unsubstantiated claims about its health benefits.\n\nCatherine Collins, chief dietician of St George's Hospital Medical School in London, England, states that: \"The concept of ‘detox’ is a marketing myth rather than a physiological entity. The idea that an avalanche of vitamins, minerals, and laxatives taken over a 2 to 7 day period can have a long-lasting benefit for the body is also a marketing myth.\"\n\nDetox diets, depending on the type and duration, are potentially dangerous and can cause various health problems including muscle loss and an unhealthy regaining of fat after the detox ends.\n\nJuice mixes containing grapefruit juice may adversely interact with some prescription drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "47338914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47338914", "title": "Liber de orbe", "text": "Liber de orbe\n\nLiber de orbe was a Latin translation made in 1130s CE of an Arabic work attributed to the 8th century astrologer Mashallah ibn Athari. \n\nThe work's main topic is cosmology and is considered as one of the earliest works on Aristotelian physics available in Latin.\n\n"}
{"id": "40170111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40170111", "title": "List of microorganisms tested in outer space", "text": "List of microorganisms tested in outer space\n\nThe survival of some microorganisms exposed to outer space has been studied using both simulated facilities and low Earth orbit exposures. Bacteria were some of the first organisms investigated, when in 1960 a Russian satellite carried \"Escherichia coli\", \"Staphylococcus\", and \"Enterobacter aerogenes\" into orbit. A large number of microorganisms have been selected for exposure experiments since, as listed in the table below.\n\nExperiments of the adaption of microbes in space have yielded unpredictable results. While sometimes the microorganism may weaken, they can also increase in their disease-causing potency.\n\nIt is possible to classify these microorganisms into two groups, the human-borne, and the extremophiles. Studying the human-borne microorganisms is significant for human welfare and future crewed missions in space, whilst the extremophiles are vital for studying the physiological requirements of survival in space. NASA has pointed out that normal adults have ten times as many microbial cells as human cells in their bodies. They are also nearly everywhere in the environment, and although normally invisible, can form slimy biofilms.\n\nExtremophiles have adapted to live in some of the most extreme environments on Earth. This includes hypersaline lakes, arid regions, deep sea, acidic sites, cold and dry polar regions and permafrost. The existence of extremophiles has led to the speculation that microorganisms could survive the harsh conditions of extraterrestrial environments and be used as model organisms to understand the fate of biological systems in these environments. The focus of many of the experiments has been to investigate the possible survival of organisms inside rocks (lithopanspermia), or their survival on Mars for understanding the likelihood of past or present life on that planet. Because of their ubiquity and resistance to spacecraft decontamination, bacterial spores are considered likely potential forward contaminants on robotic missions to Mars. Measuring the resistance of such organisms to space conditions can be applied to develop adequate decontamination procedures.\n\nResearch and testing of microorganisms in outer space could eventually be applied for directed panspermia or terraforming.\n"}
{"id": "38973180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38973180", "title": "List of parson-naturalists", "text": "List of parson-naturalists\n\nParson-naturalists were ministers of religion who also studied natural history. The archetypical parson-naturalist was a priest in the Church of England in charge of a country parish, who saw the study of science as an extension of his religious work. The philosophy entailed the belief that God, as the Creator of all things, wanted man to understand his Creations and thus to study them through scientific techniques. They often collected and preserved natural artefacts such as leaves, flowers, birds' eggs, birds, insects, and small mammals to classify and study. Some wrote books or kept nature diaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "41652083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41652083", "title": "List of scientific demonstrations", "text": "List of scientific demonstrations\n\nThis is a list of scientific demonstrations used in educational demonstrations and popular science lectures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56023027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56023027", "title": "List of scientific misconduct incidents", "text": "List of scientific misconduct incidents\n\nScientific misconduct is the violation of the standard codes of scholarly conduct and ethical behavior in the publication of professional scientific research. A \"Lancet\" review on \"Handling of Scientific Misconduct in Scandinavian countries\" gave examples of policy definitions. In Denmark, scientific misconduct is defined as \"intention[al] or gross negligence leading to fabrication of the scientific message or a false credit or emphasis given to a scientist\", and in Sweden as \"intention[al] distortion of the research process by fabrication of data, text, hypothesis, or methods from another researcher's manuscript form or publication; or distortion of the research process in other ways.\"\n\nA 2009 systematic review and meta-analysis of survey data found that about 2% of scientists admitted to falsifying, fabricating, or modifying data at least once.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30234767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30234767", "title": "Living Earth Simulator Project", "text": "Living Earth Simulator Project\n\nThe living Earth simulator is a proposed massive computer simulation system intended to simulate the interactions of all aspects of life, human economic activity, climate, and other physical processes on the planet Earth as part of the FuturICT project, in response to the European FP7 \"Future and Emerging Technologies Flagship\" initiative.\n\nThere are over 300 international teams seeking ~€1 billion for the 10-year Future and Emerging Technologies ‘flagship’ competition. The Earth Simulator was not selected since the two winners have been announced as of March 2013. The winners were Graphene and Human Brain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39498799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39498799", "title": "Los Angeles Science Teachers Network", "text": "Los Angeles Science Teachers Network\n\nLos Angeles Science Teachers Network is a professional development network for science education by science teachers for science teachers committed to creating the most engaging hands-on curriculum possible through inquiry-based learning and scientific literacy.\n\nThe first meeting was held in Lisa Ellen Niver's home in September 2009. In October 2013, the professional development network had its fifteenth session. Over seventy teachers and forty schools have been involved to date. In \"Westside Today\", information about teaching, science and LASTN was presented. In the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation \"Impatient Optimists\" article, \"Teachers Need A Village,\" the importance of teachers needing support from groups like LASTN is explored. \"Why So Many Of America's Teachers Are Leaving The Profession?\" cites Los Angeles Science Teachers Network as an example to teachers everywhere to find support and stay involved.\n\nSeveral teachers formed the core group and served as advisors to Niver over the first three years: Susan Bagdasarian, Sasha Moore, Joseph Rose and Judy Weiskopf. Niver was frequently asked about teaching science, she has been quoted in Parenting.com, PBS.org, \"Green Living Arizona\" (in print), the \"Huffington Post\" and on National television. While Niver is on sabbatical with We Said Go Travel, Susan Bagdasarian has been the director of the network.\n\n\n\n\n2014-2015\n\n2013-2014\n\n2012-2013\n2011-2012\niPad apps and hands-on labs\n2010-2011\n2009-2010\n"}
{"id": "7042478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7042478", "title": "Main effect", "text": "Main effect\n\nIn the design of experiments and analysis of variance, a main effect is the effect of an independent variable on a dependent variable averaging across the levels of any other independent variables. The term is frequently used in the context of factorial designs and regression models to distinguish main effects from interaction effects.\n\nRelative to a factorial design, under an analysis of variance, a main effect test will test the hypotheses expected such as H, the null hypothesis. Running a hypothesis for a main effect will test whether there is evidence of an effect of different treatments. However a main effect test is nonspecific and will not allow for a localization of specific mean pairwise comparisons (simple effects). A main effect test will merely look at whether overall there is something about a particular factor that is making a difference. In other words a test examining differences amongst the levels of a single factor (averaging over the other factor and/or factors). Main effects are essentially the overall effect of a factor.\n\n"}
{"id": "52579862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52579862", "title": "Maker education", "text": "Maker education\n\nMaker education (a term coined by Dale Dougherty in 2013) closely associated with STEM learning, is an approach to problem-based and project-based learning that relies upon hands-on, often collaborative, learning experiences as a method for solving authentic problems. People who participate in making often call themselves \"makers\" of the maker movement and develop their projects in makerspaces, or development studios which emphasize prototyping and the repurposing of found objects in service of creating new inventions or innovations. Culturally, makerspaces, both inside and outside of schools, are associated with collaboration and the free flow of ideas. In schools, maker education stresses the importance of learner-driven experience, interdisciplinary learning, peer-to-peer teaching, iteration, and the notion of \"failing forward\", or the idea that mistake-based learning is crucial to the learning process and eventual success of a project.\n\nMaker education is an offshoot of the maker movement, which \"Time\" magazine described as \"the umbrella term for independent innovators, designers and tinkerers. A convergence of computer hackers and traditional artisans, the niche is established enough to have its own magazine, \"Make\", as well as hands-on Maker Faires that are catnip for who used to toil in solitude\". Dale Dougherty, founder of the Maker Faire and \"Make\" magazine, stated in his 2011 TED Talk that \"We are all makers. We are born makers. We don't just live, but we make.\" In the same TED Talk, Dougherty also called for making to be embraced in education, as students are the new generation of makers. Another central contributor to the maker movement, Chris Anderson, who was once the editor-in-chief of \"Wired\" magazine and is now the CEO of 3D Robotics, wrote a manifesto of the maker movement in 2012, called \"Makers\". His third book, \"\" (2012), emphasizes the role that making has to play in the renaissance of American manufacturing. Mark Hatch, who is now the CEO of TechShop, also published \"The Maker Movement Manifesto\". In addition to these contributions, seminal texts include, \"Invent To Learn: Making, Tinkering, and Engineering in the Classroom\" by Sylvia Libow Martinez, and \"The Art of Tinkering,\" by Karen Wilkinson and Mike Petrich, founders of The Tinkering Studio at the Exploratorium.\n\nIn the United States, hands-on learning through making has roots in the nineteenth century, as a result of the influence of educators such as Calvin M. Woodward, who established the Manual Training School of Washington University on June 6, 1879. Unlike later vocational education that would take hold in 1917 through the Smith-Hughes Act that had the aim of reducing the United States reliance on foreign trade, the impetus for the Manual Training School was to provide students with training in making and craftsmanship that had \"no immediate vocational goal\". Today's maker education highlights students' potential to \"change the world\" and \"let their imaginations run wild\" while also emphasizing building students' entrepreneurship skills and ability to earn money by selling their inventions.\n\nThat Arts and Crafts movement of the late nineteenth century is sometimes also referenced in relationship with the maker movement. The Arts and Crafts movement, which originated in Britain before taking hold in Europe and North America, was anti-industrial, critical of machinery and factory production, advocating instead for a return to traditional craftsmanship.\n\nSince 2005, maker education has gained momentum in schools across the United States and around the world. Proponents of the maker movement cite the potential for making to bring more women to STEM fields and close the gender gap. Other potential benefits and goals for making include creating greater educational equity among students in public schools, and the possibility for making to be a driver in educational and societal change. Other educators and innovators have developed offshoot curriculum and technologies related to the intersection of critical thinking and making, called critical making.\n\nIn school models, such as the Lighthouse Community Charter, a charter school in Oakland, California, Aaron Van der Woorf, the robotics teacher leads the students in Maker Ed. At the Park School, in collaboration with Harvard's Project Zero, students hold a mini maker faire in school that also acts as a fundraiser for the school. Some districts have also adopted maker education district-wide, such as the district of Elizabeth Forward, just south of Pittsburgh, which partnered with Carnegie Mellon to provide professional development for teachers through working with students on Maker Ed. Principals in Albemarle County schools cite Superintendent Pam Moran as instrumental in bringing maker education to their school district.\n\nIn addition to bringing maker education to schools, scholars like Paulo Blikstein of Stanford University and Dennis Krannich of the University Bremen, in Germany, state that, \"Digital fabrication and 'making,' and the positive social movement around them, could be an unprecedented opportunity for educators to advance a progressive educational agenda in which project-based, interest-driven, student-centered learning are at the center stage of students' educational experiences.\" Penketh High School Became the first school in the United Kingdom to embedded maker education into the UK education system in 2018.\n\nThe Obama Administration has also strongly supported the growing maker movement as an integral part of STEM education, which it hopes will increase American students ability to compete globally in the areas of science, engineering, and math. At the White House, President Obama hosted the first ever White House Maker Faire in June, 2014, adopting the idea that Americans are a \"Nation of Makers\". On the Nation of Makers webpage, Americans are encouraged to join the movement, asserting that \"empowering students and adults to create, innovate, tinker, and make their ideas and solutions into reality is at the heart of the Maker Movement\". Since the first-ever White House Maker Faire, the Obama Administration has \"continued to support opportunities for students to learn about STEM through making, expand the resources available for maker entrepreneurs, and foster the development of advanced manufacturing in the U.S.\" In summer 2015, the President announced the National Week of Making, June 17–23, to support the Nation of Makers. In 2016, President Obama renewed his commitment to maker education by continuing the National Week of Making. The National Maker Faire will include participation from the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Energy, the Department of the Navy (Navy), the Institute of Museum and Library Services, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Endowment for the Arts, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). At the time of this announcement, the President also detailed the progress that had been made on the Nation of Makers. He announced, \nIn addition to these developments, on June 17, 2016, the White House issued a press release, detailing the next steps the United States government will take to support the development and expansion of maker education.\n\nThough maker education has been embraced by thousands of schools and school districts across the United States and abroad, there has also emerged criticism of the movement.\n\nAmong the critics is Evgeny Morozov, a Belarusian writer and researcher, whose work focuses on the impact, both social and political, of technology. In his article published in \"The New Yorker\", entitled, \"Making It: Pick up a spot welder and join the revolution\", Morozov criticizes Chris Anderson for \"confusing the history of the Web with the history of capitalism and ends by speculating about the future of the maker movement, which, on closer examination, is actually speculation on the future of capitalism\". He also criticizes companies and organizations that were once committed to open source software for becoming acquired by for-profit companies and embroiled in copyright and trademark lawsuits. Morozov also criticizes the maker movement's major contributors financial relationship with DARPA, which made a $10 million grant to support maker education for high school students, and $3.5 million to TechShop to establish new makerspaces.\n\nWhile Morozov is one of the more vocal critics of maker education, he is not the only one. Debbie Chachra, associate professor at Olin College of Engineering, in her article in January 23, 2015 issue of \"The Atlantic\", entitled, \"Why I Am Not a Maker\", centers her criticism on \"the social history of who makes things—and who doesn't\". Chachra describes the history of the \"makers\" of products as men, rather than those who cared for \"hearth and home\", that is, historically, women. She calls for recognition of \"the work of the educators, those that analyze and characterize and critique, everyone who fixes things, all the other people who do valuable work with and for others—above all, the caregivers—whose work isn't about something you can put in a box and sell\". In \"A more lovingly made world\", by McKenzie Wark of The New School, Wark writes that the problem with maker culture is that makers don't actually make things, they assemble them. While this experience is satisfying and fun (and Wark does acknowledge the way in which his children are not hemmed in by gender expectations while playing at the Maker Faire), it doesn't teach the underlying principles required for the actual making of functional objects. It also does not, though Chris Anderson and Mark Hatch evoke Marx in their Maker manifestos, map accurately onto an understanding of labor, and certainly not the life of the laborer.\n\nFinally, Shirin Vossoughi and Paula K. Hooper of Northwestern University, and Meg Escude of Exploratorium, offer an in-depth look at the ways in which maker education reinforces educational inequality. They begin by offering Haitian writer, Edwidge Danticat's commentary on making: \"If you can't afford clothes, but you can make them--make them. You have to work with what you have, especially if you don't 'have a lot of money. You use creativity, and you use imagination.\" Vossoughi, Hooper, and Escude make the case that true making is often born from difficult environmental circumstances, and that what local communities once did as part of their daily lives (offering an exchange of skills and knowledge, for example, to help others in need in the community) is now being offered to low-income neighborhoods as an intervention program, promising greater educational equality. They argue that the \"American Maker\" highlighted by Dale Dougherty in his 2011 Ted Talk, is symptomatic of the problems associated with American exceptionalism, in that it is \"grounded in gendered, white, middle-class cultural practices\". Not only do Vossoughi, Hooper, and Escude critique maker education as it is currently practiced, they also offer proposed solutions for \"equity-oriented design\" of maker experiences which include, \"critical analyses or educational injustice, historicized approaches to making as cross-cultural activity, explicit attention to pedagogy, and inquiry into the sociopolitical values and purposes of making\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9239056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9239056", "title": "Matte (metallurgy)", "text": "Matte (metallurgy)\n\nMatte is a term used in the field of pyrometallurgy given to the molten metal sulfide phases typically formed during smelting of copper, nickel, and other base metals. Typically, a matte is the phase in which the principal metal being extracted is recovered prior to a final reduction process (usually converting) to produce a crude metal. Mattes may also be used to collect impurities from a metal phase, such as in the case of antimony smelting. Molten mattes are insoluble in both slag and metal phases. This insolubility, combined with differences in specific gravities between mattes, slags, and metals, allows for separation of the molten phases.\n"}
{"id": "22208238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22208238", "title": "Moscow State University of Fine Chemical Technologies", "text": "Moscow State University of Fine Chemical Technologies\n\nMoscow State University of Fine Chemical Technologies named after M.V. Lomonosov (traditional abbreviation \"MITHT\") is one of the oldest universities in the country that offer training in a wide range of specialties in the field of chemical technology.\n\nCurrently, there are more than 4,500 students in nine areas of undergraduate, 28 master's programs and 23 scientific specialties for training of candidates and doctors of science. In MITHT there are 8 dissertation councils for doctoral and PhD theses.\n\nResearch and teaching activities are performed by more than 400 professors and 158 scientists, including more than 120 doctors of science and professors. Located in Moscow at Vernadsky Avenue, Building 86 (new building complex) and Malaya Pirogovskaya, Building 1 (historic building).\n\nHistory of the University and its continuing operations as a higher education institution begins 1 July 1900 and covers several stages.\n\n1 July (14 July, New Style) 1900 was organized the Moscow Higher Women Courses (MHWC). Their structure originally consisted of two departments: History and Philosophy and Physics and Mathematics. On the last one were soon opened two offices: mathematical and natural, and after a few years two more – medical and chemical-pharmaceutical. The initiators and the first lecturers were outstanding scientists, academics subsequently S. A. Chaplygin, V. I. Vernadsky, N. D. Zelinsky (the inventor of the gas mask (1916)), Professors V. F. Davidov, B. K. Mlodzeevskii, A. N. Reformatsky, A. A. Eichenwald, S. G. Krapivin. The first director of MHWC was Professor V. I. Guerrier.\n\nIn 1905 as a director was elected S. A. Chaplygin, the leading scientist in the field of hydro- and aerodynamics, the organizer of the construction of school buildings on the Malaya Pirogovskaya street (formerly Devichie Pole). He remained in that post until 1918.\n\nBy the beginning of World War I MHWC turned into the one of the largest higher education institutions in the country. The number of trainees reached 710, and during the existence of courses released 5760 professionals. In turning into a first-class university MHWC paramount importance had an exceptional organizational skill of S. A. Chaplygin, later shown to them with equal brilliance in creating TsAGI.\n\n16 October 1918 MHWC were converted into second Moscow State University. The first rector of the 2nd Moscow State University was appointed academician S. S. Nametkin who worked since 1913 as a head of the Department of Organic Chemistry of MHWC. As rector, he remained until 1924. As part of the 2nd Moscow State University became the chemical-pharmaceutical department, which in 1919 was transformed into the chemical and pharmaceutical department. At this time, on the faculty worked well-known Professors A. M. Berkengeim, B. K. Mlodzeevskii, S. S. Nametkin, M. I. Prozin, A. N. Reformatsky, O. N. Tsuberbiller. In 1929, the faculty became a chemical faculty of the university type with specialties such as:\n\nFaculty graduates go to work in the factories, involve in the implementation of research projects that receive a wide scope. During 1922 – 1928 years it has been published about 300 papers and 11 monographs. The greatest successes are achieved in the fields of organic and pharmaceutical chemistry under the direction of heads of departments, academics S. S. Nametkin, B. M. Rodionov, Professor A. M. Berkengeim. Production of new drugs being introduced in the pharmaceutical factory belonging to faculty.\n\n18 April 1930 by order of the People's Commissariat second MSU was reorganized into three independent institutions: Medical (now RSMU them. Pirogov) Pedagogical (now MPSU), and Chemical Technology (now MITHT). Last transferred to the jurisdiction of the Vsehimprom VSNKh USSR. In addressing this issue directly involved Sergo Ordzhonikidze.\n\n10 May 1931 Chemical and Pharmaceutical Faculty became an independent and received a new name – the Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Technology (MITHT). Historically, the name of the Institute is due to the nature of objects that are studied by students: they were small capacity chemical and pharmaceutical technology, technology of platinum group metals and rare-earth elements. From this moment begins a new stage of development of the institution, which is quickly becoming one of the leading universities in the chemical industry. Front of it set the goal of training for high-tech industries of chemical technology. In MITHT the first time in the country began to train engineers on the technology of thin inorganic products, synthetic rubber, thin organic produce synthetic liquid fuels, organometallic compounds and a number of other specialties.\n\nIn the process of restructuring of education at the institute have been preserved and developed the best traditions of MHWC and 2nd Moscow State University: a high level of theoretical training and a combination of academic and scientific work, helped by the fact that the teaching work at the institute and chairing of departments were performed by outstanding scientists and educators which created a school and research areas.\n\nSpecial departments were prepared engineers for industries which were still being created in the first five years. At the time, were of great importance establishment of a domestic pharmaceutical industry and the country's liberation on imports of medicines. Were developed and implemented methods of production of such drugs as atophan, benzocaine, procaine, bromural, thiokol, ichtyol, validol, antipyrine, caffeine, alkaloids and others. In 1938, in MITHT under the leadership of academic A. N. Nesmeyanov (later President of the RAS) began work in the field of organometallic compounds. Also, the Institute prepared professionals for the companies producing such important national defense materials, such as tungsten, molybdenum, vanadium, and rare-earth elements. So, Professor I. Ya. Bashilov created the production technology of uranium and radium. And under the guidance of Professor G. A. Meyerson were carried out important work on carbothermy and getting super-hard alloys.\n\n7 May 1940 for academic achievement and great progress in the preparation of chemists institute is named after the outstanding Russian scientist Mikhail Vasilievich Lomonosov.\n\nDuring the war, groups of departments in collaboration with industry and research institutes conduct intensive research on defense-related development and implementation of the executed work. Thus, under the supervision of Professor N. I. Gelperin was created the most powerful bomb in World War II – FAB-5000NG that terrified Hitlerites. Efforts of the Institute as a whole and individual professors and teachers were appreciated by the country. Professors B. A. Dogadkin, N. I. Krasnopevtsev, V. V. Lebedinskij, S. S. Medvedev, S. I. Sklyarenko and Ya. K. Sirkin were awarded the Stalin Prize laureates, and associate professor K. A. Bolshakov won that title twice.\n\nThe post-war period was characterized by intensive work of the Institute staff in the aftermath of the war, the creation of the necessary conditions for teaching and research. Among the most important achievements of the postwar period MITHT need to include: \n\nThe high scientific – technical research conducted at the institute, evidenced by the fact that MITHT became one of the first places among the universities and research institutes on the number of implemented inventions. Employees of the institute published 450–500 scientific papers and received 50–60 invention certificates a year. The Institute conducts research on economic agreements and contracts on cooperation with industry and research institutes, whose number exceeded 150.\n\nMITHT, in fact, has turned into a complex of the university and research institutes. On 2500–3000 students, in addition to 400 professors and lecturers, employed more than 900 scientists. Two to one – that is the ratio of students, academic and teaching staff, which was reached in MITHT. Good specialist, engineer cannot be prepared without bringing him to participate in real, serious scientific research in the learning process.\n\n11 February 1971 for his services to the training of specialists for the national economy and the development of scientific research institute was awarded the Order of the Red Banner of Labour.\n\nEducation in MITHT always featured a deep fundamental training, which included, along with a full range of natural sciences study the big cycle engineering and technological disciplines. Special training was carried out by the so-called \"thin\" chemical technologies that are, as a rule, small capacity technology, implemented on the basis of the latest achievements of chemical science and technology. That is, in fact, the students received a university degree in combination with engineering training.\n\nIn 1992, the Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Technology named after M. V. Lomonosov has received a new, higher educational status – status of the Academy. With the name change has changed the status and range of activities of the institute along with old technology, new specialty Humanitarian – Management Profile: \"Economics and Management (chemical industry)\", \"Environmental Protection\", \"Standardization and Certification\". These specialties are subject to major technologies and solve their narrow-profile tasks.\n\nBefore the transition to a tiered structure the education of students was carried out in one direction, \"Chemical Technology and Biotechnology\", which consists of seven specialties. After the transition academy led training in seven areas of undergraduate, graduate five areas (including 26 master's programs) and 13 majors (including 25 majors) in full-time and part-correspondence courses, and conducted post-graduate education in 24 specialties and additional education in primary educational programs MITHT.\n\nTo implement in MITHT a tiered system of higher education were opened new training units. Along with main faculties teaching of students was performed at the Faculty of Natural Science, Faculty of Humanities, Faculty of Management, Economics and Environment, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of further education at the Institute of Distance Education.\n\nAccording to the Federal Agency for Supervision in Education and Science in 2008 in MITHT worked one of the most highly qualified scientific and technical teaching staff of universities and academies of Russia: doctors and candidates of sciences accounted for about 80% of the teachers. At the academy a total enrollment of 4,500 undergraduate and graduate students, taught 119 professors, doctors, and 218 associate professors, candidates of sciences.\n\nIn 2011, the Academy received a University status.\n\nThe successes of the University in education, research and innovation, the recognition of the scientific and pedagogical schools, its international status and worldwide fame are undoubtedly merit in the first professors, assistant professors, lecturers, and they have created in the walls of the university unique creative scientific and educational environment. Friendly and supportive atmosphere of the business and human interaction with the students and teachers together form the necessary conditions for the development of the individual, focused, motivated professional growth.\n\n\n\n\nChemistry:\n\nChemical technology:\n\nBiotechnology:\n\nMaterials science and technology of materials:\n\nTechnosphere Safety:\n\nStandardization and Certification:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44290263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44290263", "title": "Mutual shaping", "text": "Mutual shaping\n\nThe term mutual shaping was developed through Science and Technology Studies (STS) in an attempt to explain the detailed process of technological design. Mutual shaping is a combination of social determinism and technological determinism, suggesting that society and technology are not mutually exclusive to one another and, instead, influence and shape each other.\n\nTechnological determinism (TD), coined by Thorstein Veblen, suggests that technology is the primary catalyst for change in society. Following this theory, the development and implementation of technology is beyond the control of society as it is pervasive in all elements of our lives. Once a technology has been created its influence on society is an inevitable, predetermined path. An example that supports technological determinism is the development of the printing press that accelerated the Protestant Reformation.\n\nIn contrast, social determinism (SD), popularized by social theorists Karl Marx and Emile Durkheim, purports that social structure is the driving factor towards change in society. Following this view, society is the governing force that determines social behaviour, and technology is created and adapted based on society’s wants and needs.\n\nBoth TD and SD are cause-and-effect theories suggesting that technology and society are mutually exclusive. The theory of mutual shaping suggests that technology design is a result of a synthesis of TD and SD. It sees technology and society working together to facilitate change. Society changes as a direct result of the implementation of technology that has been created based on society’s wants and needs. They function collectively to shape one another.\n\nMutual shaping is exemplified through the integration of online social networking platforms into daily life. They are a communications technology designed to complement pre-existing methods of communication, such as the phone or in-person conversations, that have become more convenient and/or affordable than their predecessors. TD would argue that these communication technologies have directly influenced our networking capabilities due to their accessibility. Without them we would not be able to conduct business or maintain friendships over long distances. SD would argue that these platforms were created as a result of a need to facilitate communication over long distances. Mutual shaping supports both of these arguments, believing that the two cannot be separated. Social networking platforms display how technology and society are inextricably linked as they work together towards the advancement of one another, exemplifying the theory of mutual shaping.\n"}
{"id": "166380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166380", "title": "Natural history", "text": "Natural history\n\nNatural history is a domain of inquiry involving organisms including animals, fungi and plants in their environment; leaning more towards observational than experimental methods of study. A person who studies natural history is called a naturalist or natural historian.\n\nNatural history encompasses scientific research but is not limited to it. It involves the systematic study of any category of natural objects or organisms. So while it dates from studies in the ancient Greco-Roman world and the mediaeval Arabic world, through to European Renaissance naturalists working in near isolation, today's natural history is a cross discipline umbrella of many specialty sciences; e.g., geobiology has a strong multi-disciplinary nature.\n\nThe meaning of the English term \"natural history\" (a calque of the Latin \"historia naturalis\") has narrowed progressively with time; while, by contrast, the meaning of the related term \"nature\" has widened (see also History below).\n\nIn antiquity, \"natural history\" covered essentially anything connected with nature, or which used materials drawn from nature, such as Pliny the Elder's encyclopedia of this title, published circa 77 to 79 AD, which covers astronomy, geography, humans and their technology, medicine, and superstition, as well as animals and plants.\n\nMedieval European academics considered knowledge to have two main divisions: the humanities (primarily what is now known as classics) and divinity, with science studied largely through texts rather than observation or experiment. The study of nature revived in the Renaissance, and quickly became a third branch of academic knowledge, itself divided into descriptive natural history and natural philosophy, the analytical study of nature. In modern terms, natural philosophy roughly corresponded to modern physics and chemistry, while natural history included the biological and geological sciences. The two were strongly associated. During the heyday of the gentleman scientists, many people contributed to both fields, and early papers in both were commonly read at professional science society meetings such as the Royal Society and the French Academy of Sciences – both founded during the seventeenth century.\n\nNatural history had been encouraged by practical motives, such as Linnaeus' aspiration to improve the economic condition of Sweden. Similarly, the Industrial Revolution prompted the development of geology to help find useful mineral deposits.\n\nModern definitions of natural history come from a variety of fields and sources, and many of the modern definitions emphasize a particular aspect of the field, creating a plurality of definitions with a number of common themes among them. For example, while natural history is most often defined as a type of observation and a subject of study, it can also be defined as a body of knowledge, and as a craft or a practice, in which the emphasis is placed more on the observer than on the observed.\n\nDefinitions from biologists often focus on the scientific study of individual organisms in their environment, as seen in this definition by Marston Bates: \"Natural history is the study of animals and Plants – of organisms. ... I like to think, then, of natural history as the study of life at the level of the individual – of what plants and animals do, how they react to each other and their environment, how they are organized into larger groupings like populations and communities\" and this more recent definition by D.S. Wilcove and T. Eisner: \"The close observation of organisms—their origins, their evolution, their behavior, and their relationships with other species\".\n\nThis focus on organisms in their environment is also echoed by H.W. Greene and J.B. Losos: \"Natural history focuses on where organisms are and what they do in their environment, including interactions with other organisms. It encompasses changes in internal states insofar as they pertain to what organisms do\".\n\nSome definitions go further, focusing on direct observation of organisms in their environment, both past and present, such as this one by G.A. Bartholomew: \"A student of natural history, or a naturalist, studies the world by observing plants and animals directly. Because organisms are functionally inseparable from the environment in which they live and because their structure and function cannot be adequately interpreted without knowing some of their evolutionary history, the study of natural history embraces the study of fossils as well as physiographic and other aspects of the physical environment\".\n\nA common thread in many definitions of natural history is the inclusion of a descriptive component, as seen in a recent definition by H.W. Greene: \"Descriptive ecology and ethology\". Several authors have argued for a more expansive view of natural history, including S. Herman, who defines the field as \"the scientific study of plants and animals in their natural environments. It is concerned with levels of organization from the individual organism to the ecosystem, and stresses identification, life history, distribution, abundance, and inter-relationships.\n\nIt often and appropriately includes an esthetic component\", and T. Fleischner, who defines the field even more broadly, as \"A practice of intentional, focused attentiveness and receptivity to the more-than-human world, guided by honesty and accuracy\". These definitions explicitly include the arts in the field of natural history, and are aligned with the broad definition outlined by B. Lopez, who defines the field as the \"Patient interrogation of a landscape\" while referring to the natural history knowledge of the Eskimo (Inuit).\n\nA slightly different framework for natural history, covering a similar range of themes, is also implied in the scope of work encompassed by many leading natural history museums, which often include elements of anthropology, geology, paleontology and astronomy along with botany and zoology, or include both cultural and natural components of the world.\n\nThe plurality of definitions for this field has been recognized as both a weakness and a strength, and a range of definitions have recently been offered by practitioners in a recent collection of views on natural history.\n\nNatural history begins with Aristotle and other ancient philosophers who analyzed the diversity of the natural world. Natural history was understood by Pliny the Elder to cover anything that could be found in the world, including living things, geology, astronomy, technology, art and humanity.\n\n\"De Materia Medica\" was written between 50 and 70 AD by Pedanius Dioscorides, a Roman physician of Greek origin. It was widely read for more than 1,500 years until supplanted in the Renaissance, making it one of the longest-lasting of all natural history books.\n\nFrom the ancient Greeks until the work of Carl Linnaeus and other 18th century naturalists, a major concept of natural history was the \"scala naturae\" or Great Chain of Being, an arrangement of minerals, vegetables, more primitive forms of animals, and more complex life forms on a linear scale of supposedly increasing perfection, culminating in our species.\n\nNatural history was basically static through the Middle Ages in Europe – although in the Arabic and Oriental world it proceeded at a much brisker pace. From the thirteenth century, the work of Aristotle was adapted rather rigidly into Christian philosophy, particularly by Thomas Aquinas, forming the basis for natural theology. During the Renaissance, scholars (herbalists and humanists, particularly) returned to direct observation of plants and animals for natural history, and many began to accumulate large collections of exotic specimens and unusual monsters. Leonhart Fuchs was one of the three founding fathers of botany, along with Otto Brunfels and Hieronymus Bock. Other important contributors to the field were Valerius Cordus, Konrad Gesner (\"Historiae animalium\"), Frederik Ruysch, or Gaspard Bauhin. The rapid increase in the number of known organisms prompted many attempts at classifying and organizing species into taxonomic groups, culminating in the system of the Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus.\n\nA significant contribution to English natural history was made by parson-naturalists such as Gilbert White, William Kirby, John George Wood, and John Ray, who wrote about plants, animals, and other aspects of nature. Many of these men wrote about nature to make the natural theology argument for the existence or goodness of God.\n\nIn modern Europe, professional disciplines such as botany, geology, mycology, palaeontology, physiology and zoology were formed. \"Natural history\", formerly the main subject taught by college science professors, was increasingly scorned by scientists of a more specialized manner and relegated to an \"amateur\" activity, rather than a part of science proper. In Victorian Scotland it was believed that the study of natural history contributed to good mental health. Particularly in Britain and the United States, this grew into specialist hobbies such as the study of birds, butterflies, seashells (malacology/conchology), beetles and wildflowers; meanwhile, scientists tried to define a unified discipline of biology (though with only partial success, at least until the modern evolutionary synthesis). Still, the traditions of natural history continue to play a part in the study of biology, especially ecology (the study of natural systems involving living organisms and the inorganic components of the Earth's biosphere that support them), ethology (the scientific study of animal behavior), and evolutionary biology (the study of the relationships between life-forms over very long periods of time), and re-emerges today as integrative organismal biology.\n\nAmateur collectors and natural history entrepreneurs played an important role in building the world's large natural history collections, such as the Natural History Museum, London, and the National Museum of Natural History in Washington D.C.\n\nThree of the greatest English naturalists of the nineteenth century, Henry Walter Bates, Charles Darwin, and Alfred Russel Wallace—who all knew each other—each made natural history travels that took years, collected thousands of specimens, many of them new to science, and by their writings both advanced knowledge of \"remote\" parts of the world—the Amazon basin, the Galápagos Islands, and the Malay archipelago, among others—and in so doing helped to transform biology from a descriptive to a theory based science.\n\nThe understanding of \"Nature\" as \"an organism and not as a mechanism\" can be traced to the writings of Alexander von Humboldt (Prussia, 1769–1859). Humboldt's copious writings and research were seminal influences for Charles Darwin, Simón Bolívar, Henry David Thoreau, Ernst Haeckel, and John Muir.\n\nNatural history museums, which evolved from cabinets of curiosities, played an important role in the emergence of professional biological disciplines and research programs. Particularly in the 19th century, scientists began to use their natural history collections as teaching tools for advanced students and the basis for their own morphological research.\n\nThe term \"natural history\" alone, or sometimes together with archaeology, forms the name of many national, regional and local natural history societies that maintain records for animals (including birds (ornithology), insects (entomology) and mammals (mammalogy)), fungi (mycology), plants (botany) and other organisms. They may also have geological and microscopical sections.\n\nExamples of these societies in Britain include the Natural History Society of Northumbria founded in 1829, London Natural History Society (1858), Birmingham Natural History Society (1859), British Entomological and Natural History Society founded in 1872, Glasgow Natural History Society, Manchester Microscopical and Natural History Society established in 1880, Whitby Naturalists' Club founded in 1913, Scarborough Field Naturalists' Society and the Sorby Natural History Society, Sheffield, founded in 1918. The growth of natural history societies was also spurred due to the growth of British colonies in tropical regions with numerous new species to be discovered. Many civil servants took an interest in their new surroundings, sending specimens back to museums in Britain. (See also: Indian natural history)\n\nSocieties in other countries include the American Society of Naturalists and Polish Copernicus Society of Naturalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "1217056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1217056", "title": "Organicism", "text": "Organicism\n\nOrganicism is the philosophical perspective which views the universe and its parts as organic wholes and – either by analogy or literally – as living organisms. It can be synonymous with holism. Organicism is an important tradition within the history of natural philosophy where it has remained as a vital current alongside reductionism and mechanism, the approaches that have dominated science since the seventeenth century. Plato is among the earliest philosophers to have regarded the universe as an intelligent living being (see \"Timaeus\"). Organicism flourished for a period during the era of German romanticism during which time the new science of biology was first defined by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Within modern-day biological sciences organicism is the approach that stresses the organization (particularly the self-organizing properties), rather than the composition, of organisms. John Scott Haldane was the first biologist to use the term to describe his philosophical views in 1917, after which it was followed by certain other biologists in the 20th century.\n\nOrganicism as a doctrine rejects mechanism and reductionism (doctrines that claim that the smallest parts by themselves explain the behavior of larger organized systems of which they are a part). However, organicism also rejects vitalism, the doctrine that there is a vital force different from physical forces that accounts for living things. As Capra puts it, both schools, organicism and vitalism, were born from the quest for getting rid of the Cartesian picture of reality, a view that has been claimed to be the most destructive paradigm nowadays, from science to politics.\nA number of biologists in the early to mid-twentieth century embraced organicism. They wished to reject earlier vitalisms but to stress that whole organism biology was not fully explainable by atomic mechanism. The larger organization of an organic system has features that must be taken into account to explain its behavior.\n\nGilbert and Sarkar distinguish organicism from holism to avoid what they see as the vitalistic or spiritualistic connotations of holism. Dusek notes that holism contains a continuum of degrees of the top-down control of organization, ranging from monism (the doctrine that the only complete object is the whole universe, or that there is only one entity, the universe) to organicism, which allows relatively more independence of the parts from the whole, despite the whole being more than the sum of the parts, and/or the whole exerting some control on the behavior of the parts.\n\nStill more independence is present in relational holism. This doctrine does not assert top-down control of the whole over its parts, but does claim that the relations of the parts are essential to explanation of behavior of the system. Aristotle and early modern philosophers and scientists tended to describe reality as made of substances and their qualities, and to neglect relations. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz showed the bizarre conclusions to which a doctrine of the non-existence of relations led. Twentieth century philosophy has been characterized by the introduction of and emphasis on the importance of relations, whether in symbolic logic, in phenomenology, or in metaphysics.\n\nWilliam Wimsatt has suggested that the number of terms in the relations considered distinguishes reductionism from holism. Reductionistic explanations claim that two or at most three term relations are sufficient to account for the system's behavior. At the other extreme the system could be considered as a single ten to the twenty-sixth term relation, for instance.\n\nOrganicism has some intellectually and politically controversial or suspect associations. \"Holism,\" the doctrine that the whole is more than the sum of its parts, often used synonymously with organicism, or as a broader category under which organicism falls, has been co-opted in recent decades by \"holistic medicine\" and by New Age Thought. German Nazism appealed to organicist and holistic doctrines, discrediting for many in retrospect, the original organicist doctrines. (See Anne Harrington). Soviet Dialectical Materialism also made appeals to an holistic and organicist approach stemming from Hegel via Karl Marx's co-worker Friedrich Engels, again giving a controversial political association to organicism.\n\nOrganicism' has also been used to characterize notions put forth by various late 19th-century social scientists who considered human society to be analogous to an organism, and individual humans to be analogous to the cells of an organism. This sort of organicist sociology was articulated by Alfred Espinas, Paul von Lilienfeld, Jacques Novicow, Albert Schäffle, Herbert Spencer, and René Worms, among others.\n\nThomas Hobbes arguably put forward a form of organicism. In the \"Leviathan\", he argued that the state is like a secular God whose constituents (individual people) make up a larger organism.\n\nIn breathing entities, cells – i.e., the smallest unit of life – were first observed in the 17th century, when the multifaceted equipment microscope was conceived. Before that period, the individual organisms were studied as a whole in a field known as organismic biology; that area of research remains an important component of the biological sciences. Further, as Capra puts it, during the early 1900s, the quantum researchers struggled with the same paradigm shift from \"the parts to the whole\" that culminated into the scholars of organismic biology.\n\nIn biology organicism considers that the observable structures of life, its overall form and the properties and characteristics of its component parts are a result of the reciprocal play of all the components on each other.\nExamples of 20th century biologists who were organicists are Ross Harrison, Paul Weiss, and Joseph Needham. Donna Haraway discusses them in her first book \"Crystals, Fabrics, and Fields\". John Scott Haldane (father of J. B. S. Haldane), William Emerson Ritter, Edward Stuart Russell, Joseph Henry Woodger, Ludwig von Bertalanffy, and Ralph Stayner Lillie are other early twentieth century organicists. Robert Rosen, founder of \"Relational Biology\" provided a comprehensive mathematical and category-theoretic treatment of irreducible causal relations he believed to be responsible for life.\n\nIn the early 1930s Joseph Henry Woodger and Joseph Needham, together with Conrad Hal Waddington, John Desmond Bernal, Dorothy Needham, and Dorothy Wrinch, formed the Theoretical Biology Club, to promote the organicist approach to biology. The club was in opposition to mechanism, reductionism and the gene-centric view of evolution. Most of the members were influenced by the philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead. The club disbanded as the Rockefeller Foundation refused to fund their investigations.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185820", "title": "Physics and Beyond", "text": "Physics and Beyond\n\nPhysics and Beyond () is a book by Werner Heisenberg, the German physicist who discovered the uncertainty principle. It tells, from his point of view, the history of exploring atomic science and quantum mechanics in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nAs the subtitle \"Encounters and Conversations\" suggests, the core part of this book takes the form of discussions between himself and other scientists. Heisenberg says: \"I wanted to show that science is done by people, and the most wonderful ideas come from dialog\".\n\nWith chapters like \"The first encounter with the science about atoms\", \"Quantum mechanics and conversations with Einstein\", \"Conversation about the relation between biology, physics and chemistry\" or \"Conversations about language\" and \"The behavior of an individual during a political disaster\", dated 1937-1941, a reader can hear speaking such persons as Erwin Schrödinger, Niels Bohr, Albert Einstein or Max Planck, not only about physics, but also about many other questions related to biology, humans, philosophy, and politics.\n\nNot only that, these conversations are often situated in detailed description of the historical atmosphere and a beautiful scenery, as many of them were led in nature during the many journeys they made, backpacking or sailing. \"'Do you see whales, Heisenberg?', 'Yes, I see only whales, but I hope they are only big waves.'\", is one of humorous scenes when the author, Bohr and other friends were sailing in a dark night.\n\nThe book provides a first-hand account about how science is done and how quantum physics, especially the Copenhagen interpretation, emerged.\n\n\"Nobody can reproduce these conversations verbatim, but I believe that the spirit of what the people said, and how they did, is conserved,\" the author tries to explain in the preface.\n\nMany believe that the golden years of physics around 1925, when \"even small people could do big things\" are gone. But the people who had been there continue to speak to us through this book.\n\nThe book was published first in German 1969, in English as \"Physics and Beyond\" (1971) and in French in 1972 (La partie et le tout).\n"}
{"id": "23047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23047", "title": "Pseudoscience", "text": "Pseudoscience\n\nPseudoscience consists of statements, beliefs, or practices that are claimed to be both scientific and factual, but are incompatible with the scientific method. Pseudoscience is often characterized by contradictory, exaggerated or unfalsifiable claims; reliance on confirmation bias rather than rigorous attempts at refutation; lack of openness to evaluation by other experts; and absence of systematic practices when developing theories, and continued adherence long after they have been experimentally discredited. The term \"pseudoscience\" is considered pejorative because it suggests something is being presented as science inaccurately or even deceptively. Those described as practicing or advocating pseudoscience often dispute the characterization.\n\nThe demarcation between science and pseudoscience has philosophical and scientific implications. Differentiating science from pseudoscience has practical implications in the case of health care, expert testimony, environmental policies, and science education. Distinguishing scientific facts and theories from pseudoscientific beliefs, such as those found in astrology, alchemy, alternative medicine, occult beliefs, and creation science, is part of science education and scientific literacy.\n\nPseudoscience can cause negative consequences in the real world. Antivaccine activists present pseudoscientific studies that falsely call into question the safety of vaccines. Homeopathic remedies with no active ingredients have been promoted as treatment for deadly diseases.\n\nThe word \"pseudoscience\" is derived from the Greek root \"pseudo\" meaning false and the English word \"science\", from the Latin word \"scientia\", meaning \"knowledge\". Although the term has been in use since at least the late 18th century (e.g. in 1796 by James Pettit Andrews in reference to alchemy) the concept of pseudoscience as distinct from real or proper science seems to have become more widespread during the mid-19th century. Among the earliest uses of \"pseudo-science\" was in an 1844 article in the \"Northern Journal of Medicine\", issue 387:\nAn earlier use of the term was in 1843 by the French physiologist François Magendie. During the 20th century, the word was used pejoratively to describe explanations of phenomena which were claimed to be scientific, but which were not in fact supported by reliable experimental evidence. From time-to-time, though, the usage of the word occurred in a more formal, technical manner in response to a perceived threat to individual and institutional security in a social and cultural setting.\n\nPhilosophers classify types of knowledge. In English, the word \"science\" is used to indicate specifically the natural sciences and related fields, which are called the social sciences.\n\nDifferent philosophers of science may disagree on the exact limits – for example, is mathematics a formal science that is closer to the empirical ones, or is pure mathematics closer to the philosophical study of logic and therefore not a science? – but all agree that all of the ideas that are not scientific are non-scientific. The large category of non-science includes all matters outside the natural and social sciences, such as the study of history, metaphysics, religion, art, and the humanities.\n\nDividing the category again, unscientific claims are a subset of the large category of non-scientific claims. This category specifically includes all matters that are directly opposed to good science. Un-science includes both bad science (such as an error made in a good-faith attempt at learning something about the natural world) and pseudoscience. Thus pseudoscience is a subset of un-science, and un-science, in turn, is subset of non-science.\n\nPseudoscience is differentiated from science because – although it claims to be science – pseudoscience does not adhere to accepted scientific standards, such as the scientific method, falsifiability of claims, and Mertonian norms.\n\nA number of basic principles are accepted by scientists as standards for determining whether a body of knowledge, method, or practice is scientific. Experimental results should be reproducible and verified by other researchers. These principles are intended to ensure experiments can be reproduced measurably given the same conditions, allowing further investigation to determine whether a hypothesis or theory related to given phenomena is valid and reliable. Standards require the scientific method to be applied throughout, and bias to be controlled for or eliminated through randomization, fair sampling procedures, blinding of studies, and other methods. All gathered data, including the experimental or environmental conditions, are expected to be documented for scrutiny and made available for peer review, allowing further experiments or studies to be conducted to confirm or falsify results. Statistical quantification of significance, confidence, and error are also important tools for the scientific method.\n\nDuring the mid-20th century, the philosopher Karl Popper emphasized the criterion of falsifiability to distinguish science from nonscience. Statements, hypotheses, or theories have falsifiability or refutability if there is the inherent possibility that they can be proven false. That is, if it is possible to conceive of an observation or an argument which negates them. Popper used astrology and psychoanalysis as examples of pseudoscience and Einstein's theory of relativity as an example of science. He subdivided nonscience into philosophical, mathematical, mythological, religious and metaphysical formulations on one hand, and pseudoscientific formulations on the other, though he did not provide clear criteria for the differences.\n\nAnother example which shows the distinct need for a claim to be falsifiable was stated in Carl Sagan's publication \"The Demon-Haunted World\" when he discusses an invisible dragon that he has in his garage. The point is made that there is no physical test to refute the claim of the presence of this dragon. No matter what test you think you can devise, there is then a reason why this does not apply to the invisible dragon, so one can never prove that the initial claim is wrong. Sagan concludes; \"Now, what's the difference between an invisible, incorporeal, floating dragon who spits heatless fire and no dragon at all?\". He states that \"your inability to invalidate my hypothesis is not at all the same thing as proving it true\", once again explaining that even if such a claim were true, it would be outside the realm of scientific inquiry.\n\nDuring 1942, Robert K. Merton identified a set of five \"norms\" which he characterized as what makes a real science. If any of the norms were violated, Merton considered the enterprise to be nonscience. These are not broadly accepted by the scientific community. His norms were:\n\nDuring 1978, Paul Thagard proposed that pseudoscience is primarily distinguishable from science when it is less progressive than alternative theories over a long period of time, and its proponents fail to acknowledge or address problems with the theory. During 1983, Mario Bunge has suggested the categories of \"belief fields\" and \"research fields\" to help distinguish between pseudoscience and science, where the former is primarily personal and subjective and the latter involves a certain systematic method.\n\nPhilosophers of science such as Paul Feyerabend argued that a distinction between science and nonscience is neither possible nor desirable. Among the issues which can make the distinction difficult is variable rates of evolution among the theories and methods of science in response to new data.\n\nLarry Laudan has suggested pseudoscience has no scientific meaning and is mostly used to describe our emotions: \"If we would stand up and be counted on the side of reason, we ought to drop terms like 'pseudo-science' and 'unscientific' from our vocabulary; they are just hollow phrases which do only emotive work for us\". Likewise, Richard McNally states, \"The term 'pseudoscience' has become little more than an inflammatory buzzword for quickly dismissing one's opponents in media sound-bites\" and \"When therapeutic entrepreneurs make claims on behalf of their interventions, we should not waste our time trying to determine whether their interventions qualify as pseudoscientific. Rather, we should ask them: How do you know that your intervention works? What is your evidence?\"\n\nFor philosophers Silvio Funtowicz and Jerome R. Ravetz \"pseudo-science may be defined as one where the uncertainty of its inputs must be suppressed, lest they render its outputs totally indeterminate\". The definition, in the book \"Uncertainty and quality in science for policy\" (p. 54), alludes to the loss of craft skills in handling quantitative information, and to the bad practice of achieving precision in prediction (inference) only at the expenses of ignoring uncertainty in the input which was used to formulate the prediction. This use of the term is common among practitioners of post-normal science. Understood in this way, pseudoscience can be fought using good practices to assesses uncertainty in quantitative information, such as NUSAP and – in the case of mathematical modelling – sensitivity auditing.\n\nThe history of pseudoscience is the study of pseudoscientific theories over time. A pseudoscience is a set of ideas that presents itself as science, while it does not meet the criteria to be properly called such.\n\nDistinguishing between proper science and pseudoscience is sometimes difficult. One proposal for demarcation between the two is the falsification criterion, attributed most notably to the philosopher Karl Popper. In the history of science and the history of pseudoscience it can be especially difficult to separate the two, because some sciences developed from pseudosciences. An example of this transformation is the science chemistry, which traces its origins to pseudoscientific or pre-scientific study of alchemy.\n\nThe vast diversity in pseudosciences further complicates the history of science. Some modern pseudosciences, such as astrology and acupuncture, originated before the scientific era. Others developed as part of an ideology, such as Lysenkoism, or as a response to perceived threats to an ideology. Examples of this ideological process are creation science and intelligent design, which were developed in response to the scientific theory of evolution.\n\nA topic, practice, or body of knowledge might reasonably be termed pseudoscientific when it is presented as consistent with the norms of scientific research, but it demonstrably fails to meet these norms.\n\nKarl Popper stated it is insufficient to distinguish science from pseudoscience, or from metaphysics (such as the philosophical question of what existence means), by the criterion of rigorous adherence to the empirical method, which is essentially inductive, based on observation or experimentation. He proposed a method to distinguish between genuine empirical, nonempirical or even pseudoempirical methods. The latter case was exemplified by astrology, which appeals to observation and experimentation. While it had astonishing empirical evidence based on observation, on horoscopes and biographies, it crucially failed to use acceptable scientific standards. Popper proposed falsifiability as an important criterion in distinguishing science from pseudoscience.\n\nTo demonstrate this point, Popper gave two cases of human behavior and typical explanations from Sigmund Freud and Alfred Adler's theories: \"that of a man who pushes a child into the water with the intention of drowning it; and that of a man who sacrifices his life in an attempt to save the child.\" From Freud's perspective, the first man would have suffered from psychological repression, probably originating from an Oedipus complex, whereas the second man had attained sublimation. From Adler's perspective, the first and second man suffered from feelings of inferiority and had to prove himself, which drove him to commit the crime or, in the second case, drove him to rescue the child. Popper was not able to find any counterexamples of human behavior in which the behavior could not be explained in the terms of Adler's or Freud's theory. Popper argued it was that the observation always fitted or confirmed the theory which, rather than being its strength, was actually its weakness.\n\nIn contrast, Popper gave the example of Einstein's gravitational theory, which predicted \"light must be attracted by heavy bodies (such as the Sun), precisely as material bodies were attracted.\" Following from this, stars closer to the Sun would appear to have moved a small distance away from the Sun, and away from each other. This prediction was particularly striking to Popper because it involved considerable risk. The brightness of the Sun prevented this effect from being observed under normal circumstances, so photographs had to be taken during an eclipse and compared to photographs taken at night. Popper states, \"If observation shows that the predicted effect is definitely absent, then the theory is simply refuted.\" Popper summed up his criterion for the scientific status of a theory as depending on its falsifiability, refutability, or testability.\n\nPaul R. Thagard used astrology as a case study to distinguish science from pseudoscience and proposed principles and criteria to delineate them. First, astrology has not progressed in that it has not been updated nor added any explanatory power since Ptolemy. Second, it has ignored outstanding problems such as the precession of equinoxes in astronomy. Third, alternative theories of personality and behavior have grown progressively to encompass explanations of phenomena which astrology statically attributes to heavenly forces. Fourth, astrologers have remained uninterested in furthering the theory to deal with outstanding problems or in critically evaluating the theory in relation to other theories. Thagard intended this criterion to be extended to areas other than astrology. He believed it would delineate as pseudoscientific such practices as witchcraft and pyramidology, while leaving physics, chemistry and biology in the realm of science. Biorhythms, which like astrology relied uncritically on birth dates, did not meet the criterion of pseudoscience at the time because there were no alternative explanations for the same observations. The use of this criterion has the consequence that a theory can be scientific at one time and pseudoscientific at a later time.\n\nScience is also distinguishable from revelation, theology, or spirituality in that it offers insight into the physical world obtained by empirical research and testing. The most notable disputes concern the evolution of living organisms, the idea of common descent, the geologic history of the Earth, the formation of the solar system, and the origin of the universe. Systems of belief that derive from divine or inspired knowledge are not considered pseudoscience if they do not claim either to be scientific or to overturn well-established science. Moreover, some specific religious claims, such as the power of intercessory prayer to heal the sick, although they may be based on untestable beliefs, can be tested by the scientific method.\n\nSome statements and common beliefs of popular science may not meet the criteria of science. \"Pop\" science may blur the divide between science and pseudoscience among the general public, and may also involve science fiction. Indeed, pop science is disseminated to, and can also easily emanate from, persons not accountable to scientific methodology and expert peer review.\n\nIf the claims of a given field can be tested experimentally and standards are upheld, it is not pseudoscience, however odd, astonishing, or counterintuitive the claims are. If claims made are inconsistent with existing experimental results or established theory, but the method is sound, caution should be used, since science consists of testing hypotheses which may turn out to be false. In such a case, the work may be better described as ideas that are \"not yet generally accepted\". \"Protoscience\" is a term sometimes used to describe a hypothesis that has not yet been tested adequately by the scientific method, but which is otherwise consistent with existing science or which, where inconsistent, offers reasonable account of the inconsistency. It may also describe the transition from a body of practical knowledge into a scientific field.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA large percentage of the United States population lacks scientific literacy, not adequately understanding scientific principles and method. In the \"Journal of College Science Teaching\", Art Hobson writes, \"Pseudoscientific beliefs are surprisingly widespread in our culture even among public school science teachers and newspaper editors, and are closely related to scientific illiteracy.\" However, a 10,000-student study in the same journal concluded there was no strong correlation between science knowledge and belief in pseudoscience.\n\nIn his book \"The Demon-Haunted World\" Carl Sagan discusses the government of China and the Chinese Communist Party's concern about Western pseudoscience developments and certain ancient Chinese practices in China. He sees pseudoscience occurring in the United States as part of a worldwide trend and suggests its causes, dangers, diagnosis and treatment may be universal.\n\nDuring 2006, the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) issued an executive summary of a paper on science and engineering which briefly discussed the prevalence of pseudoscience in modern times. It said, \"belief in pseudoscience is widespread\" and, referencing a Gallup Poll, stated that belief in the 10 commonly believed examples of paranormal phenomena listed in the poll were \"pseudoscientific beliefs\".\n\nThe items were \"extrasensory perception (ESP), that houses can be haunted, ghosts, telepathy, clairvoyance, astrology, that people can communicate mentally with someone who has died, witches, reincarnation, and channelling\". Such beliefs in pseudoscience represent a lack of knowledge of how science works. The scientific community may attempt to communicate information about science out of concern for the public's susceptibility to unproven claims.\n\nThe National Science Foundation stated that pseudoscientific beliefs in the U.S. became more widespread during the 1990s, peaked about 2001, and then decreased slightly since with pseudoscientific beliefs remaining common. According to the NSF report, there is a lack of knowledge of pseudoscientific issues in society and pseudoscientific practices are commonly followed. Surveys indicate about a third of all adult Americans consider astrology to be scientific.\n\nIn a report Singer and Benassi (1981) wrote that pseudoscientific beliefs have their origin from at least four sources.\n\nAnother American study (Eve and Dunn, 1990) supported the findings of Singer and Benassi and found pseudoscientific belief being promoted by high school life science and biology teachers.\n\nThe psychology of pseudoscience attempts to explore and analyze pseudoscientific thinking by means of thorough clarification on making the distinction of what is considered scientific vs. pseudoscientific. The human proclivity for seeking confirmation rather than refutation (confirmation bias), the tendency to hold comforting beliefs, and the tendency to overgeneralize have been proposed as reasons for pseudoscientific thinking. According to Beyerstein (1991), humans are prone to associations based on resemblances only, and often prone to misattribution in cause-effect thinking.\n\nMichael Shermer's theory of belief-dependent realism is driven by the belief that the brain is essentially a \"belief engine,\" which scans data perceived by the senses and looks for patterns and meaning. There is also the tendency for the brain to create cognitive biases, as a result of inferences and assumptions made without logic and based on instinct — usually resulting in patterns in cognition. These tendencies of patternicity and agenticity are also driven \"by a meta-bias called the bias blind spot, or the tendency to recognize the power of cognitive biases in other people but to be blind to their influence on our own beliefs.\"\nLindeman states that social motives (i.e., \"to comprehend self and the world, to have a sense of control over outcomes, to belong, to find the world benevolent and to maintain one's self-esteem\") are often \"more easily\" fulfilled by pseudoscience than by scientific information. Furthermore, pseudoscientific explanations are generally not analyzed rationally, but instead experientially. Operating within a different set of rules compared to rational thinking, experiential thinking regards an explanation as valid if the explanation is \"personally functional, satisfying and sufficient\", offering a description of the world that may be more personal than can be provided by science and reducing the amount of potential work involved in understanding complex events and outcomes.\n\nThere is a trend to believe in pseudoscience more than scientific evidence. Some people believe the prevalence of pseudoscientific beliefs is due to widespread \"scientific illiteracy\". Individuals lacking scientific literacy are more susceptible to wishful thinking, since they are likely to turn to immediate gratification powered by System 1, our default operating system which requires little to no effort. This system encourages one to accept the conclusions they believe, and reject the ones they do not. Further analysis of complex pseudoscientific phenomena require System 2, which follows rules, compares objects along multiple dimensions and weighs options. These two systems have several other differences which are further discussed in the dual-process theory. The scientific and secular systems of morality and meaning are generally unsatisfying to most people. Humans are, by nature, a forward-minded species pursuing greater avenues of happiness and satisfaction, but we are all too frequently willing to grasp at unrealistic promises of a better life.\n\nPsychology has much to discuss about pseudoscience thinking, as it is the illusory perceptions of causality and effectiveness of numerous individuals that needs to be illuminated. Research suggests that illusionary thinking happens in most people when exposed to certain circumstances such as reading a book, an advertisement or the testimony of others are the basis of pseudoscience beliefs. It is assumed that illusions are not unusual, and given the right conditions, illusions are able to occur systematically even in normal emotional situations. One of the things pseudoscience believers quibble most about is that academic science usually treats them as fools. Minimizing these illusions in the real world is not simple. To this aim, designing evidence-based educational programs can be effective to help people identify and reduce their own illusions.\n\nIn the philosophy and history of science, Imre Lakatos stresses the social and political importance of the demarcation problem, the normative methodological problem of distinguishing between science and pseudoscience. His distinctive historical analysis of scientific methodology based on research programmes suggests: \"scientists regard the successful theoretical prediction of stunning novel facts – such as the return of Halley's comet or the gravitational bending of light rays – as what demarcates good scientific theories from pseudo-scientific and degenerate theories, and in spite of all scientific theories being forever confronted by 'an ocean of counterexamples'\". Lakatos offers a \"novel fallibilist analysis of the development of Newton's celestial dynamics, [his] favourite historical example of his methodology\" and argues in light of this historical turn, that his account answers for certain inadequacies in those of Karl Popper and Thomas Kuhn. \"Nonetheless, Lakatos did recognize the force of Kuhn's historical criticism of Popper – all important theories have been surrounded by an 'ocean of anomalies', which on a falsificationist view would require the rejection of the theory outright... Lakatos sought to reconcile the rationalism of Popperian falsificationism with what seemed to be its own refutation by history\".\n\nThe boundary between science and pseudoscience is disputed and difficult to determine analytically, even after more than a century of study by philosophers of science and scientists, and despite some basic agreements on the fundamentals of the scientific method. The concept of pseudoscience rests on an understanding that the scientific method has been misrepresented or misapplied with respect to a given theory, but many philosophers of science maintain that different kinds of methods are held as appropriate across different fields and different eras of human history. According to Lakatos, the typical descriptive unit of great scientific achievements is not an isolated hypothesis but \"a powerful problem-solving machinery, which, with the help of sophisticated mathematical techniques, digests anomalies and even turns them into positive evidence.\"\n\nThe demarcation problem between science and pseudoscience brings up debate in the realms of science, philosophy and politics. Imre Lakatos, for instance, points out that the Communist Party of the Soviet Union at one point declared that Mendelian genetics was pseudoscientific and had its advocates, including well-established scientists such as Nikolai Vavilov, sent to a Gulag and that the \"liberal Establishment of the West\" denies freedom of speech to topics it regards as pseudoscience, particularly where they run up against social mores.\n\nIt becomes pseudoscientific when science cannot be separated from ideology, scientists misrepresent scientific findings to promote or draw attention for publicity, when politicians, journalists and a nation's intellectual elite distort the facts of science for short-term political gain, or when powerful individuals of the public conflate causation and cofactors by clever wordplay. These ideas reduce the authority, value, integrity and independence of science in society.\n\nDistinguishing science from pseudoscience has practical implications in the case of health care, expert testimony, environmental policies, and science education. Treatments with a patina of scientific authority which have not actually been subjected to actual scientific testing may be ineffective, expensive and dangerous to patients and confuse health providers, insurers, government decision makers and the public as to what treatments are appropriate. Claims advanced by pseudoscience may result in government officials and educators making bad decisions in selecting curricula.\n\nThe extent to which students acquire a range of social and cognitive thinking skills related to the proper usage of science and technology determines whether they are scientifically literate. Education in the sciences encounters new dimensions with the changing landscape of science and technology, a fast-changing culture and a knowledge-driven era. A reinvention of the school science curriculum is one that shapes students to contend with its changing influence on human welfare. Scientific literacy, which allows a person to distinguish science from pseudosciences such as astrology, is among the attributes that enable students to adapt to the changing world. Its characteristics are embedded in a curriculum where students are engaged in resolving problems, conducting investigations, or developing projects.\n\nFriedman mentions why most scientists avoid educating about pseudoscience, including that paying undue attention to pseudoscience could dignify it. On the other hand, Park emphasizes how pseudoscience can be a threat to society and considers that scientists have a responsibility to teach how to distinguish science from pseudoscience.\n\nPseudosciences such as homeopathy, even if generally benign, are used by charlatans. This poses a serious issue because it enables incompetent practitioners to administer health care. True-believing zealots may pose a more serious threat than typical con men because of their affection to homeopathy's ideology. Irrational health care is not harmless and it is careless to create patient confidence in pseudomedicine.\n\nOn December 8, 2016, Michael V. LeVine, writing in \"Business Insider\", pointed out the dangers posed by the \"Natural News\" website: \"Snake-oil salesmen have pushed false cures since the dawn of medicine, and now websites like \"Natural News\" flood social media with dangerous anti-pharmaceutical, anti-vaccination and anti-GMO pseudoscience that puts millions at risk of contracting preventable illnesses.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50891749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50891749", "title": "Research proposal", "text": "Research proposal\n\nA research proposal is a document proposing a research project, generally in the sciences or academia, and generally constitutes a request for sponsorship of that research. Proposals are evaluated on the cost and potential impact of the proposed research, and on the soundness of the proposed plan for carrying it out. Research proposals generally address several key points:\n\nResearch proposals may be \"solicited\", meaning that they are submitted in response to a request with specified requirements, such as a request for proposal, or they may be \"unsolicited\", meaning they are submitted without prior request. Other types of proposals include \"preproposals\", where a letter of intent or brief abstract is submitted for review prior to submission of a full proposal; continuation proposals, which re-iterate an original proposal and its funding requirements in order to ensure continued funding; and renewal proposals, which seek continued sponsorship of a project which would otherwise be terminated.\n\nAcademic research proposals are generally written as part of the initial requirements of writing a thesis, research paper, or dissertation. They generally follow the same format as a research paper, with an introduction, a literature review, a discussion of research methodology and goals, and a conclusion. This basic structure may vary between projects and between fields, each of which may have its own requirements.\n"}
{"id": "5024451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5024451", "title": "Sally Ride Science", "text": "Sally Ride Science\n\nSally Ride Science at UC San Diego is a nonprofit run by the University of California, San Diego. It was founded as a company in 2001 by Sally Ride, America's first woman in space, along with Tam O'Shaughnessy, Karen Flammer, Terry McEntee, and Alann Lopes to inspire young people in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) and to promote STEM literacy. Sally Ride Science was relaunched at UC San Diego on October 1, 2015. It is based at UC San Diego Extension, and its programs are coordinated jointly by UC San Diego Extension, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and San Diego Supercomputer Center. O'Shaughnessy is executive director and Flammer is director of education for Sally Ride Science at UC San Diego.\n\nSally Ride Science at UC San Diego focuses on professional development for teachers; K-12 STEM + Arts (STEAM) education, including courses, lectures, and camps; and online programs through UCTV. The goal is to help educators build students’ STEM literacy and make connections between what students are learning and the STEM fields that are expected to experience rapid job growth in the coming decades. The nonprofit will create new programs and make use of existing Sally Ride Science programs.\n\nExisting programs include \"Cool Careers in STEM\", which provides professional development for teachers and classroom resources (student books, teacher guides, and a STEM Career Connections Teacher Activity Guide) to awaken students’ interest in STEM topics and careers. Research shows that learning about STEM careers and the diverse people working in these fields inspires students and makes the study of science, technology, engineering, and math more meaningful to them.\n\nAnother major existing program is \"Key Concepts in Science\". This integrated standards-based program provides professional development for educators on how to teach science using the 5E instructional model, along with classroom resources (student books, hands-on investigations, teacher guides, and assessments) that educators can use to build students’ STEM literacy and college and career readiness. The program reflects research showing that teaching fewer science concepts in greater depth gives students a solid foundation to develop STEM literacy.\n\nBefore its acquisition by UC San Diego, Sally Ride Science implemented a variety of STEM-related educational initiatives. The company:\n"}
{"id": "27514641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27514641", "title": "Science of team science", "text": "Science of team science\n\nThe science of team science (SciTS) field encompasses both conceptual and methodological strategies aimed at understanding and enhancing the processes and outcomes of collaborative, team-based research. It is useful to distinguish between team science (TS) initiatives and the science of team science (SciTS) field. Team science initiatives are designed to promote collaborative, and often cross-disciplinary (which includes multi-, inter-, and transdisciplinary) approaches to answering research questions about particular phenomena. The SciTS field, on the other hand, is concerned with understanding and managing circumstances that facilitate or hinder the effectiveness of collaborative science, and evaluating the outcomes of collaborative science. Its principal units of analysis are the research, training, and community-based translational initiatives implemented by both public and private sector organizations.\n\nThe SciTS field focuses on understanding and enhancing the antecedent conditions, collaborative processes, and outcomes associated with team science initiatives, including their scientific discoveries, educational outcomes, and translations of research findings into new practices, patents, products, technical advances, and policies.\n\nSince the 1990s, there has been a growing interest and investment in large-scale, team-based research initiatives to address complex and multifaceted problems that require cross-disciplinary collaboration. The rise in team science parallels the increase in specialization among scientists. The rapid growth and accumulation of specialized knowledge in multiple fields has created a substantial need to establish partnerships among scientists and practitioners drawn from several different fields in order to address complex environmental, social, and public health problems.\n\nThe interdiscipline of SciTS initially emerged from practical concerns on the part of funding agencies, which needed to gauge the performance of team science, understand its added value, determine the return on investment of large research initiatives, and inform science policy The term \"science of team science\" was first introduced in October, 2006, at a conference called The Science of Team Science: Assessing the Value of Transdisciplinary Research, hosted by the National Cancer Institute, in Bethesda, Maryland. The emerging SciTS field was further developed in a supplement to the \"American Journal of Preventive Medicine\", published in July 2008. Two years later, the First Annual International Science of Team Science (SciTS) Conference was held on April 22–24, 2010 in Chicago, Illinois, organized by the Northwestern University Clinical and Translational Sciences (NUCATS) Institute. The Chicago conference brought together team science investigators and practitioners from a broad range of disciplines, including translational research; organizational behavior; social, cognitive, and health psychology; communications; complex systems; evaluation science; technology; and management.\n\nAs a nascent field of inquiry, the terminology, methodologies, and outcomes of SciTS are still being debated and defined, and new hypotheses regarding the most effective strategies for implementing and sustaining team science are beginning to be tested and the results published. While the SciTS literature base is currently limited, the field is founded on a substantial body of knowledge of team research conducted by scholars in diverse fields such as organizational science, community health promotion, and social psychology, as well as from groups outside academia, including business and the military. SciTS research findings are starting to be translated into evidence-based tools and support structures that aim to improve the efficiency and success of team science initiatives.\n\nIn 2013, the National Academy of Sciences established a National Research Council Committee on the Science of Team Science to evaluate the current state of knowledge and practice in the SciTS field. A Committee report was published in 2015.\n\nThe methods and measures used to evaluate team science are complex and evolving with the interdiscipline of SciTS. The definition of a successful team may be different depending on the stakeholder. For example, funding agencies may be more interested in performance measures related to the translation of team research findings to practical applications, whereas team researchers may use the number of publications produced and amount grant funding obtained to gauge the success of a team science endeavor. In addition, the method of evaluation and metrics of success may vary at different points during the team research project. Short-term measures may include indicators of synergistic output, whereas long-term measures may be related to the impact of the research on the evolution of a discipline or the development of public policy.\n\nSciTS uses both qualitative and quantitative methods to evaluate the antecedent conditions, collaborative processes, and outcomes associated with team science, as well as the organizational, social, and political context that influences team science. These methods include approaches such as surveys, ethnographic observation, case studies, and interviews of members of science teams; social network, mapping and visualization techniques (e.g., graphical representations of collaboration formation and dissolution, geographic distribution of collaborators, funding patterns, patent awards, time to production and commercialization, etc.); and bibliometric analyses (e.g., assessment of co-authored papers and grants).\n\nThe field would benefit from science agencies and associated policies to put into place advanced computational infrastructures, which will enable the analysis of terabytes of data to identify the factors that contribute to or hinder the success of science teams. Ideally, evaluation of team science initiatives is performed in real time, during active collaborations, so that the information results can be fed back to the scientific team to enhance its efficiency and effectiveness.\n\nScientists engaged in team science collaborations have traditionally relied on heuristics to make team science work. Through only their own experiences—what might be called the art of team science—they have tried to discern what facilitates team science and what obstacles stand in the way of a collaboration’s success. By studying the practice of team science, SciTS researchers aim to develop a set of evidence-based tools and recommendations that can then be used to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of team science initiatives. For example, SciTS researchers may identify approaches to facilitate the formation and function of successful collaborative science teams, remove inter-institutional barriers to team science, support effective collaboration among researchers who work together within a team, and develop team science training programs.\n\nProgress is being made on a few fronts toward the development of practical tools and recommendations to support the team science process. The SciTS research community is working toward the creation of an evidence base for the development of a set of \"effective practices\", which can be incorporated into team science training to ensure that the next generation of scientists develops the skills necessary to engage in effective team science. Several groups are developing team science \"toolboxes\" or \"toolkits\" that provide resources that can assist researchers with the collaborative science process, including guiding questions that support discussion on collaborative goals and common metrics of success and assigning individual tasks and responsibilities; guidelines for developing a shared \"language\" that can be used among researchers from different disciplinary backgrounds; models for communications infrastructure that can support geographically dispersed collaborations; tools for assessing team members' readiness to collaborate; curricula for training team members in skills for team science; and model \"prenuptial agreements\" for collaborators that can help to establish agreement on rights to authorship and patents that result from scientific collaborations. Other groups are developing online social networking tools to help scientists identify potential collaborators, and creating centralized databases of measures and instruments that can be used by SciTS researchers, program evaluators, or those who are engaged in team science to assess the processes and outcomes of team science initiatives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26781", "title": "Social science", "text": "Social science\n\nSocial science is a category of academic disciplines, concerned with society and the relationships among individuals within a society. Social science as a whole has many branches, each of which is considered a social science. The social sciences include, but are not limited to: anthropology, archaeology, communication studies, economics, history, human geography, jurisprudence, linguistics, political science, psychology, public health, and sociology. The term is also sometimes used to refer specifically to the field of sociology, the original \"science of society\", established in the 19th century. For a more detailed list of sub-disciplines within the social sciences see: Outline of social science.\n\nPositivist social scientists use methods resembling those of the natural sciences as tools for understanding society, and so define science in its stricter modern sense. Interpretivist social scientists, by contrast, may use social critique or symbolic interpretation rather than constructing empirically falsifiable theories, and thus treat science in its broader sense. In modern academic practice, researchers are often eclectic, using multiple methodologies (for instance, by combining both quantitative and qualitative research). The term \"social research\" has also acquired a degree of autonomy as practitioners from various disciplines share in its aims and methods.\n\nThe history of the social sciences begins in the Age of Enlightenment after 1650, which saw a revolution within natural philosophy, changing the basic framework by which individuals understood what was \"scientific\". Social sciences came forth from the moral philosophy of the time and were influenced by the Age of Revolutions, such as the Industrial Revolution and the French Revolution. The \"social sciences\" developed from the sciences (experimental and applied), or the systematic knowledge-bases or prescriptive practices, relating to the social improvement of a group of interacting entities.\n\nThe beginnings of the social sciences in the 18th century are reflected in the grand encyclopedia of Diderot, with articles from Jean-Jacques Rousseau and other pioneers. The growth of the social sciences is also reflected in other specialized encyclopedias. The modern period saw \"social science\" first used as a distinct conceptual field. Social science was influenced by positivism, focusing on knowledge based on actual positive sense experience and avoiding the negative; metaphysical speculation was avoided. Auguste Comte used the term \"science sociale\" to describe the field, taken from the ideas of Charles Fourier; Comte also referred to the field as \"social physics\".\n\nFollowing this period, there were five paths of development that sprang forth in the social sciences, influenced by Comte on other fields. One route that was taken was the rise of social research. Large statistical surveys were undertaken in various parts of the United States and Europe. Another route undertaken was initiated by Émile Durkheim, studying \"social facts\", and Vilfredo Pareto, opening metatheoretical ideas and individual theories. A third means developed, arising from the methodological dichotomy present, in which social phenomena were identified with and understood; this was championed by figures such as Max Weber. The fourth route taken, based in economics, was developed and furthered economic knowledge as a hard science. The last path was the correlation of knowledge and social values; the antipositivism and verstehen sociology of Max Weber firmly demanded this distinction. In this route, theory (description) and prescription were non-overlapping formal discussions of a subject.\n\nAround the start of the 20th century, Enlightenment philosophy was challenged in various quarters. After the use of classical theories since the end of the scientific revolution, various fields substituted mathematics studies for experimental studies and examining equations to build a theoretical structure. The development of social science subfields became very quantitative in methodology. The interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary nature of scientific inquiry into human behaviour, social and environmental factors affecting it, made many of the natural sciences interested in some aspects of social science methodology. Examples of boundary blurring include emerging disciplines like social research of medicine, sociobiology, neuropsychology, bioeconomics and the history and sociology of science. Increasingly, quantitative research and qualitative methods are being integrated in the study of human action and its implications and consequences. In the first half of the 20th century, statistics became a free-standing discipline of applied mathematics. Statistical methods were used confidently.\n\nIn the contemporary period, Karl Popper and Talcott Parsons influenced the furtherance of the social sciences. Researchers continue to search for a unified consensus on what methodology might have the power and refinement to connect a proposed \"grand theory\" with the various midrange theories that, with considerable success, continue to provide usable frameworks for massive, growing data banks; for more, see consilience. The social sciences will for the foreseeable future be composed of different zones in the research of, and sometime distinct in approach toward, the field.\n\nThe term \"social science\" may refer either to the specific \"sciences of society\" established by thinkers such as Comte, Durkheim, Marx, and Weber, or more generally to all disciplines outside of \"noble science\" and arts. By the late 19th century, the academic social sciences were constituted of five fields: jurisprudence and amendment of the law, education, health, economy and trade, and art.\n\nAround the start of the 21st century, the expanding domain of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.\n\nThe social science disciplines are branches of knowledge taught and researched at the college or university level. Social science disciplines are defined and recognized by the academic journals in which research is published, and the learned social science societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong. Social science fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches, and the distinguishing lines between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous.\n\nAnthropology is the holistic \"science of man\", a science of the totality of human existence. The discipline deals with the integration of different aspects of the social sciences, humanities, and human biology. In the twentieth century, academic disciplines have often been institutionally divided into three broad domains. The \"natural sciences\" seek to derive general laws through reproducible and verifiable experiments. The \"humanities\" generally study local traditions, through their history, literature, music, and arts, with an emphasis on understanding particular individuals, events, or eras. The \"social sciences\" have generally attempted to develop scientific methods to understand social phenomena in a generalizable way, though usually with methods distinct from those of the natural sciences.\n\nThe anthropological social sciences often develop nuanced descriptions rather than the general laws derived in physics or chemistry, or they may explain individual cases through more general principles, as in many fields of psychology. Anthropology (like some fields of history) does not easily fit into one of these categories, and different branches of anthropology draw on one or more of these domains. Within the United States, anthropology is divided into four sub-fields: archaeology, physical or biological anthropology, anthropological linguistics, and cultural anthropology. It is an area that is offered at most undergraduate institutions. The word \"anthropos\" (ἄνθρωπος) in Ancient Greek means \"human being\" or \"person\". Eric Wolf described sociocultural anthropology as \"the most scientific of the humanities, and the most humanistic of the sciences.\"\n\nThe goal of anthropology is to provide a holistic account of humans and human nature. This means that, though anthropologists generally specialize in only one sub-field, they always keep in mind the biological, linguistic, historic and cultural aspects of any problem. Since anthropology arose as a science in Western societies that were complex and industrial, a major trend within anthropology has been a methodological drive to study peoples in societies with more simple social organization, sometimes called \"primitive\" in anthropological literature, but without any connotation of \"inferior\". Today, anthropologists use terms such as \"less complex\" societies or refer to specific modes of subsistence or production, such as \"pastoralist\" or \"forager\" or \"horticulturalist\" to refer to humans living in non-industrial, non-Western cultures, such people or folk (\"ethnos\") remaining of great interest within anthropology.\n\nThe quest for holism leads most anthropologists to study a people in detail, using biogenetic, archaeological, and linguistic data alongside direct observation of contemporary customs. In the 1990s and 2000s, calls for clarification of what constitutes a culture, of how an observer knows where his or her own culture ends and another begins, and other crucial topics in writing anthropology were heard. It is possible to view all human cultures as part of one large, evolving global culture. These dynamic relationships, between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological.\n\nCommunication studies deals with processes of human communication, commonly defined as the sharing of symbols to create meaning. The discipline encompasses a range of topics, from face-to-face conversation to mass media outlets such as television broadcasting. Communication studies also examines how messages are interpreted through the political, cultural, economic, and social dimensions of their contexts. Communication is institutionalized under many different names at different universities, including \"communication\", \"communication studies\", \"speech communication\", \"rhetorical studies\", \"communication science\", \"media studies\", \"communication arts\", \"mass communication\", \"media ecology\", and \"communication and media science\".\n\nCommunication studies integrates aspects of both social sciences and the humanities. As a social science, the discipline often overlaps with sociology, psychology, anthropology, biology, political science, economics, and public policy, among others. From a humanities perspective, communication is concerned with rhetoric and persuasion (traditional graduate programs in communication studies trace their history to the rhetoricians of Ancient Greece). The field applies to outside disciplines as well, including engineering, architecture, mathematics, and information science.\n\nEconomics is a social science that seeks to analyze and describe the production, distribution, and consumption of wealth. The word \"economics\" is from the Ancient Greek \"oikos\", \"family, household, estate\", and νόμος \"nomos\", \"custom, law\", and hence means \"household management\" or \"management of the state\". An economist is a person using economic concepts and data in the course of employment, or someone who has earned a degree in the subject. The classic brief definition of economics, set out by Lionel Robbins in 1932, is \"the science which studies human behavior as a relation between scarce means having alternative uses\". Without scarcity and alternative uses, there is no economic problem. Briefer yet is \"the study of how people seek to satisfy needs and wants\" and \"the study of the financial aspects of human behavior\".\n\nEconomics has two broad branches: microeconomics, where the unit of analysis is the individual agent, such as a household or firm, and macroeconomics, where the unit of analysis is an economy as a whole. Another division of the subject distinguishes positive economics, which seeks to predict and explain economic phenomena, from normative economics, which orders choices and actions by some criterion; such orderings necessarily involve subjective value judgments. Since the early part of the 20th century, economics has focused largely on measurable quantities, employing both theoretical models and empirical analysis. Quantitative models, however, can be traced as far back as the physiocratic school. Economic reasoning has been increasingly applied in recent decades to other social situations such as politics, law, psychology, history, religion, marriage and family life, and other social interactions.\nThis paradigm crucially assumes (1) that resources are scarce because they are not sufficient to satisfy all wants, and (2) that \"economic value\" is willingness to pay as revealed for instance by market (arms' length) transactions. Rival heterodox schools of thought, such as institutional economics, green economics, Marxist economics, and economic sociology, make other grounding assumptions. For example, Marxist economics assumes that economics primarily deals with the investigation of exchange value, of which human labour is the source.\n\nThe expanding domain of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism.\n\nEducation encompasses teaching and learning specific skills, and also something less tangible but more profound: the imparting of knowledge, positive judgement and well-developed wisdom. Education has as one of its fundamental aspects the imparting of culture from generation to generation (see socialization). To educate means 'to draw out', from the Latin \"educare\", or to facilitate the realization of an individual's potential and talents. It is an application of pedagogy, a body of theoretical and applied research relating to teaching and learning and draws on many disciplines such as psychology, philosophy, computer science, linguistics, neuroscience, sociology and anthropology.\n\nThe education of an individual human begins at birth and continues throughout life. (Some believe that education begins even before birth, as evidenced by some parents' playing music or reading to the baby in the womb in the hope it will influence the child's development.) For some, the struggles and triumphs of daily life provide far more instruction than does formal schooling (thus Mark Twain's admonition to \"never let school interfere with your education\"). Family members may have a profound educational effect — often more profound than they realize — though family teaching may function very informally.\n\nGeography as a discipline can be split broadly into two main sub fields: human geography and physical geography. The former focuses largely on the built environment and how space is created, viewed and managed by humans as well as the influence humans have on the space they occupy. This may involve cultural geography, transportation, health, military operations, and cities. The latter examines the natural environment and how the climate, vegetation and life, soil, oceans, water and landforms are produced and interact. Physical geography examines phenomena related to the measurement of earth. As a result of the two subfields using different approaches a third field has emerged, which is environmental geography. Environmental geography combines physical and human geography and looks at the interactions between the environment and humans. Other branches of geography include social geography, regional geography, and geomatics.\n\nGeographers attempt to understand the Earth in terms of physical and spatial relationships. The first geographers focused on the science of mapmaking and finding ways to precisely project the surface of the earth. In this sense, geography bridges some gaps between the natural sciences and social sciences. Historical geography is often taught in a college in a unified Department of Geography.\n\nModern geography is an all-encompassing discipline, closely related to GISc, that seeks to understand humanity and its natural environment. The fields of urban planning, regional science, and planetology are closely related to geography. Practitioners of geography use many technologies and methods to collect data such as GIS, remote sensing, aerial photography, statistics, and global positioning systems (GPS).\n\nHistory is the continuous, systematic narrative and research into past human events as interpreted through historiographical paradigms or theories.\n\nHistory has a base in both the social sciences and the humanities. In the United States the National Endowment for the Humanities includes history in its definition of humanities (as it does for applied linguistics). However, the National Research Council classifies history as a social science. The historical method comprises the techniques and guidelines by which historians use primary sources and other evidence to research and then to write history. The Social Science History Association, formed in 1976, brings together scholars from numerous disciplines interested in social history.\n\nThe social science of law, jurisprudence, in common parlance, means a rule that (unlike a rule of ethics) is capable of enforcement through institutions. However, many laws are based on norms accepted by a community and thus have an ethical foundation. The study of law crosses the boundaries between the social sciences and humanities, depending on one's view of research into its objectives and effects. Law is not always enforceable, especially in the international relations context. It has been defined as a \"system of rules\", as an \"interpretive concept\" to achieve justice, as an \"authority\" to mediate people's interests, and even as \"the command of a sovereign, backed by the threat of a sanction\". However one likes to think of law, it is a completely central social institution. Legal policy incorporates the practical manifestation of thinking from almost every social science and the humanities. Laws are politics, because politicians create them. Law is philosophy, because moral and ethical persuasions shape their ideas. Law tells many of history's stories, because statutes, case law and codifications build up over time. And law is economics, because any rule about contract, tort, property law, labour law, company law and many more can have long-lasting effects on the distribution of wealth. The noun \"law\" derives from the late Old English \"lagu\", meaning something laid down or fixed and the adjective \"legal\" comes from the Latin word \"lex\".\n\nLinguistics investigates the cognitive and social aspects of human language. The field is divided into areas that focus on aspects of the linguistic signal, such as syntax (the study of the rules that govern the structure of sentences), semantics (the study of meaning), morphology (the study of the structure of words), phonetics (the study of speech sounds) and phonology (the study of the abstract sound system of a particular language); however, work in areas like evolutionary linguistics (the study of the origins and evolution of language) and psycholinguistics (the study of psychological factors in human language) cut across these divisions.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of modern research in linguistics takes a predominantly synchronic perspective (focusing on language at a particular point in time), and a great deal of it—partly owing to the influence of Noam Chomsky—aims at formulating theories of the cognitive processing of language. However, language does not exist in a vacuum, or only in the brain, and approaches like contact linguistics, creole studies, discourse analysis, social interactional linguistics, and sociolinguistics explore language in its social context. Sociolinguistics often makes use of traditional quantitative analysis and statistics in investigating the frequency of features, while some disciplines, like contact linguistics, focus on qualitative analysis. While certain areas of linguistics can thus be understood as clearly falling within the social sciences, other areas, like acoustic phonetics and neurolinguistics, draw on the natural sciences. Linguistics draws only secondarily on the humanities, which played a rather greater role in linguistic inquiry in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Ferdinand Saussure is considered the father of modern linguistics.\n\nPolitical science is an academic and research discipline that deals with the theory and practice of politics and the description and analysis of political systems and political behaviour. Fields and subfields of political science include political economy, political theory and philosophy, civics and comparative politics, theory of direct democracy, apolitical governance, participatory direct democracy, national systems, cross-national political analysis, political development, international relations, foreign policy, international law, politics, public administration, administrative behaviour, public law, judicial behaviour, and public policy. Political science also studies power in international relations and the theory of great powers and superpowers.\n\nPolitical science is methodologically diverse, although recent years have witnessed an upsurge in the use of the scientific method, that is, the proliferation of formal-deductive model building and quantitative hypothesis testing. Approaches to the discipline include rational choice, classical political philosophy, interpretivism, structuralism, and behaviouralism, realism, pluralism, and institutionalism. Political science, as one of the social sciences, uses methods and techniques that relate to the kinds of inquiries sought: primary sources such as historical documents, interviews, and official records, as well as secondary sources such as scholarly articles are used in building and testing theories. Empirical methods include survey research, statistical analysis or econometrics, case studies, experiments, and model building. Herbert Baxter Adams is credited with coining the phrase \"political science\" while teaching history at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nPsychology is an academic and applied field involving the study of behaviour and mental processes. Psychology also refers to the application of such knowledge to various spheres of human activity, including problems of individuals' daily lives and the treatment of mental illness. The word \"psychology\" comes from the Ancient Greek ψυχή \"psyche\" (\"soul\", \"mind\") and \"logy\" (\"study\").\n\nPsychology differs from anthropology, economics, political science, and sociology in seeking to capture explanatory generalizations about the mental function and overt behaviour of individuals, while the other disciplines focus on creating descriptive generalizations about the functioning of social groups or situation-specific human behaviour. In practice, however, there is quite a lot of cross-fertilization that takes place among the various fields. Psychology differs from biology and neuroscience in that it is primarily concerned with the interaction of mental processes and behaviour, and of the overall processes of a system, and not simply the biological or neural processes themselves, though the subfield of neuropsychology combines the study of the actual neural processes with the study of the mental effects they have subjectively produced.\nMany people associate psychology with clinical psychology, which focuses on assessment and treatment of problems in living and psychopathology. In reality, psychology has myriad specialties including social psychology, developmental psychology, cognitive psychology, educational psychology, industrial-organizational psychology, mathematical psychology, neuropsychology, and quantitative analysis of behaviour.\n\nPsychology is a very broad science that is rarely tackled as a whole, major block. Although some subfields encompass a natural science base and a social science application, others can be clearly distinguished as having little to do with the social sciences or having a lot to do with the social sciences. For example, biological psychology is considered a natural science with a social scientific application (as is clinical medicine), social and occupational psychology are, generally speaking, purely social sciences, whereas neuropsychology is a natural science that lacks application out of the scientific tradition entirely. In British universities, emphasis on what tenet of psychology a student has studied and/or concentrated is communicated through the degree conferred: B.Psy. indicates a balance between natural and social sciences, B.Sc. indicates a strong (or entire) scientific concentration, whereas a B.A. underlines a majority of social science credits. This is not always necessarily the case however, and in many UK institutions students studying the B.Psy, B.Sc, and B.A. follow the same curriculum as outlined by The British Psychological Society and have the same options of specialism open to them regardless of whether they choose a balance, a heavy science basis, or heavy social science basis to their degree. If they applied to read the B.A. for example, but specialized in heavily science-based modules, then they will still generally be awarded the B.A.\n\nSociology is the systematic study of society, individuals' relationship to their societies, the consequences of difference, and other aspects of human social action. The meaning of the word comes from the suffix \"-logy\", which means \"study of\", derived from Ancient Greek, and the stem \"soci-\", which is from the Latin word \"socius\", meaning \"companion\", or society in general.\n\nAuguste Comte (1798–1857) coined the term, Sociology, as a way to apply natural science principles and techniques to the social world in 1838. Comte endeavoured to unify history, psychology and economics through the descriptive understanding of the social realm. He proposed that social ills could be remedied through sociological positivism, an epistemological approach outlined in \"The Course in Positive Philosophy\" [1830–1842] and \"A General View of Positivism\" (1844). Though Comte is generally regarded as the \"Father of Sociology\", the discipline was formally established by another French thinker, Émile Durkheim (1858–1917), who developed positivism as a foundation to practical social research. Durkheim set up the first European department of sociology at the University of Bordeaux in 1895, publishing his \"Rules of the Sociological Method\". In 1896, he established the journal \"L'Année Sociologique\". Durkheim's seminal monograph, \"Suicide\" (1897), a case study of suicide rates among Catholic and Protestant populations, distinguished sociological analysis from psychology or philosophy.\n\nKarl Marx rejected Comte's positivism but nevertheless aimed to establish a \"science of society\" based on historical materialism, becoming recognized as a founding figure of sociology posthumously as the term gained broader meaning. Around the start of the 20th century, the first wave of German sociologists, including Max Weber and Georg Simmel, developed sociological antipositivism. The field may be broadly recognized as an amalgam of three modes of social thought in particular: Durkheimian positivism and structural functionalism; Marxist historical materialism and conflict theory; and Weberian antipositivism and verstehen analysis. American sociology broadly arose on a separate trajectory, with little Marxist influence, an emphasis on rigorous experimental methodology, and a closer association with pragmatism and social psychology. In the 1920s, the Chicago school developed symbolic interactionism. Meanwhile, in the 1930s, the Frankfurt School pioneered the idea of critical theory, an interdisciplinary form of Marxist sociology drawing upon thinkers as diverse as Sigmund Freud and Friedrich Nietzsche. Critical theory would take on something of a life of its own after World War II, influencing literary criticism and the Birmingham School establishment of cultural studies.\n\nSociology evolved as an academic response to the challenges of modernity, such as industrialization, urbanization, secularization, and a perceived process of enveloping rationalization. The field generally concerns the social rules and processes that bind and separate people not only as individuals, but as members of associations, groups, communities and institutions, and includes the examination of the organization and development of human social life. The sociological field of interest ranges from the analysis of short contacts between anonymous individuals on the street to the study of global social processes. In the terms of sociologists Peter L. Berger and Thomas Luckmann, social scientists seek an understanding of the \"Social Construction of Reality\". Most sociologists work in one or more subfields. One useful way to describe the discipline is as a cluster of sub-fields that examine different dimensions of society. For example, social stratification studies inequality and class structure; demography studies changes in a population size or type; criminology examines criminal behaviour and deviance; and political sociology studies the interaction between society and state.\n\nSince its inception, sociological epistemologies, methods, and frames of enquiry, have significantly expanded and diverged. Sociologists use a diversity of research methods, collect both quantitative and qualitative data, draw upon empirical techniques, and engage critical theory. Common modern methods include case studies, historical research, interviewing, participant observation, social network analysis, survey research, statistical analysis, and model building, among other approaches. Since the late 1970s, many sociologists have tried to make the discipline useful for purposes beyond the academy. The results of sociological research aid educators, lawmakers, administrators, developers, and others interested in resolving social problems and formulating public policy, through subdisciplinary areas such as evaluation research, methodological assessment, and public sociology.\n\nIn the early 1970s, women sociologists began to question sociological paradigms and the invisibility of women in sociological studies, analysis, and courses. In 1969, feminist sociologists challenged the discipline's androcentrism at the American Sociological Association's annual conference. This led to the founding of the organization Sociologists for Women in Society, and, eventually, a new sociology journal, Gender & Society. Today, the sociology of gender is considered to be one of the most prominent sub-fields in the discipline.\n\nNew sociological sub-fields continue to appear — such as community studies, computational sociology, environmental sociology, network analysis, actor-network theory, gender studies, and a growing list, many of which are cross-disciplinary in nature.\n\nAdditional applied or interdisciplinary fields related to the social sciences include:\n\nThe origin of the survey can be traced back at least early as the Domesday Book in 1086, while some scholars pinpoint the origin of demography to 1663 with the publication of John Graunt's \"Natural and Political Observations upon the Bills of Mortality\". Social research began most intentionally, however, with the positivist philosophy of science in the 19th century.\n\nIn contemporary usage, \"social research\" is a relatively autonomous term, encompassing the work of practitioners from various disciplines that share in its aims and methods. Social scientists employ a range of methods in order to analyse a vast breadth of social phenomena; from census survey data derived from millions of individuals, to the in-depth analysis of a single agent's social experiences; from monitoring what is happening on contemporary streets, to the investigation of ancient historical documents. The methods originally rooted in classical sociology and statistical mathematics have formed the basis for research in other disciplines, such as political science, media studies, and marketing and market research.\n\nSocial research methods may be divided into two broad schools:\n\nSocial scientists will commonly combine quantitative and qualitative approaches as part of a multi-strategy design. Questionnaires, field-based data collection, archival database information and laboratory-based data collections are some of the measurement techniques used. It is noted the importance of measurement and analysis, focusing on the (difficult to achieve) goal of objective research or statistical hypothesis testing. A mathematical model uses mathematical language to describe a system. The process of developing a mathematical model is termed 'mathematical modelling' (also modeling). Eykhoff (1974) defined a \"mathematical model\" as 'a representation of the essential aspects of an existing system (or a system to be constructed) that presents knowledge of that system in usable form'. Mathematical models can take many forms, including but not limited to dynamical systems, statistical models, differential equations, or game theoretic models.\n\nThese and other types of models can overlap, with a given model involving a variety of abstract structures. The system is a set of interacting or interdependent entities, real or abstract, forming an integrated whole. The concept of an \"integrated whole\" can also be stated in terms of a system embodying a set of relationships that are differentiated from relationships of the set to other elements, and from relationships between an element of the set and elements not a part of the relational regime. A dynamical system modeled as a mathematical formalization has a fixed \"rule\" that describes the time dependence of a point's position in its ambient space. Small changes in the state of the system correspond to small changes in the numbers. The \"evolution rule\" of the dynamical system is a fixed rule that describes what future states follow from the current state. The rule is deterministic: for a given time interval only one future state follows from the current state.\n\nSocial sciences are criticized for neglecting the moral element of human behavior. Economists tend to focus on self-interest. Clinical psychologists—on the effects of early socialization. Anthropologists tend to assume moral relativism. Sociologists often blame the System for immoral behavior. Socio-biologists tend to assume limited choice behavior. All this, critics hold, contrasts with the fact that life is a constant wrestle between people's moral commitments and urges that pull them to violate these commitments.\n\nOther social scientists emphasize the subjective nature of research. These writers share social theory perspectives that include various types of the following:\n\nOther fringe social scientists delve in alternative nature of research. These writers share social theory perspectives that include various types of the following:\n\nMost universities offer degrees in social science fields. The Bachelor of Social Science is a degree targeted at the social sciences in particular. It is often more flexible and in-depth than other degrees that include social science subjects.\n\nIn the United States, a university may offer a student who studies a social sciences field a Bachelor of Arts degree, particularly if the field is within one of the traditional liberal arts such as history, or a BSc: Bachelor of Science degree such as those given by the London School of Economics, as the social sciences constitute one of the two main branches of science (the other being the natural sciences). In addition, some institutions have degrees for a particular social science, such as the Bachelor of Economics degree, though such specialized degrees are relatively rare in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51291798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51291798", "title": "The Kingdom of Speech", "text": "The Kingdom of Speech\n\nThe Kingdom of Speech is a critique of Charles Darwin and Noam Chomsky written by Tom Wolfe. The book's criticisms of Chomsky are outlined in an article in \"Harper's Magazine\".\n\nIn the book, Wolfe criticises Darwin and his colleagues for taking partial credit from Alfred Wallace for the theory of evolution and ignoring Wallace's later work on the theory. Wolfe then criticises Noam Chomsky for dismissing Daniel Everett, who disputes Chomsky's claim that all languages are based ultimately on a hard-wired mechanism known as the language acquisition device (LAD). Wolfe argues that speech, not evolution, sets humans apart from animals and is responsible for all of humanity's complex achievements.\n\nIn \"The Guardian\", Steven Poole criticises Wolfe's whole approach to Darwin and dismisses his suggestion that Darwin had no evidence for his theory of evolution of human speech, saying that Darwin 'adduced a lot of evidence at the time, including the geographical distribution of species, comparative anatomy, fossils and the existence of vestigial organs. Today, of course, evolution is observed in real time in the laboratory, among microbes or insects'.\n\nIn \"The Washington Post\", Jerry Coyne agrees that Wolfe 'grossly distorts the theory of evolution'. He also notes that 'Everett didn't slay [Chomsky's theory of] universal grammar: Later linguists found that the Pirahã language indeed had recursion (e.g., \"I want the same hammock you just showed me\"). Finally, the technical notion of \"recursion\" was never the totality of Chomsky's theory anyway. He highlighted the idea in a brief paper in 2003, but his theory always consisted of operations for merging words into bigger and bigger phrases, something no one disputes.' In concluding his review, Coyne states that 'I'm not sure why Wolfe bears such animus against evolution and the use of evidence rather than bluster to support claims about reality. Perhaps his social conservatism has bred such a discomfort with the implications of modern science - that the universe works by natural rather than supernatural or divine laws - that he's compelled to snicker at one of the foundations of modern science: He's called another one, the big bang, \"the nuttiest theory I've ever heard.\"'\n\nIn \"The Times\", Oliver Kamm is equally critical, pointing out that Wolfe doesn't appreciate that Chomsky himself 'is sceptical that the \"language organ\" is a product of natural selection' and that, indeed, some 'scholars believe that Chomsky underestimates the explanatory power of evolutionary theory.' Harry Ritchie in \"The Spectator\" says 'Wolfe is at his best when describing Chomsky's almost religiously cultish, charismatic hold over linguistics', but that Wolfe's 'version of Chomsky's downfall is as wrong as Chomsky certainly is.'. David Z. Morris's in the \"Washington Independent\" points out that Wolfe 'has proven his enduring ability to choose the right moment. Our views of language and human nature are shifting radically and quickly ... \"The Kingdom of Speech\" is traversing the right territory' but he then concludes that the book 'is too loose, too glib, and, in a few places, too glaringly flawed.'\n\nIn some contrast to these opinions, Peter York in \"The Sunday Times\", claims that the geneticist Steve Jones admires Wolfe's grasp of both the Darwin literature and the \"real weaknesses\" of Chomsky's view of language origins. While Everett himself has said Wolfe's book is 'the opinion of someone who has looked carefully at the field for years. Some mistakes are likely his fault. Others are the fault of the field for having been unsuccessful in making itself understandable to the public.' (Although Everett has also tweeted that: 'Chomsky's view of [language] origins is nearly identical to Wolfe's view of evol[ution]. Both simplistic.')\n\nIn \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", Tom Bartlett interviews both Wolfe and Chomsky, and compares and contrasts Wolfe's book with anthropologist Chris Knight's more 'in-depth' investigation, \"Decoding Chomsky: Science and revolutionary politics\". In Bartlett's interview, Chomsky criticises Wolfe saying his 'errors are so extraordinary that it would take an essay to review them.'\n\nIn his review in the journal \"Counterpunch\", Chris Knight writes that although Wolfe's book is 'awash with screaming errors' , it is beautifully written and the author is correct to point out that where language is concerned, evolutionary scientists still have little idea as to how it could possibly have evolved. On the other hand, Knight continues, Wolfe gets things bizarrely wrong when he describes Noam Chomsky as a ‘heavyweight evolutionary theorist’. Wolfe seems unaware that throughout his career, Chomsky has consistently opposed Darwin’s view that language gradually evolved. According to Knight, this elementary mistake is a sobering example of Wolfe's hopeless grasp of who adopts which side and why in the various scientific debates about language which he attempts to cover. \n\nJohn McWhorter observed in his \"Vox\" review that Wolfe revealed a fundamental misunderstanding of the Chomsky-Everett controversy, and concluded that the author \"ultimately misses the essence of the debate from various angles.\" According to McWhorter's account, Wolfe misidentified both the topic of the discussion (which doesn't revolve around the origin of language, but cognitive mechanisms of language production) and its still inconclusive outcome by wrongly depicting Chomskyan linguists as clear losers and Everett as a \"victorious gladiator in this scholarly clash\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13225306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13225306", "title": "The Sea Around Us", "text": "The Sea Around Us\n\nThe Sea Around Us is a prize-winning and best-selling book by the American marine biologist Rachel Carson, first published as a whole by Oxford University Press in 1951. It reveals the science and poetry of the sea while ranging from its primeval beginnings to the latest scientific probings. Often described as \"poetic,\" it was Carson's second published book and the one that launched her into the public eye and a second career as a writer and conservationist; in retrospect it is counted the second book of her so-called sea trilogy.\n\n\"The Sea Around Us\" won both the 1952 National Book Award for Nonfiction\nand a Burroughs Medal in nature writing. It remained on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller List for 86 weeks and it has been translated into 28 languages.\n\nSimon & Schuster had published her first book \"Under the Sea Wind\" in 1941; it was reviewed favorably but it sold poorly. Carson initially planned to call the sequel \"Return to the Sea\", and began writing in 1948, just after hiring Marie Rodell as her literary agent. Carson began by writing a single chapter (what would be \"The Birth of an Island\") along with a detailed outline, which Rodell used to pitch the book to publishers. During research for the book, Carson met with a number of oceanographers to discuss current research. Carson and Rodell had little initial success with magazines as outlets for the islands chapter, nor for a second chapter titled \"Another Beachhead.\" In April 1949, with about a third of the chapters complete, Rodell began trying to find a publisher for the entire book. By June she had arranged a contract with Oxford University Press that promised completion of the manuscript by March 1, 1950. Carson continued to write and research through 1949 and into 1950, despite unexpected health and financial difficulties. In part the research involved a trip aboard a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ship, \"Albatross III\". After revising the completion date, Carson completed the manuscript in June 1950. By that time, several periodicals (\"The New Yorker\", \"Science Digest\", and \"The Yale Review\") were interested in publishing some of the chapters.\nNine of fourteen chapters were serialized in \"The New Yorker\" beginning on June 2, 1951, and the book was published on July 2 by Oxford University Press. The serialization created a very large popular response, and the book was the subject of the feature review in \"The New York Times Book Review\" the day before publication. One chapter (\"The Birth of an Island\") was published in \"The Yale Review\"; it won the George Westinghouse Science Writing prize from the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nAfter the book's release, Carson was inundated with an unexpected volume of fan mail and media attention. She was soon the object of attention from \"the literary crowd,\" and because of a subsequent condensation in \"Reader's Digest\", a broad general audience as well. The book sold more than 250,000 copies in 1951, in addition to the condensation and excerpts published elsewhere.\n\nA film version was filmed in 1952 and released in 1953; it won the 1953 Oscar for Best Documentary (though Carson was extremely disappointed with the script and would never sell film rights to her work again).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11896315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11896315", "title": "Treatise", "text": "Treatise\n\nA treatise is a formal and systematic written discourse on some subject, generally longer and treating it in greater depth than an essay, and more concerned with investigating or exposing the principles of the subject.\n\nTreatises have been written by various philosophers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18918161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918161", "title": "Vale do Sinos Technology Park, VALETEC Park", "text": "Vale do Sinos Technology Park, VALETEC Park\n\nThe Vale do Sinos Regional Development Association, VALETEC, was established in 1998 as a non-profit private civil partnership. Its goal is to promote technological development in the Vale do Sinos region by stimulating regional integration, providing incentives for entrepreneurship, while creating, attracting, hosting, and developing companies. In order to achieve this goal, VALETEC develops and manages environments for technological innovation, such as incubators, entrepreneurial condominiums, technology parks and complexes, as well as other initiatives aligned with this focus. VALETEC's main commitment is to contribute for the improvement of the Vale do Sinos quality of life, while forging links between educational and research institutions and the society, governments, and companies. This contributes to generate jobs and wealth, boosting the sustainable development of the Vale do Sinos technopolitan project.\n\nOne of VALETEC's main initiatives was the creation of the Vale do Sinos Technology Park, VALETEC Park. The park currently works as a regional, multicampi and multisector enterprise, with its main axis following the path of highways RS-239 and BR-116, the Innovation Route. The first segment of the VALETEC Park was launched in the city of Campo Bom, in December, 2004. The second segment will consist of an urban park, to be established within the Hamburgo Velho's Historical Center, in the city of Novo Hamburgo. The park currently encompasses important educational institutions, research centers, labs, companies with intensive focus on knowledge, advanced services, incubators, entrepreneurial centers, facilities for the installation and expansion of companies, living areas and rooms for shared use.\n\nThe VALETEC Park is ready to host entrepreneurs, new or consolidated companies and institutions that develop or plan on developing clean technology, applied to the following priority areas: agriculture, animal husbandry, and agribusiness; automation and informatics; biotechnology; leather and footwear industry; design; energy; environment; telecommunications; and creative economy. In the city of Campo Bom, the park segment has capacity for over 120 companies, research centers, scientific and economic development organizations, and advanced service providers. The park's initially encompasses an area of 365,000 m², surrounded by lovely sceneries, a result of our deep respect for the environment. The surroundings have been keeping up with the park's growth. This is the result of the expansion and diversification of existing companies, along with the creation of spaces to host new business models and new areas for companies to operate in.\n\nCompanies can be installed in the Campo Bom segment of the VALETEC Park under three different modalities: inside the Feevale's Technology Incubator, ITEF, for pre-incubation and incubation; in business accelerators and business condominiums, such as the Alberto Santos Dumont Business Center and the Montserrat Business Condominium; and in individual facilities, which companies may choose to either purchase or rent. Feevale is a regional community university (public, yet not state-owned) which operates in the Campo Bom segment of the VALETEC Park through its Academic Extension Center. This is a space for learning, research and extension activities, with an auditorium, event hall, meeting rooms, restaurant and areas for partners and advanced service providers. In the surroundings of the Academic Extension Center, there are several green preservation areas which make perfect spots for relaxing outdoors, with plenty of shadow to contemplate nature and exercise creativity.\n\nThe Innovation Route represents the VALETEC Park's main axis. It is located along the path of highways RS-239 and BR-116, and its initial project encompasses eight cities. After the Campo Bom segment was established, an opportunity to expand the park was envisioned. This was motivated by the fact that the city's master plan has, since the 1960s, been preserving a minimum of 350 meters on each side of highway RS-239 exclusively for business use. The project received resources from the Research and Projects Financing, FINEP, the Brazilian Innovation Agency, a division of the Ministry of Science and Technology, in order to plan, develop, and implement the best practices identified by VALETEC during its international missions. The studies performed made it possible to identify several advantages that ensured the VALETEC Park's success as a regional enterprise.\n\nOne of the VALETEC's stylemarks is shared management through a network of alliances. Companies that associate to VALETEC also become members of the VALETEC Park, and have access to a wide range of advantages, such as a relationship network that enables them to develop cooperative projects and receive financial funding for innovation. In addition, members have access to the shared infrastructure and high added value services, along with the possibility of establishing relationships with associated educational and research institutions.\n"}
