{"id": "768817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=768817", "title": "Amusement", "text": "Amusement\n\nAmusement, from the old French \"à muser\" – to put into a stupid stare, is the state of experiencing humorous and entertaining events or situations while the person or animal actively maintains the experience, and is associated with enjoyment, happiness, laughter and pleasure. It is an emotion with positive valence and high physiological arousal.\n\nAmusement is considered an \"epistemological\" emotion because humor occurs when one experiences a cognitive shift from one knowledge structure about a target to another, such as hearing the punchline of a joke. The pleasant surprise that happens from learning this new information leads to a state of amusement which people often express through smiling, laughter or chuckling.\n\nCurrent studies have not yet reached consensus on the exact purpose of amusement, though theories have been advanced in the fields of psychology, psychiatry and sociology. In addition, the precise mechanism that causes a given element (image, sound, behavior, etc.) to be perceived as more or less 'amusing' than another, similar element to a particular individual is not clearly understood.\n\nTwo different theoretical perspectives about emotion provide contrasting origins of amusement:\n\nThe evolutionary perspective proposes that amusement is a distinct emotion that evolved to enhance a species’ survival. Collective laughter helps define an ingroup, helping people recognize those similar to them and feel included. It also helps identify outgroup members and enhance the barrier between the two. Laughter can provide network support as encouragement, or it can inform ingroup members that they are losing majority favor and to adjust their behavior to reassimilate.\n\nThe theory of constructed emotion suggests that when humans have a positive experience that increases their arousal, such as a faster heartbeat and increased sweat production, they cognitively seek out a label for that feeling. They will land on amusement if that experience resembles other amusement experiences they have had.\n\nThe origin of the study of emotional expression is often attributed to Charles Darwin. In 1872, Darwin published his book \"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals\", in which he extensively describes his observations of how people and animals display emotions on their faces and through sound. Darwin comments on amusement as an emotion of great joy during which a person is likely to laugh. He also notes that across all peoples humans can laugh until they are panting and tears roll down their cheeks. In the 1960s, Paul Ekman, an American psychologist, revived the study of emotional expression, proposing, like Darwin, that emotions were universally recognizable. His early work focused on six basic emotions: happiness, anger, sadness, fear, disgust and surprise. By the 1990s, Ekman had expanded this list to include several additional emotions, one of which was amusement. \n\nDisplays of amusement have been distinguished from related emotions like embarrassment and shame. More recent studies have confirmed that laughter is a distinct signal of amusement and is recognizable across cultures.\n\nAn amused facial expression typically has these characteristics:\n\nThe expression of amusement is usually accompanied by genuine laughter. The experience of laughter changes the breathing pattern and often causes all the muscles to relax.\n\nAs a positive, high arousal emotion, amusement falls in the same category as excitement and exhilaration. These emotions are highly valued in American culture where positive feelings that high in energy are seen as ideal. In contrast, East Asian cultures value positive, low arousal emotions such as contentment, calm and peacefulness.\n\nEmotion regulation is the term for how people attempt to influence - increasing, decreasing, maintaining or changing - how, when, and where they experience emotion. Through changing how they think about a target of amusement, like a humorous video clip, people are able to increase and decrease how much amusement they feel, express in smiles and laughs, and experience in their bodies (e.g. increased heart rate and respiration). Choosing to increase or prolong experiences of positive emotion is one way in which people can learn to cope when faced with challenges and develop resilience.\n\nAs a positive emotion, amusement contributes to the development of resilience in both children and adults. Positive emotions help people build social resources that foster their ability to cope during hard times. Increases in resilience lead to higher life satisfaction and general happiness. \n\nRapidly growing in popularity, laughter therapy, or humor therapy, focuses on promoting laughter as a therapeutic tool. Usually implemented in a group, laughter therapy uses a variety of gag jokes like red noses and magic tricks to encourage laughter - fake or real. Laughter causes the bodies' muscles to relax which increases blood flow and oxygen intake. Proposed benefits include: Stress management, relaxation, improved mental functions, improved digestion and pain relief. Some suggest that laughter activates similar brain wave frequencies as a meditative state. However, scientific studies of these benefits are limited and have methodological issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2633667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633667", "title": "Article (publishing)", "text": "Article (publishing)\n\nAn article is a written work published in a print or electronic medium. It may be for the purpose of propagating news, research results, academic analysis, or debate.\n\nA news article discusses current or recent news of either general interest (i.e. daily newspapers) or of a specific topic (i.e. political or trade news magazines, club newsletters, or technology news websites).\n\nA news article can include accounts of eyewitnesses to the happening event. It can contain photographs, accounts, statistics, graphs, recollections, interviews, polls, debates on the topic, etc. Headlines can be used to focus the reader’s attention on a particular (or main) part of the article. The writer can also give facts and detailed information following answers to general questions like who, what, when, where, why and how.\n\nQuoted references can also be helpful. References to people can also be made through the written accounts of interviews and debates confirming the factuality of the writer’s information and the reliability of his source. The writer can use redirection to ensure that the reader keeps reading the article and to draw her attention to other articles. For example, phrases like \"Continued on page 3” redirect the reader to a page where the article is continued.\n\nWhile a good conclusion is an important ingredient for newspaper articles, the immediacy of a deadline environment means that copy editing often takes the form of deleting everything past an arbitrary point in the story corresponding to the dictates of available space on a page. Therefore, newspaper reporters are trained to write in inverted pyramid style, with all the most important information in the first paragraph or two. If the less vital details are pushed towards the end of the story, then the potentially destructive impact of draconian copy editing will be minimized.\n\nA headline is text above a newspaper article, indicating its topic. The headline catches the attention of the reader and relates well to the topic. Modern headlines are typically written in an abbreviated style omitting many elements of a complete sentence and almost always including a non-copular verb.\n\nA byline gives the name and often the position of the writer, along with the date.\n\nThe lead (sometimes spelled \"lede\") sentence captures the attention of the reader and sums up the focus of the story. The lead also establishes the subject, sets the tone and guides reader into the article.\n\nIn a news story, the introductory paragraph includes the most important facts and answers the questions: \"who\", \"what\", \"where\", \"when\", \"why\" and\" how\". In a featured story, the author may choose to open in any number of ways, often using a narrative hook, possibly one of the following:\nan anecdote, a shocking or startling statement, a generalization, pure information, a description, a quote, a question or a comparison.\nFor the news story, details and elaboration are evident in the body or running text of the news story and flow smoothly from the lead. Quotes are used to add interest and support to the story. Most news stories are structured using what is called an inverted pyramid. The \"angle\" (also called a \"hook\" or \"peg\") is usually the most newsworthy aspect of the story and is specifically highlighted and elaborated upon.\nA featured article will follow a format appropriate for its type. Structures for featured articles may include, but are not limited to:\nThe conclusion will sum up the article, possibly including a final quote, a descriptive scene, a play on the title or lead, a summary statement, or the writer's opinion. Make the conclusion attention-grabbing.\n\nThe article is usually on a well-defined topic or topics that are related in some way, such as a factual account of a newsworthy event.\nThe writer of a well-written article is seen as objective and showing all sides to an issue.\nThe sources for a news story should be identified and reliable.\nThe technique of show, don't tell is applied.\n\nPublications obtain articles in a few different ways:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52770909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52770909", "title": "Bad News Bears (franchise)", "text": "Bad News Bears (franchise)\n\nThe Bad News Bears is an American sports comedy multi-media franchise created by screenwriter Bill Lancaster. It began in 1976 with \"The Bad News Bears\", and was followed by two sequels and a remake: \"The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training\" (1977), \"The Bad News Bears Go to Japan\" (1978) and \"Bad News Bears\" (2005).\n\nWhile the first film garnered critical acclaim, critics were less enthusiastic about its sequels. Furthermore, the series has also had a lasting influence on both karate culture and teen film narratives in America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5376630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5376630", "title": "Battle Dome", "text": "Battle Dome\n\nBattle Dome was a syndicated American television series that aired from September 1999 to April 2001. It combined elements of \"American Gladiators\" – inspired athletic competition with scripted antics more reminiscent of professional wrestling. Recurring character-athletes known as \"Warriors\" competed against weekly contestants in a variety of physically demanding (and sometimes dangerous) events. The series was filmed at the Los Angeles Sports Arena and produced by Columbia TriStar Television.\n\nThe entire first and second season of \"Battle Dome\" is available for purchase on iTunes and Amazon Video.\n\nA Warrior typically entered the show's arena accompanied by his own bombastic theme music and-in several cases-a comely female sidekick; in later episodes, weekly contestants were also allotted female companions, courtesy of \"Perfect 10\" magazine.\n\nThe announcer for the show was Steve Albert (brother of Marv and the uncle of Kenny); Scott Ferrall provided color commentary. Seth Stockton served as referee for the entire run. Downtown Julie Brown appeared in early episodes, as a sideline correspondent but was replaced by Kathleen McClellan for the run of the show. The \"Chairman\", whose face remained off camera, oversaw the proceedings. Halfway through the show's run, Ferrall and Brown were replaced by Ed Lover and Brien Blakely, respectively, and \"The chairman\" was dropped from the show.\n\n\"Battle Dome\" was also broadcast in the UK, on the Challenge and Bravo networks, as well as on Channel 5, now \"Five.\" It was also broadcast in Ireland on TV3.\n\nThree male contestants competed in a series of four or five events, which varied in intensity and danger factor. After the fourth or fifth event, the two highest scoring competitors advanced to the Battle Dome final. In addition to facing the contestants, the Battle Dome Warriors were in a show-long competition against each other for the Battle Dome Warriors Championship belt. The Warriors were ranked before the competition started and could move up or down the list depending on either how well they performed during the show or how well they politicked with the chairman or his on-camera assistant, Bobbie Haven (played by model Bobbie Brown, who prior to this was best known for her appearance in the video for Warrant's \"Cherry Pie\").\n\nIf the second and third place players were tied, the tie was broken in a rather novel way. Both players would stand on platforms on two separate metal discs, with the discs being pulled back and rammed together at high rates of speed. The intensity of the hit grew until one player fell off, at which point they would be going home. This also would help determine the Warriors champion if the championship was in question at the end of a show.\n\nAfter all ties and championships between the Warriors and contestants were settled, the two remaining players moved into the Battle Dome for the final round, in which the two competitors wrestled each other in an attempt to throw the opponent off an elevated platform. Doing so won the match, a cash prize, and a Battle Dome championship ring. The winner would also advance in the Battle Dome tournament, with the winner getting a large cash prize, a motorcycle, and a Battle Dome Championship belt at the end of the season.\n\n\nIn fall of 2000, the stars of \"Battle Dome\" and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) began a brief cross-promotional feud. It kicked off when WCW wrestlers disrupted a \"Battle Dome\" taping. In retaliation, on the November 6 edition of \"Monday Nitro\", T-Money, Cuda, Mike O'Dell (husband of WCW star Midajah), D.O.A., and Bubba King began heckling in the audience as Diamond Dallas Page spoke to the Chicago crowd. Rick Steiner, Ernest Miller, and Buff Bagwell came to Page's aid before security ended the physical dispute. The feud between these men continued as far as November 20, mere months before the buyout of WCW by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF).\n\nAll events were overseen by Referee Seth Stockton. His actual level of authority is unclear although he did ban a few warriors from competing for bad behaviour.\n\nBattle Wheel\n\nTwo warriors competed. The event took place on a large, rotating platform which resembled a right circular cone with its outside edge and apex flattened. The contenders had 60 seconds to force both warriors to touch the bottom ring of the wheel with any part of their body. The warriors were allowed to do essentially anything necessary to keep this from occurring. The contenders had to dispatch of the first warrior on the lower portion of the wheel (usually Jake Fury) before taking on the warrior at the top of the wheel (usually Cuda). 25 points were earned for removing the lower warrior from the wheel, and an additional 25 points were earned for getting the 2nd warrior off the wheel.\n\n\nTake Down\n\nA football type event. The contender was placed in the center of an enclosed area with 2 warriors on each end (Michael O'Dell participated in this event most often). Behind each warrior were 4 different lights with actuators beneath them. In the 1st season, a light was lit up behind the warrior (Steve and Scott typically noted that the warriors did not know which light was lit). On the referee's whistle, the contender tried to hit the actuator to turn the light off. Each light turned off was worth 25 points. The contender was only allowed one attempt per light; no \"second effort\" was allowed. After each attempt, the contender returned to the center and repeated against the other warrior. This would continue for 60 seconds. In the 2nd season, all 8 lights (4 at each end) were lit up. The contender chose which light to go after and the warrior would have to stop them. Otherwise, the rules remained the same from season 1.\n\nRollercage of Fire (1st Season), Rollercage (2nd Season)\n\nContenders were raised up into a revolving cylindrical cage with holes built into it. In the 1st season, a ring of fire was set outside the cage at each end, mainly to set the atmosphere. The fire ring was removed in season two, as well as the reference to it in the event's title. Contenders had 60 seconds to force the warrior (Almost always T-Money, with 1 or 2 appearances by DOA in the later part of the 1st season) through one of the holes while avoiding the same fate. Forcing the warrior out earned 25 points (later 50). Draws originally scored nothing, but were later increased to a 25-point score.\n\nAerial Kickboxing\n\nContenders and opposing warriors hung from an undulating metal grid roughly 10 feet off the ground. The contender attempted to kick the warrior (most often Bubba King) off the grid within 60 seconds without being removed from the grid themselves. Kicks to the head were technically against the rules and would result in DQ's. At least 1 contender was DQ'd because of head shots. If the contender kicked the warrior off the grid, the contender scored 50 points. Draws scored 25 points. Most contenders were lucky to score short of a DQ of the warrior. Bubba King and Sleepwalker were almost impossible to beat, but O'Dell actually was impossible to defeat, as he never lost a match and rarely surrendered a draw.\n\nAfter the match, the \"reporter\" had Bubba talk about the match. Bubba was angry, and complained about the contestant breaking the rules (by kicking him in the head), and Bubba said half his body went numb from the head kick.\n\nG-Force\n\nA central rotating tower had three arms extending from the top of the central tower. Each of the contenders hung onto a handle at the end of each arm. A warrior stood on a platform above this tower, throwing balls at the contenders as the tower spun. The tower's speed increased steadily as the event progressed. The last contender/s standing earned 25 points, and a bonus 25 points was earned for lasting 60 seconds.\n\nBattle Bridge\n\nA large bridge spun quickly in mid-air. The contender and the warrior were each given a large padded club to use to knock the other off the bridge as it spun. Contenders scored 50 points for successfully knocking the warrior off the bridge, or 25 points for lasting 60 seconds.\n\nBattle Field\n\nThis event was similar to Powerball on American Gladiators. Unlike Powerball, contenders competed one-on-one against a single warrior, who defended a single scoring bin. The scoring bin was located in the center of the playing field atop an approximately pyramid. The warrior wore boxing gloves and could freely attack the contender as much as they wanted to keep them from scoring. Each ball scored was worth 25 points.\n\nBattle Hoop\n\nContenders began in the center of a circular field. A large hanging hoop moved around the outside perimeter of the field, with its opening always facing the center of the field. A warrior stood on the outside perimeter of the field to block the contender from jumping through the hoop. Contenders had 60 seconds to try to jump through the hoop as many times as they could, returning to the center after each attempt. Each successful pass through the hoop earned 25 points.\n\nBattle Wall\n\nContenders had to get over three walls defended by the Battle Dome warriors. A warrior stood on the opposite side of each wall. Each wall was around 3 feet in height. The walls became narrower as the event went on making it harder to get by the warriors. Each wall that a contender was successful in climbing was worth 25 points.\n\nEvader\n\nA contender had to light targets while avoiding medicine balls being launched by two warriors. Contenders had 60 seconds to light up all the targets on the two towers (one at a time). Originally, the warriors only had to hit the contenders 3 times to end the match, but it was later increased to 5 times. Lighting up all the targets on a tower (this may not have ever been done) was worth 25 points and lighting up all the targets was worth 50. This event was considered to be Jake Fury's signature event.\n\nAnti-Gravity\n\nThis event, along with Interceptor, was always played last because of the point opportunities. Contenders had to light strips by hitting buttons on a grid while moving along handles placed on the grid. Every strip lit was worth 25 points, for a possible 150. The contenders were also chased by a Battle Dome Warrior, which was almost always The Commander, and could lose the game in one of two ways: either losing their grip, which would result in the contender floating away, or having the Warrior rip their harness off and send them to the floor.\n\nInterceptor\n\nCalled a game of cat and mouse, a contender had to fly around the Interceptor grid lighting targets worth 25 points each until caught by the warrior (again, almost always The Commander) or time ran out. Each target was worth 25 points. There was a maximum of 175 points available to the contenders.\n\nUltimate Body Slam\n\nThis was a tiebreaker, usually between the warriors for the right to hold the warrior belt. If the top warrior had been less than stellar and a fellow warrior close in the rankings had performed well, but not well enough to win the belt outright, the two warriors would compete in Ultimate Body Slam. This game was simply a test of endurance; each player stood on a platform behind a metal disk. The disks were then pulled back and slammed into each other at increasing speed until one of the two fell off and lost.\n\nDuring the first season, the warriors maintained distinct personalities, similar to professional wrestling characters. The warriors competed for the Battledome Belt. After each event the warriors were \"ranked\", according to how well they did in the competition. At the end of that days competition the top ranked warrior received the Battledome Belt. The \"ranking\" was done by the mysterious chairman. The chairman supposedly owned the Battledome. He was only seen in silhouette wearing a large cowboy hat. What little else was known about him is that he was supposedly an older man. Karen Ko was supposed to be his trophy wife, and Bobbie Haven his secretary. It was Bobbie he would deliver the messages from The chairman to the other warriors and the fans. At the start of the second season The chairman, standings board and the Battledome Belt were dropped from the competition.\n\nFirst season warriors\n\nThe original series had 9 warriors. Some competed every week with some making only a few appearances.\n\nThe \"king\" of aerial kickboxing. Had very few defeats and proved almost invincible with most challengers lasting a maximum of 30 seconds. Did not play any other event during the shows run.\n\nSpeciality event appeared to be Anti-Gravity with Interceptor a close second. One of the smaller warriors proved very speedy and powerful against challengers.\n\nThe largest warrior during season 1. Dominated Battle Wheel. Always appeared in the top position on this event. Did make fleeting appearances on other events.\n\nMade few appearances in Season one but became much more prolific in Season 2. Speciality event appeared to be Rollercage.\n\nThe wild and unpredictable Fury appeared in several games. Particularly able at games G- force and Evader. Suffered a severe ankle injury during season one while participating in Battle Wheel. Thankfully he recovered and did return for season 2.\n\nThe poster boy of Battledome. Handsome, toned and tanned. One of the most all round warriors. Played most games with Aerial Kickboxing and Takedown proving specialities.\n\nAppeared fleeting during season 1. Mainly as cover for injured warriors. Entered arena wearing a straitjacket and howling. Difficult to tell what he was good at as he didn't participate in many events.\n\nAnother warrior who seemed to be cover for fellow injured warriors. Did participate in Anti-Gravity and aerial kickboxing but suffered a shoulder injury in the event. Seemed very capable in events he participated in.\n\nSmug, arrogant and always accompanied by \"The Posse\". Blinged up with jewellery and a dollar sign chain around his neck. Very good at several games but Rollercage was his speciality. Did not take losing very well!\n\nSecond season warriors\n\nSeason 2 saw the departure of Payne and Sleepalker for unknown reasons. The remaining 7 warriors returned and were accompanied by 6 new warriors to bring the total up to 13.\n\n'Returning Warriors:\n\nNew Warriors \nSeemed to act as an alternate for injured warriors. Very impressive during his appearances. Virtually unbeatable in Takedown.\n\nDid not appear until later in the season then became a regular. Played several games. Takedown and Battle Hoop clearly his best.\n\nAn all-rounder who participated in lots of games. No real stand out performances but very capable on events he played in.\n\nDominated his early appearances and Participated in many games. Got injured later in the season and did not appear again.\n\nAppeared only fleetingly during the series. Mainly as cover for injured warriors. The biggest of all warriors weighing over 300 lbs.\n\nAnother warrior who made on and off appearances throughout the season. Played a few games with Battle Wheel proving his speciality.\n\nA partial list of female companions:\n\nhttp://www.tv.com/shows/battle-dome/cast/\n\n"}
{"id": "181181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181181", "title": "Choreography", "text": "Choreography\n\nChoreography is the art or practice of designing sequences of movements of physical bodies (or their depictions) in which motion, form, or both are specified. \"Choreography\" may also refer to the design itself. A choreographer is one who creates choreographies by practicing the art of choreography, a process known as \"choreographing\". Choreography is used in a variety of fields, including musical theater, cheerleading, cinematography, gymnastics, fashion shows, ice skating, marching band, show choir, theatre, synchronized swimming, cardistry, video game production and animated art. In the performing arts, choreography applies to human movement and form. In dance, choreography is also known as dance choreography or \"dance composition\".\n\nThe word \"choreography\" literally means \"dance-writing\" from the Greek words \"χορεία\" (circular dance, see choreia) and \"γραφή\" (writing). It first appeared in the American English dictionary in the 1950s, and \"choreographer\" was first used as a credit for George Balanchine in the Broadway show \"On Your Toes\" in 1936. Before this, stage credits and movie credits used phrases such as \"ensembles staged by\", \"dances staged by\", or simply \"dances by\" to denote the choreographer.\n\n"}
{"id": "17971787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17971787", "title": "Close-up magic", "text": "Close-up magic\n\nClose-up magic (also known as table magic or micromagic) is magic performed in an intimate setting usually no more than ten feet (three metres) from one's audience and is usually performed while sitting at a table.\n\nClose-up magic can combine sleight-of-hand manipulations with card flourishes, and is called cardistry. \n\nSleight-of-hand, also known as prestidigitation (\"quick fingers\") or \"léger de main\" (Fr., \"lightness of hand\"), is the set of techniques used by a micromagician to manipulate objects such as cards and coins secretly.\n\nCard flourishes are an example of skill rather than of illusion or deceit. It is the equivalent of juggling to a juggler. The two principal forms of micromagic are card tricks and coin tricks but any small item can be used for sleight-of-hand performances including dice, bottle caps, sugar cubes, sponge balls, pebbles, pens and cups and balls. It is not uncommon for micromagicians to combine several of these objects in a single trick. Micromagician Johnny Ace Palmer produces baby chicks in his cups-and-balls routine.\n\nMicromentalism is mentalism performed in an intimate session. This form of mentalism involves examples of telekinesis, extrasensory perception, precognition and telepathy. Most cold reading takes place in such an intimate session, as do most theatrical séances.\n\n"}
{"id": "47836561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47836561", "title": "Conception (video game)", "text": "Conception (video game)\n\nConception is a role-playing video game developed by Spike. The game was released exclusively for the Playstation Portable in Japan on April 26, 2012. A remaster of the game titled Conception Plus: Ore no Kodomo o Undekure! is in development for the PlayStation 4. A second game in the series, \"\", was released for the PlayStation Vita and Nintendo 3DS across 2013 and 2014 in Japanese and English, and later released on Steam in 2016.\n\nThe player's goal is to charm girls from National Star God Academy, raise their affection for Itsuki, then produce and take the \"Star Children\" to explore dungeons and battle \"impurities\".\n\nHowever, it is not an eroge, as the \"Star Children\" are produced by pouring energy from Itsuki and one of the twelve \"Star Maidens\" into a particular device. The child's class and statistics are determined by which character parents the child; for example, certain combinations could result in creating a warrior, or someone who specializes in magic. To produce more plentiful and more powerful “Star Children”, you must increase your intimacy with the twelve maidens, the other aspects of the gameplay is typical to dating simulation games.\n\nBattles in the game are turn-based.\n\nOn his high school graduation day, Itsuki's cousin, Mahiru, tells him that she's pregnant. Just then, a gate of light emerges and transports the two into the world of Granvania. In this land, \"Impurities\" have been causing a disturbance to the Stars, ultimately plunging Granvania into chaos and disorder. And Itsuki, now revealed to be one who is fated to meet with the \"Star Maidens\", is seen as Granvania's last hope and was thus given the task to produce \"Star Children\" and combat the \"impurities\". And unless the task is complete, Itsuki may never be able to return home.\n\nFamitsu rated this PSP game with a score of 35/40.\n\nA sequel to the game, titled , was released on August 22, 2013 for the Nintendo 3DS and PlayStation Vita, and August 15, 2016 on Steam.\n\nOn September 17, 2018, Famitsu teased an article that would reveal a new \"Conception\" project. The next day on September 18, 2018, a remaster of the first \"Conception\" video game titled \"Conception Plus: Ore no Kodomo o Undekure!\" was announced to be shown at Tokyo Game Show 2018 for the PlayStation 4. It is being developed by Spike Chunsoft. No further details are known at this time.\n\nOn May 4, 2018, an anime television series produced by Gonzo was announced, and premiered October 10, 2018 on Sun TV, BS11, and Tokyo MX.\n\nThe series will be directed by Keitaro Motonaga, with Yūko Kakihara writing the screenplay, Masato Kōda composing the music, and Yōsuke Okuda adapting Shinichiro Otsuka's character designs for animation.\n\nThe opening theme is \"Star light, Star bright,\" by Nano, and the ending theme is \"Desires\" by Manami Numakura. Crunchyroll is streaming while Funimation has licensed the anime for a simuldub.\n\n"}
{"id": "33513826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33513826", "title": "Digital performance", "text": "Digital performance\n\nDigital Performance is a very wide category filled with a range of productions, it is a generic performance but with an extra element of incorporating and integrating computer technologies and techniques into the production. You can incorporate multimedia into any type of performance whether it is live on a theatre stage or in the street. Anything as small as video recordings or a visual image classes the production as multimedia and therefore a digital performance. When the key role in a performance is the computer technologies rather than it being an additional role is when it is classed as a digital performance. This can be as little as projections on a screen in front of a live audience to creating and devising a performance in an online environment to using animation and sensing software’s.\n\nIf we were to look at the history of performance itself we would be able to find traces of digital performance from centuries ago, where it may be an old type of performance it is made new everyday by the increase in software and techniques and even by the uniqueness of performers' works, meanings and experiments. It is a continuing job to try and see how the acceptance of technology can increase the effects and spectacles of performances and visual arts. Performances are normally reliant on the audience and obviously to receive a good reception from the audience so with the ongoing integration of multimedia within productions surprises the audience and keeps them on edge. It also deals with the emotional and sensorial impact of the audiences. The social impact it has after the performance is out in the world and what meanings have come of the performance from different cliques of people.\n\nThe Digital Performance Archive stores a lot of physical and catalogued archives from the 20th century, as they carried out a research project, which involved the increase and creative use of computer technology, and techniques within live theatre and dance productions to even cyberspace interactive dramas and webcasts. Looking at a broad range of diverse productions would have enhanced their research project as they saw how each type of performance was affected and even how new types of performance came about due to the involvement of computer technologies and techniques and all other multimedia sources. Happenings also from the 20th century included new and emerging forms of drama and genres in performance; this occurred due to the active and escalating role of computer technology within all types of performances and productions. It became a significant and very important role within the society of live theatre. Not only did it start to play a key role within theatre it also became a key role within our whole society, with businesses and education involving and using computers more and more as a convenience. As our society became more reliant on computers in everyday life it is exciting to then see how artists and performers use this everyday convenience to create new productions.\n\nCD-ROMs, video games and countless installations exaggerated and performed by users, upped the level of interactive potential of computers. With computers becoming more and more accessible and popular as well as advanced with time so are the performances that contain them.\n\nFrom the first digital performance to present day trends have been set and this has been helped by the upgrades that surround computers. Artists have followed each other’s works and therefore set trends of their own whilst the technology has set its own trends through upgrades and new software’s coming out which appeal to artists in the field. Another trend that is apparent is theoretical trends to do with all digital productions. Online environments are a strong base for theoretical trends as the frameworks are similar and sometimes the same.\n\nThe largest base for theatre in the world is the World Wide Web; the Internet is seen as a satisfying place for relaxation and offers everyone who uses the Internet their ‘fifteen megabytes of fame.' Every single person who uses online networking sites, blogs, chat rooms, MOOs and IRC is creating their own performance with the use of e-friendships. Therefore it is not just the artists who deliberately devise theatrical events via the use of computer techniques and technologies.\n\nThe whole catalogue of Digital Performance is so diverse and a wide spread that it creates new and different visual and stylistic aspects. Computers have so many platforms available to create performances on that each production allows the artist/s or companies to gain extraordinary and unique experiences, new genres and experience new existences and beings via virtual realities.\n\nThe relationship formed between technology and art is a wonderful one. Two completely different areas joined together to create something new. They blend so well together and complement one another perfectly to become a strand under digital performance. ‘Performance is undertaking a shift in the conception of technology’. As the educational curriculum also upgrades with the latest technologies, school/college/university students are becoming more aware of the techniques they can include in performances and they want to involve the digital side as it is seen as more modern nowadays and appeals to a wide audience.\n\nPerformers and devisors of digital performance productions have to approach the aspects of technology in diverse ways to be able to reach different meanings, content, drama, the impact of visuals and the audience-performer relationship. The computer is seen as the middle man, who fixes lasting problems rather than creating original and new performance processes and hype, in digital performance.\n\nThe term Digital Performance can usually be defined to consist of all types of performance in which computer technologies have taken on the main role rather than an auxiliary one in the content, techniques, aesthetics or the delivery forms. Digital performance will usually explore the representations of the subliminal, dreams, and fantasy worlds.\n\nOver the past decade or so we have witnessed a very vast and incredible development within every aspect of the technological world. And as a result of this, there has been a large increase in the experimentation with computer technologies being integrated within the performing arts; and with the new technological creations and the developments of existing digital technologies they are also beginning to create a greater, more significant impact on the way in which different art forms are being practiced. Digital media now has a new and much more dramatic role to play in live theatre, dance and performance; and while digital media performances are now beginning to proliferate there are now many new forms of interactive performance genres that have emerged. These new genres are most commonly in the style of audience participatory installation pieces that can take place either on the internet or can be played on a CD – ROM. “Computers are arenas for social experience and dramatic interaction, a type of media more like public theatre, and their output is used for qualitative interaction, dialogue and conversation.” The computer is vastly becoming a significant tool and agent of performative action and creation. Computer technologies can be contextualised as being of a social, cultural and artistic change. Computers do now permit for the artistic modes of expression and for the new generic forms of networking and interactive performance. Theatre itself has always been right at the cutting edge of technology and it has been quick on the mark to be able to recognise, and to take full advantage of the dramatic and aesthetic potentials that these new and existing technologies have to offer. Theatre, dance and performance art have always been known to be a form of multimedia; and right at the very core of the theatre through all the manifestations right to the contemporary experimentation, as well as incorporating all of the visual elements into a production; at the foreground to any piece there is the human voice and the spoken text.\n\nLocating the roots of digital performance practices can be traced back for many decades or even centuries. There are three main periods that can be highlighted in the history of multi - media performance; Futurism during the 1910s, mixed media performance during the 1960s and experimentation with a performance and the computer during the 1990s. Both during the eras of Futurism and the experimentation with computer incorporated within performance, they are both greatly inspired by the development of new and existing technology. Researching back, digital performance practices have experimented with numerous of the different avant – garde movements which can date right back from the early twentieth century, some of these movements can include the likes of Bauhaus, Dada, Surrealism and many more. It could be said that digital performance can be linked to the aesthetics, philosophies and practices of the futurist movement. One of the main links that has been found which can connect futurism to digital performance was with the use of the ‘machine’ which was used in the set of Robert Lepage’s Zulu Time (1999). Although, it can be said that the avant – garde movement Futurism does have a more philosophical basis for contemporary digital performance, more so than any of the other avant – garde movements such as the likes of Bauhaus, Dada and Surrealism which are mainly used to provide inspiration for a large part of the content and styles for the artistic expression. Looking back at the early twentieth century avant – garde, there were many works that would use pre – digital technologies.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of when theatre and film were being integrated together in a performance, with the use of digital technology was to try and challenge the distinction between what is ‘liveness’ as in the live performer on the stage and the media imagery, it is about the relationship between the virtual and the actual performance being the dialogical interactivity. With the increased usage of digital media in a performance, not all performances are necessarily live, without the body’s physical presence it could be argued whether this is this still live theatre or just a set of media images and footage. Theatre pieces which have integrated digital media and computer generated projections built into performances have a long historical lineage that stretches back to over a hundred years ago to an experiment that was conducted by Loie Fuller. Fuller was the first modern dance choreographer to try out and to use new technology within her performance work. In 1911, Fuller, a dancer, conducted an experiment where she used film footage and projected it onto diaphanous robes. In the performance, as Fuller danced the robes in which she was wearing became a sort of ‘screen’ where multi – coloured lights were projected upon it. This was one of the first pieces of theatre where film footage was integrated into becoming a part of a live theatre performance.\n\nFrom the early 1960s, computer generated imagery had then began to emerge as a distinctive art form, and in John Whitney’s film Catalog (1961) viewers witnessed one of films’ first ever uses of computer transformations. Although digital arts had been developing since the 1960s, in the 1990s computer technologies had become much more accessible to artists which then led to a large increase in the digital performance activity. It was during this time that computer hardware was built to become much more “user – friendly” and we then witnessed the invention of the digital camera and the home PC’s (Personal Computer) and the establishment of the World Wide Web. It was during this period of time which would then go on to be known as being the ‘Digital Revolution’. During the period of the ‘Digital Revolution’ there was a great influence on the aesthetics, creation and culture of the performance arts; this had a significant effect on the process for film and television production to the creative writing and the visual and performance arts.\n\nFrom 1970 there was a period of time of when theatrical experimentation elevated the visual over the verbal; there was a proliferation in the use of media projections in theatre, dance and performance art, using both screens and video monitors. With the ease of using these video technologies more and more artists began to play around with the possibilities of integrating visual media within their live performance work. The use of media technology including the likes of film, video and sound equipment became some of the main characteristics for the experimental theatre, and some of the most noted performance artists of this time were creating work by incorporating video and film footage into their theatre productions. By the 1990s multimedia and computer technologies had widely become a part of everyday life. In live multimedia theatre: the projection screens or video monitor frame additional space, in two dimensions. Media screens are able to provide a uniquely flexible space, unlike the fixed point of view in which a traditional theatre provides to the members of the audience. Moving towards the end of the twentieth century digital computer technologies have become increasingly more ubiquitous.\n\nAs digital media has now become more and more popular over the years, the perception of digital images and videos now are now lacking in legitimacy as these technologies have gradually intensified over the past few years. Digital performance is an expansion of a constantly progressing history of which embracing the adaptation of these new and already existing technologies, in which to amplify a performance and the visual art aesthetic effect, and to create the sense of a spectacle as well as capturing the emotional and the sensorial impact.\n\nVideo conferencing is also a part of digital performance, some theatre companies (such as ‘The Gertrude Stein Repertory Theatre’ and ‘Kunstwerk-Blend’) introduced this into their productions to bring different performers from different locations together live on stage to create a lively new brand of digital performance. The Internet is used as a base for these productions with text-based online environments such as MUDs and MOOs as well as the use of webcams and webcasts. They all created new forms to come under the live and interactive performance area. With the ongoing increase of internet users more and more people are made accessible to these software’s therefore more and more artists are experimenting and devising performances using computer technologies which them branches out and raises the number of digital performances and productions.\n\nAnother case of what is under the title of digital performance is dance productions, using software and computer techniques such as advanced animation and motion capturing. You can project images of your virtual dancers made on to the stage. As you are using computer techniques and software to project on to a stage, which has a live audience the performance/production, then becomes digital due to the elements involved. Software that is highly involved with digital performance is custom-made motion sensing; this software allows you to control images, avatars, sounds and lighting live on stage. This is important for today’s artists and audiences, as audiences are looking for something new and memorable. Artists are equally looking to create something new that will grab audiences, this software allows this to happen as you can experiment and change as much as you like live.\n\nCommunication through the Internet has been classed as a type of digital performance as it has been theorized as a type of virtual performance of the self. As this is so, people have already stated digital performance as being everywhere, which has led to digital performance being modernized itself. It has been noted as incorporating the elements of electronics in everyday life through the communicational and production elements.\n\nSome strands of performing have always been seen as multimedia forms such as theatre, dance and performance art. Dance involves an intimate relationship with music for a start. All three of the above are involved with visual aspects such as sets, props, lighting and costume which are all a part of the production to enhance the body/bodies in a space. Using such aspects makes the performance become multimedia and that is becoming more advanced with the new techniques that computers are upgrading to therefore making digital performance a strong and popular area to study.\n"}
{"id": "11226549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11226549", "title": "Domestic drama", "text": "Domestic drama\n\nDomestic drama expresses and focuses on the realistic everyday lives of middle or lower classes in a certain society, generally referring to the post-Renaissance eras. According to the \"English Communications Syllabus\", domestic drama refers to a dramatic story containing an emphasis on its “characters' intimate relationships and their responses to [the] unfolding events in their lives.” The characters, their lives, and the events that occur within the show are usually classified as 'ordinary' events, lives, and characters, but this does not limit the extent of what domestic drama can represent. Domestic drama does, however, take the approach in which it “concerns people much like ourselves, taken from the lower and middle classes of society, who struggle with everyday problems such as poverty, sickness, crime, and family strife.” \n\nDomestic is derived from the Latin domus, or home. The word domestic is defined as “of or relating to the household.” Drama receives the definition of “A prose or verse composition, especially one telling a serious story, that is intended for representation by actors impersonating the characters and performing the dialogue and action,” and it is derived from the Greek word drao, to act or to take action. The combination of both domestic and drama provides a literal translation of “a serious story relating to the household,” clearly a synonymous definition to the given definition provided by the English Communications Syllab\n\nDramatic works have nearly always contained a sense of domestic drama within its fundamental plot line. Even in the early ages of Greek drama, there has been a sense of ordinary people's struggles with their lives (though this cannot be classified as domestic drama due to the incorporation of the Greek gods interfering with the common people and the enabling of the common people to have “godlike” attributes). Medieval theatre tended to express religious themes within their shows with miracles and the creation of morality plays, in which the shows were used as religious allegories. Though not yet emphasizing the ordinary lives, the development of dramatic works is slowly working towards more realistic plot lines, one of the essential elements in domestic drama.\nRenaissance theatre marks the arrival of pastoral drama, drama referring to the relationships of the rustics. Though this describes the events of 'ordinary people', the shows tended to stretch realism, focussed mainly on the romantic relationships of the rustics, and were decorated with an emphasis on the comedic aspect of theater. Pastoral drama was considered to be more successful than the traditional comedies and tragedies, enforcing the further development into domestic drama.\n\nDrama in the late seventeenth century consisted of neoclassical comedies focusing on the comedic relationships within the upper classes. This era also consisted of the Restoration drama and placed an emphasis on the usage of poetic language, “sensational incidents, and epic personages” within the show. These styles of shows are not considered domestic dramas because they focus on the relationships of the higher classes, as opposed to the middle or lower classes. This further develops into domestic drama as the plot lines become more realistic and centered around characters' relationships and their actions towards each other.\n\nThe eighteenth century marks the arrival of domestic drama as the shows start focusing on the problems of the ordinary people. The early eighteenth century playwrights used domestic drama to express the “trend toward sentimental bourgeois realism.” These new domestic dramas also incorporated realistic comedies of fairly sophisticated characterizations [with] middle-class morality. These early domestic dramas are classified as part of the Romantic era of all types of arts.\n\nNineteenth century drama took the complete step in incorporating realism into drama, thus resulting in more serious and philosophical drama. Characters and settings gradually developed into the realistic truths of the current society. Along with realism was naturalism: “selective realism emphasizing the more sordid and pessimistic aspects of life.” This movement of combined realism and naturalism gave way to the “slice-of-life” shows commonly synonymous with domestic drama. One outstanding playwright of this era was Henrik Ibsen of Norway. His frequent usage of realism within his shows “brought to a climax the realistic movement of the nineteenth century and also served as a bridge to twentieth century symbolism.” Ibsen used middle-class characters dealing with his complex plots and “surpassed other such works” of his time. Playwrights such as Ibsen have drawn much attention to domestic drama and have brought this method to its high significant stature in modern theatrical works.\n\nThe twentieth century introduced symbolism into the makings of domestic dramas, ultimately causing variations within domestic drama. Early twentieth century shows incorporated such psychological devices as “minimal scenery, telegraphic dialogue, talking machines, and characters portrayed as types rather than individuals.” Domestic drama suddenly became a combination of naturalism, expressionism, symbolism, and commonly used psychological affairs. The classification of domestic dramas became unclear as shows challenged new ideas and created a difficulty in determining the illusions and realism of a show.\n\nModern dramas usually revolve around psychological, social, and political affairs, all of which seem to have their roots in domestic drama. Modern works also use interpretive ideas, such as “distinctive voice and vision, stark settings, austere language in spare dialog, meaningful silences, the projection of a powerful streak of menace, and outbursts of real or implied violence.” The utensils of dramatic works have greatly expanded, but all still carry the roots of domestic drama. Domestic drama also carries the implications of current affairs with society: such as civil rights, feminism, and current political and sociological disputes. Current domestic drama itself tends to express the “war-at-home” style of theater, whereas twentieth century domestic drama could be classified as experimental theater or symbolic theater.\n\nDomestic drama tends to appeal to the audience because most of the audience can relate to the events within a domestic drama. The audience is appealed to this style of drama in four ways: empathy, humor, suspense, and resolution of the issues. This group of spectators can empathize with the domestic drama at hand because the domestic drama touches incidents that are common to the 'ordinary' people. Many playwright use the audience's empathy to manipulate the proposed expression of the show. David Williamson's “Brilliant Lies” uses “domestic unit battling” to create sympathy from the audience as they are confronted with the issue.\nHumor provides the entertainment value within a domestic drama as these usually touch base with serious matters. The entertainment value of a show keeps the people engaged without having to continually use serious turns of events in order to maintain an audience's interest.\nSuspense provides “dramatic irony” as the audience indulges itself within the characters' situation and privacy of their backgrounds. Suspense is used in a domestic drama in order for the audience to react with the characters of the show. This “[positions] the audience to feel privileged and therefore involved with the unfolding drama.”\nAs in all shows, an audience expects a resolution to the conflict within a show. Domestic dramas drive the show to its resolution to keep the audience desiring to reach the climax. Domestic dramas use such a technique that is very similar to the style of modern soap operas.\n\nThe text of a domestic drama follows a specific guideline in order to stay within this genre: subject, structure, and language. By deviating from this guideline too excessively, the classification as a domestic drama becomes problematic.\nThe subject of a domestic drama must be that of the 'ordinary' people. The audience (generally 'ordinary') needs to connect with the characters of the domestic drama, and the plot must the following the “domestic sphere” of “traditional families, urban family units, or domestic households.” The subject of the domestic drama could also imply to relationships at a workplace as this does relate to the 'ordinary' events of 'ordinary' people. The subjects of concern could vastly range from poverty to family strife, from civil rights to economic injustices. Due to the audience relationship with the material of the domestic drama, most domestic dramas are most successful in the society in which the plot is direct towards because the audience is most familiar with the culture of the show.\nDomestic dramas follow a fairly linear structure and generally have a sort of patriarchal figure as a representative of the family. This patriarchal figure provides the guidelines of the everyday nature of the subjects of the show. Confrontations with the patriarchal figure are also a common structure within domestic dramas.\nThe language used in a domestic drama generally relates with the 'ordinary' subjects of a show to reinforce the “realistic impression” of the show onto and audience. The usage of a specific language enables a specific audience to further connect with the subjects of the domestic drama as language is an “intimate personal way of communicating.”\n\nTheater has been commonly used as a public expression of the humanitarian affairs of a certain era. From the seventeenth to the nineteenth era, drama expressed the ideals of the caste and court system, with nobility on high and rustics down low. This expression gave way to the public in order to see and understand how this system was to work within their society. Some might say that theater has played a very important role in the shaping of societies when used in this way. Nineteenth century induced the importance of the middle-class within drama and introduced the role of the bourgeois and the usage of aristocratic entertainment. The political aspects of a certain era were inevitably present within these shows, especially shows leading towards domestic drama. Theater was considered to have “good [socially] position” characters against the immoral acts of society, usually a sort of infringement against a certain code of behavior. Theater was the way to explain the rights and wrongs of a certain lifestyle in a society, especially if the characters were of the 'ordinary' people so that the audience could relate with the characters. Modern drama changed this aspect of theater as it was not directed towards any one class in society, but rather the collaboration of the artistic aspects within these classes. Such a combination created much difficulty in domestic drama as domestic drama appeals to a specific class.\n\n"}
{"id": "323696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323696", "title": "Dwarf-tossing", "text": "Dwarf-tossing\n\nDwarf-tossing, or midget-tossing, is a pub/bar attraction in which people with dwarfism, wearing special padded clothing or Velcro costumes, are thrown onto mattresses or at Velcro-coated walls. Participants compete to throw the dwarf the farthest. A related formerly practiced activity was dwarf-bowling, in which a person with dwarfism was placed on a skateboard and used as a bowling ball. Dwarf Tossing was started in Australia as a form of Pub entertainment in the early 1980s.\n\nCommonly thought of as the place where dwarf tossing originated. Laws may prohibit dwarf tossing implicitly, but there are not explicit laws preventing a consenting dwarf from being 'tossed'.\n\nIn Ontario, Canada, the Dwarf Tossing Ban Act was introduced in 2003 by Windsor West MPP Sandra Pupatello. This private member's public bill did not proceed beyond its introduction to second or third readings, nor did it receive royal assent, and therefore died at the close of the 37th Legislature. The bill proposed a fine of not more than $5,000, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both. The bill was hastily advanced in response to a dwarf-tossing contest that was held at Leopard's Lounge in Windsor, Ontario with a dwarf nicknamed \"Tripod\".\n\nThe mayor of the small French town of Morsang-sur-Orge prohibited dwarf-tossing. The case went through the appeal chain of administrative courts to the \"Conseil d'État\", which found that an administrative authority could legally prohibit dwarf-tossing on grounds that the activity did not respect human dignity and was thus contrary to public order. The question raised legal questions as to what was admissible as a motive for an administrative authority to ban an activity for motives of public order, especially as the \"conseil\" did not want to include \"public morality\" in public order. The ruling was taken by the full assembly and not a smaller panel—proof of the difficulty of the question. The \"conseil\" ruled similarly in another case between an entertainment company and the city of Aix-en-Provence.\n\nThe United Nations Human Rights Committee decided on July 26, 2002, that the ban was not discriminatory with respect to dwarfs. It ruled that the ban could be considered as \"necessary to protect public order, which brings into play considerations of human dignity\".\n\nNevertheless, dwarf-tossing is not prohibited outright in France. The \"Conseil d'État\" decided that a public authority could use gross infringement on human dignity as a motive of public order to cancel a spectacle, and that dwarf-tossing constituted such a gross infringement. However, it is up to individual authorities to make specific decisions regarding prohibition.\n\nRobert and Angela Van Etten, Florida members of the Little People of America, convinced the state's legislators in 1989 that dwarf-tossing be made illegal. A measure banning dwarf-tossing was passed by a wide margin. New York later followed suit.\n\nIn 2001, Dave Flood, who appeared on the MJ Morning Show as \"Dave the Dwarf,\" filed a lawsuit seeking to overturn the 1989 law allowing the state to fine or revoke the liquor license of a bar that allows dwarf-tossing. The pastime was popular in some Florida bars in the late 1980s.\n\nIn October 2011, Ritch Workman introduced legislation that would overturn the ban on dwarf-tossing, claiming such a ban to be an \"unnecessary burden on the freedom and liberties of people\" and \"an example of Big Brother government\". Although not a personal advocate of the activity, Workman stated \"if a little person wants to make a fool out of themselves for money, they should have the same right to do so as any average sized person\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "795780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795780", "title": "Ethos", "text": "Ethos\n\nEthos ( or ) is a Greek word meaning \"character\" that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence emotions, behaviours, and even morals. Early Greek stories of Orpheus exhibit this idea in a compelling way. The word's use in rhetoric is closely based on the Greek terminology used by Aristotle in his concept of the three artistic proofs or modes of persuasion.\n\n\"Ethos\" (, ; \"plurals:\" \"ethe\", ; \"ethea\", ) is a Greek word originally meaning \"accustomed place\" (as in \"the habitats of horses\", \"Iliad\" 6.511, 15.268), \"custom, habit\", equivalent to Latin \"mores\".\n\n\"Ethos\" forms the root of \"ethikos\" (), meaning \"moral, showing moral character\". As an adjective in the neuter plural form \"ta ethika\" (), used for the study of morals, it is the origin of the modern English word \"ethics\".\n\nIn modern usage, ethos denotes the disposition, character, or fundamental values particular to a specific person, people, corporation, culture, or movement. For example, the poet and critic T. S. Eliot wrote in 1940 that \"the general ethos of the people they have to govern determines the behaviour of politicians\". Similarly the historian Orlando Figes wrote in 1996 that in Soviet Russia of the 1920s \"the ethos of the Communist party dominated every aspect of public life\".\nEthos may change in response to new ideas or forces. For example, according to the Jewish historian Afrie Krampf, ideas of economic modernization which were imported into Palestine in the 1930s brought about \"the abandonment of the agrarian ethos and the reception of...the ethos of rapid development\".\n\nIn rhetoric, ethos is one of the three artistic proofs (\"pistis\", πίστις) or modes of persuasion (other principles being \"logos\" and \"pathos\") discussed by Aristotle in 'Rhetoric' as a component of argument. Speakers must establish ethos from the start. This can involve \"moral competence\" only; Aristotle however broadens the concept to include expertise and knowledge. Ethos is limited, in his view, by what the speaker says. Others however contend that a speaker's ethos extends to and is shaped by the overall moral character and history of the speaker—that is, what people think of his or her character before the speech has even begun (cf Isocrates).\n\nAccording to Aristotle, there are three categories of ethos:\n\n\nIn a sense, ethos does not belong to the speaker but to the audience. Thus, it is the audience that determines whether a speaker is a high- or a low-ethos speaker. Violations of ethos include:\n\n\nCompletely dismissing an argument based on any of the above violations of ethos is an informal fallacy (Appeal to motive). The argument may indeed be suspect; but is not, in itself, invalid.\n\nFor Aristotle, a speaker's ethos was a rhetorical strategy employed by an orator whose purpose was to \"inspire trust in his audience\" (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). \"Ethos\" was therefore achieved through the orator's \"good sense, good moral character, and goodwill\", and central to Aristotelian virtue ethics was the notion that this \"good moral character\" was increased in virtuous degree by habit (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). Aristotle links virtue, habituation, and \"ethos\" most succinctly in Book II of \"Nichomachean Ethics\": \"Virtue, then, being of two kinds, intellectual and moral, intellectual virtue in the main owes both its birth and its growth to teaching [...] while moral virtue comes about as a result of habit, whence also its name \"ethike\" is one that is formed by a slight variation from the word \"ethos\" (habit)\" (952). Discussing women and rhetoric, scholar Karlyn Kohrs Campbell notes that entering the public sphere was considered an act of moral transgression for females of the nineteenth century: \"Women who formed moral reform and abolitionist societies, and who made speeches, held conventions, and published newspapers, entered the public sphere and thereby lost their claims to purity and piety\" (13). Crafting an ethos within such restrictive moral codes, therefore, meant adhering to membership of what Nancy Fraser and Michael Warner have theorized as counterpublics. While Warner contends that members of counterpublics are afforded little opportunity to join the dominant public and therefore exert true agency, Nancy Fraser has problematized Habermas's conception of the public sphere as a dominant \"social totality\" by theorizing \"subaltern counterpublics\", which function as alternative publics that represent \"parallel discursive arenas where members of subordinated social groups invent and circulate counterdiscourses, which in turn permit them to formulate oppositional interpretations of their identities, interests, and needs\" (67).\n\nThough feminist rhetorical theorists have begun to offer more nuanced ways to conceive of ethos, they remain cognizant of how these classical associations have shaped and still do shape women's use of the rhetorical tool. Johanna Schmertz draws on Aristotelian ethos to reinterpret the term alongside feminist theories of subjectivity, writing that, \"Instead of following a tradition that, it seems to me, reads ethos somewhat in the manner of an Aristotelian quality proper to the speaker's identity, a quality capable of being deployed as needed to fit a rhetorical situation, I will ask how ethos may be dislodged from identity and read in such a way as to multiply the positions from which women may speak\" (83). Rhetorical scholar and professor Kate Ronald's claim that \"ethos is the appeal residing in the tension between the speaker's private and public self\", (39) also presents a more postmodern view of ethos that links credibility and identity. Similarly, Nedra Reynolds and Susan Jarratt echo this view of ethos as a fluid and dynamic set of identifications, arguing that \"these split selves are guises, but they are not distortions or lies in the philosopher's sense. Rather they are 'deceptions' in the sophistic sense: recognitions of the ways one is positioned multiply differently\" (56).\n\nRhetorical scholar Michael Halloran has argued that the classical understanding of ethos \"emphasizes the conventional rather than the idiosyncratic, the public rather than the private\" (60). Commenting further on the classical etymology and understanding of \"ethos\", Halloran illuminates the interdependence between \"ethos\" and cultural context by arguing that \"To have ethos is to manifest the virtues most valued by the culture to and for which one speaks\" (60). While scholars do not all agree on the dominant sphere in which ethos may be crafted, some agree that ethos is formed through the negotiation between private experience and the public, rhetorical act of self-expression. Karen Burke LeFevre's argument in \"Invention as Social Act\" situates this negotiation between the private and the public, writing that ethos \"appears in that socially created space, in the 'between', the point of intersection between speaker or writer and listener or reader\" (45-46).\n\nAccording to Nedra Reynolds, \"ethos, like postmodern subjectivity, shifts and changes over time, across texts, and around competing spaces\" (336). However, Reynolds additionally discusses how one might clarify the meaning of ethos within rhetoric as expressing inherently communal roots. This stands in direct opposition to what she describes as the claim \"that ethos can be faked or 'manipulated'\" because individuals would be formed by the values of their culture and not the other way around (336). Rhetorical scholar John Oddo also suggests that ethos is negotiated across a community, and not simply a manifestation of the self (47). In the era of mass-mediated communication, Oddo contends, one's ethos is often created by journalists and dispersed over multiple news texts. With this in mind, Oddo coins the term intertextual ethos, the notion that a public figure's \"ethos is constituted within and across a range of mass media voices\" (48).\n\nIn \"Black Women Writers and the Trouble with Ethos\", scholar Coretta Pittman notes that race has been generally absent from theories of ethos construction, and that this concept is troubling for black women. Pittman writes, \"Unfortunately, in the history of race relations in America, black Americans' ethos ranks low among other racial and ethnic groups in the United States. More often than not, their moral characters have been associated with a criminalized and sexualized ethos in visual and print culture\" (43).\n\nThe ways in which characters were constructed is important when considering ethos, or character, in Greek tragedy. Augustus Taber Murray explains that the depiction of a character was limited by the circumstances under which Greek tragedies were presented. These include the single unchanging scene, necessary use of the chorus, small number of characters limiting interaction, large outdoor theatres, and the use of masks, which all influenced characters to be more formal and simple. Murray also declares that the inherent characteristics of Greek tragedies are important in the makeup of the characters. One of these is the fact that tragedy characters were nearly always mythical characters. This limited the character, as well as the plot, to the already well-known myth from which the material of the play was taken. The other characteristic is the relatively short length of most Greek plays. This limited the scope of the play and characterization, so that the characters were defined by one overriding motivation toward a certain objective from the beginning of the play.\n\nHowever, Murray clarifies that strict constancy is not always the rule in Greek tragedy characters. To support this, he points out the example of Antigone who, even though she strongly defies Creon in the beginning of the play, begins to doubt her cause and plead for mercy as she is led to her execution.\n\nSeveral other aspects of the character element in ancient Greek tragedy are worth noting. One of these, which C. Garton discusses, is the fact that either because of contradictory action or incomplete description, the character cannot be viewed as an individual, or the reader is left confused about the character. One method of reconciling this would be to consider these characters to be flat, or type-caste, instead of round. This would mean that most of the information about the character centers around one main quality or viewpoint. Comparable to the flat character option, the reader could also view the character as a symbol. Examples of this might be the Eumenides as vengeance, or Clytemnestra as symbolizing ancestral curse. Yet another means of looking at character, according to Tycho von Wilamowitz and Howald, is the idea that characterisation is not important. This idea is maintained by the theory that the play is meant to affect the viewer or reader scene by scene, with attention being only focused on the section at hand. This point of view also holds that the different figures in a play are only characterised by the situation surrounding them, and only enough so that their actions can be understood.\n\nGaret makes three more observations about character in Greek tragedy. The first is an abundant variety of types of characters in Greek tragedy. His second observation is that the reader or viewer's need for characters to display a unified identity that is similar to human nature is usually fulfilled. Thirdly, characters in tragedies include incongruities and idiosyncrasies.\n\nAnother aspect stated by Garet is that tragedy plays are composed of language, character, and action, and the interactions of these three components; these are fused together throughout the play. He explains that action normally determines the major means of characterisation. Another principle he states is the importance of these three components' effect on each other; the important repercussion of this being character's impact on action.\n\nAugustus Taber Murray also examines the importance and degree of interaction between plot and character. He does this by discussing Aristotle's statements about plot and character in his Poetics: that plot can exist without character, but character cannot exist without plot, and so character is secondary to plot. Murray maintains that Aristotle did not mean that complicated plot should hold the highest place in a tragedy play. This is because the plot was, more often than not, simple and therefore not a major point of tragic interest. Murray conjectures that people today do not accept Aristotle's statement about character and plot because to modern people, the most memorable things about tragedy plays are often the characters. However, Murray does concede that Aristotle is correct in that \"[t]here can be no portrayal of character [...] without at least a skeleton outline of plot\".\n\nEthos, or character, also appears in the visual art of famous or mythological ancient Greek events in murals, on pottery, and sculpture, referred to generally as pictorial narrative. Aristotle even praised the ancient Greek painter Polygnotos because his paintings included characterization. The way in which the subject and his actions are portrayed in visual art can convey the subject's ethical character and through this the work's overall theme, just as effectively as poetry or drama can. This characterisation portrayed men as they ought to be, which is the same as Aristotle's idea of what ethos or character should be in tragedy. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 178) Professor Mark D. Stansbury-O'Donnell states that pictorial narratives often had ethos as its focus, and was therefore concerned with showing the character's moral choices. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 175) David Castriota, agreeing with Stansbury-O'Donnell's statement, says that the main way Aristotle considered poetry and visual arts to be on equal levels was in character representation and its effect on action. However, Castriota also maintains about Aristotle's opinion that \"his interest has to do with the influence that such ethical representation may exert upon the public\". Castriota also explains that according to Aristotle, \"[t]he activity of these artists is to be judged worthy and useful above all because exposure of their work is beneficial to the polis\". Accordingly, this was the reason for the representation of character, or ethos, in public paintings and sculptures. In order to portray the character's choice, the pictorial narrative often shows an earlier scene than when the action was committed. Stansbury-O'Donnell gives an example of this in the form of a picture by the ancient Greek artist Exekia which shows the Greek hero Ajax planting his sword in the ground in preparation to commit suicide, instead of the actual suicide scene. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 177.) Additionally, Castriota explains that ancient Greek art expresses the idea that character was the major factor influencing the outcome of the Greeks' conflicts against their enemies. Because of this, \"ethos was the essential variable in the equation or analogy between myth and actuality\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "627360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627360", "title": "Fab Morvan", "text": "Fab Morvan\n\nFabrice Morvan (born 14 May 1966) is a French singer-songwriter, dancer and model. He was half of the pop duo Milli Vanilli, with Rob Pilatus, selling multi-platinum albums around the world. However, he was later involved in one of the largest scandals in pop music history when it was revealed that neither he nor Pilatus had actually sung on any of Milli Vanilli's recordings. After the scandal, the group reformed as Rob & Fab in the 1990s with limited success. Morvan had a solo comeback in the 2000s releasing his first solo album, \"Love Revolution\".\n\nMorvan was born in 1966 in Paris, France, to parents from Guadeloupe. At 18, he moved to Germany, where he was a dancer and model, and was influenced by funk, soul, hip hop and pop. He met Rob Pilatus in a nightclub in Munich. They decided to form a rock/soul group.\n\nMorvan and Pilatus were noticed by music producer Frank Farian, who signed them as part of a musical act. Shortly after a trip to Turkey, where they reputedly got the band's name from a local advertising slogan, Milli Vanilli was born. Morvan and Pilatus served as the public faces for singers Charles Shaw, John Davis, and Brad Howell, who Farian thought were talented musicians but lacked a marketable image.\n\nThe first Milli Vanilli album was \"Girl You Know It's True\". Despite critical derision, Milli Vanilli's fame continued to grow worldwide. The album had four hit singles: the title track, and the group's three #1 hits, \"Girl I'm Gonna Miss You\", \"Baby Don't Forget My Number\", and \"Blame It on the Rain\". Milli Vanilli won the Grammy Award for Best New Artist on 22 February 1990 for \"Girl You Know It's True\".\n\nMorvan and Pilatus were a frequent target of rumours and allegations of on-stage lip-synching and not having sung on the album. Shaw told a reporter the truth about Milli Vanilli, but recanted after Farian paid him $150,000 to do so .\n\nWhen Morvan and Pilatus pressured Farian to let them sing on the next album, Farian admitted to reporters on 15 November 1990 that Morvan and Pilatus had not actually sung on any of the records. As a result, Milli Vanilli's Grammy was withdrawn four days later and Arista Records dropped the act from its roster and deleted their album and its masters from their catalog, thus making \"Girl You Know It's True\" one of the largest-selling albums to ever be taken out of print. A court allowed any American who bought the album to get a refund.\n\nFarian would later attempt a failed comeback for the group without Morvan and Pilatus.\n\nMonths later, Morvan and Pilatus parodied the scandal in a commercial for Carefree sugarless gum. They began to lip sync to an opera recording. An announcer asked as they were lip synching, \"How long does the taste of Carefree sugarless gum last?\" The record then began to skip and the announcer answers, \"Until these guys sing for themselves.\"\n\nThey then moved to Los Angeles, where they released an eponymous album under the name \"Rob & Fab\". Despite positive reviews from critics, the album failed due to financial constraints, poor promotion, and the scandal surrounding Milli Vanilli's lip-synching allegations. The album itself only sold around 2,000 copies.\n\nPilatus later served three months jail for assault, vandalism, and attempted robbery. He spent six months on drug rehabilitation before returning to Germany. He died of an alcohol and prescription drug overdose at a hotel in Frankfurt on 2 April 1998.\n\nMorvan spent several years as a session musician and public speaker. In 1998, he was hired as a radio DJ at famed L.A. radio station KIIS-FM. During this time, he also performed at the station's sold-out 1999 Wango Tango festival concert before 50,000 people at Dodger Stadium.\n\nIn 1997, Morvan was interviewed for the premiere episode of VH-1's \"Behind the Music\". He was also featured in a 2000 BBC documentary on Milli Vanilli. Morvan then spent 2001 on tour, before performing in 2002 as the inaugural performer at the brand-new Velvet Lounge at the Hard Rock Café Hotel in Orlando, Florida.\n\nIn 2003, Morvan released his first solo album, \"Love Revolution\", producing, recording, writing and singing all the tracks. On 14 April 2011, Morvan released a new single, \"Anytime\", to digital outlets.\n\nOn 25 May 2012, Morvan released a single, \"See the Light\" with a new band, Fabulous Addiction.\n\nIn March 2014, it was mentioned that Morvan was working on his next single in Los Angeles with Grammy-winning viral producer Clarence Jey and Grammy-winning singer Delious Kennedy from U.S. R&B group All-4-One.\n\nMorvan also DJs for private Heineken functions at the Heineken Experience center in Amsterdam. As a solo musician, Morvan has worked with several DJ/producers including Don Diablo, Guy J, Dance Spirit, Desert Minds, DJ Prinz, Patrick BP Bruyndonx, MuziJunki, Sean McCaff, Limoncello, Guan Elmzoom, and has collaborated on well-received dance releases with several. Some of his other pursuits include writing, painting and fashion design.\n\nOn 14 February 2007, it was announced that Universal Pictures was developing a film based on the true story of Milli Vanilli's rise and fall in the music industry. Jeff Nathanson, screenwriter from \"Catch Me If You Can\", was to write and direct the film. Morvan was supposed to serve as a consultant, providing his and Pilatus' point of view. However, the project was never completed. In 2011 German director Florian Gallenberger declared that he was reviving the project and would be rewriting the script.\n\nOn 26 March 2007, the Milli Vanilli \"Best of the Best\" album was released.\n\nMorvan now resides in Amsterdam and Los Angeles as of 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5115704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5115704", "title": "Hell Drivers", "text": "Hell Drivers\n\nHell Drivers - numerous automobile thrill-based productions performing at fairs and racetracks by various squads of stunt drivers since the 1930s. Earl \"Lucky\" Teter was the first to coin the phrase \"Hell Drivers\", when he began touring his show in 1934. Hell Drivers provided audiences with a show filled with precision driving and deliberate crashes. \n\nFeatured stunts included driving cars on two wheels, crashing through flaming barricades, and jumping an automobile ramp to ramp through mid air. For many years, Hell Drivers were used to demonstrate the dependability of a manufacturer's automotive product. Major Hell Driver automotive sponsors have included Chevrolet, Dodge, Chrysler, Ford, AMC, Nash, and Toyota.\n\nLater thrill shows coining the phrase \"Hell Drivers\" were launched by such drivers and race promoters as Jack Kochman, John Francis \"Irish\" Horan, Danny Fleenor, Geoff Williams and Joie Chitwood. Chitwood bought Teter's Hell Drivers from Teter's widow after Teter was killed in a jump in 1943. Ford Motor Company supplied cars and financed Chitwood for several years until the mid 50's when Chitwood switched to Chevrolet after unsuccessfully trying Plymouth for a year. \n\nGeneral Manager of Kochman's troupe was Bob Conto. Conto, a native of Malone, New York in the state's North Country was a former radio-television announcer whose staccato delivery kept pace with the 50-mile per hour events.\n\nThe Danish city of Aalborg is known internationally as the world's centre of Hell Drivers\n\nCurrently, the only traditional new-car stunt show in the United States is the Black Cat Hell Drivers, produced by Johnny Wisner.\n\nThere is a current documentary produced by filmmaker Dan T. Hall and Vizmo Films about the life and times of Lucky Teter.\n"}
{"id": "24506048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24506048", "title": "Hype man", "text": "Hype man\n\nA hype man, in hip hop music and rapping, is a backup rapper and/or singer who supports the primary rappers with exclamations and interjections and who attempts to increase the audience's excitement with call-and-response chants. Music writer Mickey Hess expands the term as follows: \"a hype man is a figure who plays a central but supporting role within a group, making his own interventions, generally aimed at hyping up the crowd while also drawing attention to the words of the MC\".\n\nDiscussing the role of the hype man in the book \"How to Rap\", Royce da 5'9\" describes how a hype man can contribute to a live performance: \"a lot of my verses [can] be so constant with the flow [that] I'd need somebody to help me.\" Lateef has stated, \"You're gonna have to have somebody say something somewhere to give you a breath... usually it's just a matter of getting somebody to hit some line or some word in a line—that's all you really need.\"\n\nEarly hip hop hype men included Cowboy and Creole of Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five. Kool Moe Dee calls Creole “the original hype man”.\n\nThe quintessential hype man, for many fans and musicians of the era, was Public Enemy's hype man Flavor Flav, whose exuberant approach to the art in the group's recordings and videos made him, arguably, the first household-name hype man, a figure more famous than many MCs. He established many of the conventions of the craft, such as an outlandish sense of style (epitomized by his wearing of large clocks around his neck) and a vocal style that contrasted dramatically with that of the MC (his rasping high voice was a counterpoint to Chuck D's booming baritone).\n\nJay-Z began his career as a hype man for Jaz-O and was later the hype man for Big Daddy Kane.\n\nExamples of hype men include Freaky Tah of the Lost Boyz, Memphis Bleek for Jay-Z, and Proof and Mr. Porter of D12 for Eminem. \"Icons of Hip Hop\" also notes that some producers, such as Diddy, Lil Jon, Swizz Beatz, and Jermaine Dupri, \"have transitioned from a hype man role to become rappers and stars in their own right\".\n\nOccasionally pop groups include a member up front alongside the lead singer who may perform backup vocals or percussion but largely functions to excite the audience through dancing and/or stage patter. Examples include Bob Nastanovich for Pavement and Guy Picciotto for Fugazi.\n"}
{"id": "2653158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2653158", "title": "Kuso", "text": "Kuso\n\nKuso is the term used in East Asia for the internet culture that generally includes all types of camp and parody. In Japanese, means \"crap\" or \"shit\" and \"bullshit\", and is often uttered as an interjection. It is also used to describe outrageous matters and objects of poor quality. This definition of kuso was brought into Taiwan around 2000 by young people who frequently visited Japanese websites and quickly became an internet phenomenon, spreading to Taiwan and Hong Kong and subsequently to the rest of China. \n\nIn Chinese kuso is called \"e'gao\" (S: 恶搞, T: 惡搞, P: \"ègǎo\"), with the first character meaning \"evil\" or \"gross\" and the second meaning \"to make fun of [someone/something].\" In 2007 the word was so new that it was not listed in Chinese dictionaries.\nAccording to Christopher Rea, \"E’gao, the main buzzword associated with online Chinese parody, literally means “evil doings” or “malicious manipulation”\"; he notes that e'gao's \"semantic associations [to kuso] can be misleading, however, since e’gao is not fundamentally scatological—or even, as the Chinese term might suggest, malicious. In its broad usage, it may be applied to parody of any stripe, from fan tribute-mimicry to withering mockery. In a more restricted sense, it refers the practice of digitally manipulating mass culture products to comic effect and circulating them via the internet. The term e’gao may thus be interpreted in multiple senses, as it denotes variously a genre, a mode, a practice, an ethos and a culture.\"\n\nThe root of Taiwanese \"kuso\" was \"kuso-ge\" from Japan. The word \"kusoge\" is a clipped compound of \"kuso\" and \"gēmu\" (ゲーム, game), which means, quite literally, \"crappy (video) games.\" The introduction of such a category originally was to teach gamers how to appreciate and enjoy a game of poor quality—such as appreciating the games' outrageous flaws instead of becoming frustrated by them. This philosophy soon spread to Taiwan, where people would share the games and often satirical comments on BBSes. Games generally branded as kuso in Taiwan include \"Hong Kong 97\" and the \"Death Crimson\" series.\n\nBecause \"kuso-ge\"s were often unintentionally funny, soon the definition of kuso in Taiwan shifted to \"anything hilarious,\" and people started to brand anything outrageous and funny as kuso. Parodies, such as the Chinese robot Xianxingzhe ridiculed by a Japanese website, were marked as kuso. Mo lei tau films by Stephen Chow are often said to be kuso as well. The Cultural Revolution is often a subject of parody too, with songs such as \"I Love Beijing Tiananmen\" spread around the internet for laughs.\n\nSome, however, limit the definition of kuso to \"humour limited to those about Hong Kong comics or Japanese anime, manga, and games.\" Kuso by such definitions are primarily doujin or fanfiction. Fictional crossovers are common media for kuso, such as redrawing certain bishōjo anime in the style of \"Fist of the North Star\", or blending elements of two different items together. (For example, in \"Densha de D\", both \"Initial D\" and \"Densha de Go!\" are parodied, as Takumi races trains and drifts his railcar across multiple railway tracks.)\n\nIn China, earlier \"e gao\" works consisted of images edited in Adobe Photoshop. An example of this would be the Little Fatty internet meme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25733189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25733189", "title": "List of Royal Variety Performances", "text": "List of Royal Variety Performances\n\nThis is a list of Royal Variety Performances, gala evenings held annually in the United Kingdom, which are attended by senior members of the British Royal Family; initially this was always the reigning monarch(s) but in more recent years, the senior members attending have alternated between HM The Queen and HRH The Duke of Edinburgh, HM The Queen Mother, and HRH The Prince of Wales.\n\nWhere no town or city is noted in the venue column in the following table, it means that the venue is situated in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "6715404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6715404", "title": "List of members of the XRCO Hall of Fame", "text": "List of members of the XRCO Hall of Fame\n\nThe XRCO Hall of Fame lists some of the most notable adult entertainment works and workers. The list is managed by X-Rated Critics Organization and inducted annually during the XRCO Awards. The first XRCO Awards were presented in Hollywood on February 14, 1985. Inductees must have been industry members for at least ten years.\n\nMembers are listed in the order that they were inducted, with the year they were inducted, if known:\n\n\"This unique special-achievement award is given periodically by the XRCO to acknowledge companies or individuals who have gone the extra distance for the adult-film industry.\"\n"}
{"id": "8745590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8745590", "title": "Literary forgery", "text": "Literary forgery\n\nLiterary forgery (also known as literary mystification, literary fraud or literary hoax) is writing, such as a manuscript or a literary work, which is either deliberately misattributed to a historical or invented author, or is a purported memoir or other presumably nonfictional writing deceptively presented as true when, in fact, it presents untrue or imaginary information.\n\nLiterary forgery may involve the work of a famous author whose writings have an established intrinsic, as well as monetary, value. In an attempt to gain the rewards of such a reputation, the forger often engages in two distinct activities. The forger produces a writing which resembles the style of the known reputable author to whom the fake is to be attributed. The forger may also fake the physical alleged original manuscript. This is less common, as it requires a great deal of technical effort, such as imitating the ink and paper. The forger then claims that, not only is the style of writing the same, but also that the ink and paper are of the kind or type used by the famous author. Other common types of literary forgery may draw upon the potential historical cachet and novelty of a previously undiscovered author.\n\nLiterary forgery has a long history. Onomacritus (c. 530 – 480 BCE) is among the most ancient known literary forgers. He invented prophecies, which he ascribed to the bard Musaeus.\n\nIn the 3rd century CE, a certain Septimius produced what appeared to be a Latin translation of an eyewitness account to the Trojan War by Dictys of Crete. In the letter of dedication, the translator gave additional credence to the document by claiming the Greek original had come to light during Nero's reign when Dictys' tomb was opened by an earthquake and his diary was discovered. Septimius then claimed the original had been handed to the governor of Crete, Rutilius Rufus, who gave the diary to Nero during his tour of Greece in 66-67 CE. According to historian Miriam Griffin, such bogus and romantic claims to antiquity were not uncommon at the time.\n\nOne of the longest lasting literary forgeries is by Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite, a 5th-6th century Syrian mystical writer who claimed to be a disciple of Paul the Apostle. Five hundred years later, Abelard expressed doubts about the authorship, but it was not until after the Renaissance that there was general agreement that the attribution of the work was false. In the intervening 1,000 years, the writings had much theological influence.\n\nThomas Chatterton (1752–1770), the English poet and letter writer, began his brilliant medieval forgeries when little more than a child. While they brought him praise, and fame after his death, his writing afforded little in the way of financial success and he committed suicide aged 17, penniless, alone and half-starved.\n\nThe English Mercurie appeared to be the first English newspaper when it was discovered in 1794. This was, ostensibly, an account of the English battle with the Spanish Armada of 1588, but was, in fact, written in the 18th century by Philip Yorke, 2nd Earl of Hardwicke, as a literary game with his friends.\n\nLiterary forgery was promoted as a creative method by Charles Nodier and, in the 19th century, many writers produced literary forgeries under his influence, notably Prosper Merimee and Pierre Louys.\n\n\"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" was an antisemitic forged document first published in Russia. The abridged version was available to the public in 1903. The unabridged version was later edited by a retired officer of the Russian Imperial Guard, G.V. Butmi. This forgery exploits Jews by stating that Jews were inevitably trying to exercise a coup against Christianity in order to essentially rule the world. The document was exposed as plagiarism by English journalist Philip Graves in 1921. Graves exposed the strong similarities in the political satire by Maurice Joly, \"The Dialogue in Hell Between Machiavelli and Montesquieu\". The forged document was supported and promoted by Henry Ford in his newspaper, \"The Dearborn Independent\".\n\nThe genre of false and deceptive autobiography or fake memoirs has seen the rise of misery lit books, in which the author claims to have suffered illness, abuse, and/or drug abuse during his or her upbringing.\n\nStephen Longstreet, a prolific and popular novelist in the mid-20th century, referred to and eventually produced a manuscript called \"Nell Kimball: Her Life as an American Madam, by herself,\" allegedly penned by a prostitute who lived from (1854-1934) and worked in New Orleans. Additionally, the work was partly plagiarized from the works of Herbert Asbury. \n\nA recent example is \"Love and Consequences\" by Margaret B. Jones, the author's story about being a young American foster girl who was raised in a gangland culture in Los Angeles involving drugs, forced sex and criminality. The author, real name Margaret Seltzer, was exposed as a fraud by her elder sister: in reality, she has lived a middle-class life without trauma, and received a good education (which also included a course in creative writing).\n\nDanny Santiago, author of \"Famous All Over Town\", published a novel in which he depicts life through the eyes of a young Hispanic boy growing up in East Los Angeles. The novel won the Rosenthal Award for Literary Achievement in 1984, though suspicion arose about the true identity of Danny Santiago when the author refused to supply a biographical sketch for editors at Simon & Schuster who wanted to submit the book for a Pulitzer Prize. An investigation revealed that the writer was actually Daniel James, a middle- to older-aged Caucasian male writing from the standpoint of a young Latino American boy. He received criticism from the literary community, and gave up writing for good.\n\nJames Frey, another author chastised for forging his memoir, published \"A Million Little Pieces\", a memoir about his struggle with drug addiction and his journey through the inner working of the legal system and rehabilitation. The truth about his \"imagined escapades\" eventually came to light when his close family and friends revealed that he had actually never been a drug addict or incarcerated. Frey eventually faced more than 10 class action lawsuits, including negligence, false advertising, and breach of contract. At the heart of each suit was an allegation of fraud.\n\n\nFootnotes\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "74185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74185", "title": "Low comedy", "text": "Low comedy\n\nLow comedy, in association to comedy, is a dramatic or literary form of entertainment with no primary purpose but to create laughter by boasting, boisterous jokes, drunkenness, scolding, fighting, buffoonery and other riotous activity. It is also characterized by \"horseplay\", slapstick or farce. Other examples include one throwing a custard pie into another's face. This definition has also expanded to include lewd types of comedy that rely on physical jokes, for example, the wedgie.\n\nThis type of comedy has been a fixture ever since Greek plays. Low comedy was first denoted as comedy for the commoners because it was most often practiced by street performers. Over time as low comedy began to include lewd jokes and more physical comedy, more mainstream performers began to practice this type of comedy: stand-up comedians, musicals, etc. This type of comedy also was employed in most cartoons.\n\nLow comedy in society is quite well known; it can be found in a wide range of media, such as television and theatre. It can also be found in public and occupations, such as clowns, mimes and comedians. The term \"low\" is represented in association to low culture. This form of comedy is targeted and understood towards people who attain non-academic high school education, meaning this form of comedy is not restricted to high levels of education and knowledge. Low comedy is well known and popular today because it is considered suitable for all individuals. This form of comedy connects to popular culture by its easy to understand style. \n\nLow comedy, however, has lacked appreciation from most of society and is looked down upon in contrast to high comedy. The sole purpose of low comedy is to evoke laughter in people. Because there is no contextual message in most forms of low comedy, it is not highly respected. This does not undermine the fact that it is still an effective form of comedy for its reputation to cause laughter. \n\nThe classification of things considered to be low comedy constantly changes over time. As society changes, so do the ideas about what high and low comedy are. For example, due to the overdoing of sitcoms in the past, it is now considered shrill, vulgar, low society where everyone talk-screeches in some sub-human, mock-sophisticated language of incessant insult. Today, low comedy can be seen in almost any production. Sitcoms often base most of the plot on this type of comedy because of society influencing productivity and considering it a low form of comedy. Modern adaptations of Shakespeare's plays also use low comedy to convey a different understanding of the play.\n\n"}
{"id": "3592846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3592846", "title": "Media franchise", "text": "Media franchise\n\nA media franchise, also known as multimedia franchise, is a collection of related media in which several derivative works have been produced from an original creative work, such as a film, a work of literature, a television program or a video game. The intellectual property from the work can be licensed to other parties or partners for further derivative works and commercial exploitation across a range of media and by a variety of industries for merchandising purposes.\n\nA media franchise often consists of cross-marketing across more than one medium. For the owners, the goal of increasing profit through diversity can extend the commercial profitability of the franchise and can create strong feelings of identity and ownership in its consumers (fandom). Aarseth describes the financial logic of cost-recovery for expensive productions by identifying that a single medium launch is a lost opportunity, the timeliness of the production and release is more important than its integrity, the releases should raise brand awareness and the cross-ability of the work is critical for its success. American Idol was a transmedia franchise from its beginnings, with the first season winner Kelly Clarkson signing with RCA Records and having the release of \"A Moment Like This\" becoming a #1 hit on Billboard Hot 100. The success resulted in a nationwide concert tour, an \"American Idol\" book that made the bestseller list and the film \"From Justin to Kelly\". A transmedia franchise however is often referred to by the simpler term \"media franchise.\" The term media franchise is often used to describe the popular adaptation of a work into films, like the popular \"Twilight\" book series that was adapted into the five films of \"The Twilight Saga\". Other neologisms exist to describe various franchise types including metaseries, which can be used to describe works such as Isaac Asimov's \"Foundation\" series.\n\nMultimedia franchises usually develop through a character or fictional world becoming popular in one medium, and then expanding to others through licensing agreements, with respect to intellectual property in the franchise's characters and settings. As one author explains, \"[f]or the studios, a home-run is a film from which a multimedia 'franchise' can be generated; the colossally expensive creation of cross-media conglomerates predicated on synergistic rewards provides an obvious imperative to develop such products.\" The trend later developed wherein franchises would be launched in multiple forms of media simultaneously:\n\nLong-running film franchises were common in the early studio era, when Hollywood studios had actors and directors under long-term contract. Examples include Andy Hardy, Ma and Pa Kettle, Bulldog Drummond, Superman, Tarzan, and Batman. The longest-running modern film franchises include James Bond, Godzilla, \"Friday the 13th\", \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\", and \"Star Trek\". In such cases, even lead actors are often replaced as they age, lose interest, or their characters are killed.\n\nMedia franchises tend to cross over from their original media to other forms. Literary franchises are often transported to film, such as Nancy Drew, Miss Marple, and other popular detectives, as well as popular comic book superheroes. Television and film franchises are often expanded upon in novels, particularly those in the fantasy and science fiction genres, such as \"The Twilight Zone\", \"Star Trek\", \"Doctor Who\" and \"Star Wars\". Similarly, fantasy, science fiction films and television shows are frequently adapted into animated television series, video games, or both.\n\nA media franchise does not have to include the same characters or theme, as the brand identity can be the franchise, like Square Enix's \"Final Fantasy\" or the \"National Lampoon\" series, and can suffer from critical failures even if the media fictional material is unrelated.\n\nNon-fiction literary franchises include the \"...For Dummies\" and \"The Complete Idiot's Guide to...\" reference books. An enduring and extensive example of a media franchise is Playboy Enterprises, which began expanding well beyond its successful magazine, \"Playboy\", within a few years after its first publication, into such enterprises as a modeling agency, several television shows (\"Playboy's Penthouse\", in 1959), and even its own television channel. Twenty-five years later, Playboy released private clubs and restaurants, movie theaters, a radio show, direct to video films, music and book publishing (including original works in addition to its anthologies of cartoons, photographs, recipes, advice, articles or fiction that had originally appeared in the magazine), footwear, clothing of every kind, jewelry, housewares (lamps, clocks, bedding, glassware), guitars and gambling, playing cards, pinball machines and pet accessories, billiard balls, bedroom appurtenances, enhancements, plus countless other items of merchandise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4186760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4186760", "title": "Moviefone", "text": "Moviefone\n\nMoviefone is an American-based movie listing and information service. Moviegoers can obtain local showtimes, theatre information, film reviews, or advance tickets. The service is owned by Helios and Matheson Analytics.\n\nIn 1989, Russ Leatherman, Rob Gukeisen, Andrew Jarecki, Pat Cardamone, and Adam Slutsky launched the interactive telephone service, with initial service in New York City and Los Angeles. Russ Leatherman provided the voice of \"Mr. Moviefone\" for the automated phone service. After gaining popularity, it later expanded across the United States and eventually adopted an online presence as Moviefone.com.\n\nIn 1999, AOL purchased Moviefone for $388 million.\n\nIn 2001, Moviefone entered into a partnership with MovieTickets.com that crosslinked their ticketing offerings; by 2004, Moviefone's online arm was acquired outright by MovieTickets.com. However, in 2012, Moviefone announced a partnership with MovieTickets.com's rival Fandango.\n\nOn February 23, 2014, it was reported that Moviefone would be shutting down its call-in service and its \"777-FILM\" phone number but would maintain its mobile app services.\n\nOn May 5, 2014, Moviefone was relaunched with a new look, an expansion into TV content, and a comprehensive search tool that allows users to find theaters, channels, and streaming services offering movies and television shows.\n\nOn April 5th, 2018, Helios and Matheson Analytics Inc., the majority owner of movie ticketing service MoviePass, announced the acquisition of Moviefone from Oath Inc. for $1 million in cash and $8 million in stock.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "718763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=718763", "title": "Narratology", "text": "Narratology\n\nNarratology is the study of narrative and narrative structure and the ways that these affect our perception. While in principle the word may refer to any systematic study of narrative, in practice its usage is rather more restricted. It is an anglicisation of French \"narratologie\", coined by Tzvetan Todorov (\"Grammaire du Décaméron\", 1969). Narratology is applied retrospectively as well to work predating its coinage. Its theoretical lineage is traceable to Aristotle (\"Poetics\") but modern narratology is agreed to have begun with the Russian Formalists, particularly Vladimir Propp (\"Morphology of the Folktale\", 1928), and Mikhail Bakhtin's theories of heteroglossia, dialogism, and the chronotope first presented in \"The Dialogic Imagination\" (1975).\n\nThe origins of narratology lend to it a strong association with the structuralist quest for a formal system of useful description applicable to any narrative content, by analogy with the grammars used as a basis for parsing sentences in some forms of linguistics. This procedure does not however typify all work described as narratological today; Percy Lubbock's work in point of view (\"The Craft of Fiction\", 1921) offers a case in point.\n\nIn 1966 a special issue of the journal \"Communications\" proved highly influential, becoming considered a program for research into the field and even a manifesto. It included articles by Barthes, Claude Brémond, Genette, Greimas, Todorov and others, which in turn often referred to the works of Vladimir Propp (1895–1970).\n\nJonathan Culler (2001) describes narratology as comprising many strands \nimplicitly united in the recognition that narrative theory requires a distinction between \"story,\" a sequence of actions or events conceived as independent of their manifestation in discourse, and \"discourse,\" the discursive presentation or narration of events.'\nThe Russian Formalists first proposed such a distinction, employing the couplet fabula and sujet. A subsequent succession of alternate pairings has preserved the essential binomial impulse, e.g. \"histoire\"/\"discours\", \"histoire\"/\"récit\", \"story\"/\"plot\". The Structuralist assumption that one can investigate fabula and sujet separately gave birth to two quite different traditions: thematic (Propp, Bremond, Greimas, Dundes, et al.) and modal (Genette, Prince, et al.) narratology. The former is mainly limited to a semiotic formalization of the sequences of the actions told, while the latter examines the manner of their telling, stressing voice, point of view, transformation of the chronological order, rhythm and frequency. Many authors (Sternberg, 1993, Ricoeur, 1984, and Baroni, 2007) have insisted that thematic and modal narratology should not be looked at separately, especially when dealing with the function and interest of narrative sequence and plot.\n\nJames Phelan, editor of \"Narrative\" (the journal of the International Society for the Study of Narrative), has written numerous books and articles on narrative theory (see reference list). With Frederick Luis Aldama, Brian McHale and Robyn Warhol, Phelan directs Project Narrative at The Ohio State University:)\n\nDesignating work as narratological is to some extent dependent more on the academic discipline in which it takes place than any theoretical position advanced. The approach is applicable to any narrative, and in its classic studies, vis-a-vis Propp, non-literary narratives were commonly taken up. Still the term \"narratology\" is most typically applied to literary theory and literary criticism, as well as film theory and (to a lesser extent) film criticism. Atypical applications of narratological methodologies would include sociolinguistic studies of oral storytelling (William Labov) and in conversation analysis or discourse analysis that deal with narratives arising in the course of spontaneous verbal interaction. It also includes the study of videogames, graphic novels, the infinite canvas, and narrative sculptures linked to topology and graph theory.\nHowever, constituent analysis of a type where narremes are considered to be the basic units of narrative structure could fall within the areas of linguistics, semiotics, or literary theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47917", "title": "News agency", "text": "News agency\n\nA news agency is an organization that gathers news reports and sells them to subscribing news organizations, such as newspapers, magazines and radio and television broadcasters. A news agency may also be referred to as a wire service, newswire, or news service.\n\nAlthough there are many news agencies around the world, three global news agencies, Agence France-Presse (AFP), Associated Press (AP) and Reuters, have offices in most countries of the world and cover all areas of information. All three began with and continue to operate on a basic philosophy of providing a single objective news feed to all subscribers; they do not provide separate feeds for conservative or liberal newspapers. Jonathan Fenby explains the philosophy:\n\nTo achieve such wide acceptability, the agencies avoid overt partiality. Demonstrably correct information is their stock in trade. Traditionally, they report at a reduced level of responsibility, attributing their information to a spokesman, the press, or other sources. They avoid making judgments and steer clear of doubt and ambiguity. Though their founders did not use the word, objectivity is the philosophical basis for their enterprises – or failing that, widely acceptable neutrality.\n\nOnly a few large newspapers could afford bureaus outside their home city. They relied instead on news agencies, especially Havas (founded 1835) in France and the Associated Press (founded 1846) in the United States. Former Havas employees founded Reuters in 1851 in Britain and Wolff in 1849 in Germany; Havas is now Agence France-Presse (AFP). For international news, the agencies pooled their resources, so that Havas, for example, covered the French Empire, South America and the Balkans and shared the news with the other national agencies. In France the typical contract with Havas provided a provincial newspaper with 1800 lines of telegraphed text daily, for an annual subscription rate of 10,000 francs. Other agencies provided features and fiction for their subscribers.\n\nIn the 1830s, France had several specialized agencies. Agence Havas was founded in 1835 by a Parisian translator and advertising agent, Charles-Louis Havas, to supply news about France to foreign customers. In the 1840s, Havas gradually incorporated other French agencies into his agency. Agence Havas evolved into Agence France-Presse (AFP). Two of his employees, Bernhard Wolff and Paul Julius Reuter, later set up rival news agencies, Wolffs Telegraphisches Bureau in 1849 in Berlin and Reuters in 1851 in London. Guglielmo Stefani founded the Agenzia Stefani, which became the most important press agency in Italy from the mid-19th century to World War II, in Turin in 1853.\n\nThe development of the telegraph in the 1850s led to the creation of strong national agencies in England, Germany, Austria and the United States. But despite the efforts of governments, through telegraph laws such as in 1878 in France, inspired by the British Telegraph Act of 1869 which paved the way for the nationalisation of telegraph companies and their operations, the cost of telegraphy remained high.\n\nIn the United States, the judgment in \"Inter Ocean Publishing v. Associated Press\" facilitated competition by requiring agencies to accept all newspapers wishing to join. As a result of the increasing newspapers, the Associated Press was now challenged by the creation of United Press Associations in 1907 and International News Service by newspaper publisher William Randolph Hearst in 1909. Driven by the huge U.S. domestic market, boosted by the runaway success of radio, all three major agencies required the dismantling of the \"cartel agencies\" through the Agreement of 26 August 1927. They were concerned about the success of U.S. agencies from other European countries which sought to create national agencies after the First World War. Reuters had been weakened by war censorship, which promoted the creation of newspaper cooperatives in the Commonwealth and national agencies in Asia, two of its strong areas. After the Second World War, the movement for the creation of national agencies accelerated, when accessing the independence of former colonies, the national agencies were operated by the State. Reuters, became cooperative, managed a breakthrough in finance, and helped to reduce the number of U.S. agencies from three to one, along with the internationalization of the Spanish EFE and the globalization of Agence France-Presse.\n\nIn 1924, Benito Mussolini placed Agenzia Stefani under the direction of Manlio Morgagni, who expanded the agency's reach significantly both within Italy and abroad. Agenzia Stefani was dissolved in 1945, and its technical structure and organization were transferred to the new Agenzia Nazionale Stampa Associata (ANSA). Wolffs was taken over by the Nazi regime in 1934, and Reuters continues to operate as a major international news agency today. In 1865, Reuter and Wolff signed agreements with Havas's sons, forming a cartel designating exclusive reporting zones for each of their agencies within Europe.\n\nSince the 1960s, the major agencies were provided with new opportunities in television and magazine, and news agencies delivered specialized production of images and photos, the demand for which is constantly increasing. In France, for example, they account for over two-thirds of national market.\n\nNews agencies can be corporations that sell news (e.g., Press Association, Thomson Reuters and United Press International). Other agencies work cooperatively with large media companies, generating their news centrally and sharing local news stories the major news agencies may choose to pick up and redistribute (i.e., Associated Press (AP), Agence France-Presse (AFP) or American Press Agency (APA)) and Indian Press Agency PTI.\n\nGovernments may also control news agencies: China (Xinhua), France (Agence France-Presse), Russia (ITAR-TASS), and several other countries have government-funded news agencies which also use information from other agencies as well.\n\nCommercial newswire services charge businesses to distribute their news (e.g., Business Wire, GlobeNewswire, Marketwire, PR Newswire, PR Web, and CisionWire).\n\nThe major news agencies generally prepare hard news stories and feature articles that can be used by other news organizations with little or no modification, and then sell them to other news organizations. They provide these articles in bulk electronically through wire services (originally they used telegraphy; today they frequently use the Internet). Corporations, individuals, analysts, and intelligence agencies may also subscribe.\n\nNews sources, collectively, described as alternative media provide reporting which emphasizes a self-defined \"non-corporate view\" as a contrast to the points of view expressed in corporate media and government-generated news releases. Internet-based alternative news agencies form one component of these sources.\n\nThere are several different associations of news agencies. EANA is the European Alliance of Press Agencies, while the OANA is an association of news agencies of the Asia-Pacific region. MINDS is a global network of leading news agencies collaborating in new media business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45341172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45341172", "title": "Nicholas Irving", "text": "Nicholas Irving\n\nNicholas Irving is a former special operations sniper in the 3rd Ranger Battalion for the U.S. military. He is now working as a reality TV personality.\n\nIrving was born in Fort Meade, Maryland on the US Army post Fort George G. Meade growing up the son of two enlisted soldiers. He wasn’t a great student — the only A he ever got was in junior ROTC — and his discipline needed some work.\n\nIn 2012, Irving wrote and published \"Team Reaper: 33 Kills...4 months\". In 2015, he wrote and published with Gary Brozek a book about his time in the military fighting the War on Terrorism called \"The Reaper: Autobiography of One of the Deadliest Special Ops Snipers\". On February 2, 2015, The Weinstein Company acquired the television rights to make a miniseries out of the autobiography. On March 5, 2015, NBC picked up the miniseries from Weinstein. \nIn late 2017 Irving revealed in a podcast that the miniseries has been scrapped, but a movie based on the book was in preproduction. In May 2018 he published a book called \"Reaper: Ghost Target\".\n\nIrving joined the U.S. military. Failing a colorblindness test ended the young man's hopes for joining the SEALs, but Irving took to life as a Ranger. Before serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, he left his wife at Fort Benning. Irving took an SR-25 rifle with him, calling it \"Dirty Diana\". Fellow Rangers nicknamed Irving \"The Reaper\" because of his proficiency for killing.\n\nAfter serving his country, he decided to work in television. Irving first served as legal and business affairs associate in \"911: The Bronx\" (TV series documentary 2008), \"The IT Crowd\" (2008–10), and \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\" (2008–11). Irving served as production lawyer on \"PhoneShop\" (2009–10). He next served as legal and business affairs associate on \"The Rob Brydon Show\" (2010), \"QI Genesis\" (TV Movie documentary 2011), and \"QI\" (2009–13).\n\nIn 2016, Irving was one of four military leaders to serve as coaches on the reality show \"American Grit\" with John Cena.\n\nStarting in 2017, Irving appeared in videos for the popular YouTube channel \"Demolition Ranch\" and \"Off the Ranch\" with Matt Carriker.\n\nHe also served as an on-set advisor for Doug Liman's 2017 sniper film \"The Wall\".\n\nHe has appeared as a weapons tester on episodes of the Discovery Channel TV series \"Master Of Arms\"\n\nSgt. Irving married Jessica Irving in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "224515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224515", "title": "Performance", "text": "Performance\n\nPerformance is completion of a task with application of knowledge, skills and abilities. \n\nIn work place, performance or job performance means good ranking with the hypothesized conception of requirements of a role. There are two types of job performances: contextual and task. Task performance is related to cognitive ability while contextual performance is dependent upon personality. Task performance are behavioral roles that are recognized in job descriptions and by remuneration systems, they are directly related to organizational performance, whereas, contextual performance are value based and additional behavioral roles that are not recognized in job descriptions and covered by compensation; they are extra roles that are indirectly related to organizational performance. Citizenship performance like contextual performance means a set of individual activity/contribution (prosocial organizational behavior) that supports the organizational culture.\n\nIn the performing arts, a performance generally comprises an event in which a performer or group of performers present one or more works of art to an audience. In instrumental music (and in drama), performance is typically described as \"play\". Usually the performers participate in rehearsals beforehand. \n\nAn effective performance is determined by achievement skills and competency of the performer - level of skill and knowledge. Spencer and McClelland in 1994 defined competency as \"a combination of motives, traits, self-concepts, attitudes, cognitive behavior skills (content knowledge)\" that helps a performer to differentiate themselves superior from average performers. A performance may also describe the way in which an actor performs. In a solo capacity, it may also refer to a mime artist, comedian, conjurer, or other entertainer.\n\nWilliams and Krane found the following characteristics define an ideal performance state:\n\n\nOther related factors are motivation to achieve success or avoid failure, task relevant attention, positive self-talk and cognitive regulation to achieve automaticity. Performance is also dependent on adaptation of eight areas: Handling crisis, managing stress, creative problem solving, knowing necessary functional tools and skills, agile management of complex processes, interpersonal adaptability, cultural adaptability, and physical fitness. Performance is not always a result of practice, it is about honing the skill, even over practice itself can result in failure due to ego depletion. \n\nTheatrical performances, especially when the audience is limited to only a few observers, can lead to significant increases in the performer's heart rate above his or her baseline heart rate. This increase takes place in several stages relative to the performance itself, including anticipatory activation (one minute before the start of subject's speaking role), confrontation activation (during the subject's speaking role, at which point their heart rate peaks) and release period (one minute after the conclusion of the subject's speech). The same physiological reactions can be experienced in other mediums, such as instrumental performance. When experiments were conducted to determine whether there was a correlation between audience size and heart rate (an indicator of anxiety) of instrumental performers, the researcher's findings ran contrary to previous studies, showing a positive correlation rather than a negative one.\n\nHeart rate shares a strong, positive correlation with the self reported anxiety of performers. Other physiological responses to public performance include perspiration, secretion of the adrenal glands, and increased blood pressure.\n\n"}
{"id": "46312939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46312939", "title": "Pieces Project", "text": "Pieces Project\n\nPieces Project is an experimental art/ comics project. It was initiated in 2006 by a Polish artist Jakub Mazerant.\n\nPieces Project involves various artists working on one comic book. Each artist creates only one panel (\"piece\") of the story. There is no script provided. The story evolves with each and every panel.\n\nPieces Project - first edition\n\nThe first edition lasted from 2006 until 2010. 94 international artists contributed to the first edition of the project. The countries involved included: Poland, Japan, USA, Belgium, United Kingdom, Australia, Mexico, Argentina, Sweden, France, Chile, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Brazil, Spain, Lithuania. The first edition of the Pieces Project was released in a printed form. \nThe \"Pieces Project - Pieces Book 1\" set an official Guinness World Record in October 2013 in \"The most contributors to a published comic book\" category.\n\nPieces - Project - second edition\n\nThe second edition was initiated in 2012. This edition is still in progress. There have been almost 100 artists involved.\n\nPieces Project exhibition\n\nBoth editions of the project were presented during the International Festival of Comics and Games in Lodz (Poland) in October 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "40949254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949254", "title": "Radical cheerleading", "text": "Radical cheerleading\n\nRadical cheerleading is a performative style of political activism, derived from mainstream cheerleading. Radical cheerleading combines elements of peaceful protest or non-violent direct action with theatrical elements including costuming, spectacle and choreographed dance. Radical cheerleading was created by sisters Cara, Aimee and Colleen Jennings in Miami, Florida, in 1996. It grew to become an international movement with squads in the United States, Canada and Europe. Radical cheerleaders create and adapt cheers that promote feminism and left-wing ideals. \n\nOver time, radical cheerleading developed into a subculture apart from cheerleading. To understand how radical cheerleading became a culture of its own, it is important to consider the impacts of mainstream cheerleading.\n\nMainstream cheerleading reached new heights of popularity in the 1990s, as it transformed from a form of entertainment to being understood as an athletic sport. The first Cheerleading World Championship took place in 2001, asserting cheerleading as a competitive sport. Still, cheerleaders were (and often still are) consistently stereotyped as unintelligent, ditzy, and promiscuous, as opposed to true athletes. Regular cheerleaders are often hypersexualized and defined by an idealized female body type. Author Christine Ro writes, \"the popular image of cheerleading was still very much of the minimally dressed female cheerleader on the sidelines of a male sports event. This was the image radical cheerleaders seized upon in order to subvert gender messages while serving up peppy support for social justice causes.\"\n\nRadical cheerleaders reclaimed the identity of the cheerleader and re-shaped mainstream cheerleading to include all bodies, as opposed to certain bodies. They transformed cheerleading from a sideshow into the main event. They shifted the focus of cheerleading from sexualized spectacle to the promotion of larger ideas, like civilian empowerment and political awareness. In these ways, radical cheerleading developed into a distinct culture of its own.\n\nMainstream cheerleading is marked by heteronormativity. In contrast, gender non-conformity is a foundation upon which the subculture of radical cheerleading developed. Since its creation, radical cheerleading has been a movement open to all: participants may be male, female, transgender, non-binary or non-gender identified. Often, radical cheerleaders subvert gender norms through costuming and aesthetics. According to author and radical cheerleader Jeanne Vaccaro, the movement was responsible for \"cultivating a queer sensibility.\" The subculture’s inclusion of non-gender-conforming individuals creates a space for all bodies, which in turn creates a uniquely accepting community. This is more than just an open-door policy, but an identifying characteristic of the subculture of radical cheerleading, just as relevant to the movement as the leftist messages it asserts.\nRadical cheerleaders reappropriate the aesthetics of cheerleading, sometimes in an ironic fashion. Radical cheerleaders dress in diverse ways. Radical cheerleading is often marked by a DIY aesthetic, with handmade costumes and props. Some radical cheerleaders make pom-poms using garbage bags by folding them in half, tying off one side with a rubber band and then cutting strips from the other end. \n\nEvery squad has a unique aesthetic of its own. The Dirty Southern Belles, from Memphis, Tennessee, wear the colors pink and black to cheer for gay pride. The Pirate Cheerleaders, a squad from Milwaukee, wear black skirts with white pleats, and shirts with pirate logos when performing at basement punk shows. The New Paltz Rads, a squad from the State University of New York at New Paltz, sport signature colors black and red.\n\nRadical cheerleaders often perform at political demonstrations, festivals and other feminist events, where they lead protest chants. Radical cheerleading is used at demonstrations to promote political messages in a media-friendly, people-friendly way. Radical cheerleaders may also perform on stage at music venues, to bring political issues (as well as entertainment) to an unsuspecting crowd. Chicago's Lickity Split radical cheerleaders frequently used this tactic.\n\nA notable radical cheerleading appearance was at the March for Women's Lives in Washington, DC on April 25, 2004. The participants' aim was to raise awareness about the lack of access low-income women have to abortion clinics.\n\nAnother remarkable demonstration took place at a Taco Bell restaurant in Auburn, Alabama in 2001, where radical cheerleaders gathered to protest for fair wages. Dubbed the \"Taco Bell Protest,\" participants explained to police that the purpose of their demonstration was to protest the business relationship between corporate Taco Bell and the Six L's Packing Company, Inc., a firm that pays employees low wages with zero benefits. The Taco Bell Protest serves as an encapsulating example of all that radical cheerleading stands for: peaceful (if not disruptive) demonstration, DIY construction of protest tools/props, an anti-capitalist agenda, and a demand for fair wages, a classic feminist ideal. \n\nRadical cheerleaders demonstrated at the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York.\n\nThe Resistin' Radicatz, a radical cheerleading squad, performed at the 2004 Million Worker March.\n\nCheers are usually written from scratch or by rewriting the words of popular and historic songs. The first radical cheer book was published in 1997.\n\nAn example of a radical cheer, led by creator Cara Jennings, performed at the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York:\n\nAn example of a cheer performed by the Radical Teen Cheer Squad: \"We're teens, we're cute, we're radical to boot! We're angry, we're tough, and we have had enough!\"\n\nWhile the subculture has received some attention from the media, radical cheerleading receives less media attention than mainstream cheerleading.\n\nIn \"Give Me An F: Radical Cheerleading and Feminist Performance\", radical cheerleader and Author Jeanne Vaccaro describes the process of archiving radical cheerleading through the examination of cheers, zines, photographs and personal testimony from fellow radical cheerleader Mary Xmas.\n\nIn a speech at the National Women's Studies Association in 2004, feminist magazine director Lisa Jervis placed radical cheerleading within a tradition of playful feminist comment on popular culture.\n\nIn August 2004 the New York City Radical Cheerleaders completed \"Don't Let the System Get You Down—Cheer Up\", a video documentary of the Radical Cheerblock at the March for Women's Lives. The video was released in time to celebrate and honor and inspire the hundreds of radical cheerleaders who converged in New York to protest the Republican National Convention.\n\nRadical cheerleading is a style of performance, and is inherently defined by the element of spectacle. Responses within the media have ranged from positive to negative. Sheila Noone, the editorial director of \"American Cheerleader\" magazine, commented that cheerleaders are involved in an \"uphill battle\" towards gaining respect, asserting that radical cheerleading makes this even more difficult. In contrast, Lauren Jack, member of Harvard University's Cheerleading squad, made the statement that cheerleading is \"all about trying to get everyone else excited about your causes, so it's perfect for political activism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2653043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2653043", "title": "Reverse chronology", "text": "Reverse chronology\n\nReverse chronology is a method of story-telling whereby the plot is revealed in reverse order.\n\nIn a story employing this technique, the first scene shown is actually the conclusion to the plot. Once that scene ends, the penultimate scene is shown, and so on, so that the final scene the viewer sees is the first chronologically.\n\nMany stories employ flashback, showing prior events, but whereas the scene order of most conventional films is A-B-C-etc., a film in reverse chronology goes Z-Y-X-etc.\n\nAs a hypothetical example, if the fairy tale \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" was told using reverse chronology, the opening scene would depict Jack chopping the beanstalk down and killing the giant. The next scene would feature Jack being discovered by the giant and climbing down the beanstalk in fear of his life. Later, we would see Jack running into the man with the infamous magic beans, then, at the end of the film, being sent off by his mother to sell the cow.\n\nThe unusual nature of this method means it is only used in stories of a specific nature. For example, \"Memento\" features a man with anterograde amnesia, meaning he is unable to form new memories. The film parallels the protagonist's perspective by unfolding in reverse chronological order, leaving the audience as ignorant of the events that occurred prior to each scene (which, played in reverse chronological order, will not be revealed until later) as the protagonist is.\n\nIn the film \"Irréversible,\" an act of homicidal violence takes place at the start of the movie (i. e., it is the final event to take place). During the remainder of the film we learn not only that the violence is an act of vengeance, but what exactly is being avenged. The film was highly controversial for its graphic nature; had the scenes been shown in chronological order, this violent content would make it a simple, and pointlessly brutal, revenge movie. However, as it is, told in reverse, the audience is made to consider the exact consequences of each action, and there is often \"more than meets the eye.\"\n\nThe epic poem \"Aeneid\", written by Virgil in the 1st century BC, uses reverse chronology within scenes. In \"The Three Apples\", a murder mystery in the \"One Thousand and One Nights\", the middle part of the story shows a flashback of events leading up to the discovery of a dead body at the beginning of the story. The action of W. R. Burnett's novel, \"Goodbye to the Past\" (1934), moves continually from 1929 to 1873. \"The Long View\" (1956) by Elizabeth Jane Howard describes a marriage in reverse chronology from 1950s London back to its beginning in 1926. Edward Lewis Wallant uses flashbacks in reverse chronology in \"The Human Season\" (1960). The novel \"Christopher Homm\" (1965), by C. H. Sisson, is also told in reverse chronology.\n\nPhilip K. Dick, in his 1967 novel \"Counter-Clock World\", describes a future in which time has started to move in reverse, resulting in the dead reviving in their own graves (\"old-birth\"), living their lives in reverse, eventually ending in returning to the womb, and splitting into an egg and a sperm during copulation between a recipient woman and a man. The novel was expanded from Dick's short story \"Your Appointment Will Be Yesterday\", first published in the August 1966 edition of Amazing Stories.\n\nMartin Amis's 1991 novel \"Time's Arrow\" tells the story of a man who, it seems, brings dead people to life. Eventually it is revealed that the story is being seen backwards, and he was a doctor at Auschwitz who brought death to live people. He escaped to the United States, and the novel starts with his death and ends with his birth. Amis writes in the Afterword that he had a \"certain paragraph\" from Kurt Vonnegut's \"Slaughterhouse Five\" (1969) in mind. As he waits to be taken by aliens to the planet Tralfamadore, the protagonist, Billy Pilgrim, watches a war movie backwards. American planes full of holes fly backwards as German planes suck bullets from them; bombers take their bombs back to base where they are returned to the States, reduced to ore and buried. The American fliers became high school kids again, and, Billy guesses, Hitler ultimately returns to babyhood.\n\nIain Banks's novel \"Use of Weapons\" interweaves two parallel stories, one told in standard chronology and one in reverse, both concluding at a critical moment in the main character's life.\n\nJulia Alvarez's novel \"How the García Girls Lost Their Accents\" opens in 1989 with one of the characters returning to her native Dominican Republic. The story of why the family left and their attempts to succeed in New York are told in reverse chronological order, with the last events happening in 1956.\n\nA number of plays have employed this technique. George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart's 1934 play, \"Merrily We Roll Along\", is told in reverse order, as is the Harold Pinter play \"Betrayal\" (1978). Kaufman and Hart's play was adapted as a musical comedy by Stephen Sondheim in 1981, and Pinter's play was made into a film in 1983.\n\nIn 1927, Jean Epstein's \"La glace à trois faces\" (\"The Three Sided Mirror\") features a sequence where the events happen in reverse, beginning with the protagonist's exit from a room until the viewer sees the entrance. The Czech comedy \"Happy End\" (1966) is a farce which starts with a guillotined man finding his head popped back on his shoulders and ends with him as a new-born being pushed back into his mother's womb. Atom Egoyan, influenced by Pinter's plays, tells the story of \"The Sweet Hereafter\" (1997) in reverse chronology, with the first scene of the film set in 1977 and the last in 1968. The technique was later employed in \"Peppermint Candy\" (2000), by South Korean director Lee Chang-dong; in \"Memento\" (2000), a mystery directed by Christopher Nolan about short term memory loss; and in Jean-Luc Godard's short film \"De l'origine du XXIe siècle pour moi\" (2000). In \"Irréversible\" (2002), the technique is used so thoroughly that the end credits are not only shown at the beginning of the movie, but they roll \"down\" the screen, rather than upwards as is familiar.\n\nThe first several scenes in 2003's film \"Identity\", starring John Cusack, occur in reverse order.\n\nThe 2004 film \"5x2\", directed by François Ozon, tells the story of a relationship between two people in five episodes using reverse chronology.\n\nIn \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\" (2004), a main substory is told in reverse.\n\n\"Coup de Sang\", a French film by Jean Marboeuf (2006), uses limited reverse chronology. The film begins with the revelation that the main character will commit a murder one week from the next scene, although it is not revealed who will be killed or why.\n\nIn the 2007 movie \"P.S. I Love You\", the scenes in which Gerry Kennedy (Gerard Butler) meets and courts Holly (Hilary Swank) are shown in reverse.\n\nIn the 2010 Tamil movie, \"Manmadan Ambu\", the song \"Neela Vaanam\" (visuals inspired by Coldplay's \"The Scientist\") is shown in a reverse sequence.\n\nThe made-for-television drama \"\"Two Friends\"\" (1986), by Jane Campion, and the 1997 episode, \"The Betrayal\", of the hit sitcom \"Seinfeld\", employs the technique. The \"Seinfeld\" episode is a take-off of the Harold Pinter play \"Betrayal\" and has a character named \"Pinter.\" \"Redrum\", a 2000 episode of \"The X-Files,\" uses the technique in focusing on a character experiencing the events in reverse along with the audience. The 2002 \"ER\" episode \"Hindsight\" uses reverse chronology to illustrate the events leading to traumatic car accident. A 1997 episode, \"\", which writer Kenneth Biller claimed was based on a Martin Amis novel \"Time's Arrow\", also features a character experiencing the events in reverse along with the audience. The \"Sealab 2021\" episode \"Shrabster\" is also in reverse order. For a few seasons, the revived \"Doctor Who\" had an extensive storyline focusing on a relationship between the Doctor and his companions' daughter (River Song) from the future based on \"opposite timelines\" (i.e., as the Doctor was travelling through time on one path, River was travelling on an opposite path) causing them to interact in opposite chronological order. In 2017, the British tv mini-series \"Rellik\" (Killer backwards) tells a story about a serial killer in backwards order. In 2018, the episode \"Once Removed\", from the series \"Inside No. 9\" uses reverse chronology to tell a dark story about a family who is moving house, and the murder that subsequently begins. Also from 2018, the second installment of the FX anthology series \"American Crime Story\" focuses on , employing reverse chronology through the course of several episodes to explore the background of Versace's killer Andrew Cunanan.\n\nThe story \"The Time Eater\" from issue 40 of the comic \"Vampirella\", scripted by Jack Butterworth and published in 1975, included the concept of human lives running backwards. People were shown to be exhumed, reunited with families, separated from their spouses in order to attend school, and finally returned to the womb. Dialogue was reversed also. Alan Moore's 1983 short story \"The Reversible Man\" from issue 308 of the comic \"2000AD\" told an ordinary man's life backwards, using the same concept as Butterworth but recasting it as a first-person narrative. Brian K. Vaughan wrote an issue of the ongoing Midnighter series told in reverse chronology. The issue explored the fact that the character Midnighter has the ability to calculate millions of possible scenarios for any given situation. The issue does not have the scenes in reverse order, but rather the individual pages run backwards.\n\nIssue 43 of Bongo's \"Simpsons Comics\" is told in reverse order: the story opens with a depiction of a crane lifting a crashed car out of a lake; each subsequent scene (which lasts for one page) carries a caption informing the reader that it took place, for instance, \"20 minutes earlier\". The penultimate page jumps back thirty years and shows Homer Simpson as a child\n\nThe 2007 anime television series \"Touka Gettan\" employed entirely this narrative method. All 26 episodes were aired in chronologically reverse order, with the first episode being the ending of the story while the last episode being the beginning.\n\nThe lyrics to \"All Along the Watchtower\", written by Bob Dylan, are, he says, \"in a rather reverse order\"; indeed, the final verse begins with the words \"All along the watchtower\", and if reversed, the verses would tell the story in the correct order.\n\nThe lyrics to \"Apparition. Apparitions.\" by Trophy Scars describe the events leading up to a woman's suicide in reverse order, beginning with her death and ending with her initial romance with her boyfriend.\n\nThe song \"One Thing Leads to Another\" by the Pet Shop Boys (on a limited release of their 1993 album \"Very\") describes the events leading up to a man's death in reverse order.\n\nMultiple music videos, including Coldplay's \"The Scientist\" use reverse chronology in which a scene plays backwards while someone sings normally. This is done by filming the video chronologically but getting the actor to sing the lyrics backwards. The music video for Enigma's \"Return to Innocence\" uses reverse chronology showing a man's life, beginning with his death as an old man and ending with his baptism as an infant. The music video for Linkin Park's \"Bleed It Out\" also uses the same method, whereas the band performs normally, but everything else is reversed. In 2016, Malaysian Singer-Songwriter Yuna uses reverse chronology in her music video \"Lanes\".\n\nThe events of the song \"Reverse\" by SomeKindaWonderful, as said in the title itself, are told in reverse chronology.\n\nThe lyrics in \"Rewind\" by NaS also tell a story in reverse chronology, with some of the dialogue even being in reverse order.\n\n\"Good Mistake\" Album by Bahram Nouraei is the first Iranian concept album ever made inspired by reverse chronology as the storytelling method.\n\nThere have also been several discussions as to how the picturisation of Neela Vaanam \"Manmadan Ambu\" (sung by Kamal Haasan himself) has been slightly inspired from official video of Coldplay's The Scientist. The whole song has been depicted in such a way so as to highlight the events that led to the death of Mannar's (Kamal's character) French wife Juliet, in reverse.\n\nThe announcement trailer of 2011 video game, \"Dead Island\", also present in reverse chronological order with flash of chronological action edited into the whole video.\n\n"}
{"id": "4919393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4919393", "title": "RollerGames", "text": "RollerGames\n\nRollerGames was a U.S. television series that presented a theatrical version of the sport of roller derby for a national audience, and featured a number of skaters who had been in the Roller Games league (1961–1975), as well as younger participants. It was broadcast for one season (1989–1990). The series came from the combination of Roller Games owner William Griffiths, Sr. and the television production team of David Sams and Mike Miller. \n\nThe show took place in the Super Roller Dome, where all matches were broadcast. Instead of a banked oval track, a figure eight track was used where one side was heavily banked. It included obstacles such as the \"Wall of Death\" (which was located on the heavily banked side) and the \"Jet Jump\". The only ones who could score during each 45-second scoring cycle were the \"jetters,\" who wore helmets and got six points if they got above the top line for three steps on the Wall of Death without going over, and two points if they got between the two lines for three steps. The \"Jet Jump\" had a 12-foot marker that allowed six points if the jetter got past it, and two if the jetter landed in front of it. In either case, the jetter had to land safely. Also, there were only four skaters on the track at a time (instead of the usual five). \n\nThe rest of the cycle involved traditional roller derby elements of scoring one point for every opponent lapped. The players got as many 45-second cycles as possible within four six-minute periods (cut down from eight 12-minute periods in traditional roller derby). The team with the most points won. The last cycle went the full 45 seconds regardless of what the period clock said.\n\nThe first jetter to legally enter the jetwave won the status of \"lead jetter,\" and could cut off the cycle early by tapping his or her helmet, signaling the referees to call off the cycle.\n\nAs a tiebreaker, two skaters would skate around a pit full of alligators. The first skater to skate around the pit five times or to throw his or her opponent into the alligator pit was declared the winner. The debut episode was the only time live alligators were ever used, as no ties ever happened after that (although a \"news report\" featured another tiebreaker). The episode revealed one of the rare times that the T-Birds lost the championship, with the Violators taking it (although later footage revealed that Skull, the manager, cheated by interfering, but the Violators got to keep the Commissioner's Cup in spite of that).\n\nInstead of a penalty box, skaters that committed misdemeanors sat in a \"penalty pod,\" one of each was located on either side of the broadcast booth where Sams and Underwood called the action. Because the rules said there were always four skaters on the track, a jetter got one bonus point each time they passed the skater inside the pod. Referee Don Lastra frequently referred to the penalty pod as \"jail,\" and would tell skaters who got a penalty to \"go sit down.\" (Lastra would also fine players specific amounts of money; these fines were to be paid out of pocket as a check and given to him, since he issued the fines. Fines usually were issued if the act incurring a penalty came in between a period or after the end of the game, but the players who got fined always said vindication was theirs, and thus a moral victory was earned).\n\nThe \"world famous\" Los Angeles T-Birds were one of the teams used for the show. Other teams were the Rockers, Hot Flash, Violators, Bad Attitude and Maniacs. Many of the athletes that skated for Griffiths in the past were used for \"RollerGames\". (The Hot Flash team was referred as \"Hollywood Hot Flash\" on a couple of occasions.) Some of the most visible skaters included twin sisters Jennifer & Kristine Van Galder, the \"T-Bird Twins\" (two blonde waitresses that Sams recruited while dining at a trendy LA area eatery), \"The IceBox\" Robert Smith, brothers \"Mr. Mean\" Harold Jackson & \"Monster Man\" Bernie Jackson, Michael Flaningam \"The California Kid\", \"Skinney Minnie\" Gwen Miller, \"Electric\" Randi Whitman (who got her nickname because of her hair), \"Stars and Stripes\" Matt Bickham, \"Dar The Star\" Darlene Langlois, \"Latin Spitfire\" Patsy Delgado, \"Sweet\" Stephanie Garcia, and Rocker Speed Skater and Guitarist on the Roller Games TV Theme Song, Michael \"Fish\" Fischer (who was forced to leave the team before the first telecast because he broke his hand in practice), and Ralphie Valladares, whose daughter, Gina, skated for Hot Flash. Other past Roller Derby personalities to appear on \"RollerGames\" included \"Mizz\" Georgia Hase, the cantankerous heel manager of the Detroit Devils and Bad Attitude, and \"Little\" Richard Brown, the Maniacs' top skater who got to manage and coach several skaters on \"RollerJam\".\n\nSome of the storylines were off-the-wall, but tame by today's standards — the main storyline was a controversy involving the T-Bird Twins being drafted as one person (more on that below), rather than two. Hair-pulling and catfights were crowd favorites. When a fight broke out, the cameras frequently cut to a shot of an angry woman in a pink dress, glaring at the skaters.\n\nThe show became noted for its \"big controversy:\" according to a report from Sams, Georgia Hase claimed the T-Bird Twins were improperly drafted as one entity. Thus, Jennifer went to the Violaters, and Kristine went to the Maniacs. At the same time, the league office informed Ralphie Valladares that he was to be the first inductee into the Hall of Fame. This led Hase to object that, according to the rule book, Ralphie could not enter unless he hung up his skates for good. The league office did not intend for that to happen. Hase then decided that Ralphie would never skate again, as well as never go into the Hall of Fame.\n\nAfter two rule violations by John \"Guru\" Drew (manager for the Maniacs) and Chuck Skull (manager of the Violators) of physically abusing each of the T-Bird twins, Sams and on-the-track commentator Shelley Jamison brought up how each twin's contract was null and void, thus returning them to the T-Birds. This led Griffiths, Sr., as commissioner, to let the public decide on how this situation was to go. The American public overwhelmingly elected that Ralphie continue to skate while being inducted into the Hall of Fame, and that the twins return to the T-Birds for good (viewers in the continental 48 states could vote by calling a 900 number, while Alaska and Hawaii residents had to write a letter to a specific address, as the 900 number was not available to them). The exact number of votes was 75,468, with 96% voting \"YES\" and only 4% voting \"NO.\"\n\nAlthough the show was cancelled after one season, the show also featured an episode where Ralphie challenged the \"unholy 3\" (\"Mizz\" Georgia Hase, Guru Drew, Skull) to a 3-on-1 match race. Griffiths, Sr. pointed out that 3-on-1 wasn't legal according to league laws (during an interview with Wally George), but 2-on-1 was, so Skull had to drop out. While Ralphie dealt with Georgia and Drew, \"Stars and Stripes\" Matt Bickham reported to Shelley Jamison that he'd keep an eye on Skull. Due to the producers' bankruptcy and the show's subsequent cancellation, that match race never took place. The show also offered the public a chance to dial the same 900 number and vote on whether or not the alligators should be banned from the sport, but due to the cancellation, the viewers never got to see the outcome.\n\nIn 1989, television producers David Sams and Mike Miller teamed with Roller Games owner Bill Griffiths, Sr. to create a modern version of the sport marketed as \"Rock and RollerGames\". Sams provided color commentary while Chuck Underwood provided the main play-by-play.\n\nThe show also included halftime entertainment by musical performers like Lita Ford, Warrant, Exposé, and had halftime commentary by Wally George. Former Phoenix, Arizona news reporter Shelly Jamison (who also appeared nude in \"Playboy\") served as sideline reporter. \"RollerGames\" premiered in 95% of the country, and, though generally panned by critics, was well received among teenagers and college students.\n\nDirector Chet Forte was recruited to direct the show. Many of the graphics and camera techniques were unique for the day, like the cameras on the skaters. Additional segments were directed by producer David Sams, Joe Dea and wrestling director Andrew Hecker.\n\nIn many cities, \"RollerGames\" aired late at night, against \"Saturday Night Live\", while in others it aired mid-day on Saturdays. Although the show's ratings were quite good, even beating out \"American Gladiators\", it only lasted one season before getting cancelled due to some of the producers going bankrupt (War Productions, Sans-Miller Productions). However, co-producers Motown Productions, and the distributor, Qintex Productions (who also co-produced the Disney Channel's version of \"Kids Incorporated\" for two seasons) did not go bankrupt due to \"RollerGames\". RollerGames delivered a 4.7 national rating vs. the \"American Gladiators\" 2.5 rating. Its debut in New York scored a 9.3 overnight rating.\n\nThe show paved the way for a revival ten years later with the 1999 premiere of The New TNN's \"WSL RollerJam\", where former \"RollerGames\" skaters Richard Brown, Patsy Delgado and Ray Robles skated.\n\nIn January 2008, \"RollerGames\" coproducer David Sams announced that he \"intends to put banked-track Roller Sports back on Television and the Internet in 2008.\" He later announced that The David Sams Organization was recruiting skaters, coaches, trainers, and cheerleaders for a series that \"will be taped in the Los Angeles area, as early as this summer and fall.\" He also said \"A tour is being planned for the winter/spring of 2009.\"\n\nFollowing the cancellation of \"RollerGames\", Griffiths continued promoting an untelevised league under the name Roller Games International, which continues the sport of \"RollerGames\" to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "16398564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16398564", "title": "S-Town", "text": "S-Town\n\nS-Town is an investigative journalism podcast hosted by Brian Reed and created by the producers of \"Serial\" and \"This American Life\". All seven chapters were released on March 28, 2017. The podcast was downloaded a record-breaking 10 million times in four days, and it had been downloaded over 40 million times by May of 2017.\n\nIn 2012, antiquarian horologist John B. McLemore sent an email to the staff of the show \"This American Life\" asking them to investigate an alleged murder in his hometown of Woodstock, Alabama, a place McLemore claimed to despise. After a year of exchanging emails, and several months of conversation with McLemore, producer Brian Reed traveled to Woodstock to investigate.\n\nReed investigated the crime, and eventually found that no such murder took place, though he struck up a friendship with the depressed but colorful character of McLemore. He recorded conversations with McLemore and other people in Woodstock, which are played on the podcast.\n\nMcLemore killed himself by drinking potassium cyanide on June 22, 2015, while the podcast was still in production. In the narrative of the podcast, this occurs at the end of the second episode; subsequent episodes deal with the fallout from McLemore's death while exploring more of McLemore's life and character.\n\n\nThough the podcast was promoted under the name \"S-Town\", Reed reveals in the first episode that this is a euphemism for \"Shittown,\" John B. McLemore's derogatory term for his hometown of Woodstock, Alabama. Reed generally refers to the podcast by the non-euphemized name in the episodes themselves.\n\nAll episodes were released simultaneously on March 28, 2017. The podcast is available to stream or download for free on the official website, iTunes, Stitcher, Radiopublic, or through the RSS feed.\n\n\"S-Town\" incorporates various specially composed pieces of music throughout the episodes from composers Daniel Hart, Helado Negro, Trey Pollard, and Matt McGinley, including an \"S-Town\" theme produced by Hart. The show's closing music, used at the end of each episode, is \"A Rose for Emily\" by The Zombies.\n\nShortly after the release of the podcast, John's online obituary was flooded with support and shared reflections from around the world. In an April 2017 interview, Tyler Goodson said that he sometimes regrets \"ever speaking into that microphone because [he] was probably upset, or wasn't thinking clearly\" since he faced trial for the criminal actions that were described in the podcast. In October 2017, Goodson pleaded guilty to the burglaries that were described in the podcast, and he will serve five years on probation with a ten-year suspended sentence.\n\n\"S-Town\" was culturally popular and received mixed critical reviews. \"The Boston Globe\" Ty Burr thought the show was complex and voyeuristic. He asked the question \"is \"S-Town\" a freak show for the NPR crowd?\" and described the series as \"seven chapters of provocative red herrings that almost but never quite add up to a place, a people, or a man\". Jessica Goudeau from \"The Atlantic\" questioned the ethics of the series, asking \"is it okay to confess another person's pain for the sake of a good story?\". Goudeau also wondered how Flannery O'Connor, Robert Lowell, or Elizabeth Bishop would have reacted to the podcast and the exploration of poor, white, rural America. \"Slate\" Katy Waldman wrote that \"S-Town\" feels more like a new genre, \"something more like aural literature\". \"Vox\"'s Aja Romano called the podcast \"stunning\", but suggested the podcast was too invasive and should not have been made.\n\nThe podcast's critics claimed that the studio took advantage of John's death in order to gain publicity. \"Crixeo\", an online arts monthly, argues that Reed did not have the right to publicly out John as queer. At the same time, other views contend that \"S-Town\" was a way for them to take the story of John's death and shed light on mental health in the U.S. \"The Atlantic\"'s Spencer Kornhaber praised the series for its journalism, and humanism, as the series \"hints at the possibility of cultural reconciliation\" within the community. Rebecca Nicholson from \"The Guardian\" called the series \"a noble attempt at understanding life\", as the series showed \"the great hope that resides within\", by showing a person trying to survive within their surroundings.\n\n\"The Guardian\" gave \"S-Town\" a critical review. The opinion piece called S-town “a good story, but an indefensible one.” The article states that the podcast is supposed to leave you feeling positive, however instead it feels forced. The author feels that the podcast doesn’t fully addressed the main quandary at the center of S-town.\n\nBy May 2017, the podcast series was downloaded over 40 million times. \nIt retained a high ranking in the iTunes chart and continued to be analysed in the press well into 2017. Since then, the podcast remained popular and had been downloaded 77 million times by the anniversary of its release.\n\nS-Town podcast received the Peabody Award for 2017 in the category Radio/Podcast.\n\nGeorge Foster Peabody Award\n\n"}
{"id": "39310528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39310528", "title": "Singapore Sling (1990 film)", "text": "Singapore Sling (1990 film)\n\nSingapore Sling: The Man Who Loved a Corpse (, tr. \"Singapore Sling: O Anthropos pou Agapise ena Ptoma\") is a 1990 Greek black and white dramatic experimental independent underground art film directed by Nikos Nikolaidis and regarded as his magnum opus. Considered a difficult film to label while still managing to develop something of a cult following throughout the years nonetheless, it was shot in a bizarre manner somewhat resembling film noir or neo-noir and black comedy as well as the exploitation, thriller, and crime genres mixed with some elements of eroticism and horror with sex being used as a power game and received a theatrical release in Greece on 6 December 1990.\n\nDespite Nikolaidis' career as a film director in his home country which stretches to the early 1960s he was almost entirely unknown outside Greece before the early 1990s and is still less known outside it and it was only with this film, which has immediately achieved cult status, that international fame came to him and it probably still remains the film for which he is best known today, as exemplified by the fact that it was released on DVD by Synapse Films, the only one of Nikolaidis' films to so far receive a home video release in North America. The film was officially selected for screening at the Rimini Film Festival.\n\nTwo mentally ill women who are clearly suffering from not otherwise specified delusional disorders, a mother and a (grown) daughter, live together in a secluded mansion. They are in a relationship and both are recognised for their beauty. They spend their days playing perverse BDSM-related incestuous games in memory of their sadistic patriarch who, when he was still alive, raped his daughter when she was eleven, murdered several servants, and is now a mummified corpse with which the daughter is shown having sex. They occasionally kill their servants and bury their bodies in the garden.\n\nWhen first glimpsed the psychotic mother-daughter protagonists, half-dressed, are burying their disemboweled chauffeur into a pit, they have just finished to dig in their backyard on a dark and stormy night with thunder and heavy rain. They lay down their shovels and drag out of the bushes, his fresh corpse. He was killed in one of their usual games combining incestuous sex with murder. Shortly after this and at first unnoticed by the two women, a lovesick detective pulls his car up to the residence. He is suffering from a painful bullet wound and an equally painful yearning to track down Laura, his long-missing beloved for whom he has been searching for three years and about whom it is known that she has visited the area. What he does not yet know is that he has stumbled onto the lair of two profoundly insane women who have already lured Laura into their home and brutally killed her (in the process decorating their kitchen with her viscera, as a flashback helpfully shows). It is also revealed that the daughter is physically very similar to Laura and is desperately looking for a man's companionship. \n\nThe duo then easily take the seriously wounded and bleeding detective, having already figured them out to be responsible for Laura's kidnapping, into their home, essentially kidnapping him. As the exhausted detective was silent and apparently refuses to speak, even in order to state his own name, the two women christen him 'Singapore Sling', after they discover a recipe in his pocket notebook for that type of cocktail. They use him as a pawn in their sexually tinged role-playing games and as a party to their distorted and perverse form of entertainment, during which Singapore Sling, now a prisoner, is tied up, chained to a bed, vomited on, electrocuted, used as a sex slave, and subjected to various other forms of torture and atrocities in which he is forced to participate. However, as Singapore Sling's confinement wears on he regains his strength and takes a more active role in the games. His deranged captors become concerned and alarmed when a sharp kitchen knife, belonging to the late father, goes missing and they discover Singapore Sling digging a deep hole in their backyard. As psychotic as these two are, they are still lucid enough to recognize that a killing is imminent, if not two or even three. In an atmosphere of decadence and dark madness, the characters gradually sink into the depths of their subconscious mind.\n\nA few days later, the daughter decides that she is fed up with having to suffer under the yoke of maternal authority, and, together with Singapore Sling, murders her mother. Singapore Sling then takes what up until now used to be the mother's role in the sexual games. However, during one of these games, a reenactment of Laura's murder, he stabs the daughter, playing Laura, with the aforementioned missing kitchen knife now attached to his penis. The daughter, while bleeding to death, shoots Singapore Sling and then he goes out to the garden and falls into the pit which he himself had recently dug. The film hence ends, in short, with all three characters dead.\n\n\nThe film's protagonist's search for a woman named Laura is a direct reference to the classic film noir \"Laura\" (1944) by American director Otto Preminger. The film uses as background music, in addition to classical music by Sergei Rachmaninoff and Giaches de Wert, the compositions used by Glenn Miller and Julie London in \"Laura\" (1944).\n\nDirector Nikos Nikolaidis said the following about this film's reception during an interview: \"When I was shooting \"Singapore Sling\", I was under the impression that I was making a comedy with elements taken from Ancient Greek Tragedy... Later, when some European and American critics characterized it as 'one of the most disturbing films of all times,' I started to feel that something was wrong with me. Then, when British censors banned its release in England, I finally realized that something is wrong with all of us.\"\n\nThe Icelandic neo-psychedelia band Singapore Sling is named after the film. As the band's frontman Henrik Björnsson explained in a June 2003 interview with Belgium's VRT Radio 1: \"We had a first gig. It was booked and we didn't have a name and I had been looking for a film called \"Singapore Sling\" for a long time. I couldn't find it anywhere. It sounded cool, so that became the name of the band. It's some kind of dark, perverse Greek film from 1990. I haven't found it yet, so if you know someone who has it, please let me know. I hope it's good. A dark perverse noir film and a guy who has sex with a corpse. And he's called Singapore Sling.\" In November 2005, after the completion of his last film \"The Zero Years\", a tale of perversion and sexual dominance which failed to replicate the earlier success of \"Singapore Sling\", Nikolaidis declared his intention to stop making movies in order to deal with music. On 13 November 2012, \"The Projection Booth\", a weekly podcast discussing films from a wide variety of genres with in-depth critical analysis hosted by critics Mike White and Rob St. Mary, dedicated an episode to \"Singapore Sling\" featuring as a guest Professor Vrasidas Karalis, an expert on Greek cinema and the author of \"A History of Greek Cinema\", as well as a professional dominatrix who goes by the pseudonym of »Fräulein von B.« as a guest co-host.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49222774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49222774", "title": "Sports Phone", "text": "Sports Phone\n\nSports Phone was a telephone service in the United States that allowed users to hear sports scores and information. The service was launched in 1972, and after initially failing it was relaunched three years later. The service gained a following, and by 1981 had hit a peak of 50 million calls in a year. Sports Phone began in New York City, but expanded to offer programming in numerous other locations, including Chicago and Detroit. The rise of sports radio stations and score tickers on television broadcasts helped reduce the popularity of Sports Phone, before an increase in Internet usage led to its demise in 2000.\n\nCallers to Sports Phone heard messages of one minute or less, with up to 30 scores provided in a given update. In addition to scores, the service's programming included news and interviews, along with a sports trivia game. Some information was recorded specifically for certain markets. The announcers for Sports Phone included future broadcasters of several franchises in the major U.S. sports leagues.\n\nSports Phone was first introduced on November 1, 1972, after a month of service testing. The original owner was New York Telephone employee Jack Goodfellow. Customers were charged 10 cents per one-minute phone call, with New York Telephone the recipient of all charges and a fee from Sports Phone for each call. Goodfellow's intention was for the service to make money from advertisements included with the service's updates, but the business model proved unsuccessful. In 1973, Air Time Inc., a media entity, purchased rights to the service. New York Telephone later allowed for information service operators to retain part of the call fees, and Sports Phone was relaunched in 1975.\n\nThe service used multiple telephone numbers, including at least one alternate number, but the most well-known was 976-1313. Future broadcaster John Giannone claimed that, among New York City sports enthusiasts, \"Everyone 45 and over can recite\" the number. By 1976, Sports Phone was receiving an average of 65,000 calls daily. It appealed strongly to sports bettors, as it allowed users to access updates on games from the West Coast of the U.S., which frequently ended after broadcasts of television news programs. The service experienced a record period of activity in 1977, as the New York Mets were completing a trade with the Cincinnati Reds in which Tom Seaver was sent to the Reds. Sports Phone had 600,000 callers over a three-day span.\n\nThe growth in Sports Phone's usage continued in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Daily call figures moved up to around 100,000 in 1979, with peaks of three times that figure on some weekend days when college or pro football games were being held. By 1981, New York Telephone was making $3 million from Sports Phone over a year; 50 million calls were made to Sports Phone that year; the only Dial-it service that received more activity was the one for off-track betting. The service expanded to markets outside New York City as well. In 1977, Sports Phone introduced a line with updates that focused on Chicago; two years later, Detroit received its own line. New Jersey and Buffalo were later added as markets with their own numbers. Daily call numbers in Chicago had hit around 65,000 by 1984, although they reportedly peaked at 175,000.\n\nSports Phone had competition in the field by 1983, as a three-year-old national rival service, Dial-It, was receiving approximately 350,000 calls weekly. By 1985, Sports Phone's business model had changed, as its parent company, Phone Programs, was earning 2 cents per call from New York Telephone and making more than $1 million in revenue; this replaced a previous model in which Sports Phone received payments from AT&T before the breakup of the Bell System. Atlanta, Miami, and New Orleans had updates that were aimed at those markets by 1986.\n\nCalls to Sports Phone numbers cost 50 cents by 1986. The service was facing increasing competition nationally from providers such as JD's National Score Phone, Dial Sports, and a line from \"USA Today\". Sports Phone indicated that it planned to increase call lengths to 90 seconds following the beginning of the football schedule; this matched the time of Dial Sports' calls, which cost customers 10 cents less. A radio station dedicated to sports programming, WFAN, debuted in New York City in 1987. The initial concept for the station included score updates every 15 minutes, which were inspired by Sports Phone. WFAN positioned itself to compete against Sports Phone for the attention of the service's callers. One of the station's first promotional advertisements contained the line \"We just made Sports Phone old news.\" Sports Phone employee Cory Eisner said, \"We knew right away (WFAN) was going to come after us.\" At the same time that sports radio was reducing the service's business, it was affected by an increase in the use of pagers by sports bettors and a rise in number blocks by businesses in the New York City region. Television stations also moved to provide scores to viewers, as both CBS and NBC added periodic score updates to their pro football telecasts.\n\nA Boston-area number was introduced in 1988, to coincide with the Mike Tyson vs. Michael Spinks heavyweight championship fight. Services were also provided to the Cleveland and Phoenix markets, but proved unsuccessful. By 1990, Sports Phone had received nearly one billion calls over the service's life. By this time, though, cable television sports stations were providing score updates. In future years, the Internet would offer scores and news in real time. Caller activity at Sports Phone fell to 1,000 or less daily. The service's last general manager, radio broadcaster Don La Greca, said of Sports Phone's decline, \"Technology that helped us update then became available to the general public, and so there was no reason to have us.\" The service was shut down in 2000.\n\nIn the earliest incarnation of Sports Phone, each one-minute call allowed the caller to hear 46 seconds of sports scores. The remaining 14 seconds of the call were taken up by two commercials, each of which lasted seven seconds. When the service was reintroduced in 1975, the length of a call fell to between 57 and 58 seconds. The reduction in time allowed customers to hang up within 60 seconds, the length of a message unit as defined by the Federal Communications Commission. Recordings were not extended in cases when the announcers had not finished reciting scores; as many as 30 game scores could be fit into the required time frame. Updated score readings were usually done approximately once every 10 to 15 minutes through the conclusion of a night's sports events. For Sundays in which pro football was being played, the rate was much quicker, with just two minutes between updates. Sports Phone announcers initially received scores through ticker tape, but later placed employees in press boxes at events for quicker reporting times. Reporters who cooperated with Sports Phone by providing updates were paid at a rate of $20 per night; alternatively, staffers at Sports Phone would place calls into press boxes seeking updates. Employees also sought to record interviews with players, which were incorporated in Sports Phone's updates. Some interviews were recorded on-site, while others were done by announcers at the service's headquarters; the latter approach was used in 1976 by Howie Rose, who interviewed hockey player Darryl Sittler after he had posted a 10-point game. \n\nSports Phone had various kinds of filler programming that it aired during days, when there were generally fewer sporting events to report on than nights. In the beginning, updates in the daytime were recorded less frequently than during the night, at 30-minute intervals. Along with updates on baseball games that were in progress, announcers incorporated news and editorial content, in addition to interviews. During the 1981 Major League Baseball strike, when Sports Phone was suffering from a lack of content, the service reported the results of a fictional best-of-seven series between the 1961 New York Yankees and 1969 New York Mets, which was simulated with the Strat-O-Matic tabletop game. According to announcer Mike Walczewski, the series led to a 400 percent spike in Sports Phone's call volume. By 1982, daytime updates had been sped up to occur about every 15 minutes. Other information that the service provided included statistics, harness racing results, and listings of pitchers in upcoming baseball games. One other type of programming that gained a following was a sports trivia game known as the \"Quickie Quiz\". An announcer asked a trivia question during an update, and callers contacted a different phone number to answer. Winners were given 15 seconds of air time on a Sports Phone update to discuss a topic of their choice.\n\nSome content was added in certain locations' updates to appeal to the local markets. Different sports were mentioned in updates, along with reports on teams of local interest. This included listings of golf course and tennis court wait times as well. The New York City operations center handled updates for multiple cities in the southern part of the U.S.\n\nAs the popularity of Sports Phone started to decline, a new feature was launched that provided more detailed play-by-play information on games. Customers were charged 99 cents per minute for the calls, which did not have the regular service's time limit. La Greca once provided three consecutive hours of baseball play-by-play to one caller; the announcer stated that the target market for the play-by-play line was \"the degenerate gambler.\" In the final years of Sports Phone's existence, announcers often obtained score information on the Internet before recording updates.\n\nWriter Joe DeLessio described Sports Phone as \"a launching pad for young voices looking to break into broadcasting.\" The employees who announced updates for the service included future television broadcasters of the Mets and New York Yankees baseball clubs, and the New Jersey Devils and New York Islanders of the National Hockey League. La Greca, after beginning his career at Sports Phone, became a radio broadcaster for the New York Rangers and an ESPN Radio host in New York City. Mets announcer Howie Rose, who began working for Sports Phone in 1975, likened his position to \"anchoring the \"CBS Evening News\"\".\n\nA steady stream of announcers at the service's New York City operations came from Fordham University. Future Yankees television announcer Michael Kay and New York Giants radio voice Bob Papa were among the Fordham attendees who later announced for Sports Phone. Some Sports Phone announcers who provided updates to southern locations, including Papa, applied pseudonyms in an effort \"to sound less ethnic.\"\n"}
{"id": "51594410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51594410", "title": "Spreadability", "text": "Spreadability\n\nIn media studies, spreadability is the wide distribution and circulation of information on media platforms. The term was coined by Henry Jenkins in the book \"Spreadable Media\". Spreadability contrasts with the \"stickiness\" of aggregating media in centralized places.\n\nThe original copy of the (textual, visual, audio) information does not need to be replicated perfectly in order to display the characteristics of spreadability, rather the original can be manipulated or maintained in its original form and still be a product of this process. Simply, this concept refers to the capability of media being spread. \n\nSpreadability was coined by Henry Jenkins, a media scholar known for his work in communication studies. It \"refers to the potential – both technical and cultural – for audiences to share content for their own purposes, sometimes with the permission of rights holders, sometimes against their wishes\". It is contextualised in the media landscape due to the strong connection with quick and easy sharing practices which have been enabled by media platforms. After Jenkins coined this term (in a rather optimistic context) many authors such as Christian Fuchs have interpreted this movement through a more pessimistic lens.\n\nSpreadability is directly linked to the participatory culture which Jenkins also coined. Participatory culture is the backbone to spreadability as it depicts an image of people who are \"shaping, sharing, reframing, and remixing media content\". This culture is based on grass-root audience practices online. In other words, any user of a platform (that provides sharing possibilities) is emancipated as an individual who can informally, and instantaneously share information online. It is also important how the participatory culture and the act of sharing online \"tends to be a communal act of giving and taking that links us to other people\".\n\nJenkins situates spreadability in a particular context. This concept is particularly contextualised in the social media era and the Web 2.0 culture. These two transformations can be considered prerequisites for the idea of spreadibility to exist and for spreadable media to adopt such mechanisms to achieve spreadability.\n\nThis new culture began at the beginning of the second millennium when the internet became an interactive space. This means there was a need for a platform or platforms where users could contribute and share information. Belk says this is how the \"Internet and especially Web 2.0 has brought about many new ways of sharing as well as facilitating older forms of sharing on a large-scale\".\n\nThere is a strong emphasis on content production, but more concretely, user-generated content production. This is where the importance of social media (an affect of the Web 2.0) is relevant. Spreadable media is only possible when there is a platform where the content can be shared. As Jenkins puts it, \"spreadability emphasizes producing content in easy-to-share formats […] which makes it easier to spread videos [or any other material] across the Internet, and encouraging access points to that content in a variety of places\". Furthermore, as a result of this sharing community, the public has become more individually and collectively literate about social platforms and their ability to construct identities online.\n\nTherefore, there are a handful of prerequisites that allow media to become spreadable, including, the Internet enabling power to the user, platforms incorporating share buttons or other means to easily pass on media to a specific audience, and for the public to have the required intelligence to carry out these actions. Moreover, there are also specific characteristics which allow certain platforms to have spreadable media on them.\n\nThere are special characteristics that help to define what spreadability actually is. One key movement that underlines all the other characteristics is the change from distribution to circulation. This means there is a community where individuals exchange 'meaningful bytes'.\n\nBelow is a table that describes how certain elements provided on a media platform engage the audience or viewer into becoming involved in the spreadability of information. The descriptions have been extracted from Jenkins, Ford & Green 2013.\nOne major aspect of sharing media is the loss of control of ownership. It is no longer a black and white picture where one rule can determine this distinction. Hemetsberger expands on this issue in her chapter \"Let The Source Be With You\". She says how when one engages in sharing information with others, they give up their ownership. She says it is \"access over ownership\". This is contextualised in a positive environment where individuals can profit from the resources others can provide and are not obligated to be self-dependent. For example, carsharing illustrates how the practice of sharing can be communal act of giving and taking that does not explicitly require ownership. Another example is how one may upload a picture onto social media such as Facebook and by doing so, Facebook archives this information. What Facebook, or any other media platform does with this information which the user provides is sometimes not transparent although we agree to the terms and conditions that explain this.\n\nSharing can therefore save time and money for individuals who profit from these practices. \"Profit\" in general has monetary connotations attached to it but in this context it does not need to refer to an exchange of money. This also connects to the type of sharing that is used. Hemetsberger names three types of sharing; \"sharing in\", \"sharing out\" and \"cross-sharing\". It is especially through \"sharing in\" that leads to a feeling of belonging to a group or community. For example, when we share a cake between several people, there is a bond forming between those involved. \"It is not the only way in which we connect with others, but it is a potential powerful one that creates feelings of solidarity and bonding\" that partaking in such practices creates.\n\nAlthough Hemetsberger speaks of ownership, Christian Fuchs takes a more negative stance on the subject in relation to sharing practices. He relates Wikipedia to the idea of communism and participatory democracy. He argues that \"Wikipedians are prototypical contemporary communists\" where those contributing to, as well as those who use this platform are guilty. In other words, three contributing factors make those interacting with Wikipedia contemporary communists.\n\nSpreadability is possible through the use of media. A “medium” is any tool that can be used by anybody to deliver various forms of media (any information, a picture, etc.) to an individual or a group of people at any given point in time. As one could infer from the name, a “medium,” is essentially between two things (e.g. a person listening to the radio in their car). Media content is produced, and/or ‘altered,’ and then circulated on the media platform(s). According to Karcher, the three main types of spreadable media are “from scratch (original), altered (changed in someway before being circulated), and ‘as-is’ (circulated before any alterations are made).” No matter the involvement/contribution an individual takes part in when it comes to spreadable media, every aspect is extremely valuable because every person involved works together either directly or indirectly. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28479795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28479795", "title": "Stand-up tragedy", "text": "Stand-up tragedy\n\nStand-up tragedy is a style of tragic performance where a performer performs in front of a live audience, speaking directly to them. The goal of Stand-up tragedy is to make the audience members cry.\n\nStand-up tragedy performances are usually long and employ the use of various media such as video, audio, highly emotional monologues and rants where the performer recites a fast-paced succession of tragic and disturbing stories. Stand-up tragedy is often performed in bars, nightclubs, private homes, art museums, galleries and universities.\n\nThe origin of the term Stand up tragedy is unknown. The comedian Brother Theodore (1906–2001) used the term to describe his comedic act which was dark, and had an absurdist edge. The Beat poet Lawrence Ferlinghetti (1919-) often refers to himself as a \"stand-up tragedian\",\n"}
{"id": "17157886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17157886", "title": "Star Trek", "text": "Star Trek\n\nStar Trek is an American space opera media franchise based on the science fiction television series created by Gene Roddenberry. The first television series, simply called \"Star Trek\" and now referred to as \"\", debuted in 1966 and aired for three seasons on the television network NBC. It followed the interstellar adventures of Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and his crew aboard the starship USS \"Enterprise\", a space exploration vessel, built by the United Federation of Planets in the twenty-third century. The \"Star Trek\" canon of the franchise includes \"The Original Series\", an animated series, five spin-off television series, the film franchise, and further adaptations in several media.\n\nIn creating \"Star Trek\", Roddenberry was inspired by the Horatio Hornblower novels, the satirical book \"Gulliver's Travels\", and by works of western genre such as the television series \"Wagon Train\". These adventures continued in the 22-episode \"\" and six feature films. Four spin-off television series were eventually produced: \"\" followed the crew of a new starship \"Enterprise\" set a century after the original series; \"\" and \"\" set contemporaneously with \"The Next Generation\"; and \"\" set before the original series in the early days of human interstellar travel. The most recent \"Star Trek\" TV series, entitled \"\", premiered on CBS and was later made available exclusively on the digital platform CBS All Access. The adventures of \"The Next Generation\" crew continued in four additional feature films. In 2009, the film franchise underwent a \"reboot\" set in an alternate timeline, or \"Kelvin Timeline,\" entitled simply \"Star Trek.\" This film featured a new cast portraying younger versions of the crew from the original show; their adventures were continued in the sequel film, \"Star Trek Into Darkness\" (2013). The thirteenth film feature and sequel, \"Star Trek Beyond\" (2016), was released to coincide with the franchise's 50th anniversary.\n\n\"Star Trek\" has been a cult phenomenon for decades. Fans of the franchise are called Trekkies or Trekkers. The franchise spans a wide range of spin-offs including games, figurines, novels, toys, and comics. \"Star Trek\" had a in Las Vegas that opened in 1998 and closed in September 2008. At least two museum exhibits of props travel the world. The series has its own full-fledged constructed language, Klingon. Several parodies have been made of \"Star Trek\". In addition, viewers have produced several fan productions. As of July 2016, the franchise had generated $10 billion in revenue, making \"Star Trek\" one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time.\n\n\"Star Trek\" is noted for its cultural influence beyond works of science fiction. The franchise is also noted for its progressive civil rights stances. \"The Original Series\" included one of television's first multiracial casts. \"Star Trek\" references may be found throughout popular culture from movies such as the submarine thriller \"Crimson Tide\" to the animated series \"South Park\".\n\nAs early as 1964, Gene Roddenberry drafted a proposal for the science-fiction series that would become \"Star Trek\". Although he publicly marketed it as a Western in outer space—a so-called \"\"Wagon Train\" to the Stars\"—he privately told friends that he was modeling it on Jonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\", intending each episode to act on two levels: as a suspenseful adventure story and as a morality tale.\n\nMost \"Star Trek\" stories depict the adventures of humans and aliens who serve in Starfleet, the space-borne humanitarian and peacekeeping armada of the United Federation of Planets. The protagonists have altruistic values, and must apply these ideals to difficult dilemmas.\n\nMany of the conflicts and political dimensions of \"Star Trek\" represent allegories of contemporary cultural realities. \"Star Trek: The Original Series\" addressed issues of the 1960s, just as later spin-offs have reflected issues of their respective decades. Issues depicted in the various series include war and peace, the value of personal loyalty, authoritarianism, imperialism, class warfare, economics, racism, religion, human rights, sexism, feminism, and the role of technology. Roddenberry stated: \"[By creating] a new world with new rules, I could make statements about sex, religion, Vietnam, politics, and intercontinental missiles. Indeed, we did make them on \"Star Trek\": we were sending messages and fortunately they all got by the network.\" \"If you talked about purple people on a far off planet, they (the TV network) never really caught on. They were more concerned about cleavage. They actually would send a censor down to the set to measure a woman's cleavage to make sure too much of her breast wasn't showing\"\n\nRoddenberry intended the show to have a progressive political agenda reflective of the emerging counter-culture of the youth movement, though he was not fully forthcoming to the networks about this. He wanted \"Star Trek\" to show what humanity might develop into, if it would learn from the lessons of the past, most specifically by ending violence. An extreme example is the alien species, the Vulcans, who had a violent past but learned to control their emotions. Roddenberry also gave \"Star Trek\" an anti-war message and depicted the United Federation of Planets as an ideal, optimistic version of the United Nations. His efforts were opposed by the network because of concerns over marketability, e.g., they opposed Roddenberry's insistence that \"Enterprise\" have a racially diverse crew.\n\nThe central trio of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy from \"Star Trek: The Original Series\" was modeled on classical mythological storytelling.\n\nWilliam Shatner said: \n\nRichard Lutz wrote: \n\nIn early 1964, Roddenberry presented a brief treatment for a proposed \"Star Trek\" TV series to Desilu Productions comparing it to \"Wagon Train\", \"a \"Wagon Train\" to the stars.\" Desilu worked with Roddenberry to develop the treatment into a script, which was then pitched to NBC.\n\nNBC paid to make a pilot, \"\", starring Jeffrey Hunter as \"Enterprise\" Captain Christopher Pike. NBC rejected \"The Cage\", but the executives were still impressed with the concept, and made the unusual decision to commission a second pilot: \"Where No Man Has Gone Before\".\n\nThe first regular episode (\"The Man Trap\") of \"\" aired on Thursday, September 8, 1966 in the US.\n\nWhile the show initially enjoyed high ratings, the average rating of the show at the end of its first season dropped to 52nd out of 94 programs. Unhappy with the show's ratings, NBC threatened to cancel the show during its second season. The show's fan base, led by Bjo Trimble, conducted an unprecedented letter-writing campaign, petitioning the network to keep the show on the air. NBC renewed the show, but moved it from primetime to the \"Friday night death slot\", and substantially reduced its budget. In protest Roddenberry resigned as producer and reduced his direct involvement in \"Star Trek\", which led to Fred Freiberger becoming producer for the show's third and final season. Despite another letter-writing campaign, NBC cancelled the series after three seasons and 79 episodes.\n\nAfter the original series was cancelled, Paramount Studios, which had bought the series from Desilu, licensed the broadcast syndication rights to help recoup the production losses. Reruns began in the fall of 1969 and by the late 1970s the series aired in over 150 domestic and 60 international markets. This helped \"Star Trek\" develop a cult following greater than its popularity during its original run.\n\nOne sign of the series' growing popularity was the first \"Star Trek\" convention which occurred on January 21–23, 1972 in New York City. Although the original estimate of attendees was only a few hundred, several thousand fans turned up. \"Star Trek\" fans continue to attend similar conventions worldwide.\n\nThe series' newfound success led to the idea of reviving the franchise. Filmation with Paramount Television produced the first post original series show, \"\". It ran on NBC for 22 half-hour episodes over two seasons on Saturday mornings from 1973 to 1974. Although short-lived, typical for animated productions in that time slot during that period, the series garnered the franchise's only \"Best Series\" Emmy Award as opposed to the franchise's later technical ones. Paramount Pictures and Roddenberry began developing a new series, \"\", in May 1975 in response to the franchise's newfound popularity. Work on the series ended, however, when the proposed Paramount Television Service folded.\n\nFollowing the success of the science fiction movies \"Star Wars\" and \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\", Paramount adapted the planned pilot episode of \"Phase II\" into the feature film \"\". The film opened in North America on December 7, 1979, with mixed reviews from critics. The film earned $139 million worldwide, below expectations but enough for Paramount to create a sequel. The studio forced Roddenberry to relinquish creative control of future sequels.\n\nThe success of the critically acclaimed sequel, \"\", reversed the fortunes of the franchise. While the sequel grossed less than the first movie, \"The Wrath of Khan\"s lower production costs made it net more profit. Paramount produced six \"Star Trek\" feature films between 1979 and 1991. In response to the popularity of \"Star Trek\" feature films, the franchise returned to television with \"\" (\"TNG\") in 1987. Paramount chose to distribute it as a first-run syndication show rather than a network show.\n\nFollowing \"Star Trek: The Motion Picture\", Roddenberry's role was changed from producer to creative consultant with minimal input to the films while being heavily involved with the creation of \"\". Roddenberry died on October 24, 1991, giving executive producer Rick Berman control of the franchise. \"Star Trek\" had become known to those within Paramount as \"the franchise\", because of its great success and recurring role as a tent pole for the studio when other projects failed. \"TNG\" had the highest ratings of any \"Star Trek\" series and became the #1 syndicated show during the last years of its original seven-season run. In response to \"TNG's\" success, Paramount released a spin-off series \"\" in 1993. While never as popular as \"TNG\", the series had sufficient ratings for it to last seven seasons.\n\nIn January 1995, a few months after \"TNG\" ended, Paramount released a fourth TV series, \"\". \"Star Trek\" saturation reached a peak in the mid-1990s with \"DS9\" and \"Voyager\" airing concurrently and three of the four \"TNG\"-based feature films released in 1994, 1996, and 1998. By 1998, \"Star Trek\" was Paramount's most important property; the enormous profits of \"the franchise\" funded much of the rest of the studio's operations. \"Voyager\" became the flagship show of the new United Paramount Network (UPN) and thus the first major network \"Star Trek\" series since the original.\n\nAfter \"Voyager\" ended, UPN produced \"\", a prequel TV series to the original show. \"Enterprise\" did not enjoy the high ratings of its predecessors and UPN threatened to cancel it after the series' third season. Fans launched a campaign reminiscent of the one that saved the third season of the \"Original Series\". Paramount renewed \"Enterprise\" for a fourth season, but moved it to the Friday night death slot. Like the \"Original Series\", \"Enterprise\" ratings dropped during this time slot, and UPN cancelled \"Enterprise\" at the end of its fourth season. \"Enterprise\" aired its final episode on May 13, 2005. Fan groups, \"Save \"Enterprise\"\", attempted to save the series and tried to raise $30 million to privately finance a fifth season of \"Enterprise\". Though the effort garnered considerable press, the fan drive failed to save the series. The cancellation of \"Enterprise\" ended an eighteen-year continuous production run of \"Star Trek\" programming on television. The poor box office performance in 2002 of the film \"\", cast an uncertain light upon the future of the franchise. Paramount relieved Berman, the franchise producer, of control of \"Star Trek\".\n\nParamount turned down several proposals in the mid-2000s to restart the franchise. These included pitches from film director Bryan Singer, \"Babylon 5\" creator J. Michael Straczynski, and \"Trek\" actors Jonathan Frakes and William Shatner. The studio also turned down an animated web series. Instead, Paramount hired a new creative team to reinvigorate the franchise in 2007. Writers Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman and \"Lost\" producer, J. J. Abrams, had the freedom to reinvent the feel of \"Trek\".\n\nThe team created the franchise's eleventh film, entitled simply \"Star Trek\", releasing it in May 2009. The film featured a new cast portraying the crew of the original show. \"Star Trek\" was a prequel of the original series set in an alternate timeline, known as the \"Kelvin Timeline\". This gave the film and future sequels to it freedom from the need to conform to the franchise's canonical timeline. The eleventh \"Star Trek\" film's marketing campaign targeted non-fans, even stating in the film's advertisements that \"this is not your father's \"Star Trek\"\".\n\nThe film earned considerable critical and financial success, grossing (in inflation-adjusted dollars) more box office sales than any previous \"Star Trek\" film. The plaudits include the franchise's first Academy Award (for makeup). The film's major cast members are contracted for two sequels. Paramount's sequel to the 2009 film, \"Star Trek Into Darkness\", premiered in Sydney, Australia, on April 23, 2013, but the film did not release in the United States until May 17, 2013. While the film was not as successful in the North American box office as its predecessor, internationally, in terms of box office receipts, \"Into Darkness\" was the most successful of the franchise. A thirteenth film entitled \"Star Trek Beyond\" was released on July 22, 2016.\n\nCBS revived the franchise with the show \"\" to help launch and draw subscribers to its streaming service CBS All Access. The premiered in September 24, 2017 and has been renewed for a second season set to premiere January 2019. A second CBS All-Access series is under development featuring Patrick Stewart reprising his role as Jean-Luc Picard.\n\nSeven television series make up the bulk of the \"Star Trek\" mythos: \"The Original Series\", \"The Animated Series\", \"The Next Generation\", \"Deep Space Nine\", \"Voyager\", \"Enterprise\", and \"Discovery\". All the different versions in total amount to 741 \"Star Trek\" episodes across the 31 seasons of the TV series.\n\n\"Star Trek: The Original Series\" or \"TOS\" debuted in the United States on NBC on September 8, 1966. The show tells the tale of the crew of the starship \"Enterprise\" and its five-year mission \"to boldly go where no man has gone before.\" The original 1966–69 television series featured William Shatner as Captain James T. Kirk, Leonard Nimoy as Spock, DeForest Kelley as Dr. Leonard \"Bones\" McCoy, James Doohan as Montgomery \"Scotty\" Scott, Nichelle Nichols as Uhura, George Takei as Hikaru Sulu, and Walter Koenig as Pavel Chekov. During the series' original run, it earned several nominations for the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation and won twice: for the two-parter \"The Menagerie\" and the Harlan Ellison-written episode \"The City on the Edge of Forever\".\n\nNBC canceled the show after three seasons; the last original episode aired on June 3, 1969. The petition near the end of the second season to save the show signed by many Caltech students and its multiple Hugo nominations would, however, indicate that despite low Nielsen ratings, it was highly popular with science fiction fans and engineering students. The series later became popular in reruns and found a cult following.\n\"Star Trek: The Animated Series\", produced by Filmation, ran for two seasons from 1973 to 1974. Most of the original cast performed the voices of their characters from \"The Original Series\", and many of the writers who worked on \"The Original Series\", D. C. Fontana, David Gerrold, and Paul Schneider, wrote for the series. While the animated format allowed the producers to create more exotic alien landscapes and life forms, animation errors and liberal reuse of shots and musical cues have tarnished the series' reputation. Although it was originally sanctioned by Paramount, which owned the \"Star Trek\" franchise following its acquisition of Desilu in 1967, Gene Roddenberry often spoke of \"TAS\" as non-canon. \"Star Trek\" writers have used elements of the animated series in later live-action series and films, and , \"TAS\" has references in the library section of the official Startrek.com web site officially bringing the series into the franchise's main canon.\n\n\"The Animated Series\" won \"Star Trek\"s first Emmy Award on May 15, 1975. \"Star Trek: TAS\" briefly returned to television in the mid-1980s on the children's cable network Nickelodeon. Nickelodeon's Evan McGuire greatly admired the show and used its various creative components as inspiration for his short series called \"Piggly Wiggly Hears a Sound\" which never aired. Nickelodeon parent Viacom would purchase Paramount in 1994. In the early 1990s, the Sci-Fi Channel also began rerunning \"TAS\". The complete \"TAS\" was also released on Laserdisc format during the 1980s. The complete series was first released in the U.S. on eleven volumes of VHS tapes in 1989. All 22 episodes were released on DVD in 2006.\n\n\"Star Trek: The Next Generation\", also known as \"TNG\", takes place about a century after \"The Original Series\" (2364–2370). It features a new starship, \"Enterprise\"-D, and a new crew led by Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) and Commander William Riker (Jonathan Frakes). Some crewmembers represent new alien races, including Deanna Troi, a half-Betazoid counselor played by Marina Sirtis. Michael Dorn plays Worf, the first Klingon officer in Starfleet, alongside Gates McFadden as Dr. Beverly Crusher, LeVar Burton as chief engineer Geordi La Forge, the android Data portrayed by Brent Spiner, and Dr. Crusher's son Wesley Crusher played by Wil Wheaton. The show premiered on September 28, 1987, and ran for seven seasons, ending on May 23, 1994. It had the highest ratings of any of the \"Star Trek\" series and became the #1 syndicated show during the last few years of its original run, allowing it to act as a springboard for ideas in other series. Many relationships and races introduced in \"TNG\" became the basis of episodes in \"Deep Space 9\" and \"Voyager\". During its run it earned several Emmy awards and nominations—including a nomination for Best Dramatic Series during its final season—two Hugo Awards and a Peabody Award for Outstanding Television Programming for the episode \"The Big Goodbye\".\n\n\"Star Trek: Deep Space Nine\", also known as \"DS9\", takes place during the last years and the immediate post-years of \"The Next Generation\" (2369–2375) and aired for seven seasons, debuting the week of January 3, 1993. Like \"Star Trek: The Next Generation\", it aired in syndication in the United States and Canada. Unlike the other \"Star Trek\" series, \"DS9\" takes place primarily on a space station rather than aboard a starship.\n\nThe show begins after the brutal Cardassian occupation of the planet Bajor. The liberated Bajoran people ask the United Federation of Planets to help run a Cardassian built space station, Deep Space Nine, near Bajor. After the Federation takes control of the station, the protagonists of the show discover a uniquely stable wormhole that provides immediate access to the distant Gamma Quadrant making Bajor and the station one of the most strategically important locations in the galaxy. The show chronicles the events of the station's crew, led by Commander (later Captain) Benjamin Sisko, played by Avery Brooks, and Major (later Colonel) Kira Nerys, played by Nana Visitor. Recurring plot elements include the repercussions of the Cardassian occupation of Bajor, Sisko's spiritual role for the Bajorans as the Emissary of the Prophets, and in later seasons a war with the Dominion.\n\n\"Deep Space Nine\" stands apart from earlier \"Trek\" series for its lengthy serialized storytelling, conflict within the crew, and religious themes—all elements that critics and audiences praised but Roddenberry forbade in the original series and \"The Next Generation\". Nevertheless, he was informed before his death of \"DS9\", making this the last \"Star Trek\" series connected to Gene Roddenberry.\n\n\"Star Trek: Voyager\" ran for seven seasons, airing from January 16, 1995, to May 23, 2001, launching a new Paramount-owned television network, UPN. It features Kate Mulgrew as Captain Kathryn Janeway, the first female commanding officer in a leading role of a \"Star Trek\" series, and Commander Chakotay, played by Robert Beltran.\n\n\"Voyager\" takes place at about the same time period as \"Deep Space Nine\" and the years following that show's end (2371–2378). The premiere episode has the USS \"Voyager\" and its crew pursue a Maquis (Federation rebels) ship. Both ships become stranded in the Delta Quadrant about 70,000 light-years from Earth. Faced with a 75-year voyage to Earth, the crew must learn to work together to overcome challenges on their long and perilous journey home while also seeking ways to shorten the voyage. Like \"Deep Space Nine\", early seasons of \"Voyager\" feature more conflict between its crewmembers than seen in later episodes. Such conflict often arises from friction between \"by-the-book\" Starfleet crew and rebellious Maquis fugitives forced by circumstance to work together on Voyager. Eventually, though, they settle their differences, after which the overall tone becomes more reminiscent of \"The Original Series\". The starship \"Voyager\", isolated from its home, faces new cultures and dilemmas not possible in shows based in the Alpha Quadrant. Later seasons, however, brought an influx of characters and cultures from prior shows, the Borg, Q, the Ferengi, Romulans, Klingons, Cardassians and cast members of \"The Next Generation\".\n\n\"Star Trek: Enterprise\", originally entitled \"Enterprise\", is a prequel to the original \"Star Trek\" series. It aired from September 26, 2001 to May 13, 2005. \"Enterprise\" takes place in the 2150s, some 90 years after the events of Zefram Cochrane's first warp flight and about a decade before the founding of the Federation. The show centers on the voyages of Earth's first warp 5 capable starship, \"Enterprise\", commanded by Captain Jonathan Archer (played by Scott Bakula), and the Vulcan Sub-Commander T'Pol (played by Jolene Blalock).\n\nDuring the show's first two seasons, \"Enterprise\" featured self-contained episodes, like \"The Original Series\", \"The Next Generation\" and \"Voyager\". The third season consisted of one arc, \"Xindi mission\", which had a darker tone and serialized nature similar to that of \"Deep Space 9\". Season 4 consisted of several mini-arcs composed of two to three episodes. The final season showed the origins of elements seen in earlier series, and it rectified and resolved some core continuity problems between the various \"Star Trek\" series. Ratings for \"Enterprise\" started strong but declined rapidly. Although critics received the fourth season well, both fans and the cast reviled the series finale, partly because of the episode's focus on the guest appearance of members of \"The Next Generation\" cast. The cancellation of \"Enterprise\" ended an 18-year run of back-to-back new \"Star Trek\" shows beginning with \"The Next Generation\" in 1987.\n\n\"Star Trek: Discovery\" is a direct prequel to \"\", set roughly ten years beforehand. It premiered September 24, 2017 in the United States and Canada on CBS before moving to CBS All Access, while Netflix streams the show outside the United States and is also providing most of the show's funding.\n\nThe show centers on the voyages of the \"Discovery\", commanded by Captain Gabriel Lorca (played by Jason Isaacs), and Lieutenant Commander Michael Burnham (played by Sonequa Martin-Green), with Burnham being the lead character of the series. This marks the first \"Star Trek\" series to feature a First Officer as the lead character. The show features the Klingon T'Kuvma attempting to unite the 24 great Klingon houses, leading to a war between his race and the United Federation of Planets that involves the crew of the \"Discovery\".\nAn untitled series was announced on August 4, 2018 which will see Patrick Stewart reprise his role as Jean-Luc Picard from \"\". The series, which is being developed for CBS All Access, will be set twenty years after the events of \"\".\n\nOn October 25, 2018, CBS announced a two-season order for a new half-hour adult comedy animated series, set on one of Starfleet’s least important ships and focusing on the support crew. The series is created by Mike McMahan, head writer and executive producer of \"Rick and Morty\".\n\nParamount Pictures has produced thirteen \"Star Trek\" feature films, the most recent being released in July 2016. The first six films continue the adventures of the cast of \"The Original Series\"; the seventh film, \"Generations\" was designed as a transition from that cast to \"The Next Generation\" television series; the next three films, 8–10, focused completely on the \"Next Generation\" cast. Starting with the eleventh film, the movies take place in an alternate timeline with a new cast playing the original series characters. Leonard Nimoy portrays an elderly Spock in these films, providing a physical link to the original timeline. This alternate timeline has been named by CBS, for the computer game \"Star Trek Online\", the Kelvin Timeline.\n\nMany licensed products are based on the \"Star Trek\" franchise. Merchandising is very lucrative for both studio and actors; by 1986 Nimoy had earned more than $500,000 from royalties. Products include novels, comic books, video games, and other materials, which are generally considered non-canon. \"Star Trek\" merchandise generated $4 billion for Paramount by 2002.\n\nSince 1967, hundreds of original novels, short stories, and television and movie adaptations have been published. The first original \"Star Trek\" novel was \"Mission to Horatius\" by Mack Reynolds, which was published in hardcover by Whitman Books in 1968.\n\nThe first publisher of \"Star Trek\" fiction aimed at adult readers was Bantam Books. James Blish wrote adaptations of episodes of the original series in twelve volumes from 1967 to 1977; in 1970, he wrote the first original \"Star Trek\" novel published by Bantam, \"Spock Must Die!\"\n\nPocket Books published subsequent \"Star Trek\" novels. Prolific \"Star Trek\" novelists include Peter David, Diane Carey, Keith R. A. DeCandido, J. M. Dillard, Diane Duane, Michael Jan Friedman, and Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens. Several actors from the television series have also written or co-written books featuring their respective characters: William Shatner, John de Lancie, Andrew J. Robinson, J. G. Hertzler and Armin Shimerman. \"Voyager\" producer Jeri Taylor wrote two novels featuring back story for \"Voyager\" characters, and screen authors David Gerrold, D. C. Fontana, and Melinda Snodgrass have penned books, as well.\n\nA scholarly book published by Springer Science+Business Media in 2014 discusses the actualization of \"Star Trek\"'s holodeck in the future by making extensive use of artificial intelligence and cyborgs.\n\n\"Star Trek\"-based comics have been almost continuously published since 1967. They have been offered by several companies, including Marvel, DC, Malibu, Wildstorm, and Gold Key. Tokyopop is publishing an anthology of \"Next Generation\"-based stories presented in the style of Japanese manga. , IDW Publishing secured publishing rights to \"Star Trek\" comics and published a prequel to the 2009 film, \"\". In 2012, they published Volume I of \"Star Trek – The Newspaper Strip\" featuring the work of Thomas Warkentin.\n\nThe \"Star Trek\" franchise has numerous games in many formats. Beginning in 1967 with a board game based on the original series and continuing through today with online and DVD games, \"Star Trek\" games continue to be popular among fans.\n\nVideo games of the series include \"\" and \"\". An MMORPG based on \"Star Trek\" called \"Star Trek Online\" was developed by Cryptic Studios and published by Perfect World. It is set in the TNG universe about 30 years after the events of \"\". The most recent video game, set in the new timeline debuted in J. J. Abrams's film, was entitled \"Star Trek\".\n\nOn June 8, 2010, Wiz Kids Games, which is owned by NECA, announced that they are developing a \"Star Trek\" collectible miniatures game using the HeroClix game system.\n\n\"Star Trek\" has led directly or indirectly to the creation of a number of magazines which focus either on science fiction or specifically on \"Star Trek\". \"Starlog\" was a magazine which was founded in the 1970s. Initially, its focus was on \"Star Trek\" actors, but then it began to expand its scope.\n\nIn 2013, \"Star Trek Magazine\" was a significant publication from the U.K. which was sold at newsstands and also via subscription. Other magazines through the years included professional magazines as well as magazines produced by fans, referred to as \"fanzines\". \"\" was a magazine published in the U.S. which ceased publication in 2003.\n\nThe \"Star Trek\" media franchise is a multibillion-dollar industry, owned by CBS. Gene Roddenberry sold \"Star Trek\" to NBC as a classic adventure drama; he pitched the show as \"\"Wagon Train\" to the Stars\" and as \"Horatio Hornblower in Space\". The opening line, \"to boldly go where no man has gone before,\" was taken almost verbatim from a U.S. White House booklet on space produced after the Sputnik flight in 1957. The central trio of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy was modeled on classical mythological storytelling.\n\n\"Star Trek\" and its spin-offs have proven highly popular in syndication and are shown on TV stations worldwide. The show's cultural impact goes far beyond its longevity and profitability. \"Star Trek\" conventions have become popular among its fans, who call themselves \"trekkies\" or \"trekkers\". An entire subculture has grown up around the show which was documented in the film \"Trekkies\". \"Star Trek\" was the highest-ranked cult show by \"TV Guide\". The franchise has also garnered many comparisons of the \"Star Wars\" franchise being rivals in the science fiction genre with many fans and scholars.\n\nThe \"Star Trek\" franchise inspired some designers of technologies, the Palm PDA and the handheld mobile phone. Michael Jones, Chief technologist of Google Earth, has cited the tricorder's mapping capability as one inspiration in the development of Keyhole/Google Earth. The Tricorder X Prize, a contest to build a medical tricorder device was announced in 2012. Ten finalists were selected in 2014, and the winner was to be selected in January 2016. However, no team managed to reach the required criteria. \"Star Trek\" also brought teleportation to popular attention with its depiction of \"matter-energy transport\", with the famously misquoted phrase \"Beam me up, Scotty\" entering the vernacular. The \"Star Trek\" replicator is credited in the scientific literature with inspiring the field of diatom nanotechnology. In 1976, following a letter-writing campaign, NASA named its prototype space shuttle \"Enterprise\", after the fictional starship. Later, the introductory sequence to \"Star Trek: Enterprise\" included footage of this shuttle which, along with images of a naval sailing vessel called \"Enterprise\", depicted the advancement of human transportation technology. Additionally, some contend that the \"Star Trek\" society resembles communism.\n\nBeyond \"Star Trek\"s fictional innovations, its contributions to TV history included a multicultural and multiracial cast. While more common in subsequent years, in the 1960s it was controversial to feature an Enterprise crew that included a Japanese helmsman, a Russian navigator, a black female communications officer, and a human–Vulcan first officer. Captain Kirk's and Lt. Uhura's kiss, in the episode \"Plato's Stepchildren\", was also daring, and is often mis-cited as being American television's first scripted, interracial kiss, even though several other interracial kisses predated this one. In an interview Nichelle Nichols, who played the black female communications officer, said that the day after she told Roddenberry she planned to leave the show, she was at a fund-raiser at the NAACP and was told there was a big fan who wanted to meet her. Nichols said, I thought it was a Trekkie, and so I said, 'Sure.' I looked across the room, and there was Dr. Martin Luther King walking towards me with this big grin on his face. He reached out to me and said, 'Yes, Ms. Nichols, I am your greatest fan.' He said that \"Star Trek\" was the only show that he, and his wife Coretta, would allow their three little children to stay up and watch. [She told King about her plans to leave the series.] I never got to tell him why, because he said, 'You can't. You're part of history.' When she told Roddenberry what King had said, he cried.\n\nComputer engineer and entrepreneur Steve Wozniak credited watching \"Star Trek\" and attending \"Star Trek\" conventions while in his youth as a source of inspiration for him co-founding Apple Inc. in 1976, which would later become the world's largest information technology company by revenue and the world's third-largest mobile phone manufacturer.\n\nEarly TV comedy sketch parodies of \"Star Trek\" included a famous sketch on \"Saturday Night Live\" entitled \"The Last Voyage of the Starship \"Enterprise\"\", with John Belushi as Kirk, Chevy Chase as Spock and Dan Aykroyd as McCoy. In the 1980s, \"Saturday Night Live\" did a sketch with William Shatner reprising his Captain Kirk role in \"The Restaurant Enterprise\", preceded by a sketch in which he played himself at a \"Trek\" convention angrily telling fans to \"Get a Life\", a phrase that has become part of \"Trek\" folklore. \"In Living Color\" continued the tradition in a sketch where Captain Kirk is played by a fellow Canadian Jim Carrey.\n\nA feature-length film that indirectly parodies \"Star Trek\" is \"Galaxy Quest\". This film is based on the premise that aliens monitoring the broadcast of an Earth-based TV series called \"Galaxy Quest\", modeled heavily on \"Star Trek\", believe that what they are seeing is real. Many \"Star Trek\" actors have been quoted saying that \"Galaxy Quest\" was a brilliant parody.\n\n\"Star Trek\" has been blended with Gilbert and Sullivan at least twice. The North Toronto Players presented a \"Star Trek\" adaptation of Gilbert & Sullivan entitled \"H.M.S. Starship Pinafore: The Next Generation\" in 1991 and an adaptation by Jon Mullich of Gilbert and Sullivan's \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" that sets the operetta in the world of \"Star Trek\" has played in Los Angeles and was attended by series luminaries Nichelle Nichols, D.C. Fontana and David Gerrold. A similar blend of Gilbert and Sullivan and \"Star Trek\" was presented as a benefit concert in San Francisco by the Lamplighters in 2009. The show was entitled \"Star Drek: The Generation After That\". It presented an original story with Gilbert and Sullivan melodies.\n\nBoth \"The Simpsons\" and \"Futurama\" television series and others have had many individual episodes parodying \"Star Trek\" or with \"Trek\" allusions. An entire series of films and novels from Finland entitled \"Star Wreck\" also parodies \"Star Trek\".\n\nIn August 2010, the members of the Internal Revenue Service created a \"Star Trek\" themed training video for a conference. Revealed to the public in 2013, the spoof along with parodies of other media franchises was cited as an example of the misuse of taxpayer funds in a congressional investigation.\n\n\"Star Trek\" has been parodied in several non-English movies, including the German \"Traumschiff Surprise - Periode 1\" which features a gay version of \"The Original Series\" bridge crew and a Turkish film that spoofs that same series' episode \"The Man Trap\" in one of the series of films based on the character Turist Ömer.\n\n\"The Orville\" is a comedy-drama science fiction television series that is currently airing on Fox, with the same look and feel as the \"Star Trek\" universe, created by noted Trekkie Seth MacFarlane that premiered on September 10, 2017. MacFarlane has made references to \"Star Trek\" on his animated series \"Family Guy\", where the \"Next Generation\" cast guest-starred in the episode \"Not All Dogs Go to Heaven\".\n\nAlthough \"Star Trek\" has been off the air since 2005, CBS and Paramount pictures have allowed fan-produced shows to be created. While not officially part of the \"Star Trek\" universe, several veteran \"Star Trek\" actors, actresses, and writers have contributed their talents to many of these productions. While none of these films have been created for profit, several fan productions have turned to crowdfunding from sites, such as Kickstarter to help with production costs.\n\nTwo series set during the \"TOS\" time period are \"Star Trek Continues\" and the Hugo award nominated \"\". Another series, \"\", takes place in the Briar Patch, a region of space introduced in \"Star Trek Insurrection\". It has had over 50 episodes produced, and has two spin-off series, \"Star Trek: Odyssey\" and \"Star Trek: The Helena Chronicles\". Several standalone fan films have been created including \"\". Future fan films include \"\". Audio only fan productions includes \"Star Trek: The Continuing Mission\". Several fan film parodies have also been created.\n\nThe original \"Star Trek\" series is also notable for giving rise to slash fiction, a genre of fan-produced in-universe fiction where normally non-romantic same-sex characters are portrayed as being a romantic couple, notably \"Kirk/Spock\" stories. These began appearing in the early 1970s, generally written by female fans of the show. Over the intervening decades, especially with the advent of the internet, slash fanfiction has become its own thriving fandom.\n\nIn 2016, Paramount and CBS instituted strict fan guidelines on fan films. Notable guidelines include a maximum length of 15 minutes, a maximum fund limit of $50,000, and a ban on using individuals previously associated with \"Star Trek\" productions. This has shut down all of the highly publicized fan film productions ending what has been called a \"golden age of amateur \"Star Trek\" films\".\n\nOf the various science fiction awards for drama, only the Hugo Award dates back as far as the original series. In 1968, all five nominees for a Hugo Award were individual episodes of \"Star Trek\", as were three of the five nominees in 1967. The only \"Star Trek\" series not even to get a Hugo nomination are the animated series and \"Voyager\", though only the original series and \"Next Generation\" ever won the award. No \"Star Trek\" feature film has ever won a Hugo, though a few were nominated. In 2008, the fan-made episode of \"\" entitled \"World Enough and Time\" was nominated for the Hugo for Best Short Drama.\n\nIn 1996, \"TV Guide\" picked the following as the ten best \"Star Trek\" episodes for the franchise's 30th anniversary.\n\nThe two \"Star Trek\" series to win multiple Saturn awards during their run were \"The Next Generation\" (twice winning for best television series) and \"Voyager\" (twice winning for best actress – Kate Mulgrew and Jeri Ryan). The original series retroactively won a Saturn Award for best DVD release. Several \"Star Trek\" films have won Saturns including categories best actor, actress, director, costume design, and special effects. However, \"Star Trek\" has never won a Saturn for best make-up.\n\nAs for non science fiction specific awards, the \"Star Trek\" series have won 31 Emmy Awards. The eleventh \"Star Trek\" film won the 2009 Academy Award for Best Makeup and Hairstyling, the franchise's first Academy Award.\n\nAt \"Star Trek\"s creation, Norway Productions, Roddenberry's production company, shared ownership with Desilu Productions and, after Gulf+Western acquired Desilu in 1967, with Paramount Pictures, the conglomerate's film studio. Paramount did not want to own the unsuccessful show; net profit was to be shared between Norway, Desilu/Paramount, Shatner, and NBC but \"Star Trek\" lost money, and the studio did not expect to syndicate it. In 1970 Paramount offered to sell all rights to \"Star Trek\" to Roddenberry, but he could not afford the $150,000 cost ().\n\nIn 1989, Gulf+Western renamed itself as Paramount Communications, and in 1994 merged with Viacom. In 2005, Viacom divided into CBS Corporation, whose CBS Television Studios subsidiary retained the \"Star Trek\" brand, and Viacom, whose Paramount Pictures subsidiary retained the \"Star Trek\" film library and rights to make additional films, along with video distribution rights to the TV series on behalf of CBS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "581695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581695", "title": "Stichomythia", "text": "Stichomythia\n\nStichomythia (Greek: Στιχομυθία) is a technique in verse drama in which sequences of single alternating lines, or half-lines (hemistichomythia) or two-line speeches (distichomythia) are given to alternating characters. It typically features repetition and antithesis. The term originated in the theatre of Ancient Greece, though many dramatists since have used the technique. Etymologically it derives from the Greek \"stikhos\" (\"row, line of verse\") + \"muthos\" (\"speech, talk\").\n\nStichomythia is particularly well suited to sections of dramatic dialogue where two characters are in violent dispute. The rhythmic intensity of the alternating lines combined with quick, biting ripostes in the dialogue can create a powerful effect.\n\nStichomythia originated in Greek drama. Adolf Gross concludes that stichomythia developed from choral response. J. Leonard Hancock differs in this regard, not finding overwhelming evidence for any particular origin theory, but admitting that the role of musical symmetry must have been significant. Instead he finds that the trends, within Ancient Greek aesthetics, toward agonistic expression, subtly in language, and love of symmetry, helped to give rise to stichomythia as a popular dialogue device.\n\nSenecan stichomythia, while ultimately derived from Athenian stichomythia (as Roman theatre is derived from Greek theatre generally) differs in several respects. First, Seneca uses the technique less than all but the earliest extant pieces of classical Greek tragedy. Secondly, the stichomythic form found in Seneca is less rigid. Finally, and most substantially, Seneca's tragedies are much more prone to revolve around literary quibbles, even leaving aside the plot of the play for entire sections while the characters engage in an essentially linguistic tangent.\n\nRenaissance Italian and French drama developed in many respects as an imitation of the classic drama of the Greeks and Romans. Stichomythic elements, however, were often absent. Where they did occur, they tended to follow the lead of Seneca in using “catchwords” as launching points for each subsequent line.\n\nModern theatre rarely uses verse, so any construct that depends on verse, such as stichomythia, is also rare. Where a form of stichomythia has been used, the characters involved are typically building subsequent lines on the ideas or metaphors of previous lines, rather than words.\n\nIn terms of character relationships, stichomythia can represent interactions as mundane as question-and-answer exchanges, or as tense as heated rapid-fire arguments. While the equal line lengths can create a sense of equality of voice between the characters, stichomythia can also feature one character silencing another with a vociferous rebuff, especially where one character's line interrupts the other's.\n\nIn terms of how stichomythia moves forward as a section of dialogue, the Ancient Greeks tended to favor subtle flavorings and reflavorings of grammatical particles, whereas Senecan (and by extension Renaissance) stichomythic passages often turned on verbal minutiae or “catchwords”. Modern theatre, on the other hand, uses the technique in such a manner that the characters use each line to add depth to a shared idea or metaphor.\n\nA short example from R. C. Jebb's translation of \"Antigone\": the scene is an argument between Ismene and her sister Antigone.\nFor further examples from \"Antigone\", consult the text at the Internet Classics Archive .\n\nISMENE: And what life is dear to me, bereft of thee? <br>\nANTIGONE: Ask Creon; all thy care is for him. <br>\nISMENE: Why vex me thus, when it avails thee nought? <br>\nANTIGONE: Indeed, if I mock, 'tis with pain that I mock thee. <br>\nISMENE: Tell me,—how can I serve thee, even now? <br>\nANTIGONE: Save thyself: I grudge not thy escape. <br>\nISMENE: Ah, woe is me! And shall I have no share in thy fate? <br>\nANTIGONE: Thy choice was to live; mine, to die. <br>\nISMENE: At least thy choice was not made without my protest. <br>\nANTIGONE: One world approved thy wisdom; another, mine.<br>\n\"Richard III\", Act I, scene ii. Richard Plantagenet, Earl of Gloucester (later Richard III of England) threatens to kill himself unless Lady Anne, widow of Prince Edward (of Lancaster), agrees to marry him.\nLADY ANNE: I would I knew thy heart.<br>\nGLOUCESTER: 'Tis figured in my tongue.<br>\nLADY ANNE: I fear me both are false.<br>\nGLOUCESTER: Then never man was true.<br>\nLADY ANNE: Well, well, put up your sword.<br>\nGLOUCESTER: Say, then, my peace is made.<br>\nLADY ANNE: That shall you know hereafter.<br>\nGLOUCESTER: But shall I live in hope?<br>\nLADY ANNE: All men, I hope, live so.<br>\nGLOUCESTER: Vouchsafe to wear this ring.<br>\nLADY ANNE: To take is not to give. <br>\n<br>\nGLOUCESTER: Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.<br>\nLADY ANNE: Foul devil, for God's sake, hence, and trouble us not,<br>\nIn \"Hamlet\", Act III, Scene iv (the Closet scene), Hamlet is confronted by his mother, the queen, about the play (III, ii) which Hamlet rigged to expose his murderous step-uncle.\nQUEEN: Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.<br>\nHAMLET: Mother, you have my father much offended.<br>\nQUEEN: Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.<br>\nHAMLET: Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.<br>\nIn \"The Merchant of Venice\", Shylock and Bassanio enter into an argument using stichomythia at 4.1.65-9, which \"catches the dramatic tension of a quasi-forensic interrogation\":\nSHYLOCK: I am not bound to please thee with my answers.<br>\nBASSANIO: Do all men kill the things they do not love?<br>\nSHYLOCK: Hates any man the thing he would not kill?<br>\nBASSANIO: Every offence is not a hate at first.<br>\nSHYLOCK: What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice? <br>\nA further intensification is often achieved by antilabe, in which a single verse line is distributed on alternating speakers.\n\nAn exchange in \"Le Cid\" (1.3.215–226), by Pierre Corneille, has been called \"an excellent instance of Corneille's skilful handling of 'stichomythia'\". Don Diègue (an old man, the hero's father) has been appointed the prince's tutor, a post that the Count (\"le Comte\") wanted.\nLE COMTE: Ce que je méritois, vous avez emporté.<br>\nDON DIÈGUE: Que l'a gagné sur vous l'avoit mieux merité.<br>\nLE COMTE: Qui peut mieux l'exercer en est bien le plus digne.<br>\nDON DIÈGUE: En être refusė n'est pas un bon signe.<br>\nLE COMTE: Vous l'avez eu par brigue, ėtant vieux courtisan.<br>\nDON DIÈGUE: L'éclat de mes hauts faits fut mon seul partisan.<br>\nLE COMTE: Parlons-en mieux, le Roi fait honneur a votre âge.<br>\nDON DIÈGUE: Le Roi, quand il en fait, le mesure au courage.<br>\nLE COMTE: Et par là cet honneur n'était dû qu'à mon bras.<br>\nDON DIÈGUE: Qui n'a pu l'obtenir ne le méritoit pas.<br>\nLE COMTE: Ne le méritoit pas! Moi?<br>\nDON DIÈGUE: Vous.<br>\nLE COMTE: Ton impudence,<br>\nTéméraire viellard, aura son récompense. [\"Il lui donne un soufflet\"\n\nIn the scene in Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's opera \"The Marriage of Figaro\", libretto by Lorenzo Da Ponte, where Susanna learns that Marcellina is Figaro's mother, she repeats her disbelief (\"Sua madre?\", that is, \"his mother?\") to each character and is reassured in the same words. A critic has called that \"the merriest and most congenial form imaginable\" of stichomythia. For another example from opera, the following passage from the libretto by Andrea Maffei for Giuseppe Verdi's \"I masnadieri\" has been called \"musical stichomythia\", though it does not contain repetition or antithesis:\nAMALIA: Qual mare, qual terra da me t'ha diviso?<br>\nCARLO: Deh! cessa, infelice, l'inchiesta crudel!<br>\nAMALIA: Mendaci novelle ti dissero ucciso.<br>\nCARLO: Beato se chiuso m'avesse l'avel!<br>\nAMALIA: Tu pure, o mio Carlo, provasti gli affanni?<br>\nCARLO: Li possa il tuo core per sempre ignorar!<br>\nAMALIA: Anch'io, derelitta, ti piansi lung'anni.<br>\nCARLO: E un angelo osava per me lagrimar?\n\nExamples from musicals are \"I Remember it Well\" (lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner, first version in the Broadway musical \"Love Life\", second in the film \"Gigi\") and \"Anything You Can Do\" (by Irving Berlin, from \"Annie Get Your Gun\"). Another is from \"The Last Supper\" in \"Jesus Christ Superstar\". When Judas says Jesus knows who will betray him, a passage of stichomythia (with a two-line interruption) follows:\nJesus: Why don't you go do it?<br>\nJudas: You want me to do it!<br>\nJesus: Hurry, they're waiting<br>\nJudas: If you knew why I do it...<br>\nJesus: I don't care why you do it<br>\nJudas: To think I admired you,<br>\nfor now I despise you<br>\nJesus: You liar—you Judas<br>\nIn the prose context of most film, stichomythia has been defined as a \"witty exchange of one-liners\" and associated with the film noir characters Jeff Bailey in \"Out of the Past\", Sam Spade, and Philip Marlowe. Another film-noir example is in \"Double Indemnity\" (dialog by Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler). Walter Neff flirts with Phyllis Dietrichson; she resists him.\nDietrichson: You were anxious to talk to [my husband] weren't you?<br>\nNeff: Yeah, I was, but I'm sort of getting over the idea,\nDietrichson: There's a speed limit in this state, Mr. Neff, 45 miles an hour.<br>\nNeff: How fast was I going officer?<br>\nDietrichson: I'd say around 90.<br>\nNeff: Suppose you get down off your motorcycle and give me a ticket?<br>\nDietrichson: Suppose I let you off with a warning this time?<br>\nNeff: Suppose it doesn't take?<br>\nDietrichson: Suppose I have to whack you over the knuckles?<br>\nNeff: Suppose I bust out crying and put my head on your shoulder?<br>\nDietrichson: Suppose you try putting it on my husband's shoulder?<br>\nNeff: That tears it!<br>\n"}
{"id": "1416324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416324", "title": "Thai Elephant Orchestra", "text": "Thai Elephant Orchestra\n\nThe Thai Elephant Orchestra is a musical ensemble consisting of as many as fourteen Thai elephants near Lampang in Northern Thailand. The elephants play music, essentially as conducted improvisations, on specially designed heavy-duty musical instruments. The orchestra was co-created by elephant conservationist Richard Lair of the National Elephant Institute and the American musical artist and neuroscientist Dave Soldier. They have released three CDs on the Mulatta Records label with an orchestra ranging in size from six to fourteen elephants. The orchestra currently performs for visitors at the center.\n\nIt has been noted since ancient times that elephants seem to have an affinity for music. Performing circus elephants commonly follow musical cues, and early American circuses such as Adam Forepaugh and Barnum & Bailey even featured \"elephant bands.\" In the 1950s, German evolutionary biologist Bernard Rensch found that elephants can distinguish 12 tones on the musical scale and remember simple melodies, even when played on different instruments at various pitches, timbres, and meters.\n\nAn album of music created by elephant musicians was conceived by New York-based musical artist Dave Soldier (a.k.a. David Sulzer, PhD) and elephant expert Richard Lair, who works at the Thai Elephant Conservation Center in Lampang. Traditional Thai music is a genre familiar to the elephants, so they chose Thai music scales with a few blues notes. According to Lair, many of the elephants took to their assignment \"with gusto\".\n\nThe Thai Elephant Orchestra primarily uses the \"Lanna\" Thai five-note scale, and most instruments are heavy-duty versions of traditional Thai musical instruments; additional instruments include drums and harmonica.\n\nTheir musical works are of two general types. The first type features the elephants individually improvising on the instruments with the only human interaction being cues as to when to start and stop. The other type is compositional and requires mahouts to teach or train the elephants to perform human tunes as a hocket, with each elephant playing an individual note on tuned instruments such as angalungs. \n\n"}
{"id": "543095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543095", "title": "The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations", "text": "The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations\n\nThe Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations is a descriptive list which was created by Georges Polti to categorize every dramatic situation that might occur in a story or performance. To do this Polti analyzed classical Greek texts, plus classical and contemporaneous French works. He also analyzed a handful of non-French authors. In his introduction, Polti claims to be continuing the work of Carlo Gozzi, who also identified 36 situations.\n\nThis list was published in a book of the same name, which contains extended explanations and examples. The original French-language book was written in the 19th century. An English translation was published in 1916 and continues to be reprinted to this day.\n\nThe list is popularized as an aid for writers, but it is also used by dramatists, storytellers and many others. Other similar lists have since been made.\n\nEach situation is stated, then followed by the necessary elements for each situation and a brief description.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "515346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515346", "title": "Tongue-in-cheek", "text": "Tongue-in-cheek\n\nThe idiom tongue-in-cheek refers to a humorous or sarcastic statement expressed in a mock serious manner.\n\nThe phrase originally expressed contempt, but by 1842 had acquired its modern meaning. Early users of the phrase include Sir Walter Scott in his 1828 \"The Fair Maid of Perth\".\n\nThe physical act of putting one's tongue into one's cheek once signified contempt. For example, in Tobias Smollett's \"The Adventures of Roderick Random,\" which was published in 1748, the eponymous hero takes a coach to Bath, and on the way, apprehends a highwayman. This provokes an altercation with a less brave passenger:\nThe phrase appears in 1828 in \"The Fair Maid of Perth\" by Sir Walter Scott: \nIt's not clear how Scott intended readers to understand the phrase. The more modern ironic sense appears in the 1842 poem \"The Ingoldsby Legends\" by the English clergyman Richard Barham, in which a Frenchman inspects a watch and cries:\nThe ironic usage originates with the idea of suppressed mirth—biting one's tongue to prevent an outburst of laughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "27125106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27125106", "title": "Transportation theory (psychology)", "text": "Transportation theory (psychology)\n\nNarrative transportation theory proposes that when people lose themselves in a story, their attitudes and intentions change to reflect that story. The mental state of narrative transportation can explain the persuasive effect of stories on people, who may experience narrative transportation when certain contextual and personal preconditions are met, as Green and Brock postulate for the transportation-imagery model. As van Laer, de Ruyter, Visconti, and Wetzels elaborate further, narrative transportation occurs whenever the story receiver experiences a feeling of entering a world evoked by the narrative because of empathy for the story characters and imagination of the story plot.\n\nDeighton, Romer, and McQueen anticipate the construct of narrative transportation by arguing that a story invites story receivers into the action it portrays and, as a result, makes them lose themselves in the story. Gerrig was the first to coin the notion of narrative transportation within the context of novels. Using travel as a metaphor for reading, he conceptualizes narrative transportation as a state of detachment from the world of origin that the story receiver—in his words, the traveler—experiences because of his or her engrossment in the story, a condition that Green and Brock later describe as the story receiver's experience of being carried away by the story. Notably, the state of narrative transportation makes the world of origin partially inaccessible to the story receiver, thus marking a clear separation in terms of here/there and now/before, or narrative world/world of origin.\n\nMost research on narrative transportation follows the original definition of the construct. Scholars in the field constantly reaffirm the relevance of three features. \nIn accordance with these features, van Laer et al. define narrative transportation as the extent to which \nwhich leads him or her to experience suspended reality during story reception.\n\nNarrative transportation is a form of experiential response to narratives and thus is similar to other constructs, such as absorption, optimal experience or flow, and immersion. Yet several subtle, critical differences exist. Absorption refers to a personality trait or general tendency to be immersed in life experiences; transportation is an engrossing temporary experience. Flow is a more general construct (i.e., people can experience flow in a variety of activities), whereas transportation specifically entails empathy and mental imagery, which do not occur in flow experiences. Phillips and McQuarrie demonstrate that immersion is primarily an experiential response to aesthetic and visual elements of images, whereas narrative transportation relies on a story with plot and characters, features that are not present in immersion.\n\nSince narrative transportation's conceptualization, research has demonstrated that the transported \"traveler\" can return changed by the journey. Subsequent studies have confirmed that a story can engross the story receiver in a transformational experience, whose effects are strong and long-lasting. The transformation that narrative transportation achieves is persuasion of the story receiver. More specifically, van Laer et al.'s literature review reveals that narrative transportation can cause affective and cognitive responses, beliefs, and attitude and intention changes. However, the processing pattern of narrative transportation is markedly different from that in well-established models of persuasion.\n\nBefore 2000, dual-process models of persuasion, especially the elaboration likelihood model and heuristic-systematic model, dominated persuasion research. These models attempt to explain why people accept or reject message claims. According to these models, the determination of a claim's acceptability can result from careful evaluation of the arguments presented or from reliance on superficial cues, such as the presence of an expert. Whether receivers scrutinize a message depends on the extent to which they are able and motivated to process it systematically. As important variables, these models include empathy, familiarity, involvement, and the number and nature of thoughts the message evokes. If these variables are mainly positive, the receiver's attitudes and intentions tend to be more positive; if the variables are predominantly negative, the resulting attitudes and intentions are more negative. These variables also exist in narrative persuasion.\n\nAnalytical persuasion and narrative persuasion differ depending on the role of involvement. In analytical persuasion, involvement depends on the extent to which the message has personally relevant consequences for a receiver's money, time, or other resources. If these consequences are sufficiently severe, receivers evaluate the arguments carefully and generate thoughts related to the arguments. Yet, as Slater notes, even though severe consequences for stories are relatively rare, \"viewers or readers of an entertainment narrative typically appear to be far more engrossed in the message.\" This type of involvement, or narrative transportation, is arguably the crucial determinant of narrative persuasion.\n\nThough the dual-process models provide a valid description of analytical persuasion, they do not encompass narrative persuasion. Analytical persuasion refers to attitudes and intentions developed from processing messages that are overtly persuasive, such as most lessons in science books, news reports, and speeches. However, narrative persuasion refers to attitudes and intentions developed from processing narrative messages that are not overtly persuasive, such as novels, movies, or video games. Addressing the strength and duration of the persuasive effects of processing stories, narrative transportation is a mental state that produces enduring persuasive effects without careful evaluation of arguments. Transported story receivers are engrossed in a story in a way that neither is inherently critical nor involves great scrutiny.\n\nNarrative transportation seems to be more unintentionally affective than intentionally cognitive in nature. This way of processing leads to potentially increasing and long-lasting persuasive effects. Appel and Richter use the term \"sleeper effect\" to describe this paradoxical property of narrative transportation over time, which consists of a more pronounced change in attitudes and intentions and a greater certainty that these attitudes and intentions are correct.\n\nPlausible explanations for the sleeper effect are twofold. \nFollowing this line of reasoning, van Laer et al. define narrative persuasion as\nThe conceptual distinction between analytical persuasion and narrative persuasion and the theoretical framework of sound interpretation of narrative persuasion both ground the extended transportation-imagery model (ETIM).\n\nETIM contains three methodological factors that moderate the overall effect of narrative transportation, as van Laer, Feiereisen, and Visconti detail. The narrative transportation effect is stronger\n\n"}
{"id": "3232376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3232376", "title": "Trash-talk", "text": "Trash-talk\n\nTrash-talk is a form of insult usually found in sports events, although it is not exclusive to just sports or similarly characterized events. It is often used to intimidate the opposition, but can also be used in a humorous spirit. Trash-talk is often characterized by use of hyperbole or figurative language, such as, \"Your team can't run! You run like honey on ice!\" Puns and other wordplay are commonly used.\n\nTrash-talk was commonly used by the heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali in the 1960s and 70s. In 1963, Ali even released a popular full-length record album consisting largely of trash-talk poetry. It was entitled \"I Am the Greatest!\", a phrase that became his signature line. Since then, it has become common for boxers, wrestlers, and many other sports competitors to use trash-talk. However, in amateur sports ranks, trash talking is generally frowned upon as unsportsmanlike conduct (especially in youth leagues). UFC Lightweight Champion Conor McGregor is a more recent example of a prominent trash-talker, while former UFC fighter Chael Sonnen is considered by some to be the greatest trash talker in UFC history. Although the practice of trying to distract opponents by verbal abuse is common to virtually all sports, other sports sometimes have their own terminology for verbal abuse: for example, cricket calls it sledging and in ice hockey it is called chirping. Down Gaelic footballer Brendan Coulter has admitted to being targeted by sledging while on the field of play. The Wealdstone Raider, a notorious fan hailing from Wealdstone, is known for trash-talking the opposition and opposition's fans.\n\nSmack talk is a slang term seen in chat channels in chat room, blog, and massively multiplayer online game (MMOG) conversations. The term came about in the early 1990s. It generally refers to the use of threatening or intentionally inflammatory language. Smack talk can also be used with bullying, whether that be face-to-face interaction, or cyber-bullying.\n\nSmack talk is also a slang term used in sports. It refers to inflammatory comments made by a person or team in order to insult, anger, annoy or be boisterous towards your opponents. Although it began as a term used by sports fans and athletes, it has spread to all areas of culture where competition takes place. In the United States, it is synonymous with \"trash talk\".\n\nThe social interaction within MMOGs has been observed to be quite active and often leads to long-term social relationships. MMOG groups, such as \"teams\", \"guilds\" or \"corporations\", are composed of groups of people who often initially have no other social contact or interactions with each other. As a result, their conversations contain a subtext of discovery of language skills, social values, and intentions. One of the first indicators of these is the use or offense taken by the usage of smack talk. For the purpose of setting a social context or to comply with MMOG end user license agreement restrictions, MMOG groups may establish bylaws, traditions, or rules (formal or informal) that either permit, discourage, or prohibit the use of smack talk in their conversations and postings.\n\n- http://ftw.usatoday.com/2017/07/sports-best-trash-talkers-conor-mcgregor-floyd-mayweather-press-conference-bill-belichick-richard-sherman\n- http://bleacherreport.com/articles/1238737-the-50-best-trash-talk-lines-in-sports-history"}
{"id": "2005810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005810", "title": "Ultra Series", "text": "Ultra Series\n\nThe is the collective name for all the shows produced by Tsuburaya Productions featuring Ultraman, his many brethren, and the myriad Ultra Monsters. The Ultra Series is one of the prominent tokusatsu superhero genre productions from Japan, along with Toei produced series \"Kamen Rider\", \"Super Sentai\" and the \"Metal Heroes\". The Ultra Series is also one of the most well known examples of the \"daikaiju\" (大怪獣, \"giant monster\") genre, along with Toho's \"Godzilla\" series, and Daiei Film's \"Gamera\" series. However, the Ultra Series also falls into the \"kyodai hīro\" (巨大ヒーロー, \"giant hero\") subgenre of tokusatsu shows.\n\nAs revealed in \"\", the Ultramen are a technologically advanced civilization who were originally identical to humans. They were evolved into their current state of being following the activation of the Plasma Spark, which replaced their dead sun. Ultraman and his many kin are usually red-and-silver (although several color variations have been seen in recent years) and have glowing yellow almond-shaped dome eyes (although there are exceptions to both the shape and color) and various abilities, most notably firing energy beams from their crossed hands and flight. They share a strong cultural sense of justice and duty, a majority of Ultramen joining the to maintain peace in the universe from invaders and monsters.\n\nThe Ultramen that are sent to other worlds are given Color Timers, or \"warning lights\", which blink with increasing frequency and turn from blue to red if an Ultraman's energy supply dwindles or he is mortally wounded. Due to human pollution and the light filtering effects of the atmosphere, an Ultraman can remain active on Earth for a limited span of minutes before their energy is depleted and they die. This forces an Ultraman to either assume a human form or merge with a human host body. The latter process has healing properties that include reviving a recently dead person with their own lifeforce.\n\nUltra beings also appear to be near-impossible to permanently kill, as several times an Ultra being has been killed only to be revived by another member of their species. As when Mebius' allies revived him with their energy after his defeat by Empire, an Ultraman can be revived with a massive energy infusion. Ultramen always try to avoid battles in inhabited areas or near innocent bystanders, and try minimize collateral property damage. If these concerns cannot be met, a city like Tokyo could be destroyed.\n\nThe show \"Ultraman\" was followed by many other series. Sequels to the original series are: \"Ultra Seven\" (1967, TBS), \"The Return of Ultraman\" (1971, TBS), \"Ultraman Ace\" (1972, TBS), \"Ultraman Taro\" (1973, TBS), \"Ultraman Leo\" (1974, TBS), \"Ultraman 80\" (1980, TBS), \"Ultraman Tiga\" (1996, MBS), \"Ultraman Dyna\" (1997, MBS), \"Ultraman Gaia\" (1998, MBS), and \"Ultraman Cosmos\" (2001, MBS). Recently the studio tried a reinvention of the hero through the \"Ultra N Project\", which involved three heroes: Ultraman Noa (the \"mascot\" of the Ultra N Project, who appears in stage shows as well as the final episode of \"Ultraman Nexus\") in late 2003, \"Ultraman Nexus\" (2004, CBC), and \"ULTRAMAN\" (2004, Shochiku Productions). This was followed by a return to old-school style series in the form of \"Ultraman Max\" (2005, CBC). In the course of the \"Max\" series, another new hero known as Ultraman Xenon was also introduced. April 2006 saw the 40th anniversary series, \"Ultraman Mebius\", which signalled a long-awaited return to the original universe. Another hero was also introduced: \"Ultraman Hikari\", formerly known as Hunter Knight Tsurugi.\n\nThe franchise has also been in the movie theaters, starting with \"Ultraman Zearth\" and \"Ultraman Zearth 2,\" \",\" released in 2000, as well as \"ULTRAMAN,\" a movie that opened in December 2004. The straight-to-video market also saw the release of \"Ultraman Neos\" in 2000, as well as special features for Ultraman Tiga, Dyna, and Gaia, who have teamed up in theatrical features (Tiga and Dyna once, as well as the three of them all together). The \"Ultraman Mebius and Ultra Brothers\" movie opened in September 2006.\n\nForeign productions include the 1987 Hanna-Barbera co-production \"\" (in Japanese, \"Ultraman USA\"), an animated movie; \"\" (in Japanese, \"Ultraman Great\"), an Australian 1991 production and \"\" (in Japanese, \"Ultraman Powered\"), produced in the United States in 1993. Ultraman series have also been dubbed into various languages, including English, Spanish (only \"Ultra Q\", the original \"Ultraman\", \"Ultra Seven\", \"Return of Ultraman\", \"Ultraman Great\" & \"Ultraman Tiga\" were known to be translated into Spanish), Portuguese (\"Ultraman\", \"Ultra Seven\", \"Return of Ultraman\" and \"Ultraman Tiga\" in Brazil), Korean, Malay, Mandarin, Indonesian, Cantonese and Filipino (\"Ultraman Tiga\", \"Ultraman Dyna\", \"Ultraman Gaia\", \"Ultraman Nexus\", \"Ultraman Max\" and \"Ultraman Mebius\"). Also of note is the American English dub of \"Ultraman Tiga\" by 4Kids Entertainment that aired in 2002. The dub considerably distorted the characterization and general mood of the series, and it achieved only limited success.\n\nIn 1993, Tsuburaya Productions and Toei Company co-produced \"Ultraman vs. Kamen Rider,\" a crossover with the original Ultraman and Toei's \"Kamen Rider\". This direct-to-video feature is co-copyrighted by both Toei (and its subordinates, Toei Video and Ishinomori Productions) and Tsuburaya Productions.\n\nAt present, Tsuburaya Productions accepts 36 Ultramen as official (counting Ultraman Legend, the combined form of Ultramen Cosmos and Justice, as a separate entity). This figure does not account for Thai-produced Ultramen. (The figure is 38 if Next, Noa, and Nexus are counted as separate entities—it has been revealed in \"Nexus\" that all three are a single being with various modes used by different hosts.) In 2013, the Ultra Series was cited in the Guinness Book of World Records as the record-holder for the most number of spinoff shows. The Ultraman brand generated $7.4 billion in merchandising revenue from 1966 to 1987.\n\nThe government of Malaysia banned the printing of an \"Ultraman\" book because it compared the character of Ultraman King (from the film \"\") with \"Allah\", the Arabic word for God, even though it is commonly used in Malaysian to refer to any \"God\". The Ministry of Home Affairs stated that the comparison may \"confuse Muslim children and damage their faith\".\n\nIn 2017, \"\" and \"\" were released on January 8, 2017 in the United States as a double feature; this was the first North American theatrical release of an Ultraman feature film in its entire 50-year history. \"Ultraman Max\", \"Ultraman 80\", \"Ultraman Neos\", \"Ultraman Nexus\", \"Ultraseven X\", \"The Ultraman\" and more series began airing in the United States on the TOKU channel.\n\nAt the Tokyo Comic Con on December 7, 2017, Tsuburaya Productions revealed that an anime adaptation of the manga was planned for release in 2019.\n\nAlthough the different Ultra series and movies take place in different continuities, that does not mean that they take place in different canons. A major plot aspect of the Ultra Series is the multiverse, which is a collection of countless bubble-shaped universes. This was first hinted at in \"Ultraman Tiga\", and then again in \"Ultraman Dyna\", when the title character gets sucked into a wormhole that transports him throughout the multiverse. The multiverse was first glimpsed in the 2010 film \"\" when Ultraman Zero has to travel through it in order to get to his destination. The multiverse has become a bigger and bigger element of the plot over time, and the Ultras are now often seen traveling through the multiverse. In fact, the 2012 film \"Ultraman Saga\" takes place in four different universes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1998 \"Ultra Seven\" series\n\n\n1999 \"Ultra Seven\" series\n\n\n2001 Heisei Ultraman side stories\n\n\n2002 \"Ultra Seven: EVOLUTION\" series\n\n\n2007 Ultraman Mebius side story: \"Hikari Saga\"\n\n\n2008 Ultraman Mebius side story: \"Armored Darkness\"\n\n\n2009 Ultraman Mebius side story: \"Ghost Reverse\"\n\n\n2010 \n\n\n2011 Ultraman Zero side story: \"Killer the Beatstar\"\n\n\n\n\nIn Japan, there have been several box sets that were released which would each contain a particular Ultra series. As of now, there are only four such box sets. The sets were released as part of the Digital Ultra movement where the shows would be re-released with digital remastering.\n\nThe following are the series which have been released as such:\n\nThe \"Digital Ultra\" re-release order of the series may not match the chronological order in which they were originally aired in Japan.\n\nUltraman's licensing rights outside Japan have been the subject of a prolonged legal dispute between Tsuburaya Productions and Chaiyo Productions (also called Tsuburaya Chaiyo Co Ltd) based in Thailand. Tsuburaya had previously collaborated with Chaiyo on the production of two movies, \"The 6 Ultra Brothers vs. the Monster Army\" and \"Jumborg Ace & Giant\"—the latter of which featured another Tsuburaya superhero, Jumborg Ace—in 1974. Sompote Saengduenchai, founder/president of Chaiyo Productions, claimed and maintained that in 1976, the late Noboru Tsuburaya, Eiji's son, who had died in 1995, had given him and his company a contract which had given him rights to everything Ultraman outside Japanese territories in exchange for a monetary loan. The claim is rumored to have originated from a gamble held by a drunken Hajime Tsuburaya (Noboru's older brother) and Sompote Saengduenchai over the rights to the franchise.\n\nIn spite of the fact that the document failed to state clearly and specifically exactly what had been given to Tsuburaya in exchange for these rights, Japanese and Thai courts accepted this contract as real and binding because of the supposed hanko of the late Noboru Tsuburaya in the document. Tsuburaya Productions insisted and maintained that the contract was a forgery (due to factual errors, including the faulty titles of the series in the document, such as \"Ultra Q\" being called \"Ultraman 1: Ultra Q\", \"Ultra Seven\" being called \"Ultraman 3: Ultraman Seven\", and Tsuburaya Productions being called \"Tsuburaya Prod. and Enterprises\", a name the company never did business under), and repeatedly contested the issue.\n\nIn the course of the legal battle, Sompote presented photos of himself sharing his photos of Thai Buddhist edifices stating that Eiji had based Ultraman's face on the said edifices, a claim which he has continued to hold since the dispute began. No other evidence supporting this claim was known to exist.\n\nAfter an 8-year battle in the courts of both countries, Sompote Saengduenchai was awarded a favorable decision on April 27, 2004. The exact ruling fell into some dispute: Some said it only gave him merchandising rights for the first six Ultra Series (\"Ultra Q\" through \"Ultraman Taro\") and \"Jumborg Ace\" outside Japan, and broadcasting rights of said shows within Thailand. Other accounts, usually reported in the Thai/Asian media, said that Chaiyo had gained the rights to those six shows everywhere outside Japan. The latter could be taken as Chaiyo's side of the story, as Tsuburaya was reported in the Japanese media to continue taking further action against them.\n\nTsuburaya decided not to market any of the disputed six Ultra Series outside Japan until it had completely settled the rights issues with Chaiyo, although the company continued to merchandise and distribute all of the Ultraman programs created after Ultraman Taro, including the theatrical feature \"Ultraman the Next,\" throughout the world. Because of the copyright struggle, importing literature on Ultraman into Singapore and Malaysia was prohibited. It also resulted in a slight backlash against Thai Ultraman fans, who were assumed to be outright Chaiyo supporters.\n\nIn 2005 the American company BCI Eclipse announced they had acquired the DVD rights to \"Ultraman\" from Chaiyo. A 3-disc box set containing the first 20 episodes of the series was released on July 18, 2006, and a second 3-disc box set containing the remaining 19 episodes was released on November 7, 2006. Both sets feature the original Japanese monaural dialogue track as well as the English-dubbed version produced by United Artists for North American syndication. At certain times, the English dialogue track switched over to the Japanese dialogue for small periods of time. This was because BCI had used audio from older recordings in which several scenes had to be cut or shortened for the American broadcast in order to fit running time constraints. Tsuburaya Productions still held on to the complete original English dubbing materials, which they had obtained from a warehouse in 1997, and refused to provide them for BCI. (Contrary to BCI's statements, the original English dubs were complete and uncut, except for a small cut in the conclusion of Episode 36, \"Gift From The Sky.\")\n\nDuring the time of the legal battle, Chaiyo came up with three of their own Ultras: Ultraman Millennium, Dark Ultraman (an evil Ultra), and Ultraman Elite. These were not used for purposes other than stage shows and merchandise. Chaiyo also created a TV series he called \"Project Ultraman\", un-aired as of late March 2008, a joint project in China featuring his own Ultraman and attaching Hong Kong star, Ekin Cheng to the project.\n\nOn August 23, 2006, Tsuburaya Productions filed a new lawsuit against Chaiyo for copyright infringement and plagiarism (concerning their three original Ultraman characters), and the court case was taken to China. The Chinese courts in Beijing opened \"The Ultraman Copyright Study Group\" in response to the lawsuit. In April 2007, the Thailand Intellectual Property Court ruled in favor of Tsuburaya Productions, ordering Chaiyo to cease and desist making commercial profits from Chaiyo-produced Ultraman characters such as Millennium, Dark, and Elite. The defendants were also fined THB 15,000,000 (approx. JPY 50,904,959 or USD 428,673.50 c. April 2007) plus interest and attorneys' fees. \"Project Ultraman\" went on hiatus as a result of the ruling, which implied that although Chaiyo owned the right to some of the Ultraman series, it did not own the right to Ultraman and his brothers, including the design. Chaiyo gained permission to merchandise the original series, but lost the right to create and market its own Ultraman, or even use the original, without Tsuburaya's consent.\n\nOn February 5, 2008, Thailand's Supreme Court ruled in favor of Tsuburaya Productions of Japan after they made an appeal to the initial ruling. The ruling ended the long legal battle by finding Sompote Saengduenchai was not a co-creator of Ultraman. The decision ended Sompote's bid to continue his enterprise, and the court gave Sompote 30 days to stop profiteering from Ultraman. The final ruling saw Tsuburaya Productions as the sole copyright owner. Sompote was also required to pay THB 10,700,000 plus interest at the rate of 7.5 per cent a year starting from December 16, 1997, when the original lawsuit was filed.\n\nIn 2009, the Thai Intellectual Property Court and the Tokyo District Court both ruled in favour of the Thai company. This led to the Tokyo District Court on September 30, 2010, ordering Tsuburaya Productions Co of Japan to pay damages of 16.36 million yen (Bt5.9 million) to Sompote Saengduenchai of Thailand for violating his overseas copyrights on Ultraman characters.\n\nAfter the announcement of the \"\" movie in July 2017, the dispute on the ownership of the franchise has escalated. But in November 20, 2017, through a Los Angeles court ruling by judge Judge Andre Birotte Jr, Tsuburaya won the lawsuit against Chaiyo and affiliate groups on the rights of the series after the jury concluded that the supposed agreement between Noboru Tsuburaya and Chaiyo was \"not authentic\". Despite UM Corporation and Chaiyo filing a counter-dispute, on April 18, 2018, the legal court came to a definite close where a final judgement states that the dispute and the document was deemed invalid, forbidding UMC to use the Ultra Series and all its related characters and forced them to pay Tsubaraya damages for its infringement of its rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "4707206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4707206", "title": "Wanda Holloway", "text": "Wanda Holloway\n\nWanda Webb Holloway (born 1954) is a woman from Channelview, Texas, known for attempting to hire a hitman to kill the mother of her daughter's junior high school cheerleading rival. The plan ultimately failed when the man she asked to perform the hit turned her in to the authorities.\n\nHolloway had an intense desire for her daughter Shanna to be a cheerleader. In 1991, when Shanna narrowly missed out on a spot on her junior high school squad, Holloway asked her ex-brother-in-law, Terry Harper, to hire a hitman to kill Verna Heath, mother of the 14-year-old girl who had beaten her into the squad. Holloway believed that Heath's daughter would be so devastated by her mother's death that she would drop out of the cheerleading team, thereby giving the spot to Shanna. \n\nHowever, unknown to Holloway, Harper had gone straight to the police after Holloway approached him; she was arrested the next day.\n\nKey evidence in the case for the prosecution, headed by Mike Anderson, came down to tapes provided by Terry Harper along with his testimony. These tapes revealed the words of Holloway offering her diamond earrings in exchange for never seeing Verna Heath in Channelview again. The defense lawyer, Troy McKinney, argued that Holloway’s ex-husband, Tony Harper, had conspired with his brother to frame Holloway. McKinney pointed to the divorce between Tony Harper and Wanda Holloway in 1980 and an ensuing custody battle over their children. \n\nHolloway was convicted of solicitation of capital murder in the 1991 trial and sentenced to fifteen years in prison. However, the conviction was overturned when it was discovered one of the jurors was on probation for a drug-related felony and should have never been allowed to serve on the jury; a mistrial was declared.\n\nHolloway hired a new defense lawyer, Jack Zimmerman. This time Wanda Holloway admitted to the crime, pleading \"no contest\" (\"nolo contendere\"), and Zimmerman successfully negotiated a plea deal for Holloway.\n\nOn September 9, 1996, state district court judge George Godwin sentenced Holloway to ten years in prison, with a fine of $10,000. On top of this, Holloway settled a civil suit filed by the Heath family. On October 2, 1994, Holloway agreed to pay a total of $150,000 to the victims. It was decided in court that $70,000 would be given to Verna and her husband, $30,000 to the children of Verna, and $50,000 to cover the legal expenses of the case.\n\nHolloway was released on March 1, 1997 after serving just six months of her sentence. The judge ordered her to serve the remaining 9.5 years on probation, and to complete 1,000 hours of community service.\n\nReenactments made about the incident include:\n\n"}
{"id": "47702742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47702742", "title": "We Have Issues", "text": "We Have Issues\n\nWe Have Issues is an American comedy infotainment series which premiered on September 18, 2015, on the E! cable channel. The half-hour weekly show is hosted by comedians Julian McCullough and Annie Lederman, who both discuss the biggest pop culture news of the week. A guest comedian is set to join the debate every week and \"contribute to the hilarious he said/she said banter.\"\n\nMcCullough and Lederman have both appeared together on the late-night series \"@midnight\" and separately on various other panel talk shows, including \"World's Funniest\" and \"Chelsea Lately\".\n\n\nThe show debuted on the E! cable network in the United States on September 18, 2015, after another pop culture news-based series \"The Soup\". The show continues to air at 10:30/9:30pm ET/PT on Friday nights. Internationally, the series premiered on E! Australia on September 23, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "6729234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6729234", "title": "What's On (Canadian TV program)", "text": "What's On (Canadian TV program)\n\nWhat's On (Traditional Chinese: 熒幕八爪娛) is a Canadian weekly half-hour infotainment TV program that airs on Fairchild TV.\n\nOriginally started in 1996, the program is currently the longest-running program in Fairchild Television history. \"What's On\" is a 30-minute informative program that introduces viewers to events happening in and around Vancouver, British Columbia and Toronto, Ontario. It also runs short interviews with local celebrities, politicians and social figures for events they are contributing to, as well as interviews with international celebrities as they arrive in the city to promote or to perform.\n\nOriginally, there were two versions of the program. The Vancouver version and Toronto version ran in the same time slot in their respective cities on Thursday nights at 10:00 p.m. while the version of the opposite city ran on Saturdays at 6:00 p.m. However, because of the CRTC's ruling requiring Fairchild TV to air the same programming throughout the country, the two programs combined into one in July 2001 with each city getting 15 minutes of airtime. This also meant the start of the \"interactive\" format of the program where the hosts from the two cities shared a brief interaction as the scenes change from one city to another.\n\nIn November 2002, Fairchild Television moved the program from its Thursday timeslot to its current Sunday at 7:30pm time.\n\n\"What's On\" is seen as a training ground for a lot of Fairchild Television personalities. The following is a partial list of past and present hosts for the program:\n\n\nWhenever Fairchild TV has a major event coming up such as the annual New Talent Singing Awards Vancouver Audition (NTSA Vancouver) or the Miss Chinese (Vancouver) Pageant (MCV), \"What's On\" will run special segments within the program over several weeks to feature the event as a preview to the event. Sometimes, a company would sponsor a segment to be aired during \"What's On\". These segments usually feature one or two hosts which may or may not be the regular \"What's On\" presenters at that time. Some notable past segments include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2224553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224553", "title": "Wheel of fire", "text": "Wheel of fire\n\nIn a literary context, a wheel of fire may refer to the chain of tortuous or dire consequences that result from a single action.\n\nThe Wheel of Fire originates in Greek mythology as the punishment for Ixion, who was bound to a wheel of fire for lusting after Zeus's wife, Hera.\n\nThe Wheel of Fire is part of the Aristotelian reading of a tragedy (e.g., plays), which includes the central flaw within a character. In Shakespeare's tragedy \"Othello\", the flaw in Othello himself is his vulnerability to jealousy and his tendency to believe Iago, who is manipulating Othello into believing his wife is unfaithful. As a result of this flaw Othello loses a loyal friend, murders his wife, and is driven insane before eventually committing suicide. In this scenario the Wheel of Fire begins with the action of Othello trusting Iago and consequently the other events occur.\n\nThe Wheel of Fire is most commonly applied to the protagonist within a tragedy (i.e. the hero) and may aim to provoke sympathy from the audience when the hero falls from grace (this purging of emotions is known as \"catharsis\"), though it also adds dramatic interest to the performance.\n\nThe Wheel of Fire is also the title of G. Wilson Knight's book on Shakespearean tragedy.\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"King Lear\", Lear states: \"But I am bound upon a wheel of fire, / That mine own tears do scald like molten lead\".\n\nIn J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" the One Ring is described as a \"wheel of fire\".\n\nAlso: \"A crouching shape, scarcely more than the shadow of a living thing, a creature now wholly ruined and defeated, yet filled with a hideous lust and rage; and before it stood stern, untouchable now by pity, a figure robed in white, but at its breast it held a wheel of fire.\" -- A description of Gollum and Frodo, respectively, as seen by Samwise.\n"}
{"id": "7476563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7476563", "title": "Wolf System stage combat training", "text": "Wolf System stage combat training\n\nThe Wolf System was founded in 1988 by fight choreographer and stage combat/martial arts instructor Tony Wolf. It has been applied to a range of production genres including professional theatre, opera, ballet, film, television and motion capture, notably including \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy, as well as to physical theater, martial arts and self defense training.\n\nThe Wolf System (under the name \"Re:Action\") was originally a collection of techniques adapted from professional wrestling, historical fencing, mime and various martial arts styles. Over time, and due in part to the pedagogical influence of the modern dance discipline of contact improvisation and of the Russian martial art of Ryabko Systema, the Wolf system's emphasis shifted from a curriculum of specific techniques to an open-ended progression of largely improvised training games and exercises.\n\nThe system was first introduced to the international community at the Paddy Crean International Stage Combat Conferences held at the Banff Centre in Alberta, Canada, in 1998. Since that time, aspects of the system have been taught to actors, directors, martial artists, dancers, choreographers and stunt performers throughout New Zealand, Australia, Canada and the U.S., as well as at master-class seminars in England, Ireland, Norway, the Netherlands, Italy and Germany.\n\nThe Wolf System is designed to teach a series of fundamental movement and/or performance skills. \n\nThe skills are divided into the following categories:\n\nSynergy - non-verbal, especially tactile responsiveness and communication \n\nArticulation - cycles of preparation, action and reaction in performing stage combat techniques, both for the safety of the performers and for clarity of live or on-camera performance\n\nIllusion - methods of misdirection and of concealing certain safety measures from the audience or camera to preserve the illusion of actual combat\n\nAlignment - methods of skeletal alignment supported by muscular control as used in maintaining balance and in supporting another person's body weight\n\nExtension - methods of projecting momentum\n\nCascade - methods of safely moving from a standing position to the floor by collapsing or rolling \n\nMeasure - methods of judging the active distance between oneself and another person\n\nOf the above list, both Articulation and Illusion are specific to the use of the Wolf System in stage combat training. The two fundamental premises of the Wolf System in stage combat are defined as Safety and Storytelling, both with reference to performance combat as a skill of theatrical illusion.\n\nSome of the games and exercises may be performed individually while others may be performed in pairs or by groups of up to twenty people. \n\nParticipants in this form of training constantly alternate between co-operating and competing with their partner(s) during different exercises. Co-operative games require the participants to work together to achieve a specific result, such as balancing against each other's bodies while in physically awkward positions or keeping their hands in contact while performing various improvised movement exercises. Competitive games require the participants to work against each other, as in contests of balance and speed.\n\nParticipants also alternate between moving \"in character\" and as themselves, between improvised and choreographed exercises and between assuming active and passive roles during the various exercises.\n\nTo perform Wolf System exercises with a partner or in a group environment is known as jamming, a term borrowed from contact improvisation and from jazz.\n\nThe Wolf System can be used to introduce combative concepts and skills to students who may not have any previous background in fencing, martial arts or related disciplines. Also, the open-ended nature of the exercises allow participants to experiment with a wide range of unusual fighting techniques and styles, including many that are not typically offered in more orthodox stage combat or martial arts training programs.\n\nWolf, Tony: \"Action Design: New Directions in Fight Choreography\". Martial Arts in the Modern World, Praeger Publications, 2003\n\nWolf, Tony: \"Kampf ist Emotion\" (Issue 6, Cast Magazine, Germany, Dec.-Jan. 2005)\n\nhttp://www.tonywolfsystem.com - a website detailing the application of the Wolf System to stage combat, physical theater, martial arts and self-defense training.\n"}
{"id": "34137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34137", "title": "XFL", "text": "XFL\n\nThe XFL was a professional American football league that played its only season in 2001. As originally conceived, the XFL was operated as a joint venture between the World Wrestling Federation (now known as WWE) and NBC. The XFL was conceived as an outdoor football league that would take place during the NFL off-season, and was promoted as having fewer rules and encouraging rougher play than other major leagues. The league had eight teams in two divisions, including major markets and those not directly served by the NFL, such as Birmingham, Las Vegas, Memphis, and Orlando. The XFL operated as a single entity (unlike most other professional sports leagues, which operate under the franchise model), with all teams centrally owned by the league.\n\nCo-owner NBC served as the main broadcaster of XFL games, along with UPN and TNN. The presentation of XFL games featured sports entertainment elements inspired by professional wrestling, including heat and kayfabe (although the games and their outcomes were legitimate), suggestively-dressed cheerleaders, and occasional usage of WWF personalities (such as Jesse Ventura, Jim Ross, and Jerry Lawler) as part of on-air commentary crews alongside sportscasters and veteran football players. The telecasts also featured extensive usage of aerial skycams and on-player microphones to provide additional perspectives of the games.\n\nThe first night of play brought higher television viewership than NBC had projected, but ratings quickly nosedived. The league garnered a negative reputation due to its connections to professional wrestling and the WWF, the overall quality of play, and a presentation that differed starkly from network football telecasts of the era (albeit with technical and on-air innovations that would later become commonplace). Lorne Michaels, executive producer of NBC's long-running \"Saturday Night Live\", was also critical of the XFL when a game going into double overtime caused the show to be delayed until after midnight on the east coast (prompting moves to speed up play, if not pre-empt the conclusion of a game entirely if it did not finish by a specific time, in order to minimize disruptions to \"SNL\").\n\nNBC and the WWF both lost $35 million on their $100 million investment in the league's inaugural season. Although committing to broadcast two seasons, NBC pulled out of its broadcast contract for the XFL after the inaugural season, citing the poor viewership. While WWF owner Vince McMahon initially stated that the XFL would continue without NBC, and proposed the addition of expansion teams, unfavorable demands of the league by UPN hastened the XFL's demise, and the league ceased operations entirely in May 2001 a month after the championship game. The Los Angeles Xtreme were the XFL's first and only champions. McMahon conceded that the league was a \"colossal failure\".\n\nMcMahon maintained control of the XFL brand after the league ceased operations, and on January 25, 2018, he announced the return of the XFL with a target relaunch date of 2020. The revival will be owned by McMahon's Alpha Entertainment, a company separate from WWE.\n\nCreated as a 50–50 joint venture between NBC and WWF-owned subsidiary WWE Properties International, Inc. under the company name \"XFL, LLC\", the XFL was created as a \"single-entity league;\" instead of the franchise model used by the NFL and other major leagues, or the hybrid model where investors in the league are given operations over teams (as used in Major League Soccer), the XFL uniformly owned and operated all of its teams as one corporation, with no individual owners. Vince McMahon's original plan was to purchase the Canadian Football League (after the CFL initially approached him about purchasing the Toronto Argonauts) and \"have it migrate south,\" while NBC, who had lost their long-held broadcast rights to the NFL's American Football Conference (AFC) to CBS in 1998, was moving ahead with Time Warner to create a football league of their own.\n\nThe concept of the league was first announced by league commissioner Tyler Schueck on February 3, 2000. The XFL was originally conceived to build on the success of the NFL and professional wrestling. It combined the scoring system of the NFL with the kayfabe and stunts of the WWF. As WWF was, at the time, in the midst of its Attitude Era, the XFL's presentation likewise would reflect that approach toward football, with its emphasis on sex and violence. It was hyped as \"real\" football without penalties for roughness and with fewer rules in general. The games would feature players and coaches with microphones and cameras in the huddle and in the locker rooms. Stadiums featured trash-talking public address announcers and scantily-clad cheerleaders who were encouraged to date the players. Instead of a pre-game coin toss, XFL officials put the ball on the ground and let a player from each team scramble for it to determine who received the kickoff option. The practice was dubbed \"The Human Coin Toss\" by commentators, and one player famously separated his shoulder on the first scramble, missing the rest of the season.\n\nThe XFL featured extensive television coverage, with three games televised each week on NBC, UPN, and TNN. To accommodate this, it placed four of its teams in the four largest U.S. media markets: New York City/North Jersey, Chicago, the San Francisco Bay Area, and Greater Los Angeles (this was during the NFL's 21-year absence from the Los Angeles metro area). The remaining four teams were placed in markets that had previously hosted teams in second-tier and/or rival major leagues: Birmingham, Memphis, Las Vegas, and Orlando. All of the XFL's markets except Las Vegas had hosted teams in the United States Football League in the 1980s; Las Vegas, along with Birmingham and Memphis, had hosted short-lived CFL teams in the 1990s.\n\nThe XFL chose unusual names for its teams, most of which either referenced images of uncontrolled insanity (Maniax, Rage, Xtreme, Demons) or criminal activity (Enforcers, Hitmen, Outlaws, and the Birmingham Blast). After outrage from Birmingham residents who noted that Birmingham had a history of notorious \"blasts\", including the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in 1963 and Eric Rudolph's 1998 bombing of a local abortion clinic, the XFL changed the name of the Birmingham team to the more benign \"Birmingham Thunderbolts\" (later shortened to \"Bolts\").\n\nContrary to popular belief, the \"X\" in XFL did not stand for \"extreme\", as in \"eXtreme Football League\". When the league was first organized in 1999, it was originally supposed to stand for \"Xtreme Football League\"; however, there was already a league in formation at the same time with that name, and so promoters wanted to make sure that everyone knew that the \"X\" did not actually stand for anything (though McMahon would comment that \"if the NFL stood for the 'No Fun League', the XFL will stand for the 'extra fun league'\"). The other Xtreme Football League, which was also organized in 1999, merged with the Arena Football League's minor league AF2 before ever playing a single game.\n\nThe only main draft for the league took place over a three-day period from October 28, 2000 to October 30, 2000. A total of 475 players were selected initially, with 65 additional players then selected in a supplemental draft on December 29, 2000.\n\nEastern Division\n\nWestern Division\n\nThe XFL's opening game took place on February 3, 2001, one year after the league was announced, less than one week following the NFL's Super Bowl. The first game was between the New York/New Jersey Hitmen and the Las Vegas Outlaws at Sam Boyd Stadium in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nThe league's regular season structure was set up so that each team played teams in its own division twice in the season, home and away (the same as the National Football League) and played against teams in the other division once. The season ran ten weeks, with no bye weeks.\n\nThe league's western division was far more competitive than the east, with the four teams' records ranging from 7–3 (for eventual champion Los Angeles) to 4–6 (Las Vegas, who finished last after losing its last three games to end up one game out of a playoff spot). In the East, New York and Chicago both were hampered by slow starts and ineffective starters before making personnel changes that improved their play, while Orlando, under quarterback Jeff Brohm, who owned the league's highest QB rating at 99.9 during the 2001 XFL season, soared to first place, winning its first six games before Brohm suffered a career-ending injury and the team regressed (the team went 2–2 in his absence). Birmingham started the season 2–1 before a rash of injuries (and tougher competition, as its two wins were against New York and Chicago) led to the team losing the last seven games. Injuries were a major problem across the league: only three of the league's eight Opening Day starting quarterbacks —Los Angeles's Tommy Maddox, San Francisco's Mike Pawlawski and Memphis's Jim Druckenmiller—were still starters by the end of the season. Birmingham and Las Vegas were both on their third-string quarterbacks by the end of the ten-week season.\n\nThe top two teams in each division qualified for the playoffs. To avoid teams having to play each other three times in a season, the league set up the semifinal round of the playoffs so that the games would feature teams from opposite divisions: the east division champion (Orlando) hosted the west division runner-up (San Francisco), and likewise for the west champion and east runner-up (Los Angeles and Chicago, respectively). Los Angeles and San Francisco each won their playoff games to advance to the XFL championship.\n\nThe opening game ended with a 19–0 victory for the Outlaws, and was watched on NBC by an estimated 14 million viewers. During the telecast, NBC switched over to the game between the Orlando Rage and the Chicago Enforcers, which was a closer contest than the blowout taking place in Las Vegas. The opening night drew a 9.5 Nielsen rating.\n\nAlthough the opening-week games actually delivered ratings double those of what NBC had promised advertisers (and more viewers than the 2001 Pro Bowl), the audience declined sharply to a 4.6 in just one week, and eventually dropped to minuscule levels.\n\nA further problem was that the XFL itself was the brainchild of Vince McMahon, a man who was ridiculed by mainstream sports journalists due to the stigma attached to professional wrestling as being \"fake\"; many journalists even jokingly speculated whether any of the league's games were rigged, although nothing of this sort was ever seriously investigated.\n\nEven longtime NBC sportscaster Bob Costas joined in the mocking of the league. Dick Ebersol purposely allowed Costas and other NBC Sports veterans to opt out of the network's coverage of the league (hence with the exception of long-departed \"NFL on NBC\" analyst Mike Adamle, its coverage was helmed mostly by younger unknowns and professional wrestling figures), and Costas in particular did not like McMahon's approach to the sport. In an appearance on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" in February 2001, after the league's second week of play, Costas joked: \"It has to be at least a decade since I first mused out loud, 'Why doesn't somebody combine mediocre high school football with a tawdry strip club?' Finally, somebody takes my idea and runs with it.\" Costas interviewed McMahon for an episode of his HBO show \"On the Record\" as the league was in decline; McMahon's defiant attitude toward Costas was later cited as hastening the league's demise.\n\n\n\n\n The Citrus Bowl, which had a total capacity of 65,438 at the time, had its upper decks closed off for XFL games.\n\nDespite boasts of a \"rules-light\" game and universally negative reviews from the mainstream sports media early on, the XFL played a brand of 11-man outdoor football that was recognizable, aside from the opening game sprint to determine possession and some other changes, some modified during the season as it progressed. The league's coaches vetoed a proposal to eliminate ineligible receivers (allowing any player to receive a forward pass) midway through the season, on account that the change would be too radical.\n\nThe league deliberately avoided placing teams in stadiums with artificial turf, which at the time had a bad reputation both for being unsightly as well as being more hazardous to play on compared to natural turf. The league's requirement for grass fields automatically ruled out the use of domed stadiums since no such stadium capable of accommodating a grass football field existed in the U.S. in 2001 (the only retractable roof stadiums complete at the time were used exclusively for Major League Baseball; the first retractable roof stadium for NFL use was not completed until Reliant Stadium opened for the expansion Houston Texans in 2002). Furthermore, every XFL field was designed identically, with no individual team branding on the field. Each end zone and 50-yard line was decorated with the XFL logo, with the endzones also being painted black.\n\nMost of the league's stadiums were football-specific facilities, the only exception being San Francisco's Pacific Bell Park (home of the San Francisco Giants) which was built primarily for baseball, but (unlike many newer baseball-specific stadiums) can accommodate football. Two XFL stadiums (Giants Stadium and Soldier Field) were also then-current NFL stadiums, while two others (Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum and the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium) had previously hosted NFL games; the NFL would return to the Coliseum when Rams returned to Los Angeles in 2016. The remaining fields were in regular use as college football venues at the time.\n\nThe home team in every stadium was required to occupy the sideline opposite the press box in order to be visible to the television cameras. Due to the odd field dimensions in San Francisco, teams playing there were permitted to occupy the same sideline (a similar arrangement existed in the NFL when the Green Bay Packers played at Milwaukee County Stadium).\n\nThe all-grass field stipulation caused the league to skip over several of the country's largest markets, including Houston and Philadelphia, since they lacked a large grass stadium in 2001. In the league's two northernmost markets, Chicago and New York/New Jersey (the latter of which played in Giants Stadium during a brief window in which the stadium's usual artificial turf had been replaced by natural grass), the combination of the all-grass requirement, midwinter playing season and the fact that the XFL followed shortly after the NFL had used both fields for a full season (in Giants Stadium's case, two full seasons, since the Giants and Jets shared the stadium; the Giants also hosted two playoff games following the 2000 season) caused significant damage to the playing fields; at Chicago's Soldier Field, the wear and tear on the field was such that by midseason, the midfield logo of the Enforcers' cross-league rivals the Chicago Bears was clearly visible amid a stretch of dirt and dead grass.\n\nWithin a year of the XFL's demise, \"next generation\" artificial surfaces (which much more closely mimicked grass in appearance, feel and player safety) would be introduced in professional football. Giants Stadium would have a next generation artificial surface installed in 2003; Soldier Field was renovated extensively in 2002 but retained its grass field.\n\nReplacing the coin toss at the beginning of each game was an event in which one player from each team fought to recover a football 20 yards away in order to determine possession. Both players lined up side-by-side on one of the 30-yard lines, with the ball being placed at the 50-yard line. At the whistle, the two players would run toward the ball and attempt to gain possession; whichever player gained possession first was allowed to choose possession (as if he had won a coin toss in other leagues). The XFL's first injury infamously resulted from the opening scramble; Orlando free safety Hassan Shamsid-Deen suffered a separated shoulder prior to the Rage's 33–29 season-opening win over the Chicago Enforcers at Florida Citrus Bowl Stadium on February 3. He ended up missing the remainder of the campaign.\n\nAfter touchdowns there were no extra point kicks, due to the XFL's perception that an extra-point kick was a \"guaranteed point.\" To earn a point after a touchdown, teams ran a single offensive down from the two-yard line (functionally identical to the NFL/NCAA/CFL two-point conversion, but for just a single point). By the playoffs, two-point and three-point conversions had been added to the rules. Teams could opt for the bonus points by playing the conversion farther back from the goal line. However, touchdowns were still worth 6 points.\n\nThis rule, as originally implemented, was similar to the WFL's \"Action Point\", and was identical to a 1968 \"Pressure Point\" experiment by the NFL and American Football League, used only in preseason interleague games that year.\n\nIn 2015, the NFL, CFL and other professional leagues would address the \"guaranteed point\" concerns by moving the extra point kick back to the 15-yard and 25-yard lines, respectively, thus making the length of the kick the same distance (taking into account the NFL's position of the goalposts on the end line, and the CFL's goalposts being positioned on the goal line).\n\nTies were resolved in similar fashion to the NCAA and in the CFL today, with at least one possession by each team, starting from the opponent's 20-yard line. There were differences: there were no first downs – teams had to score within four downs, and the team that had possession first in overtime could not attempt a field goal until fourth down. If that team managed to score a touchdown in fewer than four downs, the second team would only have that same number of downs to match or beat the result. If the score was still tied after one overtime period, the team that played second on offense in the first OT would start on offense in the second OT (similar to the rules of college football overtime). The process was repeated until a winner was determined – unlike the CFL and NFL, but like college football, games could not end in ties even in the regular season.\n\nThe XFL allowed full bump and run coverage early in the season. Defensive backs were allowed to hit wide receivers any time before the quarterback released the ball, as long as the hit came from the front or the side.\n\nFollowing the fourth week of the season, bump and run was restricted to the first five yards from the line of scrimmage (similar to NFL and CFL) in an effort to increase offensive production.\n\nUnlike the NFL, but like the World Football League and Arena Football League before it, the XFL allowed one offensive player to move toward the line of scrimmage once he was outside the tackles.\n\nThe XFL imposed a number of restrictions on punting that are not present in most other leagues' rules, the net effect of which made punts in the XFL operate under rules more akin to kickoffs. The purpose of these provisions was to keep play going after the ball was punted, encouraging the kicking team to make the ball playable and the receiving team to run it back. To this effect:\n\n\nFor the initial weeks of the season, the XFL forbade all players on the kicking team from going downfield before a kick was made from scrimmage on that down, similarly to a rule the NFL considered in 1974. For the rest of the season the XFL modified it to allow one player closest to each sideline downfield ahead of the kick, the same modification the NFL adopted to their change just before their 1974 exhibition games started.\n\nAllowing the kicking team to recover a punt did encourage noticeably more quick kicks over the course of the XFL's lone season than was typically seen in the NFL over the preceding decades.\n\nThe XFL used a 35-second play clock, five seconds shorter than the contemporary NFL play clock of 40 seconds (but still longer than the CFL's 20 seconds), in an effort to speed up the game.\n\nThe XFL limited each team to an unusually low 38 players, as opposed to 53 on NFL teams and 80 or more on unlimited college rosters. This was similar to the CFL, which had a comparable 40-man roster limit in 2001. This resulted, most commonly, in each team only carrying two quarterbacks and one kicker who doubled as the punter.\n\nThe XFL paid standardized player salaries. Quarterbacks earned US$5,000 per week, kickers earned $3,500, and all other uniformed players earned $4,500 per week, though a few players got around these restrictions (Los Angeles Xtreme players Noel Prefontaine, the league's lone punting specialist, and Matt Malloy, a wide receiver) by having themselves listed as backup quarterbacks. Players on a winning team received a bonus of $2,500 for the week, $7,500 for winning a playoff game. The team that won the championship game split $1,000,000 (roughly $25,000 per player). Players did not receive any fringe benefits, and had to pay for their own health insurance.\n\nThe XFL allowed its players to wear a nickname on the back of their jersey, as opposed to the legal last name most professional sports leagues have required since the 1960s. Players could change the nickname any time they wanted, and a few players chose to change the nicknames on a weekly basis depending on their opponent. (Two teams, Orlando and Birmingham, imposed policies that forbade players from using nicknames.) The league's intent to use backfield camera angles gave these nicknames even greater exposure.\n\nRod Smart, a running back who played in the first XFL nationally televised game, was the first player to gain notice from his nickname, \"He Hate Me.\"\n\nAlthough the XFL was not the first football league to feature the \"sky cam\", which enables TV viewers to see behind the offensive unit, it helped to popularize its unique capabilities. For the first several weeks, the league used the sky cam and on-field cameramen (nicknamed the \"Bubba Cam\" after WWE's cameraman, Bubba, who ironically refused to cover the XFL) extensively, giving the television broadcasts a perspective similar to video games such as the \"Madden\" series.\n\nAfter the XFL's failure, the sky cam was adopted by the NFL's broadcasters; the device has subsequently come into use on all major networks. NBC in particular switched back to the XFL camera angles in 2017, when traditional cameras were too far away to cut through thick fog and smoke on some of the \"Sunday Night Football\" games that year; response was so positive that the network opted to use two of its \"Thursday Night Football\" games to experiment with intentionally broadcasting most of the game through that angle.\n\nAt the beginning of the season, NBC showed a feature game at 8 p.m. Eastern Time on Saturday nights, also taping a second game. The second game, in some weeks, would air in the visiting team's home market and be put on the air nationally if the feature game was a blowout (as was the case in week one) or encountered technical difficulties (as was the case in week two). Two games were shown each Sunday: one at 4 p.m. Eastern on TNN and another at 7 p.m. Eastern on UPN. The XFL also had a fairly extensive local radio presence, often using nationally recognized disc jockeys. The morning radio duo of Rick and Bubba, for instance, was the radio broadcast team for the Birmingham Thunderbolts. Super Dave Osborne was a sideline reporter for Los Angeles Xtreme broadcasts on KLSX; WMVP carried Chicago Enforcers games.\n\nUnusually for a professional league, the XFL did not feature a studio wraparound. The network offered \"XFL Gameday\", a pregame show featuring radio shock jocks Opie and Anthony for the first four weeks of the season, but the show was not carried nationwide and most affiliates joined in just before the game. Halftime consisted mostly of live look-ins into the player locker rooms, as coaches discussed their strategy and halftime adjustments with their players, as well as cheerleader performances. The XFL also, at McMahon's request, followed a somewhat different format than traditional professional football telecasts: the announcers more closely followed the model of professional wrestling where the color commentator had a villain-like role, while the sideline reporters (who were predominantly male, a rare example of the XFL being more \"conservative\" than the NFL at the time, which was incorporating attractive female sideline reporters) were former players and experienced sportscasters who were relied upon for more expert analysis than usual.\n\nIn the third week of the season, the games were sped up through changes in the playing rules, and broadcasts were subjected to increased time constraints. The reason was the reaction of Lorne Michaels, creator and executive producer of \"Saturday Night Live\", to the length of the Los Angeles Xtreme versus Chicago Enforcers game that went into double overtime. The double overtime periods combined with a power outage earlier in the game due to someone not fueling a generator before the game delayed the contest, causing the start of \"Saturday Night Live\" to be pushed back from 11:30 p.m. Eastern Time to 12:15 a.m. Sunday morning. This angered Michaels, who expected high ratings with Jennifer Lopez as the show's host. For the rest of the season, the XFL cut off coverage at 11:00 Eastern Time, regardless of whether or not the game was over. NBC Sports has retained this policy for other sports it runs in Saturday night time slots since the XFL's closure; in 2018, a National Hockey League telecast was cut off under similar circumstances.\n\nIn the face of declining ratings, NBC and the XFL aggressively promoted that the week 6 game between the Orlando Rage and Las Vegas Outlaws would feature a behind-the-scenes visit into the locker room of the Rage's cheerleaders at halftime. The heavily promoted event was, in fact, a publicity stunt: instead of showing an entry into the room, viewers instead saw a sketch in which the cameraman knocked himself unconscious by running into the locker room door, followed by a dream sequence with little implied nudity, various fetish-related scenes, and a surprise cameo from Rodney Dangerfield. The \"New York Daily News\" reported that the scene would likely be the \"[last] salacious WWF-style stunt for the rest of the season\", citing internal sources indicating that NBC wished to pivot the telecasts back towards a football-oriented product, including hiring NFL alumni as analysts, and reinstating Vasgersian as the lead commentator.\n\n\nIt was believed that the willingness of Las Vegas bookmakers to take bets on XFL games established their legitimacy, dispelling concerns that the league was using predetermined storylines as in professional wrestling. However, the league was panned by critics as boring football with a tawdry broadcast style, although the broadcasts on TNN and to a lesser extent UPN and the Matt Vasgersian–helmed NBC coverage were considered comparatively professional.\n\nThe WWF and NBC each lost a reported $35 million, only recuperating 30% of their combined initial $100 million investment. On April 21, 2001, the season concluded as the Los Angeles Xtreme defeated the San Francisco Demons 38–6 in the XFL Championship Game (which was originally given the moniker \"The Big Game at the End of the Season\", but was later dubbed the Million Dollar Game, after the amount of money awarded to the winning team).\n\nThough paid attendance at games remained respectable, if unimpressive (overall attendance was only 10% below what the league's goal had been at the start of the season), the XFL ceased operations after just one season due to low TV ratings. Facing stiff competition from the NCAA Basketball Tournament, the NBC telecast of the Chicago/NY-NJ game on March 31 received a 1.5 rating, at that time the lowest ever for any major network primetime weekend first-run sports television broadcast in the United States.\n\nDespite initially agreeing to broadcast XFL games for two years and owning half of the league, NBC announced it would not broadcast a second XFL season; the network no longer had a full season of Saturday nights to offer the league because it had acquired the rights to the 2002 Winter Olympics, even if the XFL had been more successful or profitable. WWF Chairman Vince McMahon initially announced that the XFL would continue, as it still had UPN and TNN as broadcast outlets. In fact, expansion teams were being explored for cities such as Washington, D.C. and Detroit. However, in order to continue broadcasting XFL games, UPN demanded that \"WWF SmackDown!\" broadcasts be cut from two hours to one and a half hours. McMahon found these terms unacceptable and he announced the XFL's closure on May 10, 2001. McMahon's chief adviser, a perplexed Nathan Livian, was quoted as saying \"the situation is, indeed, very bad\".\n\nOne reason for the failure of the league to catch on, despite its financial solvency and massive visibility, was the lack of respect for the league in the sports media. XFL games were rarely treated as sports contests, but rather more like WWF-like sensationalized events. With few NFL-quality players, save Tommy Maddox, the league's MVP, and with little thoughtful analysis or even consideration by sports columnists, the XFL never gained the necessary recognition to be regarded as a viable league. The fact that the league was co-owned by NBC made ESPN (which was part of the same corporation as ABC) and Fox Sports Net (owned by Fox TV) disinclined to report on the XFL, though Time Warner properties such as \"Sports Illustrated\", as well as the Associated Press, devoted coverage to the league (\"Sports Illustrated\" even featured the XFL on the cover of its February 12, 2001, edition, albeit with the description of it being \"sleazy gimmicks and low-rent football\"). Many local TV newscasts and newspapers (even in XFL cities) did not report league scores or show highlights. This led to many football fans treating the XFL as a joke, rather than competition to the NFL. Other problems included the scantily-clad cheerleaders, trash-talking announcers, and the lack of penalties for roughness.\n\nThe XFL ranked No. 3 on \"TV Guide\"s list of the TV Guide's worst TV shows of all time in July 2002, as well as No. 2 on ESPN's list of biggest flops in sports, behind Ryan Leaf. In 2010, TV Guide Network also listed the show at No. 21 on their list of \"25 Biggest TV Blunders\".\n\nMany stories recapping the history of the XFL show photos of the crash of its promotional blimp in Oakland, California, portraying it retrospectively as an ill-omen for the league. The incident occurred a month before the opening game on Tuesday, January 9, 2001. The blimp was in Oakland as the league had flown it over the between the Oakland Raiders and Miami Dolphins and intended to do the same with the following week's AFC Championship, also in Oakland. The pilots lost control of the airship and were forced to evacuate. The ground crew were unable to secure the vehicle and the \"unattended blimp then floated five miles north over the Oakland Estuary, at one point reaching 1,600 feet, until its gondola caught on a sailboat mast in the Central Basin marina. It draped over the roof of the Oyster Reef restaurant—next to where the boat was moored—and a nearby power line.\" While the pilot was hospitalized, no other major injuries were reported. The blimp needed $2.5 million in repairs, the sailboat and restaurant had only minor damages.\n\nBefore the season started, a fictional XFL game appeared in the 2000 film \"The 6th Day\", set in 2015.\n\nNBC continued airing professional league football beyond the demise of the XFL, starting with the Arena Football League television coverage from 2003 to 2006. In 2006, NBC returned to coverage of NFL games with \"NBC Sunday Night Football\", eventually adding \"Thursday Night Football\" to its coverage in 2016. McMahon and Ebersol later took credit for the more intimate approach to televising football, with innovations such as the Skycam, miked-up players, and sideline interviews that were later used in NFL broadcasts.\n\nXFL team names and logos sometimes appear in movies and television where professional football needs to be dramatized, as licensing for NFL logos may be cost prohibitive (such as in the Arnold Schwarzenegger starring sci-fi film \"The 6th Day\").\n\nThe United Football League later placed all four of its inaugural franchises in former XFL markets and stadiums. However, the UFL drew far fewer fans than the XFL average: for example, the XFL's San Francisco Demons drew an average of 35,000 fans, while the UFL's California Redwoods drew an average of 6,000, despite both playing in the same ballpark. Three of the four charter teams, including the Redwoods, moved to other markets by the time of the UFL's third season.\n\nESPN produced a documentary surrounding the league, \"This Was the XFL\", as part of its anthology series \"30 for 30\". The film discusses the longtime friendship between McMahon and Ebersol, as seen through the eyes of Dick's son, Charlie Ebersol, who directs the film. McMahon, Dick Ebersol, Dick Schanzer, Rusty Tillman, Al Luginbill, Rod Smart, Tommy Maddox, Paris Lenon, league President Basil DeVito, costume designer Jay Howarth, Jesse Ventura, Matt Vasgersian, Jonathan Coachman, Bob Costas and Jerry Jones all provided interviews for the film. It debuted at Doc NYC November 11, 2016, and premiered on ESPN on February 2, 2017.\n\nNotable players included league MVP and Los Angeles quarterback Tommy Maddox, who signed with the NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers after the XFL folded (Maddox later became the starting quarterback for the Steelers in 2002 and led them to that year's playoffs, as well as continuing to start for them into 2004). Los Angeles used the first pick in the XFL draft to select a former NFL quarterback, Scott Milanovich. Milanovich lost the starting quarterback job to Maddox, who was placed on the Xtreme as one of a handful of players put on each team due to geographic distance between the player's college and the team's hometown. Another of the better-known players was Las Vegas running back Rod Smart, who first gained popularity because the name on the back of his jersey read \"He Hate Me.\" Smart, who was only picked 357th in the draft, later went on to play for the Philadelphia Eagles, Carolina Panthers, Oakland Raiders and the Edmonton Eskimos of the CFL. His Panther teammate Jake Delhomme named his newborn horse \"She Hate Me\" as a reference to him. Smart played in Super Bowl XXXVIII becoming one of seven XFL players to play in a Super Bowl. Receiver Yo Murphy also achieved this as a member of the St. Louis Rams in Super Bowl XXXVI along with winning the 95th Grey Cup with the Saskatchewan Roughriders in 2007. Tommy Maddox played for a Super Bowl team (with the Pittsburgh Steelers) in Super Bowl XL in Detroit, (although Maddox, by then a third-string quarterback, did not play in the game, which turned out to be his last appearance in uniform before retiring). Lastly, Las Vegas Outlaws DB Kelly Herndon played in Super Bowl XL with the Seattle Seahawks in 2005, where he is remembered for intercepting a pass and returning it a then-record 76 yards. Although he did not play for an NFL team after the XFL's lone season, former Las Vegas Outlaw offensive guard Isaac Davis also had a notable NFL career, playing in 58 games over a six-year career. Davis started for the San Diego Chargers in Super Bowl XXIX. John Avery went on to play for both the Edmonton Eskimos and the Toronto Argonauts where he was an All Star selection in 2002 and won a Grey Cup in 2004.\n\nThe last active player to have played in the XFL is Canadian placekicker Paul McCallum, who retired as a member of the BC Lions prior to the start of the 2016 CFL season, but returned to the team as their place kicker during the final regular season game of the 2016 season.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nXFL games are now part of the WWE Video Library.\n\nIn September 2012, WWE attempted to file a new XFL trademark for use in wrestling and football which was previously filed in 2009 under XFL LLC. The application is still pending since WWE has not put together a \"Statement of Use\" for the trademark. WWE could consider abandoning the old application and filing the new one under WWE Inc. In July 2015, the XFL's first trademark extension was granted.\n\nOn December 15, 2017, it was reported that McMahon was seriously considering a revival of the XFL. WWE didn't confirm or deny the rumors, but released a statement that McMahon is launching a new company known as Alpha Entertainment, that is looking to expand into sports and entertainment properties \"including professional football\", and that WWE itself wasn't returning to professional football.\n\nNoted wrestling journalist Dave Meltzer speculated that McMahon was starting a shell corporation with his own money to protect WWE shareholders on a potential XFL revival. A revival of the XFL would air either on traditional TV or the WWE Network, and would be toned down compared to its original incarnation due to CTE concerns in football that surfaced in the early 2010s. On December 22, 2017, McMahon sold $100 million worth of WWE shares, which required notification to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission; the SEC reported that it was done so that McMahon could fund Alpha Entertainment. WWE shares did in fact decline slightly due to the report, with Citigroup downgrading WWE shares from \"buy\" to \"neutral\".\n\nOn January 25, 2018, Alpha Entertainment announced an XFL revival planned for 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28368786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28368786", "title": "Zoo key", "text": "Zoo key\n\nA Zoo Key is a key that activates talking storybook boxes located throughout a zoological garden. The story recordings provide an audio tour of the zoo.\n\nTalking Storybooks and Magic Keys were first used in Children's Fairyland in Oakland, California. Invented by Bruce Sedley, the original elephant-shaped novelty key was patented in 1960 (patent #188,343), and the story book system was patented in 1962 (patent #3,059,069).\n\nOn 26 August 2009, Bruce Sedley - aka the Skipper - and his dapper puppet friend King Fuddle handed out the millionth Magic Key to one golden child on Puppet Day.\nAs of late October 2012, Children's Fairyland began offering pewter and 23k Gold plated pewter Magic Keys as well as the standard plastic Magic Key.\n\n\nNew Orleans Audubon Zoo\n\n"}
