{"id": "33880087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33880087", "title": "AJK Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Mirpur", "text": "AJK Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Mirpur\n\nThe Azad Jammu & Kashmir Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education (AJKBISE) was established in 1973 through an ordinance promulgated by the Government of Azad Kashmir. It is located in Mirpur, Azad Kashmir. Before the establishment of the AJK BISE, educational institutes in Azad Kashmir were included in the jurisdiction of the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Lahore (BISE Lahore).\n\nThe first examination was conducted by this Board in 1974, in which 6,161 candidates of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) & Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC) appeared. The scope of its activities gradually increased. The rules and regulations of Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Lahore have been adopted on the principle of parity with Punjab.\n\n"}
{"id": "48433433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48433433", "title": "A Dominie's Log", "text": "A Dominie's Log\n\nA.S. Neill's A Dominie's Log is a diary of his first year as headteacher at Gretna Green Village School, during 1914-15. It is an autobiographical novel. He changed a hard working, academic school controlled by corporal punishment and the fear of the authority of the teacher into one of happiness, play and children controlling their learning. He was a reflective teacher, sitting on his desk thinking out why he and the children were at the school. He also, most importantly, thought the children were human beings, and engaged with them as such, joining in their games, sliding with them on an ice slide in the street, sharing their sweets, laughing with them, and appreciating and respecting their individuality, and creativity.\n\nMost images of teachers are about the individual as hero overcoming the problems of school and parents and leading the children to enlightenment. Like the heroes of fairy tales they do not challenge or change the system, they are simply heroes of the system, if only all teachers were like them. To Neill the children, and their school and local community, are the heroes, they are the ones that he sees as helping the child to be happy, healthy and free. In the first review it states that he has opinions on everything, but that was to miss the point, that the issues of the school and its children impinge on political and cultural life, they are not separate. Neill is thinking of the culture of childhood and schooling, not of the school as a place for effective, efficient methods and positive measurable outcomes. The story is about him trying to 'create an attitude'. Indeed, after ten years of teaching, in 1921 he creates a school, a community, that is the hero, Summerhill School. Its formation is portrayed in \"A Dominie Abroad\", and the Children's BBC producer, Jon East, uses it to get audiences to question what a school is in his drama about the school and its fight with Ofsted inspectors, \"Summerhill\".\n\n\"An awful lot of drama is set in schools - and yet each series only reinforces the dominant paradigm,\" Jon East says. \"What we're trying to say in this drama is that there could just be another way of doing things.\"\n\nNeill reads the war news everyday to discuss with the children. He uses Ibsen's play \"An Enemy of the People\", replacing that day's bible lesson, to question the justice of democracy when the mob rules. This book, the way it is written, the way he thinks through issues, the way it ends, can be seen as representing all those teachers who at that time helped create the community known as New Ideals in Education Conferences. They believed in the foundation value for all schools and children's communities, of 'liberating the child from the authority of the teacher'.\n\nIt was recognised by the New Ideal's teachers, professors, soldiers, politicians, headteachers, artists, musicians, actors... that the liberty of the child, the autonomy of the learner, their creativity, self-expression, their search for knowledge and learning was the hope for a world of justice and peace.\n\n\"In the first place, this amazing Conference at which we have seen sitting side by side Government Officials, advanced Montessorians, antediluvian Teachers like myself, University Professors, Soldiers in khaki, Musicians, Artists, Headmasters of Public Schools, the superintendent of the Little Commonwealth, Primary Schoolteachers, and the American Ambassador himself stands, first and foremost, for Freedom, - I do not like \"emancipation\", for the word suggests slavery, and the use of it probably promotes it. We have all agreed that the child is to be free: yes, but the teacher must be free as well as the child…\"—Mr Lionel Helbert, Headmaster of West Downs, Winchester, 1915.\n\nNeill in \"A Dominie's Log\" writes about the children's ice slide being salted by the policeman to protect the property of the farmers, their horses. He reflects with the children that they have no voice because they have no vote, he compares them to women, and women's low pay and menial jobs. He suggests they write a charter of children's rights. As through the whole book he does not do what teachers so often do now, turn things into projects, getting the kids to role play a campaign or draw cartoons of their plans for play in the town and its streets, but to look at the issue in terms of power, and how to get equality!\n\nFor all rights movements to succeed they build on their history, on changes their struggles have caused, and just as importantly on the culture of struggle they have created. This empowers them to feel a part of a movement, a successful, heroic struggle, with numerous examples of small successes that help to build the momentum for sustained change in laws and attitudes. Children and teachers need to feel they are a part of an historical struggle for the rights of the child. A Dominie's Log is one personal story of a headteacher, it is representative of a whole movement, New Ideals, and it is vital that we celebrate and share this history, so that it effects the present.\n\nEvidence has been submitted to the Select Committee on Education for their meeting with the Children's Commissioner, Anne Longfield OBE, to discuss her new report 'Ambitious for Children' (August 2015). It is trying to input into the discussion of the voice of the child, and their future society and culture, the importance of this history.\n\nOn Friday 5 November 1915 \"The Yorkshire Post\" in its far right column on page 3, under the title \"New Books Received Yesterday\" lists 14 books ranging from \"Nurse Cavell, the Story of her Life and Martyrdom\" to \"Toy Making at Home\" and \"Morals for the Young\". The fourth book on the list, after \"Furniture Collector\", is \"A Dominie’s Log\" by A.S.Neill, MA.\n\nOne of the earliest reviews is in the \"Edinburgh Evening News\", Monday 15 November 1915:\n\nTo celebrate the centenary of A.S. Neill’s first book one hundred copies of a special edition are being sent to key cultural, creative, educational and political figures during November (the month of its publication). They are all being invited to take part in the centenary celebrations of the book, by contributing to a final centenary edition, and by responding to the book through their creativity or public appearances. A series of events will be held during the year.\n\n“In this centenary of industrial warfare we need to remind people, especially our children, of the culture of success and happiness that this book is a part of, and that we still have a long way to go to have happy schools based on the dignity of our children.”\n\nChallenging the current failure to learn from history and examples of good practice in our schools, and the obsession of focusing on innovation, measurement and outcomes, the book reminds us that schools at the beginning of World War One were better than schools now. It reminds us of the concept of the good primary school being child-centred, based on creative learning, play, learning by doing, group work, learning from the natural world, making decisions and taking responsibility for their learning and their community. We must claim these back as the foundations of our schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "18755913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18755913", "title": "Academic quarter (year division)", "text": "Academic quarter (year division)\n\nAn academic quarter refers to the division of an academic year into four parts.\n\nThe modern academic quarter calendar can be traced to the historic English law court / legal training pupillage four term system: \nThis quarter system was adopted by the oldest universities in the English-speaking world (Oxford, founded circa 1096, and Cambridge, founded circa 1209).\n\nOver time, Cambridge dropped Trinity Term and renamed Hilary Term to Lent Term, and Oxford also dropped the original Trinity Term and renamed Easter Term as Trinity Term, thus establishing the three-term academic \"quarter\" year widely found in countries with a lineage to England or the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the United States, quarters typically comprise 10 weeks of class instruction, although they have historically ranged from eight to 13 weeks. Academic quarters first came into existence as such when William Rainey Harper organized the University of Chicago on behalf of John D. Rockefeller in 1891. Harper decided to keep the school in session year-round and divide it into four terms instead of the then-traditional two.\n\nOf the four traditional academic calendars (semester, quarter, trimester, and 4-1-4), the semester calendar is used the most widely, at over 60% of U.S. higher learning institutions, with fewer than 20% using the quarter system. This number has stayed fairly constant since 1930, when 75% of U.S. institutions surveyed indicated they used a semester plan, with 22% on the quarter system.\n\nDuring the 1960s, a number of U.S. statewide educational systems made a switch from a semester to quarter system, typically in an attempt to accommodate the Tidal Wave I enrollment boom, most prominently the University of California system. Since then, UC Berkeley switched back to semesters in 1983, the new UC Merced branch opened with the semester system, and some UC professional schools have switched back to semesters at various points. At various points since, committees have been established and official discussions have taken place within the UC system to discuss a systemwide switch back to the semester system.\n\nIn recent years, a number of higher education institutions have considered or already approved a switch to a semester system including the higher education systems of Ohio and Georgia, and individual public colleges. Rochester Institute of Technology has announced their intention to convert to semesters by Fall 2013, although the decision is highly controversial, overriding a student vote to remain with quarters.\n\nConcerns over the quarter system include faculty dislike of the brevity of the term, the loss of faculty research and collaboration time, the shortness of student internship periods, difficulties in recovering from illness-linked absence, and the heavy administrative workload.\n\nA quarter system calendar also may put schools at a disadvantage in competing for prospective students, who wish to keep in-step with friends, and offer more opportunities for students to \"disconnect from school.\"\n\nQuarter systems do allow students to enroll in a richer variety of courses and school-coordinated internships and may encourage students to take on double majors, minors, concentrations, and the like.\nA quarter system can maximize the use of college facilities in a time of enrollment growth, as it allows for four regular periods of academic instruction. Also, quarters allow for faculty to engage in terms with a relatively light course load of teaching and greater opportunities for short sabbaticals.\n\n"}
{"id": "14694142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14694142", "title": "Adventure Links", "text": "Adventure Links\n\nAdventure Links (AL) is an ACA-Accredited experiential education organization located in the Hemlock Overlook Regional Park of Clifton, VA near Washington, DC. With an emphasis on youth development, Adventure Links facilitates summer camps, high adventure outings and team building programs to schools, youth organizations, corporations and adult groups in the local metro area as well as the neighboring states of Maryland, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.\n\nAdventure Links was founded by Anna and Austin Birch in 1994. With their combined twenty years of experience educating youth, they set to develop an organization that incorporated personal growth and discovery with an appreciation for the outdoors. Their endeavor has since experienced growth itself, and directors \nTo support the mission of Adventure Links, additional staff members are evaluated and expected to reflect the same ideals as the founders. Often staff are educated with the philosophies of outdoor education and organizational behavior and have previous experience working with youth. Adventure Links has hired individuals from college programs such as Penn State University, UNH, Slippery Rock University, Prescott College, Brevard College, FSU, Unity College, Oberlin College and Johns Hopkins University. In the summer of 2009 Adventure Links announced a partnership with Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority and now runs all group programs at Hemlock Overlook Regional Park for NVRPA with Adventure Links running from their base of operations inside the state park at 13220 Yates Ford Road in Clifton, Virginia.\n\nAdventure Links has continued to expand its reach by fostering relationships with local businesses and organizations. Anna Birch has since become a member of the Loudoun Environmental Stewardship Alliance (LESA) and the Entrepreneurs Organization (EO), career advancements that illustrate the foundation of adventure within the company.\n\nAdventure Links offers both adventure camps and custom contract programs. During the summer months, they run day, overnight, and expedition camps for youth ages eight to seventeen and have approximately 2,500 campers for these trips. Adventure Links’ staff members lead week-long programs with comprehensive itineraries including rock climbing, kayaking, caving, team building and survival skills. Most camps are run in the Virginia area, while the expeditions travel more extensively, including North Carolina and New England programs.\n\nAdventure Links offers contract programs to corporations, adult group, schools, youth organizations, scout troops and church groups. Contract programs run year round, and are developed with the organizations’ goals as a guideline. Pre-program development looks to address the groups’ needs, preparing itineraries that range from strictly adventurous to improving communication and resolving conflicts. Adventure Links has worked with schools and youth organizations including at-risk youth and special needs children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10853931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10853931", "title": "Affinity space", "text": "Affinity space\n\nAn affinity space is a place where learning takes place. According to James Paul Gee, affinity spaces are locations where groups of people are drawn together because of a shared, strong interest or engagement in a common activity. Often but not always occurring online, affinity spaces encourage the sharing of knowledge or participation in a specific area, and informal learning is a common outcome. In his coining of the term, Gee takes the notion of participatory cultures and reframes it to the idea of \"space\". To Gee, what is happening in these online cultures is not merely a \"culture\" – and far different from a \"community\". In Gee's view, the word \"community\" conjures up images of belongingness and membership (p. 70). Instead, he has defined these worlds as \"spaces\" – a term that allows for the \"robust characterization of the ebbs and flows and differing levels of involvement and participation exhibited by members\" \n\nAccording to Gee (2004), \"An affinity space is a place or set of places where people affiliate with others based primarily on shared activities, interests, and goals, not shared race, class culture, ethnicity, or gender\" (p. 67).\n\nGee (2004) refers to affinity spaces and states, \"Learners 'apprentice' themselves to a group of people who share a certain set of practices (e.g. learning to cook in a family, learning to play video games with a guild, learning to assemble circuit boards in a workplace, learning to splice genes in a biology lab), pick up these practices through joint action with more advanced peers, and advance their abilities to engage and work with others in carrying out such practices\" (p. 70).\n\nWhat Gee (2004) tries to explain about Affinity Spaces is not an attempt to label a group of people. By affinity space he means a space where people can interact and share a lot with each other. the people who are interacting in a space might find themselves as sharing a community with some others in that space, while other people might view their interactions in the space differently. Gee (2004) adds, \" In any case, creating spaces within diverse sorts of people can interact is a leitmotif of the modern world\" (p. 71).\n\nGee described twelve hallmarks of what he terms \"nurturing\" affinity spaces:\n\nBecause members of an affinity space are interested in a common practice/belief/activity, they have common ground and motivation together. Gee says that because of this common interest, affinity spaces are able to bridge barriers of age, race, socio-economic status, and educational level, and thus allow each user to participate as he/she chooses, and both experts and novices are equally legitimate participants in the affinity space While not everyone in affinity spaces is an expert, they are not places where the \"blind are leading the blind.\" Many spaces have unwritten rules that while sharing information, you must share only what you know, provide sources to back up what you say, and in general, leave feedback and comments only in areas you know.\n\nOnline fan fiction sites are examples of affinity spaces. While the goal of the sites is usually to share and read other people's fan fiction creations, informal learning takes place as people have their work read and commented on by \"'beta readers.'\" It is up to the author then to decide what to do with this informal feedback; often, it is used to revise and edit the work, and at the same time, it may aid the author in pinpointing his or her own overall writing flaws.\n\nOther examples come from \"snark sites\" or \"rant communities.\" The goal of these sites is typically to make fun of particular problems, such as poorly written fan fiction, or digital image editing mistakes. As community members criticize other people's work, they reach new levels of sophistication in their evaluations, creating extended vocabularies of terms and categorizing mistakes. In Benjamin Bloom's taxonomy, evaluation is at the top of higher order thinking skills. Since either authors or their friends and fans are likely to come to the defense of works being criticized, rhetoric and logic are two areas where much active learning takes place.\n\n"}
{"id": "13848912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13848912", "title": "Bachelor of Integrated Studies", "text": "Bachelor of Integrated Studies\n\nBachelor of Integrated Studies (BIS) is an interdisciplinary bachelor's degree offered by several universities in the United States and Canada. It allows students to design a customized and specific course of study to best suit their educational and professional objectives. Generally, this degree is sponsored by two or more departments within the university. Schools which confer the degree include the University of North Texas, Northern Kentucky University, Utah Valley University, Miami University in Ohio, Pittsburg State University, George Mason University, Weber State University, Washburn University, Ferris State University, Jacksonville State University, Kennesaw State University, Oakland University, Nevada State College, Dixie State University, and the University of New Brunswick, Florida Gulf Coast University, among others. \n\nAccording to materials issued by Weber State University:The program best suits students who have developed a sense of their educational and life goals, and who are looking for ways to express those goals through a self-designed and self-directed university program. The BIS Program serves the needs of students who want to individualize or create a unique academic program; students who want to obtain a broad liberal education; and/or students who want to prepare for specific career goals and/or graduate school.\n"}
{"id": "30140849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30140849", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Sargodha", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Sargodha\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Sargodha (BISE Sargodha) is a government board for intermediate (higher secondary) and secondary education examination. It is located in Sargodha, Punjab. Pakistan\n\nBISE Sargodha was established in 1968 under the West Pakistan Board of Intermediate and secondary (Sargodha and Multan). Building was shifted to its present location in 1975.\n\nThe jurisdiction of Sargodha Board includes Sargodha Division which includes following districts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40239450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40239450", "title": "Cairo Higher Institute of Cinema", "text": "Cairo Higher Institute of Cinema\n\nCairo Higher Institute of Cinema (Arabic:المعهد العالي للسينما) was founded in 1957 as the first of its kind in the Middle East and Africa, and is affiliated to the ministry of culture. The institute is a member of the International Organisation For cinema colleges and institutes.Over years the institute participated in many international festivals and gained many awards and honour certificates. Beside the bachelor's degree, the institute grants master and PhD degrees in the art and science of cinema.\n\n"}
{"id": "6252669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6252669", "title": "Central composite design", "text": "Central composite design\n\nIn statistics, a central composite design is an experimental design, useful in response surface methodology, for building a second order (quadratic) model for the response variable without needing to use a complete three-level factorial experiment.\n\nAfter the designed experiment is performed, linear regression is used, sometimes iteratively, to obtain results. Coded variables are often used when constructing this design.\n\nThe design consists of three distinct sets of experimental runs:\n\n\nThe design matrix for a central composite design experiment involving \"k\" factors is derived from a matrix, d, containing the following three different parts corresponding to the three types of experimental runs:\n\nThen d is the vertical concatenation:\n\nThe design matrix X used in linear regression is the horizontal concatenation of a column of 1s (intercept), d, and all elementwise products of a pair of columns of d:\n\nwhere d(\"i\") represents the \"i\"th column in d. \n\nThere are many different methods to select a useful value of α. Let \"F\" be the number of points due to the factorial design and \"T\" = 2\"k\" + \"n\", the number of additional points, where \"n\" is the number of central points in the design. Common values are as follows (Myers, 1971):\n\nStatistical approaches such as RSM can be employed to maximize the production of a special substance by optimization of operational factors. In contrast to conventional methods, the interaction among process variables can be determined by statistical techniques. For instance, in a study, a central composite design was employed to investigate the effect of critical parameters of organosolv pretreatment of rice straw including temperature, time, and ethanol concentration. The residual solid, lignin recovery, and hydrogen yield were selected as the response variables.\n\nMyers, Raymond H. \"Response Surface Methodology\". Boston: Allyn and Bacon, Inc., 1971\n"}
{"id": "7332005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7332005", "title": "Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students", "text": "Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students\n\nThe Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS) is an Australian government register that lists all Australian education providers offering courses to people studying in Australia on student visas and the courses offered.\n\nAHIC (Austalian Harbour International College provide best platform in VET education for international student)\n\n"}
{"id": "7694809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7694809", "title": "Comprehensive sex education", "text": "Comprehensive sex education\n\nComprehensive sex education (CSE) is a sex education instruction method based on-curriculum that aims to give students the knowledge, attitudes, skills and values to make appropriate and healthy choices in their sexual lives. The intention is that this understanding will prevent students from contracting sexually transmitted infections in the future, including HIV and HPV. CSE is also designed with the intention of reducing teenage and unwanted pregnancies, as well as lowering rates of domestic and sexual violence, thus contributing to a healthier society, both physically and mentally.\n\nComprehensive sex education ultimately promotes sexual abstinence as the safest sexual choice for young people. However, CSE curriculums and teachers are still committed to teaching students about topics connected to future sexual activity, such as age of consent, safe sex, contraception such as: birth control, abortion, and use of condoms. This also includes discussions which promote safe behaviors, such as communicating with partners and seeking testing for sexually transmitted infections. Additionally, comprehensive sex education curricula may include discussions surrounding pregnancy outcomes such as parenting, adoption, and abortion. The most widely agreed benefit of using comprehensive sex education over abstinence-only sex education is that CSE acknowledges the student population will be sexually active in their future. By acknowledging this, CSE can encourage students to plan ahead to make the healthiest possible sexual decisions. This ideology of arming students to most successfully survive their future sexual experiences underlies the majority of topics within CSE, including condoms, contraception, and refusal skills.\n\nStudies have found that comprehensive sex education is more effective than receiving no instruction and/or those who receive abstinence-only instruction. Acknowledging that people may engage in premarital sex rather than ignoring it (which abstinence-only is often criticized for) allows educators to give the students the necessary information to safely navigate their future sexual lives. \n\nCSE advocates argue that promoting abstinence without accompanied information regarding safe sex practices is a disregard of reality, and is ultimately putting the student at risk. For example, programs funded under AEGP are reviewed for compliance with the 8 standards (listed below in \"Abstinence Education Grant Program (AGEP) Requirements), but are not screened for medical accuracy. Therefore, critics believe that students under these educational programs are put at a disadvantage because it prevents them from making informed choices about their sexual health. Additionally, under these AEGP programs, health educators have referred to those that engage in sex, especially females, as \"dirty\" and \"used.\" They have also used phrases such as \"stay like a new toothbrush, wrapped up and unused\" and \"chewed-up gum\" to teach abstinence. Under a CSE model, language would be more sensitive.\n\nThere is clear evidence that CSE has a positive impact on sexual and reproductive health (SRH), notably in contributing to reducing STIs, HIV and unintended pregnancy. Sexuality education does not hasten sexual activity but has a positive impact on safer sexual behaviours and can delay sexual debut. A 2014 review of school-based sexuality education programmes has demonstrated increased HIV knowledge, increased self-efficacy related to condom use and refusing sex, increased contraception and condom use, a reduced number of sexual partners and later initiation of first sexual intercourse. A Cochrane review of 41 randomized controlled trials in Europe, the United States, Nigeria and Mexico also confirmed that CSE prevents unintended adolescent pregnancies. CSE is very beneficial in regards to teen pregnancy because studies show that, teen pregnancy and childbearing have a significant negative impact on high school success and completion, as well as future job prospects. A study in Kenya, involving more than 6,000 students who had received sexuality education led to delayed sexual initiation, and increased condom use among those who were sexually active once these students reached secondary school compared to more than 6,000 students who did not receive sexuality education. CSE also reduces the frequency of sex and the number of partners which in turn also reduces the rates of sexually transmitted infections.\n\nUNAIDS and the African Union have recognized CSE’s impact on increasing condom use, voluntary HIV testing and reducing pregnancy among adolescent girls and have included comprehensive, age-appropriate sexuality education as one of the key recommendations to fast track the HIV response and end the AIDS epidemic among young women and girls in Africa.\n\nAs the field of sexuality education develops, there is increasing focus on addressing gender, power relations and human rights in order to improve the impact on SRH outcomes. Integrating content on gender and rights makes sexuality education even more effective. A review of 22 curriculum- based sexuality education programmes found that 80 per cent of programmes that addressed gender or power relations were associated with a significant decrease in pregnancy, childbearing or STIs. These programmes were five times as effective as those programmes that did not address gender or power. CSE empowers young people to reflect critically on their environment and behaviours, and promotes gender equality and equitable social norms, which are important contributing factors for improving health outcomes, including HIV infection rates. The impact of CSE also increases when delivered together with efforts to expand access to a full range of high- quality, youth-friendly services and commodities, particularly in relation to contraceptive choice.\n\nA global review of evidence in the education sector also found that teaching sexuality education builds confidence, a necessary skill for delaying the age that young people first engage in sexual intercourse, and for using contraception, including condoms. CSE has a demonstrated impact on improving knowledge, self-esteem, changing attitudes, gender and social norms, and building self-efficacy.\n\nWhile CSE implementation is on the rise in the United States, it remains difficult for state officials to regulate what is and is not taught in the classroom. This is due in large part to the undefinability of CSE; CSE has the potential to comprise such a wide range of sexual information, and over-all focus varies widely between curriculums. Educators have also accused CSE as fundamentally operating as a form of \"abstinence-plus,\" due to the reality that CSE often involves minimal body related information and excessive promotions of abstinence. \"So-called Comprehensive Sex Ed\" says Sharon Lamb, a professor at the University of Massachusetts Boston, \"has been made less comprehensive as curricula are revised to meet current federal, state, and local requirements.\"\n\nThe term \"comprehensive\" is also often misleading because some comprehensive programs do not show the holistic picture of human sexuality. LGBTQIA+ advocates have long been critical of the ways in which comprehensive sex education generally promotes marriage as the end goal for students. Even when curriculums claim to be inclusive of LGBT experiences, they often promote heteronormative lifestyles as \"normal.\" Inclusion of LGBT identities and health topics is necessary for LGBTQIA+ students to feel safe and seen in their sex ed classrooms. When these students do not have access to or an interest in marriage they are practically erased from the CSE narrative. \n\nA cross sectional study done in New York City analyzed the sexual behaviors of high school girls. Studies found that, \"high school girls who identified as LGBTQIA+ were more likely to report substance use such as: alcohol, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, meth, ecstasy and prescription drugs. They also had higher rates of contemplating and/or attempting suicide.\" Another study found that \"the LGBTQIA+ youth accesses health information online five times more than the heterosexual population, and these rates are even higher for LGBTQIA+ youth that identify as a person of color which stems from the fact that they lack health resources. \n\nIn fact, as of May 2018, only 12 states require discussion of sexual orientation and of these, only 9 states require that discussion of sexual orientation be inclusive. Additionally, several states have passed legislation that bans teachers from discussing gay and transgender issues, such as sexual health and HIV/AIDS awareness, in a positive light. Furthermore, three states require that teachers only portray LGBTQIA+ people in a negative light.\n\nIn a Canada, a federal report showed that LGBTQIA+ community has less access to health services and faces more comprehensive health challenges compared to the general population. As a result of lack of support for the LGBTQIA+ population, the Comprehensive Health Education Workers (CHEW) Project emerged in October 2014. Their goal is to educate the LGBTQIA+ community about topics such sexual and gender identity, sexually transmitted infections (STIs), healthy social relationships, and depression. They do this though workshops, arts‐based projects, and one‐on‐one meetings. \n\nMany people regard health education as a moral or religious issue, and therefore should be taught not in schools. \"Before the late 1800s, delivering sex education in the United States and Canada was primarily seen as a parent’s responsibility. Today, programs under the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS) begin comprehensive sex education in pre-kindergarten, which many people believe is not age appropriate. Many of those in favor of abstinence only education, usually fear any type of sexual education that encourages sexual behavior at a young age.\n\nAlthough CSE is seen as the polar opposite of abstinence only education, some critics believe that they are very similar. They both aim at preventing STIs and teen pregnancy. The only way in which they differ is through their primary goal. Abstinence only education aims at reducing premarital sex while comprehensive sex education acknowledges that premarital sex may happen and therefore seeks to reduce the unintended consequences of premarital sex through education. Studies in developing counties surrounding sex education have also shown that comprehensive sex education is not needed. General education, such as literacy skills, was seen to delay sexual initiation and reduced the likelihood of pregnancy. Therefore, some people believe general education is of more importance.\n\nAlthough there is no federal mandate that requires states to teach sexual education, there is federal funding available to assist with sexual education programs.\n\nHistorically, funding for abstinence education has always been favored over CSE. In 1996, during Bill Clinton's presidency, legislation was passed to promote abstinence in education programs. Under Title V Section 510 of the Social Security Act, the Abstinence Education Grant Program (AGEP), was passed. AEGP has always been renewed before its expiration date, and each time funds gradually increase from fifty million dollars per year to seventy-five and as high as $6.75 million per state grant in 2015. The way the funds are disbursed are based on the proportion of low-income children in each state. So far, thirty-six states have been given AEGP funds.\n\nPart of Section 510(b) of Title V of the Social Security Act, contains the \"A-H guidelines,\" which are the eight criteria that programs must abide by order to be eligible to receive federal funding. They are as follows:\n\nA. Has as its exclusive purpose teaching the social, psychological, and health gains to be realized by abstaining from sexual activity;\n\nB. Teaches abstinence from sexual activity outside marriage as the expected standard for all school-age children;\n\nC. Teaches that abstinence from sexual activity is the only certain way to avoid out-of-wedlock pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and other associated health problems;D. Teaches that a mutually faithful, monogamous relationship in the context of marriage is the expected standard of sexual activity;E. Teaches that sexual activity outside the context of marriage is likely to have harmful psychological and physical effects;\n\nF. Teaches that bearing children out of wedlock is likely to have harmful consequences for the child, the child's parents, and society;G. Teaches young people how to reject sexual advances and how alcohol and drug use increase vulnerability to sexual advances; andH. Teaches the importance of attaining self-sufficiency before engaging in sexual activity;\n\nIn addition to abiding by these 8 conditions, AGEP compliant programs cannot discuss contraception, STIs, or methods for protecting against STIs, except only when describing failure rates.\n\nMore recently legislation has pushed for funding that goes beyond abstinence only education. In 2010, President Obama introduced the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program (TPP), which provides a total of $114.5 million annually to sex education programs that are \"medically accurate and age-appropriate.\" TPP falls under a subsection of United States Department of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\") which is overseen by the Office of Adolescent Health. Funding for TPP is dispersed if \"they emulate specific evidence-based programs promulgated under TPP.\" \n\nIn January 2016, the California Healthy Youth Act, amended the California Comprehensive Sexual Health and HIV/AIDS Prevention Education Act to include minority groups and expand health education. Before it authorized schools to provide comprehensive sex education and required that all materials are made accessible to students with a variety of needs. It also focused solely on marital relationships. It now mandates that schools provide comprehensive sex education and states that \"materials cannot be biased and must be appropriate for students of all races, genders, sexual orientations, and ethnic and cultural backgrounds, as well as those with disabilities and English language learners.\" Additionally, education must now include \"instruction about forming healthy and respectful committed relationships,\" regardless if marital status. Furthermore, it is now required to have discussions about all FDA-approved contraceptive methods in preventing pregnancy, including the morning after pill.\n\nIn conclusion now requires that all sex education programs promulgated in the state should\n\n\nSome critics state that young people’s access to CSE is grounded in internationally recognized human rights, which require governments to guarantee the overall protection of health, well-being and dignity, as per the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, and specifically to guarantee the provision of unbiased, scientifically accurate sexuality education.\n\nThese rights are protected by internationally ratified treaties, and lack of access to sexual and reproductive health (SRH) education remains a barrier to complying with the obligations to ensure the rights to life, health, non-discrimination and information, a view that has been supported by the Statements of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) Committee, and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nThe commitment of individual states to realizing these rights has been reaffirmed by the international community, in particular the Commission on Population and Development (CPD), which – in its resolutions 2009/12 and 2012/13 – called on governments to provide young people with comprehensive education on human sexuality, SRH and gender equality.\n\nOther analysis show that comprehensive sex education is not an international right nor a human right because it not clearly stated in either a treaty nor custom. By international law, states are required to provide access to information and education about reproductive health, but this does not require a sex education curriculum. It may take different forms such as mandating that local school districts create a system for providing information to students, or mandating that health clinics and practitioners dispense information to patients.\n\nAs CSE gains momentum and interest at international, regional and national levels, governments are increasingly putting in place measures to scale-up their delivery of some form of life skills-based sexuality education, as well as seeking guidance on best practice, particularly regarding placement within the school curriculum. Sexuality education may be delivered as a stand-alone subject or integrated across relevant subjects within the school curricula. These options have direct implications for implementation, including teacher training, the ease of evaluating and revising curricula, the likelihood of curricula being delivered, and the methods through which it is delivered.\n\nWithin countries, choices about implementing integrated or stand-alone sexuality education are typically linked to national policies and overall organization of the curricula. The evidence base on the effectiveness of stand-alone vs. integrated sexuality education programming is still limited. However, there are discernible differences for policy-makers to consider when deciding the position of CSE within the curriculum.\n\nAs a stand-alone subject, sexuality education is set apart from the rest of the curriculum, whether on its own or within a broader stand-alone health and life skills curriculum. This makes it more vulnerable to potentially being sacrificed due to time and budget constraints, since school curricula are typically overcrowded.\n\nHowever, a stand-alone curriculum also presents opportunities for specialized teacher training pathways, and the use of non-formal teaching methodologies that aim to build learners’ critical thinking skills. The pedagogical approaches promoted through sexuality education – such as learner-centred methodologies, development of skills and values, group learning and peer engagement – are increasingly being recognized as transformative approaches that impact on learning and education more widely. As a standalone subject, it is also significantly easier to monitor, which is crucial in terms of evaluating the effectiveness of programming, and revising curricula where it is not delivering the desired learning outcomes.\n\nWhen sexuality education is integrated or infused, it is mainstreamed across a number of subject areas, such as biology, social studies, home economics or religious studies. While this model may reduce pressure on an overcrowded curriculum, it is difficult to monitor or evaluate, and may limit teaching methodologies to traditional approaches.\n\nApart from the different teaching methods, termiology also differs. Abortion, homosexuality, abstinence have connotations and definitions that vary state. For example, the word \"abstinence\" may refer to disengaging from all forms of sexual activities until marriage or may refer to only disengaging from sexual intercourse. Furthermore, the degree of sexual activity that \"abstinence\" connotates is often unclear, because sexual behavior that is not sexual intercourse may or may not be included in its definition. As a result, students are left confused about what activities are risky and teachers do not know what they can and cannot teach.\n\nThe term \"comprehensive,\" is also falls on spectrum, therefore can be considered an umbrella term. CSE means something radical for some institutions while it can mean something moderate and even conservative for others.\n\nAccording to the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS), the guidelines for comprehensive sexuality education are as follows:\n\nJust as teaching methods and curricula vary by state, excusal from sex education also varies by state. States may have with an opt out or opt in produce. In some states, students can opt out of receiving sexual education without specifying a particular reason. In other states, students can only opt out for religious or moral reasons. In an opt-in provision, parents must actively agree to allow their children to receive sex education prior to the start of the sexual education.\n\nSince 1997, the amount of sexual content on TV has nearly doubled in the United States. Additionally, a study done in 2008 showed that nearly 40% of popular music lyrics contained sexual references which were often sexually degrading. These lyrics were also often accompanied with mentions of other risk behaviors, such as substance use and violence. \n\nTeens (ages 13-15) in the United States, use entertainment media as their top source for education in regards to sexuality and sexual health. Additionally, a study found that 15-19 year olds in the U.S use media far more than parents or schools to obtain information about birth control. Some studies have found that, \"very few teen television shows mention any of the responsibilities or risks (e.g., using contraception, pregnancy, STIs) associated with sex and almost none of the shows with sexual content include precaution, prevention, or negative outcomes as the primary theme.\" Television shows 16 and Pregnant and its spin-off, Teen Mom, which first aired on MTV in 2009 received major disapproval from some parents as they thought the shows glamorized teen pregnancy and motherhood. However, 16 and Pregnant actually led to a 4.3 percent reduction in teen pregnancy, mostly as a result of increased contraceptive use. In contrast, other data shows that exposure to high levels of sexual content on the television causes adolescents to have twice the risk of becoming pregnant in the following 3 years, compared to those who were exposed to low levels.\n\nThe film Mean Girls, directed by Mark Waters shed light on the state sex education in some parts of the United States. In the film the health instructor states, \"At your age, you're going to have a lot of urges. You're going to want to take off your clothes and touch each other. But if you do touch each other, you will get chlamydia and die.\" This line is meant to be satirical, but it illustrates common flaws within sex education in the U.S. It depicts simplistic descriptions of sexual activity and implementation of fear without any legitimate basis.\n\nComprehensive sex education is the main topic in the documentary \"The Education of Shelby Knox\" released in 2005 about Lubbock, Texas, which has one of the highest teen pregnancy and STD rates in the nation. The \"solution\" to which is a strict abstinence-only sex education curriculum in the public schools and a conservative preacher who urges kids to pledge abstinence until marriage.\n\nIn 2013, \"How to Lose Your Virginity\" was released, a documentary that questioned the effectiveness of the abstinence-only sex education movement and observed how sexuality continues to define a young woman's morality and self-worth. The meaning and necessity of virginity as a social construct is also examined through narration and interviews with notable sexuality experts, such as former Surgeon General Dr. Joycelyn Elders, \"Scarleteen\" creator and editor Heather Corinna, historian Hanne Blank, author Jessica Valenti, and comprehensive sex education advocate Shelby Knox.\n\nNot only have films portrayed sex education, but so has social media. Platforms such as YouTube, Facebook, Vine, and others are used as a tool to uplift the narratives of marginalized communities such as persons of color and LGBTQIA+ persons in hopes to \"strengthen sexual health equity for all.\"\n\nAs a result of the mass amount of sex content in media, media literacy education (MLE) has emerged. It was created to address the influence of unhealthy media messages on risky health decisions, such as intention to use substances, body image issues, and eating disorders. A study analyzed the effectiveness of a teacher-led MLE program, called Media Aware Sexual Health (MASH), which provides students with accurate health information and teaches them how to apply that information to critical analysis of media messages. This comprehensive sex education resulted in increased intentions to talk to a parent, partner and medical professional prior to sexual activity, and intentions for condom use.\n\nDue to knowledge gaps in most sex education curricula for teens, free online resources like Sex, Etc. and teensource.org have been created to promote comprehensive, inclusive sex education for teenagers.\n\n"}
{"id": "46754151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46754151", "title": "Credentialism and educational inflation", "text": "Credentialism and educational inflation\n\nCredentialism and educational inflation are any of a number of related processes involving increased demands for formal educational qualifications, and the devaluation of these qualifications. In Western society, there have been increasing requirements for formal qualifications or certification for jobs, a process called credentialism that is not easily differentiated from professionalization. This process has, in turn, led to credential inflation (also known as credential creep, academic inflation or degree inflation), the process of inflation of the minimum credentials required for a given job and the simultaneous devaluation of the value of diplomas and degrees. These trends are also associated with grade inflation, a tendency to award progressively higher academic grades for work that would have received lower grades in the past. In countries in the Middle East, where the rulers have traditionally used public sector jobs as a form of political appeasement for the middle classes, this has resulted in many youth seeking university degrees that are only suited for work in public sector roles, making them unqualified for private sector roles.\n\nThere are some occupations which used to require a high school diploma, such as construction supervisors, loans officers, insurance clerks and executive assistants, that are increasingly requiring a bachelor's degree. Some jobs that formerly required candidates to have a bachelor's degree, such as becoming a Director in the federal government, tutoring students, or being a history tour guide in a historic site, now require a master's degree. As well, some jobs that used to require a master's degree, such as junior scientific researcher positions and sessional lecturer jobs, now require a Ph.D. Finally, some jobs that formerly required only a Ph.D, such as university professor positions, are increasingly requiring one or more postdoctoral fellowship appointments. Furthermore, the increasingly global nature of competitions for high-level positions is another cause of credential creep.\n\nCredentialism is a reliance on formal qualifications or certifications to determine whether someone is permitted to undertake a task, speak as an expert or work in a certain field. It has also been defined as \"excessive reliance on credentials, especially academic degrees, in determining hiring or promotion policies.\". Credentialism has also been defined as occurring where the credentials for a job or a position are upgraded, even though there is no skill change that makes this increase necessary.\n\nProfessionalization is the social process by which any trade or occupation is transformed into a true \"profession of the highest integrity and competence.\" This process tends to involve establishing acceptable qualifications, a professional body or association to oversee the conduct of members of the profession and some degree of demarcation of the qualified from unqualified amateurs. This creates \"a hierarchical divide between the knowledge-authorities in the professions and a deferential citizenry.\" This demarcation is often termed \"occupational closure\", as it means that the profession then becomes closed to entry from outsiders, amateurs and the unqualified: a stratified occupation \"defined by professional demarcation and grade.\" The origin of this process is said to have been with guilds during the Middle Ages, when they fought for exclusive rights to practice their trades as journeymen, and to engage unpaid apprentices.\n\nOver the past sixty years in the Western world, and more recently in developing countries, there has been significant growth in the number of people who have educational credentials, an increase in the number of credentialing bodies, and a growth in the use of educational credentials as a way of selecting people for employment.\n\nPsychologist Tony Buon has stated that in demanding credentials for certain occupations, employers' reasons fall into two rather crude categories:\n\nBuon cautions that this is an uneasy dichotomy and that it is probable that in every case, to some extent, the screening and the investment effect would co-exist.\n\nAn employer may require a diploma, professional license or academic degree for a job which can be done by applying skills acquired through experience, informal study, or less extensive study. One example is the requirement by some investment banks that new hires have an M.Sc. in Economics. Jobs that, in the past, required a high school diploma (such as entry level policy analysts in the government) increasingly require a B.A. degree or even an M.A. during the screening process.\n\nCredentialism can be lessened if certification accurately reflects actual skill competencies and expectations of those skill competencies. As Tony Buon & Bob Compton (1990) state, given that the entire recruitment process is aimed at predicting future success, it does not make a great deal of sense to rely on only one indicator (i.e. educational credentials). The results of at least one study support this view, and suggest that employers see experience as a better indication of potential work performance than educational credentials.\n\nThe term \"credentialism\" also refers to an over-emphasis on certificates and degrees as a way of determining social status. Credentialism can lead to credential inflation. Sociologist Randall Collins' 1979 book \"The Credential Society\" \"examine[s] the connection between credentialism and stratification.\" \n\nCredential creep is the process of inflation of the minimum job requirement. This may happen when a professional organization increases the entry to practice requirements for the profession, or it may be the result of \"one-upmanship\" among candidates for a job, creating a kind of de facto increase in required credentials for a position.\n\nIn the early 20th century, an individual with a high school diploma could essentially work as a banking professional and rise to the ranks of a branch manager or to even branch president. However, the quest for further education, the industrial revolution and the subsequent surge in national population in the US in the mid-20th century resulted in a professional transposition. In the process, the bachelor’s degree supplanted the standing of high-school training, and the credentials required for certain positions increased. This occurrence continued up to the end of the last century; as a furtherance of this trend based on the same conditions, the early years of the 21st century saw the master’s degree displacing the bachelor's degree in some job-entry positions.\n\nFor instance, in the late 1980s, a bachelor's degree was the standard ticket to enter the profession of physical therapy. By the 1990s, a master's degree was expected. Today, a doctorate is becoming the norm. This change was due to the explosion of bachelor's degrees spurred by the rise in knowledge exchange—hinged on population growth and technological innovation. With the advent of globalization, recent years see the Ph.D. taking over the role of the master's degree—especially professional degrees. Universities are currently reporting significant renewed interest in their graduate programs, with a particular focus on Ph.D. study, as candidates consider retraining or adding new skills to their resumes that will benefit them if the economic situation improves. What once was considered to be specific training for the academic profession and open to a minor assemblage of individuals absorbed in research has become a benchmark for some job-entry positions. This change is forcing individuals to push for more advanced degrees to be considered for some positions.\n\nThe creeping-credentials phenomenon has resulted in the growth in the higher-education industry, with institutions expanding their offerings beyond the traditional graduate degrees. Offerings now include increasingly narrow, job-specific training courses. Degrees aimed at working professionals often come with very high tuition pricing.\n\nAnother consequence of credential creep is the increased time spent in school, with the resulting deferment of career establishment.\n\n\"Academic inflation\", or \"education inflation,\" is the process of inflation of the minimum job requirement, and the simultaneous growing number of higher educated persons. This results in an excess of college-educated individuals with lower degrees (associate and bachelor's degrees), and even higher qualifications (master's or doctorate degrees), competing for too few jobs that require these degrees, and devaluation of educational degrees. This condition causes an intensified race for higher qualification and education in a society where a bachelor's degree today is no longer sufficient to gain employment in the same jobs that may have only required a two- or four-year degree in former years. Inflation has occurred in the minimum degree requirements for jobs, to the level of master's degrees, Ph.D.s, and post-doctoral, even where advanced degree knowledge is not absolutely necessary to perform the required job.\n\nAcademic inflation occurs when university graduates take up work that was not formerly done by graduates of a certain level, and higher-degree holders continue to migrate to this particular occupation until it eventually becomes a field known as a \"graduate profession\" and the minimum job requirements have been inflated academically for low-level job tasks. It is an effect of overeducation.\n\nThe institutionalizing of professional education has resulted in fewer and fewer opportunities for young people to work their way up from artisan to professional status (e.g., as an engineer) by \"learning on the job\". Academic inflation leads employers to put more and more faith into certificates and diplomas awarded on the basis of other people's assessments.\n\nThe term \"academic inflation\" was popularized by Sir Ken Robinson in his TED Talk entitled \"Schools Kill Creativity\".\n\nAcademic inflation is similar to inflation of paper currencies where too much currency chases too few commodities.\n\nCredential inflation refers to the devaluation of educational or academic credentials over time and a corresponding decrease in the expected advantage given a degree holder in the job market. Credential inflation is thus similar to price inflation, and describes the declining value of earned certificates and degrees. Credential inflation has been recognized as an enduring trend over the past century in Western higher education, and is also known to have occurred in ancient China and Japan, and at Spanish universities of the 17th century.\nA good example of credential inflation is the decline in the value of the US high school diploma since the beginning of the 20th century, when it was held by less than 10 percent of the population. At the time, high school diplomas attested to middle-class respectability, and for many years even provided access to managerial level jobs. More recently, however, the high school diploma barely qualifies the graduate for manual or menial service work.\n\nOne indicator of credential inflation is the relative decline in the wage differential between those with college degrees and those with only high school diplomas. An additional indicator is the gap between the credentials requested by employers in job postings and the qualifications of those already in those occupations. A 2014 study in the United States found, for example, that 65% of job postings for executive secretaries and executive assistants now call for a bachelor's degree, but only 19% of those currently employed in these roles have a degree. Jobs that were open to high school graduates decades ago now routinely require higher education as well—without an appreciable change in required skills. In some cases, such as IT help desk roles, a study found there was little difference in advertised skill requirements between jobs requiring a college and those that do not.\n\nA predictable result of credential inflation is a glut of the credential markets and overschooling. It is estimated that 30 percent of the college graduates in 2005 will be forced into jobs that do not require a degree. M.B.A. or M.A. holders may end up working as store clerks or servers.\n\nThe causes of credential inflation are controversial, but it is generally thought to be the result of a strong push for education in the 1980s and 90's along with increased technological access to higher education. This has resulted in entry level jobs requesting a bachelor's (or higher) degree when they were once open to high school graduates. Potential sources of credential inflation include: degree requirements by employers, self-interest of individuals and families, increased standards of living which allow for additional years of education, high unemployment which spurs the need for competitive advantages in the job market, cultural pushes for being educated, and the availability of taxpayer-funded and guaranteed federal student loans which allow many more individuals to obtain degrees and/or credentials than could otherwise afford to do so.\n\nIn particular, the internal dynamics of credential inflation threaten higher education initiatives around the world because credential inflation appears to operate independently of market demand for credentials. Credential markets themselves, as described by signalling theory, use earned degrees as a measure of ability in screening potential employees. This is because employers take it for granted that degrees are positively correlated with greater ability. (See Michael Spence's job-market signalling model.)\n\nAlthough credential inflation has been acknowledged for years by institutions of higher education, a clear solution or consensus on how to address the problem has not yet been found or agreed upon. Academic institutions are generally expected to provide education to qualified applicants who desire admission, and many economists and politicians find the idea of government regulations on private hiring practices to be a large overstep in combating the issue.\n\nThe push for more Americans to get a higher education rests on the idea that those without a college degree are less employable. Many critics of higher education, in turn, complain that a surplus of college graduates has produced an \"employer's market\". A wide range of occupations have seen their academic requirements raised to the next level, even if only to reduce the number of applications that personnel departments must consider.\n\nCredential inflation is a controversial topic. There is very little consensus on how, or if, this type of inflation impacts higher education, the job market, and salaries. Some common concerns discussed in this topic are:\n\n\nGrade inflation is the tendency to award progressively higher academic grades for work that would have received lower grades in the past. It is frequently discussed in relation to education in the United States, and to GCSEs and A levels in England and Wales. It is also an issue in Canada and many other nations, especially Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\nPrinceton University took a rare stand against grade inflation in 2004, and publicly announced a policy designed to curb it. The policy states that \"A\" grades should account for less than 35% of the grades for undergraduate courses, and less than 55% of grades for junior and senior independent work. The standard by which the grading record of each department or program is evaluated is the percentage of \"A\" grades given over the previous three years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhttp://www.asanet.org/images/members/docs/pdf/special/soe/soe_extra_2001_Article_2_Brown.pdf\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41439050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41439050", "title": "Curriculum development", "text": "Curriculum development\n\nCurriculum development is a process of improving the curriculum. Various approaches have been used in developing curricula. Commonly used approaches consist of analysis (i.e. need analysis, task analysis), design (i.e. objective design), selecting (i.e. choosing appropriate learning/teaching methods and appropriate assessment method) formation ( i.e. formation of the curriculum implementation committee / curriculum evaluation committee) and review ( i.e. curriculum review committee).\n\n\nThere is no single curriculum that is 'best' for all situations. Not only does geographic location depends on the type of curriculum taught, but the demographics of the population matters as well. Some curriculums are based heavy of science and technology while another is focused mainly on the arts. However, a comparison of different curricula shows certain approaches to be generally more effective than others. Comprehensive programmes addressing health, nutrition and development have proven to be the most effective in early childhood, especially in programmes directed at very young and vulnerable children. This requires a genuine commitment from agencies and individuals to work together, to plan projects collaboratively, and to involve parents and communities.\n\nA humanistic curriculum is a curriculum based on intercultural education that allows for the plurality of society while striving to ensure a balance between pluralism and universal values. In terms of policy, this view sees curriculum frameworks as tools to bridge broad educational goals and the processes to reach them. A humanistic curriculum development perspective holds that for curriculum frameworks to be legitimate, the process of policy dialogue to define educational goals must be participatory and inclusive. Central to this view is that curriculum policy and content must both be guided by the principles of social and economic justice, equality and environmental responsibility that constitute the pillars of sustainable development.\n"}
{"id": "7630271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7630271", "title": "Dalton International", "text": "Dalton International\n\nDalton International is a worldwide network of Dalton Plan schools and Dalton specialists. The alumni of Dalton school are called Daltonians. \"The Daltonian\" is also the official newspaper name of Dalton International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14099354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14099354", "title": "Deschooling Society", "text": "Deschooling Society\n\nDeschooling Society (1971) is a critical discourse on education as practised in modern economies. It is a book that brought Ivan Illich to public attention. Full of detail on programs and concerns, the book gives examples of the ineffectual nature of institutionalized education. Illich posited self-directed education, supported by intentional social relations in fluid informal arrangements:\n\nThe last sentence makes clear what the title suggests—that the institutionalization of education is considered to institutionalize society and conversely that ideas for de-institutionalizing education may be a starting point for a de-institutionalized society.\n\nThe book is more than a critique—it contains suggestions for changes to learning in society and individual lifetimes. Particularly striking is his call (in 1971) for the use of advanced technology to support \"learning webs\".\n\nIllich argued that the use of technology to create decentralized webs could support the goal of creating a good educational system:\n\nDeveloping this idea Illich proposes four \"Learning Networks\".\n\n"}
{"id": "353942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353942", "title": "Desegregation busing", "text": "Desegregation busing\n\nDesegregation busing in the United States (also known as forced busing or simply busing) is the practice of assigning and transporting students to schools so as to redress prior racial segregation of schools, or to overcome the effects of residential segregation on local school demographics.\n\nIn 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court landmark decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" declared racial segregation in public schools unconstitutional. The process of integrating public schools met fierce resistance in the South where segregation laws took hold after the American Civil War and the Reconstruction Era of the United States. In Northern and Western states, \"de facto\" segregation was the customary practice. Due to patterns of residential segregation, a principal tool for racial integration was the use of busing. In the 1971 \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" ruling, the Supreme Court ruled that the federal courts had the discretion to include busing as a desegregation tool to achieve racial balance. While the \"Swann\" decision addressed \"de jure\" segregation in the South, it failed to address \"de facto\" segregation which persisted elsewhere in the country. In Georgia, Governor Jimmy Carter saw that \"Swann\" was \"clearly a one-sided decision; the Court is still talking about the South, the North is still going free\". In the 1974 \"Milliken v. Bradley\" decision, the U.S. Supreme Court placed an important limitation on \"Swann\" when they ruled that students could be bused across district lines only when evidence of \"de jure\" segregation across multiple school districts existed.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, under federal court supervision, many school districts implemented mandatory busing plans within their district. A few of these plans are still in use today. An example of stiff resistance to desegregation busing was the Restore Our Alienated Rights movement in Boston.\n\nSince the 1980s, desegregation busing has been in decline. Even though school districts provided zero-fare bus transportation to and from students' assigned schools, those schools were in some cases many miles away from students' homes, which often presented problems to them and their families. In addition, many families were angry about having to send their children miles to another school in an unfamiliar neighborhood when there was an available school a short distance away. The movement of large numbers of white families to suburbs of large cities, so-called white flight, reduced the effectiveness of the policy. Many whites who stayed moved their children into private or parochial schools; these effects combined to make many urban school districts predominantly nonwhite, reducing any effectiveness mandatory busing may have had. In addition, school districts started using magnet schools, new school construction, and more detailed computer-generated information to refine their school assignment plans.\n\nPrior to World War  II, most public schools in the country were \"de jure\" or \"de facto\" segregated. All Southern states had Jim Crow laws mandating racial segregation of schools. Northern states and some border states were primarily white (as of 1940, populations of Detroit and Chicago were more than 90% white) and, furthermore, existing black populations were concentrated in urban ghettos partly as the result of restrictive covenants.\n\nThe origins of desegregation busing can be traced back to two major developments that occurred in the United States during the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nStarting in 1940, the Second Great Migration brought five million blacks from the agrarian South to the urban and manufacturing centers in Northern and Western cities to fill in the labor shortages during the industrial buildup of World War II and for better opportunities during the post-war economic boom. \"Shelley v. Kraemer\" (1948) allowed them to settle in formerly white neighborhoods, contributing to racial tension. Meanwhile, the post-war housing boom and the rise of suburbia allowed whites to migrate into the suburbs. By 1960, all major Northern and Western cities had sizable black populations (e.g., 23% in Chicago, 29% in Detroit, and 32% in Los Angeles). Blacks tended to be concentrated in inner cities, whereas newer suburbs of most cities were almost exclusively white.\n\nAt the same time, the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Brown vs Board of Education\" (1954) overturned racial segregation laws for public schools that had been in place in a number of states since the late 19th century, and ruled that separate but equal schools were \"inherently unequal\". Although the \"Brown\" decision affirmed principles of equality and justice, it did not specify how its ruling would promote equality in education. Thurgood Marshall and the NAACP wanted a speedy process for desegregating the school districts, but the Court waited until the following year to make its recommendations. Reasons for delaying had to do with the changes in the Court and with Chief Justice Earl Warren steering a careful course given the expected opposition from Southern states. In May 1955, the Court ruled in \"Brown  II\" that the school districts desegregate \"with all deliberate speed\". Public school administrators had to begin the process of desegregating the schools through the development of policies that would promote racial mixing. A backlash of resistance and violence ensued. Even members of Congress refused to abide by the decision. In 1956 over a hundred congressmen signed the Southern Manifesto, promising to use all legal means to undermine and reverse the Court's ruling.\n\nThe momentum continued with two additional Supreme Court decisions aimed at implementation. In 1968, the Warren Court in \"Green v. County School Board of New Kent County\", rejected a freedom of choice plan. The Court ordered the county to desegregate immediately and eliminate racial discrimination \"root and branch\". Then in 1971, the Burger Court in \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" ruled that the school district must achieve racial balance even if it meant redrawing school boundaries and the use of busing as a legal tool. The impact of \"Green\" and \"Swann\" served to end all remnants of \"de jure\" segregation in the South. However, the consequence of the \"Swann\" decision ushered in new forms of resistance in subsequent decades. The decision failed to address \"de facto\" segregation.\n\nConsequently, despite being found \"inherently unequal\" in \"Brown v. Board of Education\", by the late 1960s public schools remained \"de facto\" segregated in many cities because of demographic patterns, school district lines being intentionally drawn to segregate the schools racially, and, in some cases, due to conscious efforts to send black children to inferior schools. Thus, for example, by 1969, more than nine of every ten black students in Nashville still attended all-black schools. Evidence of such de facto segregation motivated early proponents of plans to engage in conscious \"integration\" of public schools, by busing schoolchildren to schools other than their neighborhood schools, with an objective to equalize racial imbalances. Proponents of such plans argued that with the schools integrated, minority students would have equal access to equipment, facilities, and resources that the cities' white students had, thus giving all students in the city equal educational opportunities.\n\nA federal court found that in Boston, schools were constructed and school district lines drawn intentionally to segregate the schools racially. In the early 1970s, a series of court decisions found that the racially imbalanced schools trampled the rights of minority students. As a remedy, courts ordered the racial integration of school districts within individual cities, sometimes requiring the racial composition of each individual school in the district to reflect the composition of the district as a whole. This was generally achieved by transporting children by school bus to a school in a different area of the district.\n\nThe judge who instituted the Detroit busing plan said that busing \"is a considerably safer, more reliable, healthful and efficient means of getting children to school than either carpools or walking, and this is especially true for younger children\". He, therefore, included kindergarten children in the busing scheme: \"Transportation of kindergarten children for upwards of forty-five minutes, one-way, does not appear unreasonable, harmful, or unsafe in any way.\" The resultant Supreme Court case, \"Milliken v. Bradley\", imposed limits on busing. The key issue was whether a district court could order a metropolitan-wide desegregation plan between urban Detroit and suburban school districts. Busing would play a key role in the implementation phase. The Court essentially declared that federal courts did not have the authority to order inter-district desegregation unless it could be proven that suburban school districts intentionally mandated segregation policies. The implication of the decision was that suburban school districts in the North were not affected by the principles established by \"Brown\". \"De facto\" segregation was allowed to persist in the North. The courts could order desegregation where segregation patterns existed, but only within municipalities, not suburban areas. The lasting consequence of the \"Milliken\" decision is that it opened the door for whites to flee to the suburbs and not be concerned about compliance with mandatory integration policies.\n\nWith waning public support, the courts began relaxing judicial supervision of school districts during the 1990s and 2000s, calling for voluntary efforts to achieve racial balance. In the early 1990s, the Rehnquist Court ruled in three cases coming from Oklahoma City, Kansas City, and DeKalb County in Georgia that federal judges could ease their supervision of school districts \"once legally enforced segregation had been eliminated to the extent practicable\". With these decisions, the Rehnquist Court opened the door for school districts throughout the country to get away from under judicial supervision once they had achieved unitary status. Unitary Status meant that a school district had successfully eliminated segregation in dual school systems and thus was no longer bound to court-ordered desegregation policies.\n\nThen in 2002, the Supreme Court upheld a lower court decision in \"Belk v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" which declared that the school system had achieved desegregation status and that the method to achieve integration, like busing, was unnecessary. The refusal of the Court to hear the challenges to the lower court decision effectively overturned the earlier 1971 \"Swann\" ruling.\n\nFinally, in 2007, the Roberts Court produced a contentious 5–4 ruling in \"Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1\" (PICS). The decision prohibited the use of racial classifications in student assignment plans to maintain racial balance. Whereas the Brown case ruled that racial segregation violated the Constitution, now the use of racial classifications violated the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. However, Justice Kennedy's concurrence did hold that “avoiding racial isolation” and addressing “the problem of de facto resegregation in schooling” remain compelling state interests which can be addressed by narrowly tailored programs. Writing for the minority, Justice Breyer said the \"ruling contradicted previous decisions upholding race-conscious pupil assignments and would hamper local school boards' efforts to prevent 'resegregation' in individual schools\".\n\nThe struggle to desegregate the schools received impetus from the Civil Rights Movement, whose goal was to dismantle legal segregation in all public places. The movement's efforts culminated in Congress passing the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Signed by President Lyndon Johnson, the two laws signaled the end of discriminatory voting practices and segregation of public accommodations. The importance of these two laws was the injection of both the legislative and executive branches joining the judiciary to promote racial integration. In addition, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 authorized the federal government to cut off funding if Southern school districts did not comply and also to bring lawsuits against school officials who resisted.\n\nOne argument against the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that opponents of the proposed legislation found particularly compelling was that the bill would require forced busing to achieve certain racial quotas in schools. Proponents of the bill, such as Emanuel Celler and Jacob Javits, said that the bill would not authorize such measures. Leading sponsor Sen. Hubert Humphrey wrote two amendments specifically designed to outlaw busing. Humphrey said \"if the bill were to compel it, it would be a violation [of the Constitution], because it would be handling the matter on the basis of race and we would be transporting children because of race\". While Javits said any government official who sought to use the bill for busing purposes \"would be making a fool of himself\", two years later the Department of Health, Education and Welfare said that Southern school districts would be required to meet mathematical ratios of students by busing.\n\nAnother catalyst for the development of busing was an influential sociological report on educational equality commissioned by the U.S. government in the 1960s. It was one of the largest studies in history, with more than 150,000 students in the sample. The result was a massive report of over 700 pages. That 1966 report—titled \"Equality of Educational Opportunity\" (or often simply called the \"Coleman Report\" after its author James Coleman)—contained many controversial findings. One conclusion from the study was that, while black schools in the South were not significantly underfunded as compared to white schools, and while per-pupil funding did not contribute significantly to differences in educational outcomes, socially disadvantaged black children still benefited significantly from learning in mixed-race classrooms. Thus, it was argued that busing (as opposed to simply increasing funding to segregated schools) was necessary for achieving racial equality.\n\nThe impact of the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" ruling was limited because whites and blacks tended to live in all-white or all-black communities. Initial integration in the South tended to be symbolic: for example, the integration of Clinton High School, the first public school in Tennessee to be integrated, amounted to the admission of twelve black students to a formerly all-white school.\n\n\"Forced busing\" was a term used by many to describe the mandates that generally came from the courts. Court-ordered busing to achieve school desegregation was used mainly in large, ethnically segregated school systems, including Boston, Massachusetts; Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio; Kansas City, Missouri; Pasadena and San Francisco, California; Richmond, Virginia; Detroit, Michigan; and Wilmington, Delaware. From 1972 to 1980, despite busing, the percentage of blacks attending mostly-black schools barely changed, moving from 63.6 percent to 63.3 percent.\n\nIn some southern states in the 1960s and 1970s, parents opposed to busing created new private schools. The schools, called segregation academies, were sometimes organized with the support of the local White Citizen's Council.\n\nFor the 1975–76 school year, the Louisville, Kentucky school district, which was not integrated due to whites largely moving to the suburbs, was forced to start a busing program. The first day, 1,000 protestors rallied against the busing, and a few days into the process, 8,000 to 10,000 whites from Jefferson County, Kentucky, many teenagers, rallied at the district's high schools and fought with police trying to break up the crowds. Police cars were vandalized, 200 were arrested, and people were hurt in the melee, but despite further rallies being banned the next day by Louisville's mayor, demonstrators showed up to the schools the following day. Kentucky Governor Julian Carroll sent 1,800 members of the Kentucky National Guard and stationed them on every bus. On September 26, 1975, 400 protestors held a rally at Southern High School, which was broken up by police tear gas, followed by a rally of 8,000 the next day, who marched led by a woman in a wheelchair to prevent police reprisals while cameras were running. Despite the protests, Louisville's busing program continued.\n\nCivil rights advocates see the 2007 ruling of the Roberts court as the inevitable consequence of gradual court decisions dating back to the early 1970s to ease judicial supervision and limit important tools to achieve integrated schools. Even those school districts that voluntarily created race-conscious programs are under pressure to abandon these efforts as the white parents are refusing to participate in any pupil assignment programs. In some cases, white parents filed reverse discrimination lawsuits in court. Wherever the courts have backed away from mandating school districts to implement desegregation plans, resegregation of Blacks and Latinos has increased dramatically. In 1988, 44 percent of southern black students were attending majority-white schools. In 2005, 27 percent of black students were attending majority white schools. By restricting the tools by which schools can address school segregation, many fear that the PICS decision will continue to accelerate this trend. The ruling reflects the culmination of the conservatives' central message on education that \"race should be ignored, inequalities should be blamed on individuals and schools, and existing civil rights remedies should be dismantled\". In 2001 Congress passed the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) which was promptly signed by President George W. Bush. The law put a premium on student testing, not integration, to measure academic progress. Financial penalties were incurred on schools if students did not demonstrate adequate academic performance. While initially supported by Democrats, critics say, the law has failed to adequately address the achievement gap between whites and minorities and that there are problems with implementation and inflexible provisions.\n\nIn a Gallup poll taken in the early 1970s, very low percentages of whites (4 percent) and blacks (9 percent) supported busing outside of local neighborhoods. A 1978 study by the RAND Corporation set out to find why whites were opposed to busing and concluded that it was not because they held racist attitudes, but because they believed it destroyed neighborhood schools and camaraderie and increased discipline problems. It is said that busing eroded the community pride and support that neighborhoods had for their local schools. After busing, 60 percent of Boston parents, both black and white, reported more discipline problems in schools. In the 1968, 1972, and 1976 presidential elections, candidates opposed to busing were elected each time, and Congress voted repeatedly to end court-mandated busing.\n\nCritics point out that children in the Northeast were often bused from integrated schools to less integrated schools. The percentage of Northeastern black children who attended a predominantly black school increased from 67 percent in 1968 to 80 percent in 1980 (a higher percentage than in 1954).\n\nBusing is claimed to have accelerated a trend of middle-class relocation to the suburbs of metropolitan areas. Many opponents of busing claimed the existence of \"white flight\" based on the court decisions to integrate schools. Such stresses led white middle-class families in many communities to desert the public schools and create a network of private schools.\n\nUltimately, many black leaders, from Wisconsin State Rep. Annette Polly Williams, a Milwaukee Democrat, to Cleveland Mayor Michael R. White, have come to the conclusion that it is patronizing to think that minority students need to sit next to a white student to learn, and as such led efforts to end busing.\n\nIn 1978, a proponent of busing, Nancy St. John, studied 100 cases of urban busing from the North and did not find what she had been looking for; she found no cases in which significant black academic improvement occurred, but many cases where race relations suffered due to busing, as those in forced-integrated schools had worse relations with those of the opposite race than those in non-integrated schools. Researcher David Armour, also looking for hopeful signs, found that busing \"heightens racial identity\" and \"reduces opportunities for actual contact between the races\".\nA 1992 study led by Harvard University Professor Gary Orfield, who supports busing, found black and Hispanic students lacked \"even modest overall improvement\" as a result of court-ordered busing.\n\nAnother mystery was why Asian students, segregated in some school systems, nevertheless thrived academically.\n\nDuring the 1970s, \"60 Minutes\" reported that some members of Congress, government, and the press who supported busing most vociferously sent their own children to private schools, including Senator Edward Kennedy, George McGovern, Thurgood Marshall, Phil Hart, Ben Bradlee, Senator Birch Bayh, Tom Wicker, Philip Geyelin, and Donald Fraser. Many of the judges who ordered busing also sent their children to private schools.\n\nBusing integrated school age ethnic minorities with the larger community. The \"Milliken v. Bradley\" Supreme Court decision that busing children across districts is unconstitutional limited the extent of busing to within metropolitan areas. This decision made suburbs attractive to those who wished to evade busing.\n\nSome metropolitan areas in which land values and property-tax structures were less favorable to relocation saw significant declines in enrollment of whites in public schools as white parents chose to enroll their children in private schools. Currently, most segregation occurs across school districts as large cities have moved significantly toward racial balance among their schools.\n\nRecent research by Eric Hanushek, John Kain, and Steven Rivkin has shown that the level of achievement by black students is adversely affected by higher concentrations of black students in their schools. Additionally, the impact of racial concentration appears to be greatest for high-achieving black students.\n\nIn 1965 Massachusetts passed into law the Racial Imbalance Act, which ordered school districts to desegregate or risk losing state educational funding. The first law of its kind in the nation, it was opposed by many in Boston, especially less-well-off white ethnic areas, such as the Irish-American neighborhoods of South Boston & Charlestown, Boston.\n\nUnlike Boston, which experienced a large degree of racial violence following Judge Arthur Garrity's decision to desegregate the city's public schools in 1974, Springfield quietly enacted its own desegregation busing plans. Although not as well-documented as Boston's crisis, Springfield's situation centered on the city's elementary schools. Much of the primary evidence for Springfield's busing plans stemmed from a March 1976 report by a committee for the Massachusetts Commission on Civil Rights (MCCR). According to the report, 30 of the city's 36 elementary schools were grouped into six separate districts during the 1974–75 school year, and each district contained at least one racially imbalanced school. The basic idea behind the \"six-district\" plan was to preserve a neighborhood feeling for school children while busing them locally to improve not only racial imbalances, but also educational opportunities in the school system.\n\nIn 1985, a federal court took partial control of the Kansas City, Missouri School District (KCMSD). Since the district and the state had been found severally liable for the lack of integration, the state was responsible for making sure that money was available for the program. It was one of the most expensive desegregation efforts attempted and included busing, a magnet school program, and an extensive plan to improve the quality of inner city schools. The entire program was built on the premise that extremely good schools in the inner-city area combined with paid busing would be enough to achieve integration.\n\nIn May 1968, the Southern Nevada chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) filed a lawsuit against the Clark County School District (CCSD). The NAACP wanted the CCSD to acknowledge publicly, and likewise, act against the \"de facto\" segregation that existed in six elementary schools located on the city's Westside. This area of Las Vegas had traditionally been a black neighborhood. Therefore, the CCSD did not see the need to desegregate the schools, as the cause of segregation appeared to result from factors outside of its immediate control.\n\nThe case initially entered the Eighth Judicial District Court of Nevada, but quickly found its way to the Nevada Supreme Court. According to Brown II, all school desegregation cases had to be heard at the federal level if they reached a state's highest court. As a result, the Las Vegas case, which became known as \"Kelly v. Clark County School District\", was eventually heard by the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On May 10, 1972, the Ninth Circuit handed down its decision in favor of the NAACP, which therefore required the CCSD to implement a plan for integration. The CCSD then instituted its \"Sixth Grade Center Plan\", which converted the Westside's six elementary schools into sixth-grade classrooms where nearly all of the school district's sixth graders (black and white alike) would be bused for the 1972–73 school year.\n\nIn 1963, a lawsuit, \"Crawford v. Board of Education of the City of Los Angeles\", was filed to end segregation in the Los Angeles Unified School District. The California Supreme Court required the district to come up with a plan in 1977. The board returned to court with what the court of appeal years later would describe as \"one of if not the most drastic plan of mandatory student reassignment in the nation\". A desegregation busing plan was developed, to be implemented in the 1978 school year. Two suits to stop the enforced busing plan, both titled \"Bustop, Inc. v. Los Angeles Board of Education\", were filed by the group Bustop Inc., and were petitioned to the United States Supreme Court. The petitions to stop the busing plan were subsequently denied by Justice Rehnquist and Justice Powell. California Constitutional Proposition 1, which mandated that busing follow the Equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution, passed in 1979 with 70 percent of the vote. The \"Crawford v. Board of Education of the City of Los Angeles\" lawsuit was heard in the Supreme Court in 1982. The Supreme Court upheld the decision that Proposition 1 was constitutional, and that, therefore, mandatory busing was not permissible.\n\nIn comparison with many other cities in the nation, Nashville was not a hotbed of racial violence or massive protest during the civil rights era. In fact, the city was a leader of school desegregation in the South, even housing a few small schools that were minimally integrated before the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" decision in 1954. Despite this initial breakthrough, however, full desegregation of the schools was a far cry from reality in Nashville in the mid-1950s, and thus 22 plaintiffs, including black student Robert Kelley, filed suit against the Nashville Board of Education in 1955.\n\nThe result of that lawsuit was what came to be known as the \"Nashville Plan\", an attempt to integrate the public schools of Nashville (and later all of Davidson County when the district was consolidated in 1963). The plan, beginning in 1957, involved the gradual integration of schools by working up through the grades each year starting in the fall of 1957 with first graders. Very few black children who had been zoned for white schools showed up at their assigned campus on the first day of school, and those who did met with angry mobs outside several city elementary schools. No white children assigned to black schools showed up to their assigned campuses.\n\nAfter a decade of this gradual integration strategy, it became evident that the schools still lacked full integration. Many argued that Housing Segregation was the true culprit in the matter. In 1970 the \"Kelley\" case was reintroduced to the courts. Ruling on the case was Judge Leland Clure Morton, who, after seeking advice from consultants from the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, decided the following year that to correct the problem, forced busing of the children was to be mandated, among the many parts to a new plan that was finally decided on. This was a similar plan to that enacted in Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools in Charlotte, North Carolina, the same year.\n\nWhat followed were mixed emotions from both the black and white communities. Many whites did not want their children to share schools with black children, arguing that it would decrease the quality of their education. While a triumph for some, many blacks believed that the new plan would enforce the closure of neighborhood schools such as Pearl High School, which brought the community together. Parents from both sides did not like the plan because they had no control over where their children were going to be sent to school, a problem that many other cities had during the 1970s when busing was mandated across the country. Despite the judge's decision and the subsequent implementation of the new busing plan, the city stood divided.\n\nAs in many other cities across the country at this time, many white citizens took action against the desegregation laws. Organized protests against the busing plan began before the order was even official, led by future mayoral candidate Casey Jenkins. While some protested, many other white parents began pulling their children out of the public schools and enrolling them in the numerous private schools that began to spring up almost overnight in Nashville in the 1960s and 1970s. Many of these schools continued to be segregated through the 1970s. Other white parents moved outside of the city limits and eventually outside the Davidson County line so as not to be part of the Metropolitan District and thus not part of the busing plan.\n\nIn 1979 and 1980, the \"Kelley\" case was again brought back to the courts because of the busing plan's failure to fully integrate the Metropolitan Nashville Public Schools (MNPS). The plan was reexamined and reconfigured to include some concessions made by the school board and the Kelley plaintiffs and in 1983 the new plan, which still included busing, was introduced. However, problems with \"white flight\" and private schools continued to segregate MNPS to a certain degree, a problem that has never fully been solved.\n\nIn 1970 a federal court ordered the desegregation of the public schools in Pasadena, California. At that time, the proportion of white students in those schools reflected the proportion of whites in the community, 54 percent and 53 percent, respectively. After the desegregation process began, large numbers of whites in the upper and middle classes who could afford it pulled their children from the integrated public school system and placed them into private schools instead. As a result, by 2004 Pasadena became home to 63 private schools, which educated one-third of all school-aged children in the city, and the proportion of white students in the public schools had fallen to 16 percent. In the meantime, the proportion of whites in the community has declined somewhat as well, to 37 percent in 2006. The superintendent of Pasadena's public schools characterized them as being to whites \"like the bogey-man\", and mounted policy changes, including a curtailment of busing, and a publicity drive to induce affluent whites to put their children back into public schools.\n\nIn 1974, Prince George's County, Maryland, became the largest school district in the United States forced to adopt a busing plan. The county, a large suburban school district east of Washington, D.C., was over 80 percent white in population and in the public schools. In some county communities close to Washington, there was a higher concentration of black residents than in more outlying areas. Through a series of desegregation orders after the \"Brown\" decision, the county had a neighborhood-based system of school boundaries. However, the NAACP argued that housing patterns in the county still reflected the vestiges of segregation. Against the will of the Board of Education of Prince George's County, the federal court ordered that a school busing plan be set in place. A 1974 Gallup poll showed that 75 percent of county residents were against forced busing and that only 32 percent of blacks supported it.\n\nThe transition was very traumatic as the court ordered that the plan be administered with \"all due haste\". This happened during the middle of the school term, and students even in their senior year in high school were transferred to different schools to achieve racial balance. Many high school sports teams' seasons and other typical school activities were disrupted. Life in general for families in the county was disrupted by things such as the changes in daily times to get children ready and receive them after school, transportation logistics for extracurricular activities, and parental participation activities such as volunteer work in the schools and PTA meetings.\n\nThe federal case and the school busing order was officially ended in 2001, as the \"remaining vestiges of segregation\" had been erased to the court's satisfaction. Neighborhood-based school boundaries were restored. The Prince George's County Public Schools was ordered to pay the NAACP more than $2 million in closing attorney fees and is estimated to have paid the NAACP over $20 million over the course of the case.\n\nIn April 1971, in the case \"Bradley v. Richmond School Board\", Federal District Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., ordered an extensive citywide busing program in Richmond, Virginia. When the massive busing program began in the fall of 1971, parents of all races complained about the long rides, hardships with transportation for extracurricular activities, and the separation of siblings when elementary schools at opposite sides of the city were \"paired\", (i.e., splitting lower and upper elementary grades into separate schools). The result was further white flight to private schools and to suburbs in the neighboring counties of Henrico and Chesterfield that were predominately white. In January 1972, Merhige ruled that students in Henrico and Chesterfield counties would have to be bused into the City of Richmond in order to decrease the high percentage of black students in Richmond's schools. This order was overturned by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals on June 6, 1972, barring forced busing schemes that made students cross county/city boundaries. (Note: Since 1871, Virginia has had independent cities which are not politically located within counties, although some are completely surrounded geographically by a single county. This distinctive and unusual arrangement was pivotal in the Court of Appeals decision overturning Merhige's ruling). The percentage of white students in Richmond city schools declined from 45 to 21 percent between 1960 and 1975 and continued to decline over the next several decades. By 2010 white students accounted for less than 9 percent of student enrollment in Richmond. This so-called \"white flight\" prevented Richmond schools from ever becoming truly integrated. A number of assignment plans were tried to address the non-racial concerns, and eventually, most elementary schools were \"unpaired\".\n\nIn Wilmington, Delaware, located in New Castle County, segregated schools were required by law until 1954, when, due to \"Belton v. Gebhart\" (which was later rolled into \"Brown v. Board of Education\" on appeal), the school system was forced to desegregate. As a result, the school districts in the Wilmington metropolitan area were split into eleven districts covering the metropolitan area (Alfred I. duPont, Alexis I. duPont, Claymont, Conrad, De La Warr, Marshallton-McKean, Mount Pleasant, New Castle-Gunning Bedford, Newark, Stanton, and Wilmington school districts). However, this reorganization did little to address the issue of segregation, since the Wilmington schools (Wilmington and De La Warr districts) remained predominantly black, while the suburban schools in the county outside the city limits remained predominantly white.\n\nIn 1976, the U.S. District Court, in \"Evans v. Buchanan\", ordered that the school districts of New Castle County all be combined into a single district governed by the New Castle County Board of Education. The District Court ordered the Board to implement a desegregation plan in which the students from the predominantly black Wilmington and De La Warr districts were required to attend school in the predominantly white suburb districts, while students from the predominantly white districts were required to attend school in Wilmington or De La Warr districts for three years (usually 4th through 6th grade). In many cases, this required students to be bused a considerable distance (12–18 miles in the Christina School District) because of the distance between Wilmington and some of the major communities of the suburban area (such as Newark).\n\nHowever, the process of handling an entire metropolitan area as a single school district resulted in a revision to the plan in 1981, in which the New Castle County schools were again divided into four separate districts (Brandywine, Christina, Colonial, and Red Clay). However, unlike the 1954 districts, each of these districts was racially balanced and encompassed inner city and suburban areas. Each of the districts continued a desegregation plan based upon busing.\n\nThe requirements for maintaining racial balance in the schools of each of the districts was ended by the District Court in 1994, but the process of busing students to and from the suburbs for schooling continued largely unchanged until 2001, when the Delaware state government passed House Bill 300, mandating that the districts convert to sending students to the schools closest to them, a process that continues . In the 1990s, Delaware schools would utilize the Choice program, which would allow children to apply to schools in other school districts based on space.\n\nWilmington High, which, many felt, was a victim of the busing order, closed in 1998 due to dropping enrollment. The campus would become home to Cab Calloway School of the Arts, a magnet school focused on the arts that was established in 1992. It would also house Charter School of Wilmington, which focuses on math and science, and opened up in 1996.\n\nDelaware currently has some of the highest rates in the nation of children who attend private schools, magnet schools, and charter schools, due to the perceived weaknesses of the public school system.\n\nAccording to the Civil Rights Project at Harvard University, the desegregation of U.S. public schools peaked in 1988; since then, schools have become more segregated because of changes in demographic residential patterns with continuing growth in suburbs and new communities. Jonathan Kozol has found that as of 2005, the proportion of black students at majority-white schools was at \"a level lower than in any year since 1968\". Changing population patterns, with dramatically increased growth in the South and Southwest, decreases in old industrial cities, and much increased immigration of new ethnic groups, have altered school populations in many areas.\n\nSchool districts continue to try various programs to improve student and school performance, including magnet schools and special programs related to the economic standing of families. Omaha proposed incorporating some suburban districts within city limits to enlarge its school-system catchment area. It wanted to create a \"one tax, one school\" system that would also allow it to create magnet programs to increase diversity in now predominately white schools. Ernest Chambers, a 34-year-serving black state senator from North Omaha, Nebraska, believed a different solution was needed. Some observers said that in practical terms, public schools in Omaha had been re-segregated since the end of busing in 1999.\n\nIn 2006, Chambers offered an amendment to the Omaha school reform bill in the Nebraska State Legislature which would provide for creation of three school districts in Omaha according to current racial demographics: black, white, and Hispanic, with local community control of each district. He believed this would give the black community the chance to control a district in which their children were the majority. Chambers' amendment was controversial. Opponents to the measure described it as \"state-sponsored segregation\".\n\nThe authors of a 2003 Harvard study on re-segregation believe current trends in the South of white teachers leaving predominately black schools is an inevitable result of federal court decisions limiting former methods of civil rights-era protections, such as busing and affirmative action in school admissions. Teachers and principals cite other issues, such as economic and cultural barriers in schools with high rates of poverty, as well as teachers' choices to work closer to home or in higher-performing schools. In some areas black teachers are also leaving the profession, resulting in teacher shortages.\n\nEducation conservatives argue that any apparent separation of races is due to patterns of residential demographics not due to court decisions. They argue that the \"Brown\" decision has been achieved and that there is no segregation in the way that existed before the ruling. They further argue that employing race to impose desegregation policies discriminates and violates \"Brown\"s central warning of using racial preferences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30872766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872766", "title": "Differentiated instruction", "text": "Differentiated instruction\n\nDifferentiated instruction and assessment, also known as differentiated learning or, in education, simply, differentiation, is a framework or philosophy for effective teaching that involves providing different students with different avenues to learning (often in the same classroom) in terms of: acquiring content; processing, constructing, or making sense of ideas; and developing teaching materials and assessment measures so that all students within a classroom can learn effectively, regardless of differences in ability. Students vary in culture, socioeconomic status, language, gender, motivation, ability/disability, personal interests and more, and teachers must be aware of these varieties as they plan curriculum. By considering varied learning needs, teachers can develop personalized instruction so that all children in the classroom can learn effectively. Differentiated classrooms have also been described as ones that respond to student variety in readiness levels, interests and learning profiles. It is a classroom that includes all students and can be successful. To do this, a teacher sets different expectations for task completion for students based upon their individual needs.\n\nDifferentiated instruction, according to Carol Ann Tomlinson (as cited by Ellis, Gable, Greg, & Rock, 2008, p. 32), is the process of \"ensuring that what a student learns, how he or she learns it, and how the student demonstrates what he or she has learned is a match for that student's readiness level, interests, and preferred mode of learning.\" Teachers can differentiate in four ways: 1) through content, 2) process, 3) product, and 4) learning environment based on the individual learner. Differentiation stems from beliefs about differences among learners, how they learn, learning preferences, and individual interests (Algozzine & Anderson, 2007). Therefore, differentiation is an organized, yet flexible way of proactively adjusting teaching and learning methods to accommodate each child's learning needs and preferences to achieve maximum growth as a learner. To understand how students learn and what they know, pre-assessment and ongoing assessment are essential. This provides feedback for both teacher and student, with the ultimate goal of improving student learning. Delivery of instruction in the past often followed a \"one size fits all\" approach. In contrast, differentiation is individual student centred, with a focus on appropriate instructional and assessment tools that are fair, flexible, challenging, and engage students in the curriculum in meaningful ways.\n\nDifferentiation is rooted and supported by literature and research about the brain. Evidence suggests that, by instructing through multiple learning pathways, more \"dendritic pathways of access\" are created. This can be achieved by using several senses (i.e. sight, sound, smell) or by creating cross-curricular connections. When more regions of the brain store data about a subject, there is more interconnection and cross-referencing of data from multiple storage areas in response to a single cue, meaning one has learned rather than memorized.\n\nAs Wolfe (2001) argues, information is acquired through the five senses: sight, smell, taste, touch and sound. This information is stored temporarily, and the brain decides what to do with the acquired data. The more of these stimuli that are activated, the more impact the data has on the brain. This information is pertinent to differentiation, which can activate multiple senses and thus have a greater impact on the brain. \nFurther, Howard Gardner's theory of multiple intelligences identified eight distinct intelligences: linguistic, logical-mathematical, musical, bodily-kinesthetic, spatial, interpersonal, intrapersonal and naturalist. This is important when looking at how students possess different kinds of minds and therefore learn, remember, perform, and understand in different ways. He argues that students would be better served if teachers could teach in a number of ways and learning could be assessed through a variety of means. This might reach more students and improve content retention. Learning preferences extends these ideas by effectively instructing a larger number of students to encourage the development of the less preferred style.\n\nAn important part of differentiated instruction and assessment is determining what students already know so as not to cover material students have mastered, or use methods that would be ineffective for students. The goal of pre-assessment is to determine a student's knowledge, understanding and skill prior to the unit of study. These are assessments for learning and include diagnostic or pre-assessments that the teacher uses to help guide instruction and benefit each learner. They are informal and provide qualitative feedback to teachers and students to address strengths and needs during the unit. Pre-assessments should be conducted several weeks before the unit of study and should not be graded. Chapman and King (2005) note that when \"teachers strategically administer pre-assessments before planning their lessons, they can address the students' strengths and needs during instruction.\" Pre-assessment can be conducted in two ways: 1) by identifying learning preferences and interests (i.e. Gardner's Multiple Intelligence test, or Visual, Auditory, or Kinesthetic learner), and 2) by identifying knowledge of student understandings (i.e. checklists, quizzes, class discussion, portfolios, entry/exit cards, anticipation guides, journals, self-reflections). Both of these types of pre-assessment are used to design student tasks, particularly when a student might require support, enrichment, or have different learning styles, intelligence, or interests. Teachers can also determine, locate, and compile appropriate resources and decide timelines/priorities for upcoming units.\n\nThe goals of differentiated instruction are to develop engaging tasks that challenge and enhance learning for each student. Instructional activities are flexible and based and evaluated on content, process, product, and learning environment. This instructional approach and choice of content are driven by the data from students' assessment results and from the outcomes of other screening tools. Pre-assessments can gather information about each student's strengths, comforts, or areas of weakness. This leads to appropriate differentiation that accommodates each student's learning needs and preferences. Assessments should be used as a tool to create clear, and meaningful instruction that guides each student towards challenging but not frustrating activities.\n\nAssessment is the process of gathering information from a variety of sources such as assignments, teacher observations, class discussions, and tests and quizzes. Teachers must assess regularly to inform instructional strategies, learn about each student's readiness, interests, and learning preferences and to improve student learning. This information can be gathered through diagnostic (pre-assessments), formative, and summative assessments, as well as Individual Education Plans, Ontario Student Records, student interest surveys, and multiple intelligence or learning style inventories.\n\nAssessment for learning not only includes diagnostic or pre-assessment measures but also formative assessment. Formative assessments are used during a unit to provide understanding about what the student is learning, and continually guide instructional decisions. Assessment as learning takes place when students self-assess their work and reflect on their growth as learners. Earl (2003) says this is the process in metacognition, and \"occurs when students personally monitor what they are learning and use feedback . . . to make adjustments, adaptations, and . . . changes in what they understand.\" Differentiation can be used when applying, demonstrating, extending knowledge, or practising skills and attitudes to monitor achievement of goals. This might include peer/ self-assessments, and peer/teacher conferences. Assessment of learning is the culminating task or summative assessment, which takes place after the learning has occurred and students can show what concepts and/or skills they learned. Differentiation can also be used here through a variety of strategies such as tests, projects, demonstrations, writing performances, and more.\n\nAll these ongoing assessments help the teacher know students and their needs so they can select effective teaching and learning strategies and interventions that maximize student achievement. Consistent program review and diagnosis of whole-class and individual student responses not only provides ongoing feedback to enhance teaching and learning for teachers but students and parents as well. Teachers use ongoing assessments to gather information about a student's knowledge and capabilities, to direct future planning, to monitor student progress, and to evaluate student achievement. Students and parents can also use these assessments to reflect and understand their own learning preferences and level of achievement.\n\nStudents must be assessed based on a standard rather than the level of assigned work. A student who struggles in a particular subject may be given an assignment geared toward their abilities to help them learn. They may do well at the adjusted work they are given. That does not mean they should be given the same grade for their work, as the child who does not get an adjustment assignment.\n\nThe content of lessons may be differentiated based on what students already know. The most basic content of a lesson should cover the standards of learning set by the district or state. Some students in a class may be completely unfamiliar with the concepts in a lesson, some students may have partial mastery of the content - or display mistaken ideas about the content, and some students may show mastery of the content before the lesson begins. The teacher may differentiate the content by designing activities for groups of students that cover different areas of Bloom's taxonomy. For example, students who are unfamiliar with the concepts may be required to complete tasks on the lower levels of Bloom's Taxonomy: knowledge, comprehension, and application. Students with partial mastery may be asked to complete tasks in the application, analysis and evaluation areas, and students who have high levels of mastery may be asked to complete tasks in evaluation and synthesis.\n\nWhen teachers differentiate content, they may adapt what they want students to learn or how students access the knowledge, understanding, and skills (Anderson, 2007). In these instances, educators are not varying student objectives or lowering performance standards for students. They use different texts, novels, or short stories at a reading level appropriate for each individual student. Teachers can use flexible groups and have students assigned to like groups listening to audiobooks or accessing specific internet sources. Students could have a choice to work in pairs, groups, or individually, but all students are working towards the same standards and objectives.\n\nUnderstanding by Design (UbD) is an educational strategy that may be used to inform content in a differentiated classroom. According to Carol Ann Tomlinson and Jay McTighe, UbD and differentiated instruction (DI) form an essential partnership. Combining these two educational theories may allow educators to simultaneously \"craft powerful curriculum in a standards-dominated era and ensure academic success for the full spectrum of learners.\n\nThe process of how the material in a lesson is learned may be differentiated for students based on their learning styles, taking into account what standards of performance are required for the age level. This stage of differentiation allows students to learn based either on what method is easiest for them to gain knowledge, or what may challenge them most: some students may prefer to read about a topic (or may require practice in reading), and others may prefer to listen (or require practice in listening), or acquire knowledge by manipulating objects associated with the content. Information may be presented in multiple ways by the teacher, and may be based on any available methods or materials. Many teachers use areas of Multiple Intelligences to provide learning opportunities.\n\nCommonalities in the assessment results lead to grouping practices that are designed to meet the students' needs. \"How\" a teacher plans to deliver the instruction is based on assessment results that show the needs, learning styles, interests, and levels of prior knowledge. The grouping practices must be flexible, as groups change with regard to the need that must be addressed. Regardless of whether the differentiation of instruction is based upon student readiness, interests, or needs, the dynamic flow of grouping and regrouping is one of the foundations of differentiated instruction. It is important for a differentiated classroom to allow some students to work alone, if this is their best modality for a particular task. (Nunley, 2004)\n\nDifferentiating by process refers to how a student comes to understand and assimilate facts, concepts and skills (Anderson, 2007). After teaching a lesson, a teacher might break students into small \"ability\" groups based on their readiness. The teacher would then give each group a series of questions, based on each group's appropriate level of readiness-skills, related to the objectives of the lesson. Another way to group the students could be based on the students' learning styles. The main idea behind this is that students are at different levels and learn in different ways, so a teacher can't teach them all the same way.\n\nAnother model of differentiation, layered curriculum, offers student a choice of assignments but requires that they demonstrate learning to pass the assignment. This eliminates the need for pre-assessment and is useful for teachers with large class loads, such as in high school (Nunley, 2004).\n\nThe product is essentially what the student produces at the end of the lesson to demonstrate the mastery of the content: tests, evaluations, projects, reports, or other activities. Based on students' skill levels and educational standards, teachers may assign students to complete activities that demonstrate mastery of an educational concept (writing a report), or in a method the student prefers (composing an original song about the content, or building a 3-dimensional object that explains mastery of concepts in the lesson or unit). The product is an integral component of the differentiated model, as preparation of the assessments determines both the ‘what' and ‘how' of instruction delivery.\n\nWhen an educator differentiates by product or performance, they are affording students various ways of demonstrating what they have learned from the lesson or unit (Anderson, 2007; Nunley, 2006). It is done by using menu unit sheets, choice boards or open-ended lists of final product options. It is meant to allow students to show what they learned based on their learning preferences, interests and strengths.\n\nExamples of differentiated structures include Layered Curriculum, tiered instruction, tic-tac-toe extension menus, Curry/Samara models, RAFT writing activities, and similar designs. (see external links below)\n\nIn differentiated instruction, teachers respond to students' readiness, instructional needs, interests and learning preferences and provide opportunities for students to work in varied instructional formats. A classroom that utilizes differentiated instruction is a learner-responsive, teacher-facilitated classroom where all students have the opportunity to meet curriculum foundation objectives. Lessons may be on inquiry based, problem based and project based instruction.\n\nDifferentiating through the environment is important as it creates the conditions for optimal learning to take place. According to Tomlinson (2003), \"Environment will support or deter the student's quest for affirmation, contribution, power, purpose, and challenge in the classroom,\" (p. 37). The learning environment includes the physical layout of the classroom, the way that the teacher uses the space, environmental elements and sensitivities including lighting, as well as the overall atmosphere of the classroom. The teacher's goal is to create an environment that is positive, structured, and supportive for each student. The physical environment should be a place that is flexible with varied types of furniture and arrangements, and areas for quiet individual work as well as areas for group work and collaboration. This supports a variety of ways to engage in flexible and dynamic learning. Teachers should be sensitive and alert to ways that the classroom environment supports students' ability to interact with others individually, in small groups, and as a whole class. They should employ classroom management techniques that support a safe and supportive learning environment.\n\nAccording to Carol Ann Tomlinson, most parents are eager for their students to learn, grow, succeed and feel accepted in school. Sharing these goals is important. A differentiated classroom may \"look different\" from what parents expect. The teacher can help them develop a clear, positive understanding of differentiated instruction and how it benefits their children by letting parents know that:\n\n\nMultiple sources in educational research have criticized differentiated instruction, and its basis in learning styles, as being unsubstantiated in any empirical fashion. These sources include Mike Schmoker of Education Week, who claims that after a lengthy email exchange with an architect of DI, she conceded \"There [is] no solid research or school evidence\" in support of DI. In Educational Research, John Geake states, \"the evidence consistently\nshows that modifying a teaching approach to cater for differences in learning styles does not result in any improvement in learning outcomes\", and that implementing learning styles, citing VAK specifically, does \"not reflect how our brains actually learn, nor the\nindividual differences we observe in classrooms\". In Psychological Science for the Public Interest, Pashler et al. note, \"the literature fails to provide adequate support for applying learning-style assessments in school settings. Moreover, several studies that used appropriate research designs found evidence that contradicted the learning-styles hypothesis...[W]e feel that the widespread use of learning-style measures in educational settings is unwise and a wasteful use of limited resources\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "267487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267487", "title": "Discipline", "text": "Discipline\n\nDiscipline is action or inaction that is regulated to be in accordance (or to achieve accord) with a particular system of governance. Discipline is commonly applied to regulating human and animal behavior, and furthermore, it is applied to each activity-branch in all branches of organized activity, knowledge, and other fields of study and observation. Discipline can be a set of expectations that are required by any governing entity including the self, groups, classes, fields, industries, or societies.\n\nChildren being educated to use public litter bins is a form of disciplinary education that is expected by some societies. If a child cannot use a litter bin the lack of discipline can result in a reaction from observant people in public. Many people observe a form of disciplinary effort in their daily lives. Discipline has a very important role in student's life.\nDiscipline is a moral obligation among many groups of people. Disciplined behavior is required by some laws and other legal obligations. Commercial entities can also put in place strict disciplinary requirements for the length of the commercial agreement. Airlines enforce strict disciplinary and conduct rules upon flight passengers. \n\nIn the military, discipline regards the efforts made by superiors to punish the serviceperson. In academia, discipline can also regard the educators' responses and efforts that are designed to punish the student(s). Not only in military, in every parts of life of an individual discipline plays the most important role. Discipline shows the actual face of an individual. In animal husbandry and training, the animals may be disciplined to perform specific task and activities without errors. Additionally, animals can discipline their young through numerous methods; including nips, bites, and grips.\n\nDisciplinarians have been involved in many societies throughout history. The Victorian era resulted in the popular use of disciplinarian governance over children. Edward VIII had a disciplinarian father, and the English had modelled the royal families during this era. Edward's grandmother was Queen Victoria who had championed the role of the family unit during her reign. A disciplinarian will enforce a stricter set of rules that are aimed at developing children according to theories of order and discipline. Disciplinarians have also been linked to child abuse in numerous cases and biographies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "533263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533263", "title": "Dumbing down", "text": "Dumbing down\n\nDumbing down is the deliberate oversimplification of intellectual content in education, literature, and cinema, news, video games and culture. The term \"dumbing down\" originated in 1933, as movie-business slang used by screenplay writers, meaning: \"[to] revise so as to appeal to those of little education or intelligence\". Dumbing-down varies according to subject matter, and usually involves the diminishment of critical thought, by undermining intellectual standards within language and learning; thus trivializing meaningful information, culture, and academic standards, as in the case of popular culture.\n\nIn \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste\" (1979), the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu (1930–2002) proposed that, in a society in which the cultural practices of the ruling class are rendered and established as the legitimate culture of that society, that action then devalues the cultural capital of the subordinate social classes, and thus limits their social mobility within their own society.\n\nIn the late 20th century, the proportion of young people attending university in the UK increased sharply, including many who previously would not have been considered to possess the appropriate scholastic aptitude. In 2003, the UK Minister for Universities, Margaret Hodge, criticised Mickey Mouse degrees as a negative consequence of universities dumbing down their courses to meet \"the needs of the market\": these are degrees conferred for studies in a field of endeavour \"where the content is perhaps not as [intellectually] rigorous as one would expect, and where the degree, itself, may not have huge relevance in the labour market\": thus, a university degree of slight intellectual substance, which the student earned by \"simply stacking up numbers on Mickey Mouse courses, is not acceptable\".\n\nIn 2007 Wellington Grey, a high school physics instructor in London, published an Internet petition objecting to what he described as a dumbed-down curriculum. He wrote: \"I am a physics teacher. Or, at least, I used to be\"; and complained that \"[Mathematical] calculations – the very soul of physics – are absent from the new General Certificate of Secondary Education.\" Among the examples of dumbing-down that he provided were: \"Question: Why would radio stations broadcast digital signals, rather than analogue signals? Answer: Can be processed by computer/ipod\" to \"Question: Why must we develop renewable energy sources?\" (a political question).\n\nIn \"\" (1991, 2002), John Taylor Gatto presented speeches and essays, including \"The Psychopathic School\", his acceptance speech for the 1990 New York City Teacher of the Year award, and \"The Seven-Lesson Schoolteacher\", his acceptance speech upon being named as the New York State Teacher of the Year for 1991. Gatto writes that while he was hired to teach English and literature, he came to believe he was employed as part of a social engineering project. The \"seven lessons\" at the foundation of schooling were never explicitly stated, Gatto writes, but included teaching students that their self-worth depended on outside evaluation; that they were constantly ranked and supervised; and that they had no opportunities for privacy or solitude. Gatto speculated:\n\nIn examining the seven lessons of teaching, Gatto concluded that \"all of these lessons are prime training for permanent underclasses, people deprived forever of finding the center of their own special genius.\" That \"school is a twelve-year jail sentence, where bad habits are the only curriculum truly learned. I teach school, and win awards doing it. I should know.\"\n\nIncreased business competition and the introduction of econometric methods changed the business practices of the mass communications media. The business monopoly practice of media consolidation reduced the breadth and the depth of the journalism practiced and provided for the information of the public. The reduction of operating costs (overhead expenses) eliminated foreign news bureaus and reporters, in favour of presenting the public relations publications (news releases) of governments, businesses, and political parties as fact.\n\nRefinements in measurement of approval ratings and audience size increased the incentive for journalists and TV producers to write simplistic material, diminishing the intellectual complexity of the argument presented, usually at the expense of factual accuracy and rationality. Cultural theorists, such as Richard Hoggart, Raymond Williams, Neil Postman, Henry Giroux, and Pierre Bourdieu, invoked these effects as evidence that commercial television is an especially pernicious contributor to the dumbing-down of communications. Nonetheless, the cultural critic Stuart Hall said that the people responsible for teaching critical thinking – parents and academic instructors – can improve the quality (breadth and depth) of their instruction by occasionally including television programmes.\n\nIn France, Michel Houellebecq has written (not excluding himself) of \"the shocking dumbing-down of French culture and intellect as was recently pointed out, [2008] sternly but fairly, by \"TIME\" magazine.\"\n\nSoftware used on computers and mobile devices, can do complex tasks sometimes requiring users to have a lot of technical knowledge\".\" Similarly, user operated devices, such as a washing machine or a camera, perform many complex operations. A lot of effort has been put into making these easier to use. Sometimes by use of good ergonomics, known as usability. And sometimes by removing some of the choices and functionality available. The process of reducing the functionality is often known as dumbing down. For some users, this removes confusing barriers and gives them confidence to use the software or device. For others, the missing functionality may be frustrating and too restrictive. \n\nReplacing a user operated function with an automatic function that achieves the same result would not be considered dumbing down. However, any loss of flexibility in this automation would be the actual dumbing down. \n\nAn example of dumbing down in software is where an email application on a smartphone or tablet computer may lack certain functions which are available on a desktop computer, such as the ability to create email folders or email rules.\n\nThe science fiction film \"Idiocracy\" (2005) portrays the U.S. as a greatly dumbed-down society 500 years in the future, in which low cultural and Philistinism were unintentionally achieved by eroding language and education coupled with dysgenics, where people of lower intelligence reproduced faster than the people of higher intelligence. Similar concepts appeared in earlier works, notably the science fiction short story \"The Marching Morons\" (1951), by Cyril M. Kornbluth which also features a modern-day protagonist in a future dominated by low-intelligence persons. Moreover, the novel \"Brave New World\" (1931), by Aldous Huxley, discussed the ways a utopian society was deliberately dumbed down in order to maintain political stability and social order by eliminating complex concepts unnecessary for society to function (e.g., the Savage tries reading Shakespeare to the masses and is not understood). More malevolent uses of dumbing down to preserve the social order are also portrayed in \"The Matrix\", \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" and many dystopian movies.\n\nThe social critic Paul Fussell touched on these themes (\"prole drift\") in his non-fiction book \"Class: A Guide Through the American Status System\" (1983) and focused on them specifically in \"BAD: or, The Dumbing of America\" (1991).\n\nThe musical groups Chumbawamba, The Divine Comedy, Ugly Duckling, and Lupe Fiasco each have a song titled \"Dumb It Down\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "347550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347550", "title": "Educational Testing Service", "text": "Educational Testing Service\n\nEducational Testing Service (ETS), founded in 1947, is the world's largest private nonprofit educational testing and assessment organization. It is headquartered in Lawrence Township, New Jersey, but has a Princeton address.\n\nETS develops various standardized tests primarily in the United States for K–12 and higher education, and it also administers international tests including the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language), TOEIC (Test of English for International Communication), Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General and Subject Tests, HiSET and The Praxis test Series — in more than 180 countries, and at over 9,000 locations worldwide. Many of the assessments it develops are associated with entry to US tertiary (undergraduate) and quaternary education (graduate) institutions, but it also develops K–12 statewide assessments used for accountability testing in many states, including California, Texas, Tennessee, and Virginia. In total, ETS annually administers 20 million exams in the U.S. and in 180 other countries.\n\nETS is a U.S.-registered 501(c)(3) non-profit organization created in 1947 by three other nonprofit educational institutions: the American Council on Education (ACE), The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and The College Entrance Examination Board. ETS was formed in 1947 to take over the testing activities of its founders (whose organizations were not well suited to running operational assessment programs), and to pursue research intended to advance educational measurement and education. Among other things, ACE gave to the new organization the Cooperative Test Service and the National Teachers Examination; Carnegie gave the GRE; and the College Board turned over to ETS the operation (but not ownership) of the SAT for graduating high school students.\n\nIn keeping with the purposes for which it was established, ETS developed a program of research that covered not only measurement and education but also such related areas as statistics, educational evaluation, and psychology, particularly cognitive, developmental, personality, and social psychology. This broad-based research program attracted many individuals who distinguished themselves in their fields, often while at ETS but also in subsequent professorial positions. Among the more influential scientists have been Harold Gulliksen (whose book, \"Theory of Mental Tests,\" helped codify classical test theory); Frederic Lord (Item Response Theory); Samuel Messick, (modern validity theory); Robert Linn (known for testing and educational policy); Norman Frederiksen (performance assessment); Ledyard Tucker (test analysis, including inventing the \"Angoff Method\" of standard setting); Donald Rubin (missing data and causal modeling from observational data); Karl Jöreskog (structural equation modeling and confirmatory factor analysis); Paul Holland (differential item functioning, test equating, causal modeling); John Carroll (language testing and cognitive psychology); Michael Lewis (infant cognitive, social, and emotional development); Irving Sigel (children's cognitive development); Herman Witkin (cognitive and learning styles); K. Patricia Cross (adult education); Samuel Ball (an evaluation researcher who documented the positive educational effects of Sesame Street); and David Rosenhan (known for the Rosenhan experiment, which challenged the validity of psychiatric diagnosis).\n\nMembers of the ETS staff have been among the presidents of the National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME); the Psychometric Society; the Measurement and Evaluation Division of the American Educational Research Association (AERA); the Evaluation, Measurement and Statistics Division of the American Psychological Association (APA); the APA Developmental Psychology Division; and the Jean Piaget Society. They have been among the executive editors of the \"Journal of Educational Measurement\", Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics, Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, Journal of Educational Psychology, Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology, and Discourse Processes. Major citations have included the APA Distinguished Contributions to Knowledge Award (Norman Frederiksen, 1984), the APA Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award (Frederic Lord, 1988); the AERA E.F. Lindquist Award (William Turnbull, 1981; Frederic Lord, 1988; Samuel Messick, 1994; Paul Holland, 2000; Wendy Yen, 2008); the NCME Career Contributions to Educational Measurement Award (Frederic Lord, 1990; Paul Holland, 2004; Neil Dorans, 2010); and the Jean Piaget Society's Lifetime Achievement Award (Irving Sigel, 2002); among many other awards.\n\nThe high caliber of scientific staff allowed ETS to produce both new knowledge and methodology, especially in measurement and statistics, much of which has been taken up by assessment organizations around the world. Among the key scientific contributions were:\n\n\nETS' international headquarters is located on an campus outside of Princeton, New Jersey in Lawrence Township, Mercer County; processing, shipping, customer service and test security is in nearby Ewing. ETS also has a major office in San Antonio, Texas, which houses its K–12 Assessment Programs division, and smaller offices in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Washington, DC, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, and Concord, Sacramento, and Monterey, California. Overseas office locations, all of which are associated with for-profit subsidiaries that are wholly owned by ETS, include Amsterdam (ETS Global BV headquarters), London (ETS Global BV), Seoul (ETS Global BV), Paris (ETS Global BV), Amman (ETS Global BV), Warsaw (ETS Global BV), Beijing (ETS China), and Kingston, Ontario (ETS Canada). Not including its for-profit subsidiaries, ETS employs about 2,700 individuals, including 240 with doctorates and an additional 350 others with \"higher degrees.\"\n\nTo help support its nonprofit educational mission, ETS, like many other nonprofits, conducts business activities that are unrelated to that mission (e.g., employment testing). Under US tax law, these activities may be conducted (within limits) by the nonprofit itself, or by for-profit subsidiaries. Most of the \"off-mission\" work conducted by ETS is carried out by such wholly owned, for-profit subsidiaries as Prometric, which delivers tests for hundreds of third-party clients, ETS Global BV, which contains much of the international operations of the company, ETS China, and ETS Canada.\n\nAbout 25% of the work carried out by ETS is contracted by the College Board, a private, nonprofit membership association of universities, colleges, school districts, and secondary schools. The most popular and well-known of the College Board's tests is the SAT, taken by more than 3 million students annually. ETS also develops and administers The College Board's Preliminary SAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT) and the Advanced Placement program, which is widely used in US high schools for advanced course credit.\n\nSince 1983, ETS has conducted the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), known as the \"Nation's Report Card,\" under contract to the US National Center for Education Statistics. NAEP is the only nationally representative and continuing assessment of what US students know and can do. ETS is responsible for coordination among the nine NAEP Alliance contractors, for item development, and for design, data analysis, and reporting.\n\nIn addition to the contract work that ETS undertakes for nonprofit and government entities like the College Board, the National Center for Education Statistics, and state education departments, the organization offers its own tests. These tests include the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) (for graduate and professional school admissions), the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) (for post-secondary admissions), the Test of English for International Communication (TOEIC) (for use by business and industry), and the Praxis Series (for teacher licensure and certification).\n\nIn England and Wales, ETS Europe, a unit of the ETS Global for-profit subsidiary, was contracted to mark and process the National Curriculum assessments on behalf of the government. ETS Global took over this role in 2008 from Edexcel, a subsidiary of Pearson, which had encountered significant and repeated problems in carrying out the marking and processing contract. As was the case for Edexcel, The first year of ETS Global's operation was struck by a number of problems, including the late arrival of scripts to examiners, a database of student entries being unavailable, and countrywide reports of problems with the marking of the papers. The opposition Conservative Party (Tory) criticized the awarding of the contracts to ETS, and produced a dossier listing previous problems with ETS's service. The ETS contract with the QCA was terminated in August 2008, with an agreement to pay back £19.5m and cancel invoices worth £4.6m. Subsequently, the contract for National Curriculum assessment marking and processing was again awarded to Edexcel. Like the two prior contracts, the Edexcel contract has encountered significant quality problems and the tests themselves, the focus of longstanding controversy in the English education community and among the public, have been subjected to a massive boycott by schools.\n\nIn 2009, ETS released the My Credentials Vault Service with Interfolio, Inc to \"simplify the entire letter of recommendation process\".\n\nETS has been criticized for being a \"highly competitive business operation that is as much multinational monopoly as nonprofit institution\".\nDue to its legal status as a non-profit organization, ETS is exempt from paying federal corporate income tax on many, but not all, of its operations. Furthermore, it does not need to report financial information to the Securities and Exchange Commission, though it does annually report detailed financial information to the IRS on Form 990, which is publicly available.\n\nIn response to growing criticism of its monopolistic power, New York state passed the Educational Testing Act, a disclosure law which required ETS to make available certain test questions and graded answer sheets to students.\n\nProblems administering England's national tests in 2008 by ETS Europe were the subject of thousands of complaints recorded by the Times Educational Supplement. Their operations were also described as a \"shambles\" in the UK Parliament, where a financial penalty was called for. Complaints included papers not being marked properly, or not being marked at all and papers being sent to the wrong schools or lost completely. It has even been suggested that the quality of service is so poor that the Department for Children, Schools and Families (formerly the Department for Education and Skills) might not be able to publish the 2008 league tables of school performance. However, the contract was ended by \"mutual consent\". The UK government asked Lord Sutherland to conduct an inquiry into the failure of the 2008 tests. The report included in its main findings:\n\n\"• primary responsibility for this summer’s delivery failure rests with ETS Global BV, which won the public contract to deliver the tests;\"<br>\n\"• ETS’s capacity to deliver the contract proved to be insufficient. A lack of comprehensive planning and testing by ETS of its systems and processes was a key factor in the delivery failure;\"\n\nIn 1983, students of James A. Garfield High School in East Los Angeles, California, achieved unexpectedly high exam results on the ETS Advanced Placement Exam. ETS implied that the students may have cheated to obtain such results based on common mistakes across different exams. The students were required to prove their abilities and innocence by taking a second exam, which they did successfully.\n\nAmericans for Educational Testing Reform (AETR) claims that ETS is violating its non-profit status through excessive profits, executive compensation, and governing board member pay (which the IRS specifically advises against). AETR further claims that ETS is acting unethically by selling test preparation materials, directly lobbying legislators and government officials, and refusing to acknowledge test-taker rights. It also criticises ETS for forcing GRE test-takers to participate in research experiments during the actual exam. It has also come under criticism for paying its part-time employees, most of whom are drawn from the less than 10% of the U.S. population with graduate degrees, a modest $15 an hour (with no benefits), to grade the essay component of their standardized exams. A minimum of a bachelor's degree is required of first time raters, and they are paid only $13 hourly. In December 2017, ETS, who had hired an enormous amount of new raters for the SAT program and lost the contract after one year, infiltrated other programs with the new hires and punished long-standing raters by lowering their pay 3-5 dollars per hour after years of hard-earned service.\n\nIn 2014 the BBC reported that the Home Office has suspended English language tests run by ETS after a BBC investigation uncovered systematic fraud in the student visa system. Secret filming of government-approved English exams needed for a visa showed entire rooms of candidates having the tests faked for them \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9173009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9173009", "title": "Ger Brennan", "text": "Ger Brennan\n\nGer Brennan is an Irish Gaelic footballer who plays for St Vincents and formerly played for Dublin.\n\nFrom a family of nine, he attended Belvedere College. At Belvedere he played Rugby, soccer, hurling and Gaelic Football.\n\nGraduating from Maynooth College with undergraduate and master's degrees, he qualified as a school teacher and taught Irish and religion at St. Kevin's College, Ballygall Road, in Dublin 11. In November 2015 he was appointed Gaelic Games Executive at University College Dublin.\n\nBrennan won his first Dublin Senior Football Championship medal with St Vincents in 2007 in the final against St Brigids at Parnell Park. He then went on to win the Leinster Senior Club Football Championship final against Tyrrellspass of Westmeath. Brennan was chosen as the Leinster club player of the year for his performances in the Leinster club championship with St Vincents.\n\nBrennan won the 2008 All-Ireland Senior Club Football Championship with St Vincents in a hard fought game. He won the Dublin Senior Football Championship for St. Vincents, as captain, in 2013.\n\nBrennan madee his national league debut for Dublin against Tyrone on 3 February 2007. He was a member of Dublin team that won the 2007 O'Byrne Cup, playing against Laois at O'Connor Park in Offaly. The game finished on a scoreline of 1-18 to 2-13. He finished the tournament with a total of 0-04.\n\nIn 2008, he retired from Dublin's football panel, citing burnout and fatigue as his reasons. However, on July 30, 2008, he was named in Dublin's panel for the quarter-final and accepted a return. He was part of the victorious Dublin squad that won the 2011 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship. He won an All-Ireland with Dublin for a second time in 2013, scoring two points in the final against Mayo.\n\nIn October 2015, Brennan announced his retirement from Inter County football but will continue to play club football.\n\nBrennan is a Catholic who has spoken about his faith in God. He has stated that while non-denominational schools may teach subjects such as science, Catholic schools \"enable young students to have the skills to pray\".\n\nBrennan was praised for his \"nonchalant delivery\" of thanks to the \"girlfriends and boyfriends of the players\" after St Vincent's defeated Castlebar Mitchels in the 2014 All-Ireland Club Championship Final at Croke Park (a speech delivered in front of a live television audience). However just over a year later, Brennan wrote an op-ed for the \"Irish Independent\" arguing against the legalisation of same-sex marriage in that year's Marriage Equality referendum, which was ultimately carried in a 62% to 38% popular vote. His stance was criticised by others, including fellow GAA star Conor Cusack.\n"}
{"id": "25012873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25012873", "title": "History of virtual learning environments", "text": "History of virtual learning environments\n\nA virtual learning environment (VLE) is a system that creates an environment designed to facilitate teachers' management of educational courses for their students, especially a system using computer hardware and software, which involves distance learning. In North America, a virtual learning environment is often referred to as a \"learning management system\" (LMS).\n\nThe terminology for systems which integrate and manage computer-based learning has changed over the years. Terms which are useful in understanding and searching for earlier materials include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDevelops the \"Interactive Learning Network\" ILN 1.5, and installs it at several academic institutions including Cornell University, Yale Medical School and University of Pittsburgh. The ILN was the first e-learning system of its kind to leverage an install on top of a relational database MySqL.\n\n\n\n\nLater that year in October 2000, deploy the ArsDigita Community Education System (ACES) at MIT Sloan School. The system is called Sloanspace. The ArsDigita Community System as well as ACES in the next few years grow to OpenACS and .LRN\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53504353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53504353", "title": "International Network for Quality Assurance Agencies", "text": "International Network for Quality Assurance Agencies\n\nThe International Network for Quality Assurance Agencies in Higher Education (INQAAHE) is an International Quality Assurance body that works closely with National Accreditation bodies (CHEA in USA, ENQA in Europe) and academicians to control educational quality in around 140 countries. Established in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54137627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54137627", "title": "Jiddu Krishnamurti Schools", "text": "Jiddu Krishnamurti Schools\n\nJiddu Krishnamurti ( or ; 11 May 1895 – 17 February 1986) was a philosopher, educationist, speaker and writer. His supportersworking through non-profit foundations in India, Great Britain and the United Statesoversee several independent schools based on his views on education. They continue to transcribe and distribute his thousands of talks, group and individual discussions, and writings by use of a variety of media formats and languages.\n\nEducation forms a central core of Krishnamurti’s world view. In fact, Krishnamurti spent his entire life talking about education as being the agent not only of inner renewal but also of social change. Krishnamurti asserted that the schools functioning under the auspices of the Krishnamurti Foundation India (KFI), and others started independently by his supporters, did not exist as organizations for the indoctrination of children, but rather as places ‘where students and teachers can flower, and where a future generation can be prepared because schools are meant for that.\n\nKrishnamurti supporters founded several schools around the world. When asked, Krishnamurti enumerated the following as his educational aims:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249502", "title": "Job Corps", "text": "Job Corps\n\nJob Corps is a program administered by the United States Department of Labor that offers free-of-charge education and vocational training to young men and women ages 16 to 24.\n\nJob Corps' mission is to help young people ages 16 through 24, improve the quality and satisfaction of their lives through vocational and academic training. \n\nThe Job Corps was originally designed by a task force established by Labor Secretary Willard Wirtz reporting to his Manpower Administrator Sam Merrick. In 1962, the youth unemployment rate was twice the non-youth employment rate and the purpose of the initiative was to create a program whereby Youth members of the program could spend 1/2 of their time improving national parks and forests and the other 1/2 of their time improving their basic education skills which were severely limiting their occupational accomplishments. The Job Corps Task Force initially recommended that Job Corps programs be limited to Federal National Parks, National Forests, and other Fedral Lands.\n\nBy the Kennedy assassination in 1963, the Job Corps' operational plans, costs, and budgets had been well developed, including coordination with the U. S. Forest Service and the U. S. Park Service, and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) executed among the agencies. Initiating legislation and budgetary authorizations were drafted and submitted by the Kennedy Administration which in turn were submitted and introduced in both houses of Congress.\n\nWhen President Johnson and his planning staff decided on the War on Poverty, most of the proposed programs would take more than a year to even start. However the Job Corps idea was well along in the planning stage and could be deployed rapidly, so the Labor Department Job Corps Task Force was appointed to the Task force for the War on Poverty, and the Job Corps was slated to be the initial operational program. \n\nJob Corps was therefore initiated as the central program of the Johnson Administration's War on Poverty, part of his domestic agenda known as the Great Society. Sargent Shriver, the first Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, modeled the program on the Depression-era Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). Established in the 1930s as an emergency relief program, the CCC provided room, board, and employment to thousands of unemployed young people. Though the CCC was discontinued after World War II, Job Corps built on many of its methods and strategies.\n\nThe first National Director of the Job Corps program was Dr. S. Stephen Uslan, who was appointed by President Lyndon Johnson and reported directly to Sargent Shriver. The current national director of the Office of Job Corps is Lenita Jacobs-Simmons The Job Corps program is currently authorized under Title I-C of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.\n\nSince its inception in 1964 under the Economic Opportunity Act, Job Corps has served more than 1.9 million young people. Job Corps serves approximately 60,000 youths annually at Job Corps Centers throughout the country.\n\nA person is eligible for Job Corps if he or she meets the following criteria:\n\n\nApplicants to the Job Corps program are identified and screened for eligibility by organizations contracted by the U.S. Department of Labor. Each student in the Job Corps goes through four stages of the program:\n\nOutreach and Admissions (OA): This is the stage at which students visit admissions counselors and gather information, as well as prepare for and leave for their Job Corps Centers. Transportation is provided to and from the centers by Job Corps.\n\nCareer Preparation Period (CPP): This stage focuses on the assimilation of the student into the center, academic testing, health screening, and instruction on resume building and job search skills. Students are instructed on computer literacy, employability, and center life. This phase lasts for the first 30 days on center.\n\nCareer Development Period (CDP): This period is where the student receives all vocational training, drivers' education, academic instruction, and preparation for life outside of Job Corps, i.e. a repeat of CPP with an actual job search.\n\nCareer Transition Readiness (CTR): The period immediately after the student graduates. Career Transition Specialists outside the center assist in the graduate's job search and arrangement of living accommodations, transportation, and family support resources.\n\nThe following Career Technical Training programs are offered by Job Corps. However, Job Corps continually adjusts program offerings in response to labor market demand, so the below list may not be fully complete or current.\n\nThere are a total of 131 Job Corps centers, including at least one in every state, one in Washington, D.C. and three in Puerto Rico.\n\nThere are six Regional Offices of Job Corps:\n\n\nIn Program Year 2012, approximately 75 percent of Job Corps’ graduates were placed. Slightly more than 60 percent joined the workforce or enlisted in the military, while 13.5 percent of Job Corps’ graduates enrolled in education programs. CBS This Morning reported in October 2014 that some Job Corps centers have been accused of falsifying job placements and student training, as well as ignoring violence and drug abuse.\n\nIn 1993, the DOJ commissioned an evaluation of the program based on randomized assignment of eligible applicants to the program. Results showed impacts on employment, wages, and crime rates 4 years after enrollment, but modest impacts afterwards. Youths assigned to the control group could enroll in other programs, therefore the results are to be interpreted as the impact on enrolling in Job Corps relative to potential enrollment in other programs. \n\n\n<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "7983699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7983699", "title": "Knowledge divide", "text": "Knowledge divide\n\nThe knowledge divide is the gap in standards of living between those who can find, create, manage, process, and disseminate information or knowledge, and those who are impaired in this process. According to a 2005 UNESCO World Report, the rise in the 21st century of a global information society has resulted in the emergence of knowledge as a valuable resource, increasingly determining who has access to power and profit. The rapid dissemination of information on a potentially global scale as a result of new information media and the globally uneven ability to assimilate knowledge and information has resulted in potentially expanding gaps in knowledge between individuals and nations.\n\nIn the 21st century, the emergence of the knowledge society becomes pervasive. The transformations of world's economy and of each society have a fast pace. Together with information and communication technologies (ICT) these new paradigms have the power to reshape the global economy. In order to keep pace with innovations, to come up with new ideas, people need to produce and manage knowledge. This is why knowledge has become essential for all societies.\n\nAccording to UNESCO and the World Bank, knowledge gaps between nations may occur due to the varying degrees by which individual nations incorporate the following elements:\n\n\nThe information and ICT systems that support knowledge are very important. This is why digitization is viewed closely related to knowledge. Scientists generally agree that there is a digital divide, recently different reports also showed the existence of knowledge divide.\n\nThe creation and effective use of knowledge are increasingly related to the development of an ICT infrastructure. Without ICT, it is impossible to have an infrastructure able to process the huge flow of information required in an advanced economy. In particular, without adequate technical support, it is difficult to develop and use e-learning and electronic documents to overcome time and space constraints.\n\nThe digital divide is, however, but one important part of the larger knowledge divide. As UNESCO states, \"closing the digital divide will not suffice to close the knowledge divide, for access to useful, relevant knowledge is more than simply a matter of infrastructure—it depends on training, cognitive skills and regulatory frameworks geared towards access to contents.\"\n\nIn the book Digital Dead End, Virginia Eubanks criticizes the way that the digital divide is generally thought of as a division between haves and have-nots, where the solution is distribution. This over simplistic depiction obscures the fact that often social and structural inequality is at the root of the divide. According to a study done by Eubanks with women of the YWCA, the women of the community \"insisted that have-nots possess many different kinds of crucial information and skills.\" In other words, it is not simply knowledge of the technology itself that is the issue but the structural system based on perpetuating the status quo in which the haves \"hoard\" knowledge.\n\nFirst, it was noticed that a great difference exists between the North and the South (rich countries vs. poor countries). The development of knowledge depends on spreading Internet and computer technology and also on the development of education in these countries. If a country has attained a higher literacy level then this will result in having higher level of knowledge.\nIndeed, UNESCO's report details many social issues in knowledge divide related to globalization. There was noticed a knowledge divide with respect to\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6127494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6127494", "title": "Kodály method", "text": "Kodály method\n\nThe Kodály method, also referred to as the Kodály concept, is an approach to music education developed in Hungary during the mid-twentieth century by Zoltán Kodály. His philosophy of education served as inspiration for the method, which was then developed over a number of years by his associates. In 2016, the method was inscribed as a UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage.\n\nKodály became interested in the music education of children in 1925 when he overheard some students singing songs that they had learned at school. Kodály was appalled by the standard of the children's singing, and was inspired to do something to improve the music education system in Hungary. He wrote a number of controversial articles, columns, and essays to raise awareness about the issue of music education. In his writings, Kodály criticized schools for using poor-quality music and for only teaching music in the secondary grades. Kodály insisted that the music education system needed better teachers, better curriculum, and more class time devoted to music.\n\nBeginning in 1935, along with his colleague Jenő Ádám, he embarked on a long-term project to reform music teaching in the lower and middle schools by actively creating a new curriculum and new teaching methods, as well as writing new musical compositions for children. His work resulted in the publication of several highly influential books that have had a profound impact on musical education both inside and outside his home country.\n\nKodály’s efforts finally bore fruit in 1945 when the new Hungarian government began to implement his ideas in the public schools Socialist control of the educational system facilitated the establishment of Kodály’s methods nationwide. The first music primary school, in which music was taught daily, opened in 1950. The school was so successful that over one hundred music primary schools opened within the next decade. After about fifteen years roughly half the schools in Hungary were music schools.\n\nKodály’s success eventually spilled outside of Hungarian borders. Kodály’s method was first presented to the international community in 1958 at a conference of the International Society for Music Educators (I.S.M.E.) held in Vienna. Another I.S.M.E. conference in Budapest in 1964 allowed participants to see Kodály’s work first-hand, causing a surge of interest. Music educators from all over the world traveled to Hungary to visit Kodály’s music schools. The first symposium dedicated solely to the Kodály method was held in Oakland, California in 1973; it was at this event that the International Kodály Society was inaugurated. Today Kodály-based methods are used throughout the world.\n\nUsing these principles as a foundation, Kodály’s colleagues, friends, and most talented students developed the actual pedagogy now called the Kodály method. Many of the techniques used were adapted from existing methods. The creators of the Kodály method researched music educational techniques used throughout the world and incorporated those they felt were the best and most suited for use in Hungary.\n\nThe Kodály method uses a child-developmental approach to sequence, introducing skills according to the capabilities of the child. New concepts are introduced beginning with what is easiest for the child and progressing to the more difficult. Children are first introduced to musical concepts through experiences such as listening, singing, or movement. It is only after the child becomes familiar with a concept that he or she learns how to notate it, similar to methods like Suzuki and Simply Music. Concepts are constantly reviewed and reinforced through games, movement, songs, and exercises.\n\nThe Kodály method incorporates rhythm syllables similar to those created by nineteenth-century French theoretician Emile-Joseph Chêvé. In this system, note values are assigned specific syllables that express their durations. For example, quarter notes are expressed by the syllable \"ta\" while eighth note pairs are expressed using the syllables \"ti-ti\". Larger note values are expressed by extending \"ta\" to become \"ta-a\" or \"ta-o\" (half note), \"ta-a-a\" or \"ta-o-o\" (dotted half note), and \"ta-a-a-a\" or \"ta-o-o-o\" (whole note). These syllables are then used when sight-reading or otherwise performing rhythms.\n\nThe Kodály method also includes the use of rhythmic movement, a technique inspired by the work of Swiss music educator Emile Jaques-Dalcroze. Kodály was familiar with Dalcroze’s techniques and agreed that movement is an important tool for the internalization of rhythm. To reinforce new rhythmic concepts, the Kodály method uses a variety of rhythmic movements, such as walking, running, marching, and clapping. These may be performed while listening to music or singing. Some singing exercises call for the teacher to invent appropriate rhythmic movements to accompany the songs.\n\nRhythmic concepts are introduced in a child-developmentally appropriate manner based upon the rhythmic patterns of their folk music (for example, is more common in English than so it should be introduced first). The first rhythmic values taught are quarter notes and eighth notes, which are familiar to children as the rhythms of their own walking and running. Rhythms are first experienced by listening, speaking in rhythm syllables, singing, and performing various kinds of rhythmic movement. Only after students internalize these rhythms is notation introduced. The Kodály method uses a simplified method of rhythmic notation, writing note heads only when necessary, such as for half notes and whole notes.\n\nThe Kodály method uses a system of movable-do solfège syllables for sight-singing: scale degrees are sung using corresponding syllable names (\"do\", \"re\", \"mi\", \"fa\", \"so\", \"la\", and \"ti\"). The syllables show function within the key and the relationships between pitches, \"not\" absolute pitch. Kodály was first exposed to this technique while visiting England, where a movable-do system created by Sarah Glover and augmented by John Curwen was being used nationwide as a part of choral training. Kodály found movable-do solfège to be helpful in developing a sense of tonal function, thus improving students’ sight-singing abilities. Kodály felt that movable-do solfège should precede acquaintance with the staff, and developed a type of shorthand using solfège initials with simplified rhythmic notation.\n\nScale degrees are introduced in accordance with child-developmental patterns. The first Kodály exercise books were based on the diatonic scale, but educators soon found that children struggled to sing half steps in tune and to navigate within such a wide range. It is thus that the pentatonic scale came to be used as a sort of stepping stone. Revised Kodály exercises begin with the minor third (\"mi-so\") and then, one at a time, add \"la\", \"do\", and \"re\". Only after children become comfortable with these pitches are \"fa\" and \"ti\" introduced, a much simpler feat when taught in relation to the already established pentatonic scale. Kodály stated that each nation should create its own melodic sequence based upon its own folk music.\n\nHand signs, also borrowed from the teachings of Curwen, are performed during singing exercises to provide a visual aid. This technique assigns to each scale degree a hand sign that shows its particular tonal function. For example, \"do\", \"mi\", and \"so\" are stable in appearance, whereas \"fa\" and \"ti\" point in the direction of \"mi\" and \"do\", respectively. Likewise, the hand sign for \"re\" suggests motion to \"do\", and that of \"la\" to \"so\". Kodály added to Curwen’s hand signs upward/downward movement, allowing children to actually see the height or depth of the pitch. The signs are made in front of the body, with \"do\" falling about at waist level and \"la\" at eye level. Their distance in space corresponds with the size of the interval they represent. In 2016, computer scientists at Northwestern University invented an instrument which is controlled by the hand signs, facilitating their learning. The hand signs were featured in the 1977 film, \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\".\n\nKodály-method materials are drawn strictly from two sources: \"authentic\" folk music and \"good-quality\" composed music. Folk music was thought to be an ideal vehicle for early musical training because of its short forms, pentatonic style, and simple language. Of the classical repertoire, elementary students sing works of major composers of the Baroque, Classical, and Romantic music eras, while secondary-level students sing music from the twentieth century as well.\n\nKodály collected, composed, and arranged a large number of works for pedagogical use Along with Béla Bartók and other associates, Kodály collected and published six volumes of Hungarian folk music, including over one thousand children’s songs. Much of this literature was used in Kodály method song books and textbooks. High quality music was needed in short and simple forms in order to bridge the gap between folk music and classical works. For this purpose, Kodály composed thousands of songs and sight-singing exercises, making up sixteen educational publications, six of which contain multiple volumes of over one hundred exercises each. Kodály’s complete pedagogical works are published collectively by Boosey & Hawkes as \"The Kodály Choral Method\".\n\nStudies have shown that the Kodály method improves intonation, rhythm skills, music literacy, and the ability to sing in increasingly complex parts. Outside music, it has been shown to improve perceptual functioning, concept formation, motor skills, and performance in other academic areas such as reading and math.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31680808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31680808", "title": "LIFO (education)", "text": "LIFO (education)\n\nLast in First Out (LIFO) (or otherwise known as \"Last One Hired is the First One Fired\" is a policy often used by school districts and other employers to prioritize layoffs by seniority. Under LIFO layoff rules, junior teachers and other employees lose their jobs before senior ones. Laying off junior employees first is not exclusive to the education sector or to the United States, but is perhaps most controversial there. LIFO's proponents claim that it protects teachers with tenure and gives them job stability, and that it is an easily administered way of accomplishing layoffs following a budget cut. LIFO's critics respond that it is bad for students. They prefer that the best teachers remain regardless of how long they have been teaching.\n\nLIFO and tenure were originally intended to provide college professors with academic freedom and ensure that they could research topics of their own choosing. In the K-12 sector, tenure was introduced to lower high teacher turnover rates. In 1932, over 20% of teachers were dismissed due to personal disagreements and difference of opinion. By 2010, LIFO was criticized on grounds that \"seniority based layoffs result in promising, inexperienced teachers losing their positions, while their less effective, but more senior, peers continue to teach.\" As of early 2014, 2 states provided that seniority could not be considered when deciding which teachers to layoff, 18 states and the District of Columbia left the layoff criteria to school district discretion, 20 states provided that seniority could be considered among other factors, and 10 states provided that seniority was the sole factor, or one that had to be considered.\n\nLIFO has a more severe impact in poor or high minority schools, since those schools tend to have newer and less experienced teachers. In schools where 34% or less of the students receive Free and Reduced meals, more than 82% of teachers have 4 or more years of experience. However, in schools where more than 75% of the student body receives Free and Reduced meals, only 77% of the teachers have more than 4 years of experience. Moreover, in California, it was seen that in schools in the lowest quartile of minority students, only 8 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching whereas in schools with the highest quartile of minority students, 13 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching, meaning that under LIFO-based layoffs, schools with larger minority populations would lose 60% more teachers. Finally, teachers in high need areas, such as secondary math and special education, are often less experienced due to the difficulty of recruiting these positions, and districts who adhere strictly to seniority based systems for layoffs face the added burden of recruiting teachers in these areas. In Los Angeles, it was noted that of the hundreds of promising new teachers cut in from the district in 2010 due to LIFO, 190 were in the top fifth overall of teachers in raising math and reading scores.\n\nResearch indicates that the effectiveness of teachers does not change after the first few years in the classroom. As a result, the implications of using LIFO rules for layoffs instead of basing layoffs on classroom effectiveness appear huge. With LIFO, more teachers must be dismissed to meet budgetary targets than with effectiveness-based layoffs because the youngest teachers are the least paid, but the teachers dismissed under the LIFO policy are only slightly below average in effectiveness. An effectiveness-based policy on the other hand leads to dramatic improvements in average teacher quality, and these improvements have lasting effects on students throughout their lives.\n\nIn many states, tenure is given to teachers after 3 years, without much indication of job performance. A value added model (VAM) could be used in tenure decisions for teachers in order to estimate teacher quality. A VAM would predict how well a teacher would do based on his or her previous experience teaching. Data shows that the VAM based on standardized test scores, is a better indicator of teacher performance than any observable attributes. \n\nSince less experienced teachers typically have lower salaries, it is estimated that if districts in the United States cut 5% of their budget through seniority based layoffs, approximately 79,000 more teachers would lose their jobs versus seniority neutral layoffs.\n\nIn a survey of New York State parents regarding teacher quality versus seniority, voters said they did not care how long a teacher had taught so long as the teacher was effective and produced good results.\n\nStarting with Arizona in 2009, certain states and districts have been passing laws which prohibit seniority from being the deciding factor in layoff decisions. Maine, Louisiana, and District of Columbia use multiple criteria in determining layoffs, and numerous other states are trending towards performance based over seniority based layoffs.\n\nMichelle Rhee, the former Chancellor of Washington, D.C. public schools, opposes the Last in First Out policy, instead suggesting performance based evaluation to determine layoffs. As Chancellor, she introduced the IMPACT evaluation for teachers, which measured teacher performance and was the primary factor for layoffs. She is the CEO of Students First, a grassroots movement \"designed to mobilize parents, teacher, students, and administrators, and citizens\" to demand a better American education system. Since its founding in 2010, Studentsfirst has been behind legislation across the country which promotes alternative teacher quality assessment methods through its \"Save Great Teachers\" Campaign. Victories from this campaign have been seen in Florida, Utah, Michigan, Nevada and Tennessee.\n\nThe 2014 court case of \"Vergara v. California\" struck down California's LIFO layoff rules as having a disproportionately negative impact on poor and minority public school students, thus violating the California Constitution. The \"Vergara\" trial judge noted that teacher layoffs prioritized solely by seniority prevented senior and ineffective teachers from being laid off before junior but effective teachers. In this situation, \"[n]o matter how gifted the junior teacher, and no matter how grossly ineffective the senior teacher, the junior gifted one . . . is separated from [the students] and a senior grossly ineffective one . . . is left in place.\" The judge concluded that \"[t]he logic of [this scheme] is unfathomable and therefore constitutionally unsupportable.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24376817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24376817", "title": "Laws requiring teaching of the Holocaust", "text": "Laws requiring teaching of the Holocaust\n\nA number of countries maintain laws requiring the presentation of information concerning actions of the government of Germany regarding Jews in its territory during the period of that government's control by the National Socialist (Nazi) German Worker's Party from 1933 to 1945, commonly referred to as the Holocaust. In the United States, laws of this kind are maintained by individual states and typically specify curriculum content and the ages of the pupils to which various portions of the curricula are to be presented.\n\nMany of the particulars of conformance with these laws are specified or influenced by policies and pronouncements of the Task Force for International Cooperation on Holocaust Education, Holocaust Remembrance, and Holocaust Research. A country's membership in this organization, however, does not necessarily imply any legal mandate within said country regarding Holocaust education.\n\nLaws prohibiting \"Holocaust denial\" are maintained by many—but not all—of the same jurisdictions that have these laws. These laws apply to individuals and involve criminal punishment and therefore they are in all cases separate statutes.\n\nAs of November 2013, laws mandating education about the Holocaust were on the books in Austria, France, Germany, Israel, the Netherlands, Poland, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, as well as in the American states of California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, and New York. In Pennsylvania, 2014 Act 70, while not yet imposing a mandate, states that schools \"may offer instruction in the Holocaust, genocide and human rights violations to students\". The Pennsylvania State Board of Education will conduct a study to determine, after the 2016–2017 school year, the number of schools offering instruction over the Holocaust, genocide and human rights violations. If less than ninety percent of schools offer such instruction, the Act states that a regulation will be adopted to require such instruction.\n"}
{"id": "5134412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134412", "title": "Learnscapes", "text": "Learnscapes\n\nLearnscapes are defined as “places where a learning program has been designed to permit users to interact with the environment”. Their purpose is to promote and extend environmental awareness, by presenting biodiversity as the basis for environmental conservation and ecologically sustainable development. This is achieved through developing school based curricula that \"engage students interactively with their surrounding environment\". Ideally, learnscapes incorporate educational, environmental and social outcomes that reflect the character of the community as well as the school site.\n\n\"A Learnscape feature, whether it be an outdoor classroom, worm farm, bush regeneration, recycling area, frog pond or herb garden, is not a Learnscape itself. It is the collaborative process within which the feature is created and plans for how it will be maintained and used for learning once it is created that make the feature a Learnscape\".\n\nLearncape programs also have a “calming effect” on classes, by invoking deeper relationships between students and their teachers.\n"}
{"id": "52186405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52186405", "title": "Managers of Virtue", "text": "Managers of Virtue\n\nManagers of Virtue: Public School Leadership in America, 1820–1980 is a history book by David Tyack and Elisabeth Hansot. Its first two sections discuss American educational leadership in the common school and Progressive eras, and its last part discusses the subsequent decline in school leader authority and public confidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "4634107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4634107", "title": "National Council on Bible Curriculum in Public Schools", "text": "National Council on Bible Curriculum in Public Schools\n\nThe National Council on Bible Curriculum in Public Schools (NCBCPS) is a conservative nonprofit organization that promotes the use of its 300-page Bible curriculum, \"The Bible in History and Literature\", in schools throughout the United States.\n\nThe NCBCPS was founded in 1993, and as of 2000 its curriculum has been in use in at least 70 public school districts across the United States.\n\nIt has been criticized by separationists as presenting a religious interpretation of the Bible as well as an unbalanced view of American history which promotes specific religious beliefs. The use of the curriculum has been challenged in lawsuits in two school districts, which have withdrawn the course as contravening the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nNCBCPS was founded on April 8, 1993, by Elizabeth Ridenhour, a Greensboro, NC, paralegal. The organization's annual 990 tax forms, available on Guidestar.org, list Ridenhour as an ordained minister.\n\nAccording to the organization's Web site, \"312 U.S. school districts in 37 states have educated 175,000 of their students using the Bible curriculum as a public high school elective.\"\n\nA 2006 report, \"Reading, Writing and Religion: Teaching the Bible in Texas Public Schools,\" by Bible scholar Dr. Mark Chancey of Southern Methodist University found that in Texas, \"the number of Texas school districts using the NCBCPS curriculum, 11, is less than a fourth of the 52 claimed by the NCBCPS itself. Adding the very few school districts known to have used the course in the past... does not significantly change the total number. The NCBCPS markets its course by strongly emphasizing the large number of school districts that supposedly teach it; as of late July 2006, its Web site claimed that its curriculum is currently offered in 362 districts nationwide. Such oft-repeated claims now appear to be quite inaccurate. If the situation in Texas is representative, the curriculum is probably actually taught in only a few dozen districts.\"\n\nThe NCBCPS web site states that the organization's curriculum \"has never been legally challenged\", and features an opinion from four lawyers claiming the course to be constitutional. Whilst the NCBCPS itself has not been sued, two school boards have been for adopting the NCBCPS materials in their district:\n\nA federal lawsuit on behalf of eight parents in Odessa, Texas, was filed on May 16, 2007 against the Ector County school board. The suit was brought by the ACLU of Texas, the People For the American Way Foundation and the law firm of Jenner & Block. The suit alleged that the course promotes certain religious beliefs to the exclusion of others.\nThe Ector County School Board was represented by Liberty Legal Foundation. In a May 17, 2007 article in the \"Odessa American\", ECISD trustee L.V. \"Butch\" Foreman III said he did not understand how the parents could sue the school board since they do not have children taking the course. \"If they don't have children in the class, they can kiss my butt,\" Foreman said.\n\nOn March 5, 2008, the lawsuit was settled with an agreement by the Ector County School Board to cease teaching NCBCPS materials in its public schools after that current school year. The course offered was taught as an elective in two high schools and was described as unconstitutionally promoting a particular interpretation of the Bible that is not shared by Jews, Catholics, Orthodox Christians, and most Protestants. Bible scholars had seriously criticized the course as lacking accuracy, ignoring scholarly research, promoting a particular religious interpretation of the Bible, and presenting an unbalanced view of American history which promoted specific religious beliefs.\n\nAccording to the settlement, any Bible course Ector County schools offer in the future cannot be based on the NCBCPS curriculum, and must follow strict legal standards for objectivity and balance. One of the plaintiffs, an ordained elder and deacon at a local Presbyterian Church, said that it was inappropriate for one set of religious beliefs to be promoted over others, and that \"It seems as though a church had invaded the public school system – and it wasn’t my church\". The ACLU’s Director of Litigation said in a press release that “We trust that any future curriculum will be appropriate for students of all faiths – including nonbelievers – and that it will respect the religious liberty of all Odessans.” \n\nThe Lee County School Board (Florida) was sued while using the NCBCPS curriculum, for \"unconstitutionally advancing religion in public school classrooms.\" According to the website of People for the American Way Foundation, which represented the plaintiffs in the suit (\"Gibson v. Lee County School Board\"), \"In January 1998, the court issued a preliminary injunction that prohibited the teaching of the 'New Testament' curriculum and allowed the 'Old Testament' curriculum to be taught only under strict monitoring. The court also ordered the two sides to begin settlement negotiations.\n\n\"After the court's ruling, the Board agreed to settle the case by withdrawing the 'Old Testament' and 'New Testament' curricula it had adopted and replacing them with a new, objective and non-sectarian course based on a textbook called \"\"An Introduction to the Bible\".\"\n\nIn the Winter 2007 issue of the \"Baylor Law Review\", Amanda Colleen Brown reviewed the NCBCPS' \"The Bible in History and Literature\" and the Bible Literacy Project's \"The Bible and Its Influence\" (59 Baylor L. Rev. 193). The author subjects both curricula to three legal tests used by the Supreme Court to determine the legality of Bible courses, and concludes that the NCBCPS curriculum is \"unfit for use in public school classrooms,\" while the Bible Literacy Project's curriculum \"comports with constitutional standards, thus making it a viable alternative to the NCBCPS curriculum.\"\nBrown argues that a key problem with the NCBCPS curriculum is that it consists of only a teacher's guide, with no student textbook. Brown writes:\nIn 1999, the Attorney General of Georgia, Thurbert Baker, issued an opinion stating that the state's proposed adoption of the NCBCPS courses could not be assured that they would survive a legal challenge.\n\nOn August 1, 2005, Dr. Mark Chancey, professor of Biblical studies at Southern Methodist University, released a report through the Texas Freedom Network detailing his concerns about the scholarly quality of the curriculum. Chancey stated that the curriculum was improperly sectarian, and contained \"shoddy research, factual errors and plagiarism.\" In particular, Chancey wrote that the curriculum \"uses a discredited urban legend that NASA has evidence that two days are missing in time, thus 'confirming' a biblical passage about the sun standing still [pp. 116–17];\" and that more than one-third of the curriculum's 300 pages are reproduced word-for-word from uncredited sources such as Microsoft's \"Encarta\" encyclopedia. Hundreds of Biblical scholars at universities around the United States have signed on as endorsers of Chancey's findings.\n\nThe NCBCPS responded with an August 4 press release asking the public to \"consider the source.\" The release described the Texas Freedom Network as \"a small group of far left, anti-religion extremists ... desperate to ban one book – the Bible – from public schools.\n\nIn a subsequent article, Dr. Chancey wrote:\nRobert Marus of the Associated Baptist Press Washington Bureau wrote that the revision of the curriculum \"incorporat[ed] many of the changes recommended by an organization [the NCBCPS] characterized as 'anti-religion extremists.'\" \n\nThe syllabus of the National Council on Bible Curriculum in Public Schools has endorsed by D. James Kennedy, Bill Bright, Joyce Meyer, Jerry Falwell, John Hagee, T.D. Jakes, Dale Evans Rogers, Jane Russell, Pat Boone, Carman Licciardello, and Scott O'Grady.\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\" Editorial Board, in an editorial published July 7, 2007, stated that \"The folks at the National Council are right on one count: The Bible should be taught in public schools. But they shouldn't be the ones to do it.\" The editorial criticised the NCBCPS for not releasing the names of the authors of the curriculum and for \"sloppy editing, factual errors and outright copying, word for word, from sources.\" The Editorial Board noted that \"The National Council is not the only option school districts have. A competing curriculum (The Bible and Its Influence) offered by the Bible Literacy Project, a non-profit group, has been vetted, accepted and praised by a wide range of scholars, critics and education officials.\"\n\n\"TIME\" Magazine, in the cover story of its April 2, 2007 issue, wrote that the curriculum is not \"legally palatable ... Its spokespeople claim it is refining itself as it goes and its most recent edition, which came out last month, eliminates much literalist bias—but still devotes 18 lines to the blatantly unscientific notion that the earth is only 6,000 years old.\" By contrast, \"TIME\" stated that \"[Public school Bible electives] should have a strong accompanying textbook on the model of (the Bible Literacy Project's) The Bible and Its Influence.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1545981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1545981", "title": "National Curriculum for England", "text": "National Curriculum for England\n\nThe National Curriculum for England was first introduced by the Education Reform Act of 1988. At the time of its introduction the legislation applied to both England and Wales. However, education later became a devolved matter for the Welsh government. The current statutory National Curriculum dates from 2014 at which point it was introduced to most year groups across primary and secondary education. Some elements were introduced in September 2015. The National Curriculum sets out the content matter which must be taught in a number of subjects in \"local authority–maintained schools\".\n\nThere are two main aims presented in the statutory documentation for the National Curriculum, stating:\n\nThese aims set out to support the statutory duties of schools to offer a curriculum which is balanced and broadly based and which promotes the spiritual, moral, cultural, mental and physical development of pupils at the school and of society, while preparing pupils at the school for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of later life, as set out in the Education Act 2002.\n\nThe National Curriculum, as released most recently in 2014, is set out for all year groups for pupils aged between 5 and 16. Within these ages, the curriculum is structured into four Key Stages, for each of which a prescribed list of subjects must be taught. The table below sets out the statutory list of subjects to be taught at each Key Stage:\n\nFor each of the statutory curriculum subjects, the Secretary of State for Education is required to set out a Programme of Study which outlines the content and matters which must be taught in those subjects at the relevant Key Stages. The most recently-published National Curriculum was introduced into schools in September 2014.\n\nIn addition, children in all Key Stages must be provided with a curriculum of Religious Education, and for pupils in Key Stages 3 and 4 a curriculum of Sex and Relationships Education must also be provided.\nAt Key Stage 4, although some subjects are not compulsory for all students, provision must be made to allow all students to access the arts (comprising art and design, music, dance, drama and media arts), design and technology, the humanities (comprising geography and history) and a modern foreign language.\n\nIn a 1976 speech at Ruskin College, Prime Minister James Callaghan launched what became known as the \"Great Debate\". The speech has been called \"revolutionary\" in the context of its time, and that it \"lit a flare that has illuminated education reform ever since\". The speech intended to stimulate wide debate on the purpose of education in the UK:\nThese are proper subjects for discussion and debate. And it should be a rational debate based on the facts... It is not my intention to become enmeshed in such problems as whether there should be a basic curriculum with universal standards - although I am inclined to think there should be... The goals of our education, from nursery school through to adult education, are clear enough. They are to equip children to the best of their ability for a lively, constructive, place in society, and also to fit them to do a job of work. Not one or the other but both... Both of the basic purposes of education require the same essential tools. These are basic literacy, basic numaracy, the understanding of how to live and work together, respect for others, respect for the individual. This means requiring certain basic knowledge, and skills and reasoning ability. It means developing lively inquiring minds and an appetite for further knowledge that will last a lifetime. It means mitigating as far as possible the disadvantages that may be suffered through poor home conditions or physical or mental handicap. Are we aiming in the right direction in these matters?\n\nThe first statutory National Curriculum was introduced by the Education Reform Act 1988 by Kenneth Baker. The Programmes of Study were drafted and published in 1988 and 1989, with the first teaching of some elements of the new curriculum beginning in September 1989.\n\nUnder Gillian Shephard's tenure as Education Secretary, a review of the National Curriculum was launched in 1994, led by Ron Dearing. Its objective was to find ways to 'slim down' the over-detailed curriculum. The final report set out the need to reduce the volume of statutory content, particularly at lower key stages, as well as recommending changes to methods of assessment. Consequently, an updated National Curriculum was published in 1995 which saw a considerable reduction in the content of the curriculum and a simplification in line with Dearing's recommendations.\n\nWhen a new Labour government took office in 1997, its focus on English and Maths led to a decision to disapply the statutory Programmes of Study for the foundation subjects from September 1998, to allow schools to spend more time teaching literacy and numeracy. The Secretary of State, David Blunkett later announced another overhaul of the National Curriculum, particularly at primary level, to reduce the content in foundation subjects allowing more time to be spent on the core subjects of English, Maths and Science. A new National Curriculum was published in 1999, for first teaching in September 2000.\n\nFurther changes were announced by Ed Balls in 2007 for the statutory curriculum for Key Stages 3 and 4, which again focussed on removing some content from the documentation, while also adding some additional element, with the intended aim of additional flexibility for schools. These changes were introduced in September 2008, and were swiftly followed by proposed changes to the primary curriculum, based on a review to be led by Jim Rose. The review proposed replacing the 10 statutory subjects in Key Stages 1 and 2 with 6 broader 'areas of learning', such as \"understanding English, communication and languages\" and \"human, social and environmental understanding\". However, following the change of government in 2010, the plans for this change - proposed to begin in September 2011 - were abandoned, with schools advised to continue to follow the 2000 curriculum pending review. \n\nFollowing his appointment as Education Secretary in 2010, Michael Gove commissioned an expert review panel to report on a framework for a new National Curriculum. The review was led by Tim Oates of Cambridge Assessment, and reported in December 2011. It suggested significant changes to the structure of the National Curriculum, including dividing Key Stage 2 into two shorter (two-year) phases.\nIn 2013, the government produced a draft National Curriculum, followed by a final version in September 2013, for first teaching in September 2014. Due to the short timescales for introduction, the curriculum was introduced only for certain subjects and year groups in 2014, with the core subjects in Years 2 and 6 (the final years of Key Stages 1 and 2) only becoming statutory in September 2015, to allow time for the introduction of new testing arrangements at the end of the Key Stages. Similarly, core subjects at Key Stage 4 are to be introduced on a year-by-year basis starting in September 2015 for English and Maths, and September 2016 for Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "16872485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16872485", "title": "Nonformal learning", "text": "Nonformal learning\n\nNon-formal learning includes various structured learning situations which do not either have the level of curriculum, syllabus, accreditation and certification associated with 'formal learning', but have more structure than that associated with 'informal learning', which typically take place naturally and spontaneously as part of other activities. These form the three styles of learning recognised and supported by the OECD.\n\nExamples of non-formal learning include swimming sessions for toddlers, community-based sports programs, and programs developed by organisations such as the Boy Scouts, the Girl Guides, community or non-credit adult education courses, sports or fitness programs, professional conference style seminars, and continuing professional development. The learner’s objectives may be to increase skills and knowledge, as well as to experience the emotional rewards associated with increased love for a subject or increased passion for learning.\n\nThe debate over the relative value of formal and informal learning has existed for a number of years. Traditionally formal learning takes place in a school or university and has a greater value placed upon it than informal learning, such as learning within the workplace. This concept of formal learning being the socio-cultural accepted norm for learning was first challenged by Scribner and Cole in 1973, who claimed most things in life are better learnt through informal processes, citing language learning as an example. Moreover, anthropologists noted that complex learning still takes place within indigenous communities that had no formal educational institutions.\n\nIt’s the acquisition of this knowledge or learning which occurs in everyday life that has not been fully valued or understood. This led to the declaration by the OECD educational ministers of the \"life-long learning for all\" strategy in 1996. This includes 23 countries from five continents, who have sought to clarify and validate all forms of learning including formal, non-formal and informal. This has been in conjunction with the European Union which has also developed policies for life-long learning which focus strongly on the need to identify, assess and certify non-formal and informal learning, particularly in the workplace.\n\n\n\nAlthough all definitions can be contested (see below) this article shall refer to the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) 2001 communication on 'lifelong learning: formal, non-formal and informal learning' as the guideline for the differing definitions.\n\nFormal learning: learning typically provided by an education or training institution, structured (in terms of learning objectives, learning time or learning support) and leading to certification. Formal learning is intentional from the learner’s perspective. (Cedefop 2001)\n\nInformal learning: learning resulting from daily life activities related to work, family or leisure. It is not structured (in terms of learning objectives, learning time or learning support) and typically does not lead to certification. Informal learning may be intentional but in most cases it is not-intentional (or \"incidental\"/random). (Cedefop 2001)\n\nNon-formal learning: see definition above.\n\nIf there is no clear distinction between formal and in-formal learning where is the room for non-formal learning. It is a contested issue with numerous definitions given. The following are some the competing theories.\n\n\"It is difficult to make a clear distinction between formal and informal learning as there is often a crossover between the two.\" (McGivney, 1999, p1).\n\nSimilarly, Hodkinson et al. (2003), conclude after a significant literature analysis on the topics of formal, informal, and non-formal learning, that \"the terms informal and non-formal appeared interchangeable, each being primarily defined in opposition to the dominant formal education system, and the largely individualist and acquisitional conceptualisations of learning developed in relation to such educational contexts.\" (Hodkinson et al., 2003, p. 314) Moreover, he states that \"It is important not to see informal and formal attributes as somehow separate, waiting to be integrated. This is the dominant view in the literature, and it is mistaken. Thus, the challenge is not to, somehow, combine informal and formal learning, for informal and formal attributes are present and inter-related, whether we will it so or not. The challenge is to recognise and identify them, and understand the implications. For this reason, the concept of non-formal learning, at least when seen as a middle state between formal and informal, is redundant.\" (p. 314)\n\n\"Eraut's classification of learning into formal and non-formal\":\n\nThis removes informal learning from the equation and states all learning outside of formal learning is non-formal. Eraut equates informal with connotations of dress, language or behaviour that have no relation to learning. Eraut defines formal learning as taking place within a learning framework; within a classroom or learning institution, with a designated teacher or trainer; the award of a qualification or credit; the external specification of outcomes. Any learning that occurs outside of these parameters is non-formal. (Ined 2002)\n\n\"The EC (2001) Communication on Lifelong Learning: formal, non-formal and informal learning\":\n\nThe EU places non-formal learning in between formal and informal learning (see above). This has learning both in a formal setting with a learning framework and as an organised event but within a qualification. \"Non-formal learning: learning that is not provided by an education or training institution and typically does not lead to certification. It is, however, structured (in terms of learning objectives, learning time or learning support). Non-formal learning is intentional from the learner’s perspective.\" (Cedefop 2001)\n\n\"Livingstone's adults formal and informal education, non-formal and informal learning\":\n\nThis focuses on the idea of adult non-formal education. This new mode, ‘informal education’ is when teachers or mentors guide learners without reference to structured learning outcomes. This informal education learning is gaining knowledge without an imposed framework, such as learning new job skills. (Infed, 2002)\n\n\"Billett (2001): there is no such thing as informal learning\":\n\nBillet's definition states there is no such thing as non-formal and informal learning. He states all human activity is learning, and that everything people do involves a process of learning. \"all learning takes place within social organisations or communities that have formalised structures.\" Moreover, he states most learning in life takes place outside of formal education.(Ined 2002)\n\nRecently, many international organizations and UNESCO Member States have emphasized the importance of learning that takes place outside of formal learning settings. This emphasis has led UNESCO, through its Institute of Lifelong Learning (UIL), to adopt international guidelines for the Recognition, Validation and Accreditation of the Outcomes of Non-formal and Informal Learning in 2012. The emphasis has also led to an increasing number of policies and programmes in many Member States, and a gradual shift from pilots to large-scale systems such as those in Portugal, France, Australia, Mauritius and South Africa.\n\nCedefop has created European guidelines to provide validation to a broad range of learning experiences, thereby aiding transparency and comparability across its national borders. The broad framework for achieving this certification across both non-formal and informal learning is outlined in the Cedefop European guidelines for validating non-formal and informal learning; Routes from learning to certification.\n\nThere are different approaches to validation between OCED and EU countries, with countries adopting different measures. The EU, as noted above, through the Cedefop-released European guidelines for validating non-formal and informal learning in 2009 to standardise validation throughout the EU. Within the OCED countries, the picture is more mixed.\n\nCountries with the existence of recognition for non-formal and informal learning (Feutrie, 2007)\n\nNon-formal education (NFE) is popular on a worldwide scale in both 'western' and 'developing countries'. Non-formal education can form a matrix with formal and non-formal education, as non-formal education can mean any form of systematic learning conducted outside the formal setting. Many courses in relation to non-formal education have been introduced in several universities in western and developing countries.\n\nThe UNESCO institute of education conducted a seminar on non-formal education in Morocco. The association for development of education in Africa (ADEA) launched many programmes in non-formal education in at least 15 countries of Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2001 World Bank conducted an international seminar on basic education in non-formal programmes. In addition to this the World Bank was advised to extend its services to adult and non-formal education.\n\nA report on vocational education, Making Learning Visible: the identification, assessment and recognition of non-formal learning in Europe, defines non-formal learning as semi structured, consisting of planned and explicit approaches to learning introduced into work organisations and elsewhere, not recognised within the formal education and training system.\n\nCommunity work, which is particularly widespread in Scotland, fosters people's commitment to their neighbours and encourages participation in and development of local democratic forms of organisation.\n\nYouth work which focuses on making people more active in the society.\n\nSocial work which helps young people in homes to develop ways to deal with complex situations like fostering fruitful relationships between parents and children, bringing different groups of career together, etc...\n\nIn France and Italy animation in a particular form is a kind of non-formal education. It uses theatre and acting as means of self-expression with different community groups for children and people with special needs. This type of non-formal education helps in ensuring active participation and teaches people to manage the community in which they live.\n\nYouth and community organisations young people have the opportunity to discover, analyse and understand values and their implications and build a set of values to guide their lives. They run work camps and meetings, recruit volunteers, administer bank acoounts, give counselling etc. to work toward social change.\n\nEducation plays an important role in development. Out of school programmes are important to provide adaptable learning opportunities and new skills and knowledge to a large percentage of people who are beyond the reach of formal education. Non-formal education began to gain popularity in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Today, non-formal education is seen as a concept of recurrent and lifelong learning.\n\nNon-formal education is popular among the adults specially the women as it increases women's participation in both private and public activities, i.e. in house hold decision making and as active citizens in the community affairs and national development. These literacy programmes have a dramatic impact on women's self-esteem because they unleash their potential in economic, social, cultural and political spheres.\n\nAccording to UNESCO (2010), non-formal education helps to ensures equal access to education, eradicate illiteracy among women and improve women's access to vocational training, science, technology and continuing education. It also encourages the development of non-discriminatory education and training. The effectiveness of such literacy and non-formal education programmes are bolstered by family, community and parental involvement.\n\nNon-formal education is beneficial in a number of ways. There are activities that encourage young people to choose their own programme and projects that are important because they offer the youth the flexibility and freedom to explore their emerging interests. When the youth can choose the activities in which they can participate, they have opportunities to develop several skills like decision making skills.\n\nNon-formal learning has experiential learning activities that foster the development of skills and knowledge. This helps in building the confidence and abilities among the youth of today. It also helps in development of personal relationships not only among the youth but also among the adults. It helps in developing interpersonal skills among the young people as they learn to interact with peers outside the class and with adults in the community.\n\nThere are drawbacks to non-formal education which include that non-formal learning is not based on curriculum but based on experience. There is low efficiency in non-formal education.\n\nFormal education system are inadequate to effectively meet the needs of the individual and the society. The need to offer more and better education at all levels, to a growing number of people, particularly in developing countries, the scant success of current formal education systems to meet all such demands, has shown the need to develop alternatives to learning.\n\nThe rigid structure of formal schools, mainly because of rules and regulations than concentrating on the real need of the students, offering curriculum that leans away from the individual and from society, far more concerned with performing programmes than reaching useful objectives. This called for non-formal education which starting from the basic need of the students, is concerned with the establishment of strategies that are compatible with reality.\n\n"}
{"id": "376749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376749", "title": "Nontraditional student", "text": "Nontraditional student\n\nA nontraditional student refers to a category of students at colleges and universities.\n\nThe National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) notes that there are varying definitions of nontraditional student. The term is defined in a general way to refer to postsecondary students who are 25 years old and older. Nontraditional students are contrasted with traditional students, who enroll immediately after high school, are typically aged 18–22, attend full-time, live on campus, and do not have major work or family responsibilities. The NCES categorized anyone who satisfies at least one of the following as a nontraditional student:\n\n\nBy this definition, the NCES determined that 73% of all undergraduates in 1999–2000 could be considered nontraditional, representing the newly \"typical\" undergraduate. This remained consistent the following years: 72% in 2003–2004, 72% for 2007–2008, and 74% for 2011–2012.\n\nThe nontraditional student designation is also used in a specialized way to refer to socially or educationally disadvantaged students.\n\nIt is uncertain exactly how or when the term “nontraditional student” was first incorporated into educational language. However, it is thought that K. Patricia Cross is responsible for the phrase becoming the accepted and appropriate term to describe adult students.\n\nThe typical college student is not an 18-year-old, full-time student who enrolls immediately after high school, lives on-campus and who has limited family, work, and financial obligations.\n\nRegarding the 2011-2012 demographics distribution of nontraditional undergraduate students in the United States, the following were identified by the National Center for Education Statistics:\n\nIn 1999–2000, the most common nontraditional characteristics included financial independence (51 percent), part-time attendance (48 percent), and delayed enrollment (46 percent).\n\nThe NCES divides tertiary educational institutions into three categories: public, private-non-profit, and private-for-profit (PFP). With regard to the age demographic of students enrolled in these institutions, the NCES uses three age categories: under 25, between 25 and 34, and 35 and older. According to its most recent publication, in a section called \"The Condition of Education 2013,\"\"most nontraditional students are enrolled in PFP’s. In fact, for the fall enrollment in 2011, in four-year PFP institutions 71% full-time and 78% part-time students were at least 25 years old or older. In two-year PFP institutions, 52% full-time and 61% part-time students were also included in this 'nontraditional' category.\"\n\nNontraditional students frequently have different characteristics than traditional students, experience different barriers, and have different instructional and campus support needs than traditional students.\n\nWhile many institutions offer programs for nontraditional students and services in response to their specific needs, it is frequently observed that traditional higher education programs and policies are geared toward, and the outcome of, the previous era when traditional students were the main market for higher education. Institutional barriers most frequently identified in research include difficulty obtaining financial support, negative attitudes toward adult learners, a general lack of resources at times and places suitable to adult learners, and recognition of prior learning and academic credentials.\n\nSituational barriers most frequently experienced by adult nontraditional students typically include managing multiple conflicting responsibilities in addition to their studies (e.g., life and work responsibilities and roles), financial problems and limited financial aid options for nontraditional students, lack of adequate and affordable childcare services, and lack of support from others.\n\nAttitudinal barriers most frequently identified in research include low self-esteem and negative attitudes about being an adult learner.\n\nBarriers related to academic skills most frequently discussed in the literature include a lack of knowledge and experience in literacy, numeracy, and computer-related skills, accessing and understanding information, critical and reflective thinking, essay writing, and writing examinations and tests.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5815524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5815524", "title": "Norwegian Writers for Children", "text": "Norwegian Writers for Children\n\nThe Norwegian Writers for Children (, NBU) was founded in 1947. The association, composed of authors who write fiction for children and young people, promotes the interests of writers of books for children and young people and encourages literature for children and young people. NBU has almost 300 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "42174228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42174228", "title": "Open Course Library", "text": "Open Course Library\n\nOpen Course Library (OCL) is an effort by the State of Washington to identify and make available digitally, to community and technical college instructors and students across that state, free textbooks, interactive assignments, and videos. Instructional materials can be \"a smorgasbord of teaching modules and exercises developed by other open-learning projects. . . Interactive-learning Web sites and even instructional videos on YouTube . . .\" However, OCL is not an OER publishing project, although it did contribute to the development of some widely used resources. Goals include: lowering textbook costs for students, providing new resources for faculty to use in their courses; and fully engaging in the global OER or open educational resources discussion.\n\nThe project was funded by matching grants of $750,000 from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Washington State legislature. In 2009-2010 the affected Washington State student body totaled 470,000 and was increasing. Many of the materials made available are open educational resources or OERs. Specifically, they include syllabi, course activities, readings, and assessments and some are paired with low cost textbooks, costing $30 or less. In subjects across the sciences and humanities, the OCL team created curriculum support for Washington State's most popular 81 courses in the state's 34 community and technical colleges. Instructors were free to use the materials as they wish, in part or an entire course. The project was headed by Cable Green, then eLearning Director for the Washington State Board for Community and Technical Colleges.\n\nIt emerged from a two-year discussion that ultimately produced a Strategic Technology Plan. The plan outlines a unified vision known as Washington Student Completion Initiative.\n\nOCL participants were selected from a grant proposal competition. The process, which led to production of the materials, was open and several preliminary Town Meetings were used employing Eluminate Live. All participants were welcome. The meetings are archived. Topics for discussion included interactions with publishers, content presentation, copyright policies, and various Creative Commons licenses.\n\nSuccessful applicants received $15,000 to complete a course redesign. Librarians, instructional designers and institutional researchers were also asked to apply. Like faculty, these successful applicants also received grants of $15,000. Each winning faculty member or team designed a ready-to-use digital course module. Teams were composed of community college instructors, librarians, and web-designers. In fall 2011 the first 42 courses created were released. The use of OCL materials is not mandated for Washington's community colleges and technical schools. Faculty course designers, however, are asked to adopt what they have designed. There were over 25,000 visits from 125 countries over the first four months. Nonetheless, there have been challenges: good material is not always available online for adoption and sometimes the best materials (for instance translations of primary sources published in foreign languages) are not available free.\n\nCourses are made accessible using the WashingtonOnline learning system. Externally, OCL partners with the Saylor Foundation, the Connexions Consortium, and the Open Courseware Consortium. The Saylor site can be used access course content by self-learners.\n\nA goal of the project requires instructors to become aware of the open educational resources (OERs) that are already available. A complementary goal is to share their content and adaptation by contributing to a global effort. Both directly and indirectly, Cable Green, the project's then director, observed that it has resulted in the building of networks with like-minded individuals and institutions irrespective of geography. An interest was also expressed in gauging use of materials and modules for the tenure and advancement of participants.\n\nA 2009 \"New York Times\" article reported that college students spend between $700 and $1,000 annually on textbooks. Full-time tuition in the Washington system is approximately $3,000 annually, with textbooks costing approximately $1,000 annually. Community college tuition is lower than at most traditional four year institutions, and, therefore, textbook costs may be proportionally higher. Any number of digital copies of a free textbook can be made for the price of one. Print-on demand copies generally cost under $10. Representative Reuven Carlyle (D-Seattle, Washington House of Representatives) estimates that because of OCL community college students saved over $1.25 million in textbook costs during the 2011-2012 school year. OCL seeks to contribute to the creation of better courses and to reduce costs for students. In this way it seeks to respond positively to the \"completion\" concerns outlined in the state's tipping point research report of 2008. On 17 June 2010 the Washington State Board for Community & Technical Colleges (SBCTC) approved a state-level open licensing policy. All digital works created using grant funds administered by SBCTC must now carry a Creative Commons Attribution-only (CC BY) license. This license allows materials created by one institution to be updated by another. It was within this context that OCL was launched in 2010. Nicole Allen, a textbook advocate for the national Student Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) commended the state for putting its money where its mouth is.\n\nThe results are reported in Affordable Textbooks for Washington Students: An Updated Cost Analysis of the Open Course Library (2013),<ref name=\"http://www.studentpirgs.org/sites/student/files/resources/PIRG%20OCL.pdf\"></ref> an update of Affordable Textbooks for Washington's Students: A Cost Analysis of the Open Course Library (2011). The latter reported on the first phase of courses in October 2011. In April 2013 the State Board announced the completion of all 81 courses and the updated report was released. The report concluded:\n\nOn the other hand, in January 2014 \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" \"reported that the effort to make free or low cost materials available in 42 courses was making little progress. Based on a survey of community-college stores, with responses from 25 campuses, only nine said that any materials had been used in 17 of the 42 courses. Only 2,386 of the 98,130 students enrolled in these courses, in 75 of the eligible 2,722 sections, used the materials. In 16 of the 75 sections students paid nothing; in the other 59 sections the average cost was $25. These numbers reported the work of OnCampus Research, an arm of the National Association of College Stores, which in fall 2013 sent a survey to 34 campus stores in the Washington Community and Technical College system. The survey focused on the first 42, or phase one, courses. It showed, according to the director of OnCampus Research, \"that the recommendation of specific free or lower-priced course materials for popular courses did not equate to significant use of these materials by faculty.\" However, Marty Brown, executive director of the Washington State Board of Community and Technical Colleges, took exception in a \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" piece he explained: \"The study analyzes the use of OCL materials based on adoption information from campus bookstores. This methodology provides an incomplete picture, as bookstores are not always aware when faculty members assign free, digital resources. Therefore, the study's findings do not justify its conclusion that OCL has resulted in \"insignificant\" savings to students. The Student PIRGs estimates the OCL has saved students more than $5.5-million, more than triple the original investment. We believe this is very significant.\" SPARC referred to the same presumed misunderstanding.\n\nOne reviewer states that OCL is best at \"presenting introductory college course material in a condensed, simple manner via Google docs or presentations.\" It is noted, however, that the materials are not highly refined. Further observing that \"there's something to be said about grabbing an algebra quiz or those French vocabulary words quickly.\" A doctoral dissertation focused specifically on the project concludes in its abstract: \". . . that while faculty may be motivated to adopt new innovations like OER, for some, the time it takes to identify and integrate OER into courses presents a significant barrier to adoption.\" \n\nWashington State communities have integrated OCL into educational efforts in innovative ways. For instance, Bellevue College, Washington, the state's largest community college, with help with a grant from the U.S. Department of Education, purchased 500 inexpensive netbook laptops in November 2011 for its students to rent for $35 per quarter to \"download and read Internet material.\" The anticipation was that the machines would also be used with OCL material. Since its initiation, OCL is credited with inspiring open textbook initiatives by the legislatures of California (2012), British Columbia (2012) and actions by the legislatures of Illinois, Minnesota, and Virginia all similar to California's. North Dakota proposed a resolution asking faculty and college administrations to support the use of open textbooks. Further, the Trade Adjustment Community College and Career Training grants program requires that all material created using federal funds be available to the public through an open license. Materials produced through this vehicle will be added to the OCL.\n\nThe Saylor Foundation will create modular versions of the courses. Project Kaleidoscope intends to modify OCL materials to meet the needs of California's community college students. The department of education in São Paulo Brazil plans Portuguese translations of the courses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48418561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48418561", "title": "Polish student ID", "text": "Polish student ID\n\nThe Polish student ID () is the document certifying that the person is attending a higher school (e.g., university) in Poland.\n"}
{"id": "46544101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46544101", "title": "Project Re-ED", "text": "Project Re-ED\n\nProject Re-ED, the Project on the Re-Education of Emotionally Disturbed Children, is a program to provide effective and affordable mental health services for children. The program focuses on teaching a child effective ways of acting in and responding to the child’s social groups (family, schools, peer groups) and also working with those social groups to help them provide a more supportive environment for the child. It began as a pilot project in the 1960s at two residential facilities in Tennessee and North Carolina. It later expanded to more facilities, and the principles of treatment developed in the project have been replicated and adapted in many other programs. \n\nThe program was initiated by an 8-year grant awarded in 1961 by the National Institute of Mental Health to the George Peabody College for Teachers (then a separate school, now part of Vanderbilt University) along with the states of Tennessee and North Carolina. Nicholas Hobbs, a psychology professor and chair the Division of Human Development at Peabody College, was the project’s primary developer. The two states each provided a small residential school – Cumberland House in Nashville, TN and Wright School in Durham, NC – and at the end of the grant period the states assumed responsibility for continuing and funding the program. Within a couple of decades, more than two dozen re-ed schools had been established, and many more facilities had applied principles developed in the re-ed program.\n\nThe program was a response to a 1954 study from the Southern Regional Education Board and the National Institute of Mental Health which noted the lack of adequate services and facilities for emotionally disturbed children available at the time in the southeast United States. The structure of the Re-ED program was inspired in large part by residential programs in post-World War II Scotland and France addressing mental health needs in children resulting from effects of the war. These programs were staffed largely by teachers who received primarily on-the-job practical training in psychological therapy. Following that model, Project Re-ED carefully selected effective, experienced teachers with demonstrated adaptability and creativity, and provided them with one year of graduate level practical and theoretical training in working with emotionally disturbed children.\n\nDevelopment of the program was guided by social learning theory and ecological theory, and the program takes an educational rather than a therapeutic approach.\n\nFollowing social learning theory, the program considers it important to focus on assisting children to learn new and more positive ways to interact with others in a social setting. \n\nFollowing ecological theory, the program emphasizes a holistic approach of addressing issues in the family, school, peer group, and other social settings of a child’s life together at the same time. This way, counsellors can see how troubling issues in each of these social settings influence each other, rather than addressing each setting in isolation.\n\nThe approach of the re-education method is to view emotionally disturbed children’s problems as symptoms resulting from problems in the child’s social settings. So, rather than seeing the goal as curing a child’s mental illness in long-term private, individual therapy, the program seeks to restructure a child’s environment and teach the child how to act more constructively and positively within that environment. \n\nFollow-up studies indicate that the program does effectively attain its goal of restoring and improving social operation of children and their environment in a relatively short amount of time (with an average stay in the program of about 7 months) relative to similar children not in the program. A study of the results in children ages 6-12 found a substantial reduction in problem behaviors among former students in the program, with greater gains associated with younger age and a longer stay in the program. Another study found positive results among adolescents in the program, including among students who had not done well in other programs. Both of these studies noted, however, the difficulty of determining what specific aspects of such a program influence which positive results. In general, the program is judged a viable and effective means of providing help to emotionally disturbed children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1430665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430665", "title": "Public lecture", "text": "Public lecture\n\nA public lecture is one means employed for educating the public in the arts and sciences. The Royal Institution has a long history of public lectures and demonstrations given by prominent experts in the field. In the 19th century, the popularity of the public lectures given by Sir Humphry Davy at the Royal Institution was so great that the volume of carriage traffic in Albemarle Street caused it to become the first one-way street in London. The Royal Institution's Christmas Lectures for young people are nowadays also shown on television. Alexander von Humboldt delivered a series of public lectures at the University of Berlin in the winter of 1827–1828, that formed the basis for his later work \"Kosmos\".\n\nBesides public lectures, public autopsies have been important in promoting knowledge of medicine. The public autopsy of Dr. Johann Gaspar Spurzheim, advocate of phrenology, was conducted after his death, and his brain, skull, and heart were removed, preserved in jars of alcohol, and put on display to the public. Public autoposies have sometimes verged on entertainment: American showman P. T. Barnum held a public autopsy of Joice Heth after her death. Heth was a woman whom Barnum had been featuring as being over 160 years old. Barnum charged 50 cents admission. The autopsy demonstrated that she had in fact been between 76 and 80 years old.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1977313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977313", "title": "Recitation", "text": "Recitation\n\nA recitation in a general sense is the act of reciting from memory, or a formal reading of verse or other writing before an audience.\n\nIn academia, recitation is a presentation made by a student to demonstrate knowledge of a subject or to provide instruction to others. In some academic institutions the term is used for a presentation by a teaching assistant or instructor, under the guidance of a senior faculty member, that supplements course materials. In recitations that supplement lectures, the leader will often review the lecture, expand on the concepts, and carry on a discussion with the students.\n\nIn its most basic form, a student would recite verbatim poems or essays of others, either to the teacher or tutor directly, or in front of a class or body of assembled students.\n\nIn classes involving mathematics and engineering, a recitation is often used as the vehicle to perform derivations or solve problems similar to those assigned to the students.\n\nScientific classes, such as biology, chemistry, and physics, often employ the use of recitation sections to help students clarify subject matter that was either not fully understood or inadequately addressed in the limited time of lecture. These recitation sections may be conducted by the professor or a student teaching assistant. These sections provide students with an opportunity to receive additional instruction on confusing subject matter or receive personal assistance with problems or questions assigned as homework in the lecture section. Some universities may require attendance at regularly scheduled recitation sections in addition to any required labs. Recitations may also provide students with additional opportunities for receiving grades for the lecture portion of the course. Despite mandatory attendance and additional time spent in the classroom, these sections usually do not count towards university credits required for graduation, but may significantly increase a student's ability to understand important concepts required to pass the course.\n\nRecitations of holy texts are part of the cultural presentations of some religions. As Denny notes, \"There is a vast bibliography of Qur'an recitation in Arabic and other languages by Muslim scholars.\" These religion recitations take the form of prayer, liturgy, and public performance.\n\nRecitation is practiced as a performing art especially in Bangladesh and India. Nowadays it is a popular art form in Bengal. The reciters recite Bengali poems on stage and electronic media. Shambhu Mitra, Kazi Sabyasachi, Pradeep Ghosh, Partha Ghhosh, Gauri Ghosh, Utpal Kundu are great reciters from West Bengal. Reciters like Samiran Sanyal, Bratati Bandyopadhyay, Bijoylakshmi Burman, Pinaki Chattopadhyay to name a few, are contributing significantly in this field. There are many such organizations of recitation, with most located in Bangladesh.\n\nIt was often popular for a poet to recite his or her newly-created poetry to an audience. In the early twentieth century, recitation developed into an autonomous art form.\n\n"}
{"id": "28567988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28567988", "title": "Teach: Tony Danza", "text": "Teach: Tony Danza\n\nTeach: Tony Danza is an American reality show about actor Tony Danza becoming a tenth-grade English teacher at Northeast High School in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, during the 2009–2010 school year. The show premiered October 1, 2010 on A&E. Filming took place predominantly during the first semester of the school year, with a few unaired scenes shot at the end of the second semester. Production was halted at the end of the first semester after the producers felt that existing footage was not dramatic enough, and after Danza refused to allow the producers to try to generate drama among his students. The existing footage was used to create the seven episodes that aired.\n\n"}
{"id": "20183765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20183765", "title": "The Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania", "text": "The Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania is a non-profit organization located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that provides a variety of free services to local mentoring agencies and is the chief public advocate for mentoring in the region. It is one of almost three dozen mentoring partnerships across the country that is affiliated with MENTOR/National Mentoring Partnership but remains an administratively independent organization.\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership provides resources and training to individuals and organizations who are interested in starting new mentoring programs. These services include print materials, group trainings and individual meetings with Mentoring Partnership staff.\n\nIn addition to the services provided to new programs, the Mentoring Partnership offers their expertise to existing programs to help them diagnose the strengths and weaknesses of their program in order to improve mentor/mentee relationships and outcomes.\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership works to recruit volunteer mentors for their partner programs. The centerpiece is National Mentoring Month in January, during which The Mentoring Partnership partners with MENTOR to raise awareness about mentoring. Ongoing efforts include presentations to community organizations, businesses and universities as well as advertising and attracting media attention.\n\nResearch has shown that mentoring relationships are more productive when mentors receive training. The Mentoring Partnership offers free trainings to mentors who are at any of their partner programs. These include both basic pre-match training as well as more specialized ongoing trainings for mentors. \n\nThe Mentoring Partnership provides opportunities for mentoring programs' staff and volunteers to collaborate with and learn from each other. The primary conduit is monthly MLN (Mentoring Leadership Network) meetings, which are usually held on the second Tuesday of the month in Pittsburgh and the third Tuesday of the month in Beaver County.\n"}
{"id": "32802391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32802391", "title": "The Newman Guide to Choosing a Catholic College", "text": "The Newman Guide to Choosing a Catholic College\n\nThe Newman Guide to Choosing a Catholic College is a guide published annually by the Cardinal Newman Society to assist students in choosing a Catholic college or university. It includes a list of Catholic institutions of higher education selected for their adherence to Catholic teaching and commitment to higher education. The guide seeks to include schools which comport with the principles of \"Ex Corde Ecclesiae\".\n\nFirst published in 2007, the Guide identifies 20 of the 197 Catholic colleges in the United States, as well as seven colleges and universities abroad and online where, in the Society's view, \"students can reasonably expect a faithful Catholic education and a campus culture that generally upholds the values taught in their homes and parishes.\"\n\nThe Guide claims \"to show students where they can learn and grow in a genuine Catholic environment without the nonsense that has overtaken even some of the most well-known Catholic universities.\" Not all recommended colleges are accredited, and the criteria for recommendation includes whether or not the Tridentine Mass is offered on campus.\n\nThe Newman Guide is published both in printed book form and online. The Guide's website includes all of the information for free.\n\n"}
{"id": "30640885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30640885", "title": "Tiger parenting", "text": "Tiger parenting\n\nTiger parenting (老虎妈妈, \"tiger mother\" or \"tiger mom\") is strict or demanding parenting. Tiger parents push and pressure their children to attaining high levels of scholastic and academic achievement, using authoritarian parenting methods. The term was coined by Yale law professor Amy Chua in her 2011 memoir \"Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother\". A largely Chinese-American concept, the term draws parallels to strict parenting styles typically enforced throughout households in East Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia. Since the rise of Amy Chua's memoir and the tiger mom phenomenon into the American mainstream during the early 2010s, the tiger mom has since then been a caricatured figure in modern Chinese society as well as in Overseas Chinese communities around the world. Chua's rise to fame quickly popularized the concept and term \"tiger mother\" spawning numerous caricatures while also becoming the inspiration for the 2014-2015 Singaporean TV show \"Tiger Mum\", the 2015 mainland Chinese drama \"Tiger Mom\", and the 2017 Hong Kong series \"Tiger Mom Blues\". The stereotyped figure often portrays a Chinese mother who relentlessly drives her child to study hard, to the detriment of the child's social and physical development, and emotional well being. \n\nThe tiger mom is analogous to other parenting stereotypes such as the American stage mother who forces her child to achieve career success in Hollywood, the stereotypical Japanese kyōiku mama who takes an enormous amount of effort in directing much of her maternal influence towards development of their children's educational and intellectual achievement, or the Jewish mother's drive for her children to succeed academically and professionally, resulting in a push for perfection and a continual dissatisfaction with anything less or the critical, self-sacrificing mother who coerces her child into medical school or law school.\n\nThe origin of the tiger mom concept, term, and neologism traces its roots in ancient Confucian teachings articulated through classical anthologies such as the \"Analects of Confucius\" written more than two millennia ago. The concept has been heavily influenced by Confucianism, an ancient Chinese philosophy developed by the philosopher Confucius in the 5th century BC that promoted values such as respect for one’s elders and authority, harmonious relations, bringing honor rather than shame to the family, hard work, enduring hardship, keeping one's place in society, honesty, and dedicating oneself towards academic excellence through the pursuit of knowledge. As Chinese and East Asian society is permeated by values reflecting the teachings of the ancient Chinese scholar, Confucianism remains still very much a core part of everyday life in Mainland China and the rest of East Asia.\n\nMany contemporary Chinese families strive to inculcate the value and importance of an education in their child at a young age. Higher education is an overwhelmingly serious issue in Chinese society, where it is viewed as one of the fundamental cornerstones of Chinese culture and life. Education is regarded with a high priority for Chinese families as success in education holds a cultural status as well as a necessity to improve one's socioeconomic position in Chinese society. These values are embedded deeply in Chinese culture, parent-child relations and parents' expectations for their children. For the Chinese, the importance of education was considered a crucial means for channeling one's upward social mobility in ancient and medieval Chinese societies. In contemporary Mainland China, national examinations such as the \"Gaokao\" remain the primary path for channeling one's upward social mobility.\n\nWhile \"tiger mother\" is a generic term for the tiger parenting phenomenon, representing a concept that was not commonly known until the publication of Chua's book, the broader phrase \"tiger parenting\" also acknowledges the fact that fathers or other parent-figures can also instigate, participate in, or be accomplices to the behavior. Western parenting tries to respect and nurture children’s individualism while Chinese parents believe that arming children with in demand job skills such mathematical and scientific proficiency, strong work habits, and inner confidence prepares them best for the future.\n\nParents who set up rules that overstep conventional parental boundaries are regarded as either tiger mothers or (less commonly) tiger fathers. Tiger parents prioritize schoolwork above all else and only allow children to participate in activities in order to potentially win awards which they believe will increase the chance of the child's acceptance to the elite universities. It is said that \"Asian American parents provide a constant wind beneath their children's wings\"; meaning tiger parents constantly propel their children towards their commitment towards excellence. In a similar way, Chinese tiger parents pay more attention to students core academic subjects such as math, science, and language arts and ignore other non-academic activities such as art and sports in order to ensure their children's superior performance in their core academic subjects.\n\nTiger parents emphasize a commitment towards excellence in academia and award-winning non-academic achievements such as performing classical music instruments. Some also choose to incorporate competitive sports for their children. This unusually high level of expectations may stem from parental love and care, as well as a strong desire to pave the way for their children’s future success, as playing an instrument or being proficient in a competitive sport often serve as a cosmetic addition of extracurricular activities that may look good on college applications. Many Chinese tiger parenting families have a huge emphasis on academic achievement. Extrinsic rewards play a role in the Confucian cultural value system Chinese parents communicate and inculcate in their children at a young age. The strong emphasis on high academic achievement is often seen as a source of stress for Western parents while Chinese parents see the stress of academic achievement on their children as a sign of good parenting reinforced by the entire Confucian cultural value system.\n\nTiger parents try to reinforce higher levels of psychological and behavioral control over their children than other parents. Tempering a child's self-esteem may be part of this strategy. Psychological control comes in many forms but it rooted when parents work to constrain children’s autonomy through psychologically manipulative tactics such as the withdrawal of love or induction of guilt. While behavioral control is focused on setting limits on children's activities, often referring to academics and limiting behavioral problems.\n\nIn Chua's memoir, \"Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother\", she mentions an incident that she yelled at her daughters, calling them ‘garbage’ in public. It has been shown that tiger parents are less likely than other parents to compliment their children in public as well. Children raised by tiger parents may be met with emotional threats and low-impact physical punishments if they failed to practice their piano scales and meet their her expectations. Moreover, some tiger parents do not allow their children to make some decisions on their own, whether in academia or daily life. For instance, Chua's daughters were not allowed to watch TV at night or have sleepovers with their schoolmates.\n\nChua cites her parents' newfound immigration experience in the United States and intense struggle to set their roots in a foreign land as the reason inevitably prompting them to adopt a more utilitarian approach towards raising their children. In her memoir, Chua brings up Confucius to elucidate why Chinese parents feel that their children are indebted to them due to all the sacrifices the previous parental generation made to secure a better life for their children. Tiger parents enforce high expectations and may harbor snobbish and inflated views regarding their children’s academic performance. In some cases these expectations may be held unrealistically high regardless of the child's ability or passion for studying. Tiger parents may exhibit harsh and unrealistic expectations for the child's academic performance where \"B\" and even mid to low end \"A\" grades are not tolerated. Tiger parents put a heavy emphasis on the pursuit of academic success at the expense of other character traits that are just as crucial for future career success such as soft skills, social skills, dealing with people, and emotional intelligence. Tiger parents eschew the lax parenting style typically exhibited by many liberal Western parents but also disregard other soft skills that are just are as crucial for their children's future career prospects and the lack of such skills may put them at a disadvantage when competing for job positions. Tiger parents may impose choices on their children as to which interests they choose to pursue. Critics of the tiger parenting argue that this approach will restrict their children's ability to discover their individual talents and passions thus denying the child a sense of belonging, self-esteem, and purpose. On the other hand, proponents for tiger parenting argue that their parenting strategy imbues children with self-control, self-regulation and self-discipline and won't produce excellent academic results if they let their child to drift freely to develop their own interests. Chinese Confucian philosophy has traditionally emphasized self-improvement. As a result, tiger parents often make sure that their children work conscientiously on their schoolwork to help secure better grades and an overall superior academic performance. \n\nEast Asian countries often adopt a strict exam-oriented approach in teaching, which encourages rote memorization. Some argue that this approach encourages uniformity while eschewing creativity, questioning, student participation, self-determination, autonomy, diversity and critical or independent thinking. Tiger parents often put children in tutorial classes as early as the preschool stage. Typically, throughout the child's academic career, the mothers attempts to help the child obtain outstanding results in exams to secure a seat in prestigious schools, with the end goal of entering a top-notch university in mind.\n\nIn East Asian societies, a higher education level is perceived as a guarantee of promising career prospects; and as a tool to climb up the socioeconomic ladder or to lift a family out of poverty. In the classical Chinese anthologies \"Analects of Confucius\" by the ancient Chinese philosopher Confucius in the 5th century BC, education is a central theme in the book with philosophical ideas and sayings that placed great value on work ethic and the pursuit of knowledge. The Confucian ideal argued that education is a passport to higher socioeconomic status and wealth. In ancient and medieval East Asian societies, Scholar-officials had a high social status and intellectuals were held in high esteem, well above than that of wealthy landowners, businessmen, and merchants. Thus, tiger parents pin high hope on their children, taking much pride in their children's academic achievements and may flaunt them to other parents when comparing their own children with the academic achievements of others. Chinese immigrant parents in the West argue that \"high academic achievement\" reflects \"successful parenting\" while parents who have children that bring home inferior academic records are seen as irresponsible parents who are not doing their job. One historical explanation for the strict examination approach stems from the Imperial examination system of China for civil service government positions. Success in the civil examination administered by the royal court was seen as a sure conduit improve a family’s socioeconomic position. Since such positions were scarce with many applicants applying for few opening positions, competition was fierce and these positions were highly coveted, as only a select few could succeed and attain them. Tiger parents recognize how crucial self-discipline is in gaining success, so they may try to instill the value of an exam oriented education into their children as early as possible.\n\nTiger parents perceive a narrow definition of success that is rooted solely in a high level of academic and intellectual achievement. \nAs academic success is often a source of pride for families and within Chinese and East Asian society at large, tiger parents typically view \"success\" as graduating from a top university such as Harvard, or other Ivy League institutions as the ultimate marker of prestige, granting high socioeconomic status, promising marriage prospects, and a highly respectable lucrative white collar career path such as becoming a high end neurosurgeon for Mayo Clinic, a high powered lawyer at a top law Wall Street law firm, a software engineer in Silicon Valley, a management consultant for Boston Consulting Group, or as an investment banker working for Goldman Sachs. Tiger mothers also incorporate classical music training or extracurricular enrichment activities such as joining a sports team, including those with competitive structures and awards systems to bolster their child's university entrance application. This kind of early life training illustrates the tiger parent's zeal for education and the desire for their children to get into a prestigious university as tiger parents see the entrance into a top tier higher educational institution as a ticket that leads to a prestigious, rewarding, and lucrative white collar career filled with socioeconomic success. Tiger parents may look down on careers beneath their expectations - that is a truck driver may be viewed as less socially respectable than a neurosurgeon.\n\nDuring the past 30 years the Asian American population has increased due to increased immigration to the United States. Today, Asian Americans have recently surpassed Hispanics as the largest immigrant group in the United States. Immigration comes with may consequences, many positive and many negative, when it comes to economics, political, and psycho-social changes through intercultural contact in new host countries.\n\nIt is important to understand that Asian Americans trace their roots to dozens of regions and countries across the Asian continent. Although this article predominantly focuses on tiger parenting as a Chinese-American phenomenon it can be found across Asian culture by trends found in Asian immigration.\n\nAcculturation \\ə-ˌkəl-chə-ˈrā-shən can be defined as is an adaptive process which occurs both on an individual and group level when intercultural exchange happens. According to Barry's model of acculturation there are four key strategies including (1) assimilation - the acceptation of the host countries dominant culture, (2) separation - the acceptation of one's native culture, (3) integration - adopting both the host countries and native countries cultures, and (4) marginalization - the rejection of both cultures. In relation to tiger parenting acculturation is a key predictor of the mother's expectations of their children.\n\nValues /ˈvalyo͞os/, in a sociological sense, are a culture's standards for discerning what is considered good, bad, beautiful and ugly, and sought after and avoided. These are deeply embedded into the foundation of culture and society suggesting how people should behave, although there may be some deviation.\n\nAsian Americans are distinctive in that their values are represented as a whole when compared with other U.S. adults. Asian Americans on average exceed with having a high rate of college completion, traditionally seen as a predecessor of financial and career success. They have a strong emphasis for family and successful marriages, where being a good parent is one of the most important aspects of life. They are most likely to have multi generational households with at least two generations living together. And, have a strong belief in the rewards of hard work. Altogether these values and beliefs work together to formulate the phenomena of the tiger parent in Asian cultures. \n\nAdvocates suggest a strict approach to parenting produces an exceptionally high proportion of top performers – children who display academic excellence across the board with great musical ability and professional success later in life. In a three-part series on competition in Hong Kong's education system by the \"South China Morning Post\", many Hong Kong parents revealed that cultural fears over economic hardship motivated them to begin thinking of their children's futures as professionals soon after birth, striving to find the best playgroups, and encouraging competition among children in academia, sports and music, in the belief that this fosters competitiveness and increases their children's chances of entering into a better pre-nursery school and elite kindergarten, and determine their eventual success at primary schools, secondary schools and universities. However, many other Hong Kong parents, psychologists and educators assert that pushing children too hard does not work, and can even harm children. There is a growing trend of children aged five to 12 seeking psychiatric help and even contemplating suicide. In reaction, some parents have relaxed their formerly strict discipline with their children, and some schools have made their admissions requirements less strenuous.\n\nAccording to some sources, children raised under a strict, controlling, and punitive tiger mother will suffer a chronic social and psychological toll. This included some young Asians as well as children from immigrant families of Asian ancestry who live in other parts of the world outside Asia. Children raised with a less supportive type of parenting have developed chronic mental health and psychiatric problems such as anxiety, low self-esteem, depression, and contemplation of suicide. These mental health and psychiatric problems may create psychological problems that make these children feel like \"failures\". When parents do not provide coping strategies to their children and guide alongside to manage negative feelings, such loneliness may transition into depression and suicide.\n\nTiger parenting has been blamed for high rates of suicide in East Asia, particularly South Korea, which has some of the highest suicide rates in the developed world. In South Korea, stress from constant study and limited social life pressured by harsh and demanding parents on a student may be taking a psychological and social toll on younger generations, causing an increase in aggression, mental health problems, impaired cognitive development, and drug and alcohol abuse. Other adverse effects, such as depression, anxiety, antisocial behavior, and increased risk of physical abuse, have also been linked to the increasing amount of academic pressure placed on young South Koreans. \n\nTiger parents' belief in the importance of academics for their children is considered by many to constitute child abuse, but is seen as acceptable by many Asian parents. Many have described their traditions as including physical and emotional closeness that ensures a lifelong bond between parent and child, as well as establishing parental authority and child obedience through discipline.\n\nBalancing disciplinary responsibilities through violence within parenting is common in many Asian cultures, including China, Pakistan, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam. To some cultures, violent parenting may be seen as abuse, but in other societies such as these, the use of violence is looked at as a reflection of parental devotion. Severe forms of violence may include spanking or slapping the child with an open hand or striking with an available household implement such as a belt, slipper, cane, clothes hanger, meterstick, hairbrush, paddle or bamboo feather duster.\n\nAccording to the sources cited by the website Parenting Science, children from authoritarian families may find it more difficult to fend for themselves and make friends, but whether or not most families with a tiger parent could be considered authoritarian is a matter of debate. Studies published by the \"Handbook of Child Psychology\" have shown that children under tiger parenting were rated as less helpful and less popular by their teachers and classmates. Also, they are more likely to show aggressive behavior towards others when they are forced to learn without recess. They were rated as less self-reliant and are not able to be independent thinkers since their life is organized by their parents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30666", "title": "Trivium", "text": "Trivium\n\nThe trivium is the lower division of the seven liberal arts and comprises grammar, dialectic, and rhetoric.\n\nThe trivium is implicit in \"De nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii\" (\"On the Marriage of Philology and Mercury\") by Martianus Capella, but the term was not used until the Carolingian Renaissance, when it was coined in imitation of the earlier quadrivium. Grammar, logic, and rhetoric were essential to a classical education, as explained in Plato's dialogues. The three subjects together were denoted by the word \"trivium\" during the Middle Ages, but the tradition of first learning those three subjects was established in ancient Greece. Contemporary iterations have taken various forms, including those found in certain British and American universities (some being part of the Classical education movement) and at the independent Oundle School in the United Kingdom.\n\nEtymologically, the Latin word trivium means \"the place where three roads meet\" (tri + via); hence, the subjects of the trivium are the foundation for the quadrivium, the upper division of the medieval education in the liberal arts, which comprised arithmetic (number), geometry (number in space), music (number in time), and astronomy (number in space and time). Educationally, the trivium and the quadrivium imparted to the student the seven liberal arts of classical antiquity.\n\nGrammar teaches the mechanics of language to the student. This is the step where the student \"comes to terms,\" defining the objects and information perceived by the five senses. Hence, the Law of Identity: \"a tree is a tree, and not a cat\".\n\nLogic (also dialectic) is the \"mechanics\" of thought and of analysis, the process of identifying fallacious arguments and statements and so systematically removing contradictions, thereby producing factual knowledge that can be trusted.\n\nRhetoric is the application of language in order to instruct and to persuade the listener and the reader. It is the knowledge (grammar) now understood (logic) and being transmitted outwards as wisdom (rhetoric).\n\nSister Miriam Joseph, in \"The Trivium: The Liberal Arts of Logic, Grammar, and Rhetoric\" (2002), described the trivium as follows:\n\nGrammar is the art of inventing symbols and combining them to express thought; logic is the art of thinking; and rhetoric is the art of communicating thought from one mind to another, the adaptation of language to circumstance.\n\nGrammar is concerned with the thing as-it-is-symbolized. Logic is concerned with the thing as-it-is-known. Rhetoric is concerned with the thing as-it-is-communicated.\n\nJohn Ayto wrote in the \"Dictionary of Word Origins\" (1990) that study of the trivium (grammar, logic, and rhetoric) was requisite preparation for study of the quadrivium (arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy). For the medieval student, the trivium was the curricular beginning of the acquisition of the seven liberal arts; as such, it was the principal undergraduate course of study. The word \"trivial\" arose from the contrast between the simpler trivium and the more difficult quadrivium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3551122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3551122", "title": "Universal preschool", "text": "Universal preschool\n\nUniversal preschool is an international movement to use public funding to ensure high quality preschool (pre-k) is available to all families.\n\nCiting international and domestic research showing a benefit to children from low and middle income families both in the short and long term, the movement to advance publicly funded pre-k has resulted in the successful passage of pre-k enabling legislation in 44 states in the US. While some funding legislation for pre-k has been passed on the federal level, including the Race to the Top Early Learning Challenge Grant, much of the advocacy focuses on building broad support from diverse leaders in business, child activists, educators, philanthropists, law enforcement, and healthcare to lobby state legislatures.\n\nStates use public dollars to fund pre-k programs in a variety of settings, including public schools, private non-profit and for-profit centers, and in regulated home childcare. Typically states fund preschool for three-, four-, and five-year-old children who have missed a cut-off date for enrollment in kindergarten. The hours range from 10 hours per week in Vermont, to full day programs in other states. Funding mechanisms vary as well, with some state utilizing a state budget line item versus a local budget appropriation.\n\nWhile variations in implementation are numerous, state-funded pre-k consistently offer programs on a voluntary basis for children and families, unlike compulsory elementary, which is mandated by law with exceptions to allow for homeschooling and alternative education. Variations include how states deal with the following pre-k implementation elements: \n\nSupporters of publicly funded preschool for all children cite research that shows:\n\nRecent studies show that the benefits of universal preschool outweigh the costs. A 2005 longitudinal study of 123 3 and 4-year-old black children conducted a cost-benefit analysis, reports that for every $1 invested in preschool education, there is a return on the investment of $12.90. Advantages of universal preschool for the child also include higher reading scores for low-income students. According to research from Dartmouth College, universal preschool programs boost low-income children's reading scores more than targeted preschool programs (e.g., Head Start). The study finds that the difference in reading scores is large enough to conclude that universal preschool is more productive than targeted preschool. Other research supports the Dartmouth College study's findings. Barnett and Frede's (2010) extensive research in early childhood education found that because students learn from each other, disadvantaged students learn more if their classmates are socioeconomically diverse. Additionally, a study out of Tulsa that compared Head Start and a state-funded (i.e., universal) preschool program found that the universal program is more effective in improving literacy outcomes and attentiveness. \n\nAs the topic of universal preschool gains momentum in the United States, policymakers will be involved in designing preschool programs. Many researchers are concerned that once state governments get involved, preschool programs will focus on academic skills rather than the comprehensive developmental needs of children. Because of the rich diversity in schools, researchers caution against using a 'one-size fits all' policy for developing universal preschool programs. Researchers recommend that policymakers consider the diverse perspectives of the primary stakeholders (i.e., children and educators) when developing policy for high-quality preschools. Research performed by Celia Genishi can aid policymakers in developing culturally responsive and developmentally appropriate high-quality preschool programs. Genishi's research considers the diverse classroom and students as the 'norm' and stresses the importance of the context of learning. Researchers suggest that policymakers examine a variety of research studies and create systems that are responsive to student diversity so that we can better serve all children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "668610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=668610", "title": "University of the Third Age", "text": "University of the Third Age\n\nThe University of the Third Age is an international movement whose aims are the education and stimulation of mainly retired members of the community—those in their third 'age' of life. It is commonly referred to as U3A.\n\nThere is no universally accepted model for the U3A. Its original conception in France as an extramural university activity was significantly modified in the United Kingdom where it was recognized that most people of retirement age have something to contribute and the emphasis has been on sharing, without formal links to traditional universities. \n\nMany English-speaking countries have followed this geragogic model, whereas continental European countries have mostly followed the French model.\n\nA British U3A website reports this about \"The Third Age\" membership eligibility: \"U3A membership is not related to a specific age but to a period in one’s life (the third age) after the second age of full-time employment and parental responsibility. Anybody in their third age can join U3A and this includes people who are working part-time. There is no lower age for membership.\"\n\nU3A started in France at the Faculty of Social Sciences in Toulouse back in 1973. It was started by Prof. Pierre Vellas. In France, each Third Age University group is mostly associated with a local university. This academic model is used in many other countries, in particular in continental Europe. The university affiliation generates various opportunities such as highly qualified teaching personnel, a variety of subject choices, opportunity for students and faculty to conduct research based on the professional, cultural or historical experiences of the elderly, etc. U3As do not issue diplomas but rather certificates and teach in many fields according to the interests of the groups of elderly students (usually 55+) such as computer skills, languages, entrepreneurship, hereditary law, religion, politics, etc. Sometimes U3As provide groups with vocational training and formal continuous education opportunities.\n\nIn the 1990s the concept was broadened in France to the notion of the University of All Ages (UTA - université tous âges) or University of Free Time (UTL - université du temps libre). The UFUTA changed its name to \"Union Française des Universités de Tous Ages\" (retaining the acronym). Some French university departments have adopted the title of \"Université du Temps Libre\". \n\nAIUTA (\"Association Internationale des Universités du Troisième Âge\") (https://aiu3a.org/) is the global international organization and network of universities of the third age, including such institutions from most continental European countries, Central and East Europe, China, Russia, Latin America, etc., including Mauritius and other destinations. The President of AIUTA is prof. François Vellas from the University of Toulouse, son of the founder of the first U3A Pierre.\n\nBy the early 1980s, the concept reached the United Kingdom, where its nature was radically changed to be more a self-help organization under the influence of its founders, Peter Laslett, Michael Young and Eric Midwinter. This model is also used in Australia, Cyprus, Dominica, New Zealand and South Africa.\nIn the British model of peer learning, it is acknowledged that retired people have a lifetime of experience and, collectively, a vast amount of knowledge. This is used to arrange a syllabus for each subject where each meeting is normally led by a member of the group with a strong interest or specialist knowledge.Each U3A group pays a membership fee to the national coordinating body, The Third Age Trust, and has access to a vast range of resources including a multi-media lending library, special-interest newsletters and contacts with other groups with similar interests. Summer schools are held by special interest groups. Most importantly, each group ha an absolutely autonomous entity, self-financing and self-managing. In 2016 the British U3A reported its 1000th member, at Churchdown, Gloucestershire which has 26 groups, after reporting 950 in 2015, running 36,000 courses for 350,000 people.Most groups are regional in nature which has led to the creation, in some countries, of variations on the U3A. For example, in Cyprus there is a U3A, an organization called C3A (Cyprus Third Age), which is affiliated to the UK U3A, and P3A (Paphos Third Age).\n\nSome Central (and Eastern) European countries were introduced to the U3A quite early: Poland, Czech Republic (formerly part of Czechoslovakia) and Slovenia. The Slovenian Third Age University was started by two university professors in 1984 and has developed into a network of 40 universities over the entire country.\n\nThere is an online Third Age University in Russia at http://u3a.niuitmo.ru/.\n\nAustralia's first U3A began in Melbourne in 1984 and as of 2013, has grown to 250 U3As with approximately 85,000 members. These are based in metropolitan, regional and rural areas, and follow the British self-help model of teaching and learning over a wide range of subject areas, dependent upon the membership's own expertise, knowledge and skills.\n\nU3As in New South Wales, Victoria, the Australian Capital territory, South Australia, Queensland and Western Australia have formed state networks to support the U3As in their state or territory with a range of resources. Each Network has its own website from which local U3As can be located. For example, see http://www.nsw.u3anet.org.au which also has links to other state networks.\n\nIn 1998, U3A Online was started to provide cognitively challenging virtual courses for isolated older people from any country. Since then the initiative has been widened to include any person who regards themselves as being in their third age. More than 35 courses, all written and taught by volunteer experts from various countries, are available. In 2009, U3A Online published a paper entitled \"Educational initiatives for the elderly\". The paper contains contributions from a number of U3A leaders from around the world outlining the status of U3A and U3A-like organizations in different countries. That paper, and other peer-reviewed research studies based on the Successful Aging model, are freely available from http://www.u3aonline.org.au.\n\nThe Third Age Network (TAN) is very active in Canada, however currently only within the province of Ontario. With head office at the G. Raymond Chang School of Continuing Education at Ryerson University in Toronto, the network started in 2007 and has grown to 21 groups in 2018. \n\nThe Third Age Mission: “To foster Third Age Learning and share issues and solutions to common organizational challenges. We do this by promoting the establishment of organizations that provide opportunities for older adults to learn in a friendly, social setting and by supporting adult learning organizations in this process by sharing strategies and techniques to accomplish this goal.”\n\nTAN runs a newsletter and hosts organization-wide symposiums and forums. It also provides support to local groups with things like information on speakers, networking with colleagues, data on member operations, including honoraria paid to speakers, board make up, rental costs, affordable group insurance, a regular newsletter, conferences and workshop, guidance for creating a website, internal and external communication.\n\nSimon Fraser University (SFU) Seniors Program\n\nSFU was the first university in North America to create a series of specially designed courses for seniors at the post-secondary level. Its mandate was to provide educational programs for older adults that were responsive to their unique psychological and physiological characteristics. \n\nTo read more see this page on the UBC website.\n\nOn January 1, 2009, after four years of experiments and testing, the Virtual University of the Third Age (vU3A) was launched with the intention of offering the same friendship, support and learning enjoyed by off-line groups. vU3A is open to anyone, in particular those who, by circumstances of isolation, health problems or other restrictions, cannot get to a U3A group. There is a small fee.\n\nVolunteers run the entire operation, including teaching, in cyberspace. There is general agreement that not only physical but intellectual activity enrich and prolong life in the later years. Although primarily for the retired, many U3As open their membership to any people not in full-time employment, thus becoming more inclusive and widening the age range of the membership.\n\nTypical courses include Art, Classical Studies, Conversation, Computers, Crafts, Debate, Drama, History, Languages, Literature, Music, Sciences, Social Sciences, and Philosophy. Some study groups do not have a prepared syllabus, but draw on reports of current affairs in their topic subject to prompt conversation and research. Some groups are designed to cross disciplinary boundaries, for example, combining Society, Technology and Science in a fashion not practical in more formal academic environments.\n\nU3A groups are well positioned to conduct serious research into local history and genealogy. For example, a group in Eyemouth collected and exhibited many photographs of life and work in the district over the years. Some groups aim to bridge the generation gap in the field of information technology, opening up an exciting new world to many who might have been oblivious of it otherwise. Internet marketing is especially important for members in more remote locations.\n\nThere are also many less educationally focused activities, including Games, including bridge tuition and duplicate bridge playing groups; Health, Fitness & Leisure, including countryside walks, Theatre/Concert Clubs, Travel Clubs, and Dance in all its forms.\n\nMany U3As publish local newsletters as do some of their special interest networks. In the UK the Third Age Trust, the coordinating body in the UK, publishes a national magazine. Third Age Matters publishes five times per year plus an educational bulletin called Sources, for subscribing U3A members three times annually.\n\nThe U3A can also provide a valuable resource in considering many local and national issues. Membership includes many with experience and expertise in almost all walks of life and letters. Although strictly non-political, U3A members have time to reflect in a mature fashion on such topics as the operation of public services, crime and punishment, the future of energy supplies, public funding of the arts and so on, and can reply to invitations to engage in public consultations with carefully considered and argued responses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28654727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28654727", "title": "Wittgenstein's ladder", "text": "Wittgenstein's ladder\n\nA Wittgenstein's ladder is a simplified explanation of a technical or complex subject that is used as a teaching tool, despite being technically wrong.\n\nThe term stems from proposition number 6.54 in Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein's 1921 philosophical work \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", in which he states that although his propositions are at some level incorrect, they can be used like steps on a ladder to help one reach an understanding of higher level concepts.\n\nOther philosophers before Wittgenstein including Schopenhauer and Fritz Mauthner had used a similar metaphor before him. In 1930, Wittgenstein rejected his own \"ladder\" idea, stating:\n"}
{"id": "6512571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6512571", "title": "Yös exam", "text": "Yös exam\n\nThe YÖS Examination is an entrance examination designed for foreign students wishing to study in higher education institutions in Turkey.\n\nThis examination was set and administered by the Student Selection and Placement Centre (ÖSYM) until 2010, when universities began conducting their own versions of the exam. The results of this exam apply only for students wishing to enrol in undergraduate programmes. Students presently enrolled in undergraduate programmes who seek a transfer, and also those who wish to follow postgraduate programmes, should apply directly to the institutions of their choice.\n\nThe YÖS Examination is composed of two tests:\n\n\nApproximately 9,200 candidates from various countries take the YÖS Examination.\n\n"}
