{"id": "51110018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51110018", "title": "Afrikaans folklore", "text": "Afrikaans folklore\n\nLearners of Afrikaans as an additional language could be enabled to respond to aesthetical, emotional, cultural and social values. Through the use of Afrikaans folklore teachers can focus on developing the learners' ability to behave with cultural and aesthetic sensitivity in different social contexts. Afrikaans examples of folklore are mentioned and discussed briefly to include stories with humour, magic, the transmission of social and cultural values and traditions, ecological meaning, idiomatic expressions, praise poems, ogre characters and stereotypes.\n\nBy means of a well-known background and/or context of a text, learners of Afrikaans as an additional language can become aware of the aesthetic range of the target language; they can become acquainted with the depth and content of meaning implied in the text. If a text is understood, the reader becomes personally involved and this, in itself, can lead the reader to interact creatively with the text - from the mechanical aspect of the language system to the analytical aspect - where s/he can participate in the story. The learner can thus discover how the events unfold, s/he can share the characters' emotional experiences and communicate their personal responses. Herein lies the relevance of a good reading text (despite the origin) - because the reader inhabits the text and in the process the language becomes transparent.\n\nThe degree to which learners understand and identify with learning material is enhanced by the use of cultural contexts well known to them. All people are active participants in a dynamic cultural process. If folklore is made part of the literature teaching programme, learning Afrikaans as an additional language can come to play a significant role in the learner's everyday life, instead of remaining little more than an intellectual exercise performed in the isolation of a language class.\n\nFolklore, as Potter describes it, can be seen as a \"lively fossil which refuses to die. It is a precipitate of the scientific and cultural lag of centuries and millennia of human experience ... folklore develops as the traditional, and usually oral, explanation of the origins and early history of man.\"\n\nThe American anthropologist Bascom defines folklore as \"a part of culture but not the whole of culture. It includes myths, legends, tales, proverbs, riddles, the texts of ballads and other songs, and other forms of lesser importance, but not folk art, folk dance, folk music, folk costume, folk medicine, folk custom, or folk belief.\"\n\nMiruka gives a specific account of what a narrative is: \"a prose account of people, events, places, etc. that may be factual or fictional. The accounts are principally handed down from person to person and generation to generation through word of mouth. The term 'tale' and 'folktale' have been used to denote the same concept.\"\n\nThe significance of the above for the teaching programme of Afrikaans as an additional language is that the cultural experiences of the learner could be included, enriched and adapted through folklore as an instrument in a literary context.\n\nExperience with Zulu teacher education students showed that African folktales (by Minnie Postma, Eugène Marais and folktales from East Africa) as well as the comic strips by T.O. Honiball captured the attention and interest of the students. They did not have to struggle to understand the background while acquiring new vocabulary. They were immediately able to identify with the characters and could participate in extended readings. While reading these stories and comic strips, their receptive vocabulary increased and this eventually facilitated their progression to a more active and productive form of language (speaking and writing).\n\nOne way of bringing about harmony in our multicultural nation, is to assist today's learners to acquire intercultural sensitivity. The teaching of a core literature can contribute to this aim, and my understanding of this concept is that it will represent all the activities and experiences of being human that we share with one another in our South African society. Folklore is an example of such a core literature. It comprises the transmitted verbalisation of events and values that are inherently part of the human race as a species - values that are specific and nonetheless universal, such as integrity, loyalty, honour, freedom, etc.\n\nThe multicultural character of South African society implies that each community creates its own images of universal values and ideas. When studying a literature text, the educator in the additional language classroom will have to lead the learners to the discovery and study of the relevant values involved. This should be done in such a way, through folklore as a literary instrument, that no-one's integrity or self-esteem is threatened. The educator should always take into account the fact that each learner brings with him/her his/her own version of these values into the classroom.\n\nHarmon defines folklore as follows: \"Folklore is something which the individual has in common with his fellows ... It makes possible - perhaps it might be defined as that which constitutes - his rapport with his particular segment of mankind.\"\n\nThe article should like to plead in favour of an increased awareness of and active use of folklore (in Afrikaans), within an African context (inter alia), in the language curriculum. The term \"folklore\" has a wide range of meanings and some researchers interpret the concept loosely and differently, so much so that there is an entire dictionary for this one term. The article will limit itself to oral forms of expression and concentrate on folktales which involve humour, magic, the transmission of culture, ecological narrations, idiomatic expressions, praise poems and stereotypes when the term \"folklore\" is used.\n\nThe following important elements of folklore can be identified and analysed in the literature teaching classroom where Afrikaans is being learned.\n\nThe practical implementation of the research done by Bosch on different aspects of humour can add to the enjoyment of reading humorous folktales - thus contributing to a sense of fun in learning Afrikaans as an additional language. Experience has shown that the humour expressed and understood by Zulu learners in the additional language classroom consists mostly of imitating comical situations, tone of voice, facial expressions and body language. Additional language learners struggle to appreciate humour that involves the implicit subtlety of word games.\n\nMorain refers to \"kinesics\" which should be part of any learning programme that includes perception. Morain is of the opinion that kinesics can contribute to the understanding of social and intercultural relationships, because those who have \"learned\" a language without including the nonverbal component are seriously handicapped if they intend to interact with living members of the culture instead of with paper and print.\n\nKinesics includes understanding and interpreting body language to provide a creative means of communication across borders and add another dimension to the appreciation and expression of humour in the additional language classroom.\n\nOne of the functions of folklore is to entertain the audience. Therefore, humorous events set in motion by tricksters can contribute to amusement and mental stimulation. Examples are the actions of the \"Jakkals en Wolf\" characters of Afrikaans folktales which Honiball portrayed in comic strips and cartoons. Lategan refers to the remarkable way in which Honiball used the Jakkals and Wolf stories that he had heard as a child. His stories followed an old tradition of Middle Dutch literature - that of the satirical \"Van den Vos Reynaerde\" - and Honiball became the Walt Disney of Afrikaans. He used satire to gently ridicule people and to unmask human frailty among the Afrikaans-speaking society of the day, mocking the eccentric habits and customs of a community.\n\nCartoons and comics like these are not regarded by all folklore specialists as belonging to folklore, because they do not explicitly include oral traditions. However, since they are based on the \"Jakkals en Wolf\" intertextual tradition of oral folktales that have been handed down for generations, it could be argued that Honiball's \"Adoons-hulle\" (1977) and \"Wolf en Jakkals van Uilekraal\" (1978) can indeed be regarded as part of mass-cultural folklore where city life is portrayed by the mass media. Dorson cites Bausinger (1961) who maintains that \"we no longer believe that industrialization necessarily implies the end of a specific folk culture, but rather we attempt to trace the modifications and mutations undergone by folk culture in the industrialized and urbanized world.\"\n\nThese comic strips by Honiball provide interesting teaching possibilities in the additional language classroom, especially because of the elements of humour in the animal tricksters, comical situations, body language and language usage (e.g. the nicknames of some of the characters). This argument is in line with Jansen, who is of the opinion that comics and television series should receive the interest of folklorists and should incite them to pursue further the application and significance of the esoteric-exoteric factor in folklore.\n\nAn Afrikaans story that could be classified as a magic tale in that it portrays the role of magic and the repetition of the number three, is \"Die Wolfkoningin\" by I.D. du Plessis. Though this story is called a Cape story, since it reflects the culture of people of Malay origin, who are concentrated in the Western Cape (Du Plessis can be regarded as one of South Africa's leading experts on Cape Malay stories). Following Bettelheim, Steenberg would probably regard the story as a fairy tale. It is a story of magic that reflects some aspects of the inner world of human beings. According to Miruka's classification of folktale content, it can be called an imaginary tale.\n\nThis imaginary tale has a typically Eastern setting, with a rural atmosphere. There are hunters, a wood, rich landowners (\"wazirs\") and beautiful ladies (\"poeteri\"). There is a definite movement from an earthly space (the house of a wood cutter) to a magical space (a dance party and a wolf's den), and ultimately a return to an earthly reality (the house of the wazir). The number three reoccurs in different spatial settings and with respect to different objects, and symbolises the character's search for freedom, identity and fellowship. The main character's incantation in order to release the magical power (where she changes from a wolf into a beautiful lady) also centres on this number. In this context, the symbolism of these objects can stretch \"the capacity of both expression and comprehension, and becomes the medium through which some of the most universal, elemental - and intangible - concepts of man are conveyed\".\n\nSome of the best examples of Afrikaans folklore are stories recorded and written by Minnie Postma, who grew up with and heard these tales told by Sotho people. Using these stories can give effect to a recommendation made by Robinson, namely that the integration of culture in a language programme should be a synthesis between the learner's home culture, the target language's cultural input and the learner as an individual. According to Robinson, intercultural understanding develops from cultural adaptability, that is, 'modifying one's own cultural repertoire'.\n\nAn interesting example of an Afrikaans folktale that is situated in an African context and entails the transmission of cultural values, traditions and views, is Postma's story \"In die begin\". This story explains how things were between woman and man in the beginning. Miller gives a similar account of the same phenomenon in a discussion of a Sotho-Tswana myth called \"The First Marriage and the First Bachelor\".\n\nHattingh discusses the validity of Postma's oral transmission in detail and notes that Postma understands and applies the different characteristics of Southern Sotho narratives. Jacottet (1908. in Hatthingh 1994) postulates that this story has its origin in San culture, because the men in the story use bows and arrows, weapons which were never used by the Basotho. In both Postma's and Jacottet's representation of this myth, the woman's identity is established in terms of masculine criteria. However, Postma adds a new dimension. Her narration depicts a woman as an intelligent, creative and innovative being, even if she is the servant of the man. The dialogue in the story is typical of the oral narrative in that dramatic development, rather than description, is preferred. The relationship between male and female is exceptionally harmonious, unlike in most other Southern Sotho narratives.\n\nThe folktales of Eugène Marais are typical examples of African ecological narratives concerning the relationship between things and people. Marais follows the tradition of San stories, more specifically those that are known as wandering stories, in that songs and poems are included.\n\nIn \"Die Vaal Koestertjie\" we find well-known themes of threatened innocence and beauty, and the weaker character's victory over physical strength and mockery. According to Kannemeyer, this story - with its use of the apostrophe, paradox, inversion and cumulative and progressive parallelism - follows to a great extent the traditional line of fairy-tale literature. A young Koisan girl, Nampti, has a very special relationship with a little bird, which she calls 'her little grey sister' because they are both pipits.\n\nThis character fits in very well with Miruka's general description of birds in ecological stories - she seems unfailingly to appear in times of crisis and she acts as a messenger bearing urgent and important messages, more specifically information about the magic formula that can transform and enrich the protagonist. She (the bird) is invincible, being up in the air and out of reach of the antagonists, in this case the other young women. She counsels the protagonist and is her life guardian.\n\nLike other folktales, this story can be used in the language classroom to discuss moral voices, choices, and values like patience and tolerance, even fatalistic benevolence.\n\nLanguage plays an important role in any culture. Hyde observes that people are not necessarily prisoners of their language, but that the way a culture sees the world is nevertheless reflected in its language. In the same vein, Trivedi emphasises the importance of the transmission of values as well as the recognition of emotional problems that the learner might experience (like culture shock and feelings of helplessness), language anxiety and fear of failure, in being unable to understand or interpret the cultural message. The (learned) behaviour and values of learners of an additional language will be challenged through exposure to the culture of the target language. Their critical appreciation will be intensified by listening to Afrikaans folklore.\n\nMiruka mentions an important function of folklore, namely that of mental stimulation. Developmental aspects such as memory training, sensory awareness, analysis and synthesis, as well as affective development can be specifically emphasised in this regard. The development of all mental and other capacities can be enhanced by the use of an Afrikaans folktale full of idiomatic expressions: \"Klein Riet-alleen-in-die-roerkuil\" by Eugène Marais, which is included in the volume \"Dwaalstories\" (1927).\n\nThis story by Marais follows the basic pattern of Western European fairy tales and myths in that the San hero (Klein Riet) is given an important task to carry out within a specific time frame. Nolte indicates that the whole story might have developed around a range of Afrikaans idiomatic expressions. These expressions can be regarded as a reflection of the values of the source culture in the classroom for Afrikaans as an additional language. This study by Nolte can serve an important function in helping to overcome the previously mentioned problems that learners of Afrikaans as an additional language often experience.\n\nIdiomatic expressions and the like are very well received and appreciated by additional language learners from African cultures (as experience with Zulu-speaking learners has shown, perhaps because they often have so many of these in their mother tongue. However, because of urbanisation, many idiomatic expressions have been lost in African languages. These learners have a rich instinct for idioms and have often even created new expressions themselves in the additional language context (e.g. 'Matriek is nie matras nie').\n\nA folktale full of idiomatic expressions could make African learners feel at ease (emotionally), could stimulate their senses (by making them aware of metaphors in their own environment, analysing, synthesising and trying to verbalise these in their own way in Afrikaans like the abovementioned example) and could develop their memory. It could also provide an opportunity to discuss some of these themes that are addressed in a literary way by the story, for example pride and obedience, which would be in line with what is said by Leach about proverbs, namely that they are constantly used to influence the behaviour of others and as instruments of self-control.\n\nA story like \"Lied van die reën\" by Eugène Marais is an ideal example of an Afrikaans praise song that could contribute to the integration of cultural aspects of previously marginalised groups in the curriculum to achieve sensitivity. Coming from an African culture, Kamwangamalu is of the opinion that almost every element in a language programme is capable of conveying a cultural message of some sort\": \"\"Culture is the socially learned, shared assemblage of practices, perceptions, attitudes, world views, value systems and beliefs that determine the texture of our lives as members of a given community.\"\n\nAccording to Mihálik this folktale by Marais, although it was considered to be an indigenous fairy tale, is an example of an African praise song that can be compared with Sotho and Zulu praise songs dedicated to nature. Mihálik refers to Finnegan's view that there is a similarity between African and European folklore and that there is supposedly some primordial source for both. The impression is that Marais got these stories from a certain \"old Hendrik\" (probably Tswana or Sotho) during his visits to the Waterberge.\n\nA folktale that calls to mind the European fairy tale \"The Beauty and the Beast\" on the one hand, yet fits Miruka's description of a tale involving African ogre characters, is \"Brolloks en Bittergal\" by C.J. Langenhoven. It was first published in 1925, and has kept Afrikaans-speaking listeners spellbound from one generation to the next ever since.\n\nThe main character, Brolloks, is a grotesque and monsterlike individual, scheming and decidedly untrustworthy. He is like Miruka's description of Luo ogres: neither human nor animal but displaying characteristics of both; and the Maasai ogre: 'a man-eater as well as an eater of its own kind ... [possessing the] quality of grandiosity and hedonism'. Brolloks lives as a human being would. Miruka emphasises that ogres are but masks of humanity; they are no different from those in society 'who specialise in ugly deeds but who can appear very mild and sociable to gain access to the victims'. Brolloks ultimately corresponds to Miruka's interpretation of the ogre who stands \"for evil and death. He symbolises the ominous flail of vice looming over humanity and threatening to reduce it to nothingness. He is a replica of those of us who are dehumanised, alienated, immoral and egotistically ready to achieve their goals ... regardless of the repercussions on the larger society\".\n\nIt is clear that this type of Afrikaans folklore text themes of complicated everyday moral issues, like greed, bullying and hedonism.\n\nRobinson warns that knowledge of differences between cultures can separate rather than unite learners because it may lead to stereotyping. According to her it is actually the study of similarities that will lead to intercultural understanding. Bredella & Haack also looks at stereotypes and argues that \"a foreign culture challenges our basic assumptions and demands that we reconstruct the original context of a culture in order to understand its symbols in terms of the people who have created them\".\n\nLippmann advises us \"not to try and give up stereotypes but to learn to use them in a reflective and self-critical way ... the insight into the selective nature of stereotypes can make us self-critical and can encourage us to compare other perspectives and the motives behind them.\"\n\nThe challenge to the educator concerned with the teaching of Afrikaans as an additional language, is to find and select literature texts carefully so that the stereotypes found in these texts can be analysed, formulated, expressed and communicated. In this way stereotypes can present opportunities in the classroom for an objective investigation into this phenomenon. The study of folklore is imminently suitable to contribute to this developmental aim.\n\nA very good example in support of this argument, is a report by Hattingh where she used the story \"Tséane en die perd\" (written by Minnie Postma) in a study with her Afrikaans Second Language students. This folktale tells the story of a black woman who does not fit in with the customary stereotype. Tséane is portrayed as a rebel - in spite of her strict, traditional upbringing she longs for freedom, and to play a role different to the one in which her patriarchal society wishes to cast her. This story was Hattingh's students' first encounter with Afrikaans oral literature as part of the important cultural heritage of Africa. Hattingh mentions that this story was received extremely favourably by the students. It is obvious from Hattingh's report that the shift in emphasis from literary textual analysis to a focus on everyday issues made it possible for the students to use their own life experience and to progress to problem-solving and independent thinking.\n"}
{"id": "1933002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933002", "title": "Album cover", "text": "Album cover\n\nAn album cover is the front of the packaging of a commercially released audio recording product, or album. The term can refer to either the printed cardboard covers typically used to package sets of and 78-rpm records, single and sets of LPs, sets of 45 rpm records (either in several connected sleeves or a box), or the front-facing panel of a CD package, and, increasingly, the primary image accompanying a digital download of the album, or of its individual tracks.\n\nIn the case of all types of tangible records, it also serves as part of the protective sleeve.\n\nAround 1910, 78-rpm records replaced the phonograph cylinder as the medium for recorded sound. The 78-rpm records were issued in both 10- and 12-inch diameter sizes and were usually sold separately, in brown paper or cardboard sleeves that were sometimes plain and sometimes printed to show the producer or the retailer's name. These were invariably made out of acid paper, limiting conservability. Generally the sleeves had a circular cutout allowing the record label to be seen. Records could be laid on a shelf horizontally or stood upright on an edge, but because of their fragility, many broke in storage.\n\nGerman record company Odeon pioneered the \"album\" in 1909 when it released the \"Nutcracker Suite\" by Tchaikovsky on four double-sided discs in a specially designed package. (It is not indicated what the specially designed package was.) The practice of issuing albums does not seem to have been taken up by other record companies for many years.\n\nBeginning in the 1920s, bound collections of empty sleeves with a plain paperboard or leather cover were sold as \"record albums\" (similar to a photograph album) that customers could use to store their records. (The name \"record album\" was printed on some covers.) These empty albums were sold in both 10- and 12-inch sizes. The covers of these bound books were wider and taller than the records inside, allowing the record album to be placed on a shelf upright, like a book, and suspending the fragile records above the shelf, protecting them.\n\nStarting in the 1930s, record companies began issuing collections of 78-rpm records by one performer or of one type of music in specially assembled collections. These albums of several 78-rpm records could include a collection of popular songs related by either performer or style, or extended-length classical music, including complete symphonies.\n\nIn 1938, Columbia Records hired Alex Steinweiss as its first art director. He is credited with inventing the concept of album covers and cover art, replacing the plain covers used before. After his initial efforts at Columbia, other record companies followed his lead. By the late 1940s, record albums for all the major companies featured their own colorful paper covers in both 10- and 12-inch sizes. Some featured reproductions of classic art while others utilized original designs.\n\nWhen the 10- and 12-inch long-playing records (LPs) came along in 1948, and box sets of 45-rpm records soon followed (see gramophone record), the name \"album\" was used for the new format of collections, and the creation of artistic original album covers continued.\n\nFrom the 1950s through to the 1980s, the 12\" LP record and the 45 rpm record became the major formats for the distribution of popular music. The LP format remains in use for occasional new releases, though other formats have largely supplanted it. The size of the typical cardboard LP sleeve cover is square.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, the compact disc (CD) has become the most common form of physically-distributed music products. Packaging formats vary, including the jewel case (which since 1982 has been the most popular form of CD packaging), and the cardboard and plastic combination commonly known as a Digipak (which has been a popular alternative form of packaging in recent years, but remains supplanted by the jewel case due to higher manufacturing costs and lower durability). Typically the album cover component of these packages is approximately square.\n\nThe Album Art Cover with eyecatching illustration, vibrant colours and lettering, is generally attributed to the American designer Alex Steinweiss in the 1950s.\n\nThe cover became an important part of the culture of music. Under the influence of designers like Bob Cato, who at various stages in his long music career was vice president of creative services at both Columbia Records and United Artists, album covers became renowned for being a marketing tool and an expression of artistic intent. Album art has also been discussed as an important postwar cultural expression.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, the Beatles' \"With the Beatles\", Bob Dylan's \"The Times They Are a-Changin'\" and the Rolling Stones' self-titled debut album each contained a cover photograph designed to further the musical artist's public image. Author Peter Doggett also highlights the cover of Otis Redding's \"Otis Blue\", containing a photo of a young white woman, as a design that \"played a dual role: she represented the transcendent power of the music, and obscured the race of its creator.\" The standard portrait-based LP cover was further challenged over 1965–66 by Dylan's \"Bringing It All Back Home\", through the inclusion of symbolic artefacts around the singer; the artificially stretched faces of the Beatles shown on their \"Rubber Soul\" album; and the darkened hues applied to the Rolling Stones on \"Aftermath\".\n\nGatefold covers (a folded double cover) and inserts, often with lyric sheets, made the album cover a desirable work in its own right. Notable examples are the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\", which had cut-out inserts, printed lyrics, and a gatefold sleeve, even though it was a single album; the Rolling Stones' \"Exile on Main Street\", which had a gatefold and a series of 12 perforated postcards as inserts (taken by photographer Norman Seeff); and Pink Floyd's \"The Dark Side of the Moon\", which had a gatefold, lyrics, no title on the sleeve, and poster and sticker inserts. The Band's 1970 release \"Stage Fright\", which included a photograph by Seeff as a poster insert, is an early example of LP artwork quickly becoming a collector's item. The move to the small (less than 1/4 the size of a record) CD format lost that impact, although attempts have been made to create a more desirable packaging for the CD format, for example the reissue of \"Sgt. Pepper\", which had a cardboard box and booklet, or the use of oversized packaging.\n\nThe importance of design was such that some cover artists specialised or gained fame through their work. Such people include the design team Hipgnosis, through their work on Pink Floyd albums, amongst others; Roger Dean, famous for his Yes and Greenslade covers; Cal Schenkel, for Captain Beefheart's \"Trout Mask Replica\" and Frank Zappa's \"We're Only in It for the Money\".\n\nThe talents of many photographers and illustrators from both inside and outside of the music industry have been used to produce a vast array of memorable LP/CD covers. Photographer Mick Rock produced some of the most iconographic album covers of the 1970s, including Queen's \"Queen II\" (recreated for their classic music video Bohemian Rhapsody), Syd Barrett's \"The Madcap Laughs\", and Lou Reed's \"Transformer\". From 1972 to 1975, photographer Norman Seeff was Creative Director at United Artists and in addition to his many cover photographs (The Band, Kiss's Hotter than Hell, Joni Mitchell's Hejira etc.), he art directed dozens of album covers including \"Exile on Main Street\", many of which received Grammy nominations. In addition to the examples mentioned previously, a number of world-renowned graphic artists and illustrators such as Ed Repka (Megadeth), Andy Warhol (The Velvet Underground, The Rolling Stones), Mati Klarwein (Santana, Miles Davis), H. R. Giger (Emerson, Lake & Palmer, Debbie Harry), Frank Frazetta (Molly Hatchet), Derek Riggs (Iron Maiden), Jamie Reid (The Sex Pistols), Howard Finster (R.E.M., Talking Heads), Al Hirschfeld (Aerosmith), Ken Kelly (Kiss, Manowar), Gottfried Helnwein (Marilyn Manson), Rex Ray (David Bowie), Robert Crumb (Big Brother & the Holding Company), John Van Hamersveld (The Rolling Stones), and Shepard Fairey (Johnny Cash) have all applied their talents to memorable music packages.\n\nA number of record covers have also used images licensed (or borrowed from the public domain) from artists of bygone eras. Well-known examples of this include the cover of Derek and the Dominos \"Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs\" (from the painting \"La Fille au Bouquet\" by French painter and sculptor Émile Théodore Frandsen de Schomberg), 'The Downfall of Icarus' by Genisson on the cover of the first album by Renaissance; Bosch on the cover of Deep Purple; Breugel on the cover of Fleet Foxes; the cover of Kansas's debut album, adapted from a mural by painter John Steuart Curry, Norman Rockwell's cowboy (Pure Prairie League), and, more recently, Coldplay's \"Viva La Vida\", which features Eugène Delacroix's painting \"Liberty Leading the People\" (a favorite in The Louvre) with the words \"VIVA LA VIDA\" brushed on top in white paint.\n\nLegends from photography and video/film who have also produced record cover images include Drew Struzan (Black Sabbath, Alice Cooper, Iron Butterfly, The Beach Boys and others), Annie Leibovitz (John Lennon, Bruce Springsteen, Patti Smith), Richard Avedon (Whitney Houston, Teddy Pendergrass), David LaChappelle (No Doubt, Elton John), Anton Corbijn (U2, The Killers, Depeche Mode), Karl Ferris (Jimi Hendrix, Donovan, The Hollies), Robert Mapplethorpe (Patti Smith, Peter Gabriel) and Francesco Scavullo (Diana Ross, Edgar Winter), David Michael Kennedy others.\n\nA number of artists and bands feature members who are, in their own right, accomplished illustrators, designers and photographers and whose talents are exhibited in the artwork they produced for their own recordings. Examples include Jimmy Page (\"Led Zeppelin IV\"), Chris Mars (Replacements' \"Pleased to Meet Me\" and others), Marilyn Manson (\"Lest We Forget...\"), Michael Stipe (REM's \"Accelerator\"), Thom Yorke (credited as \"Tchocky\" on misc. Radiohead records), Michael Brecker (\"Ringorama\"), Freddie Mercury (\"Queen I\"), Lynsey De Paul (\"Surprise\"), John Entwistle (\"Who By Numbers\"), Graham Coxon (\"13\" and most solo albums), Mike Shinoda (various Linkin Park albums), Joni Mitchell (\"Miles of Aisles\" and several others) as well for Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young (\"So Far\"), and M.I.A. (credited variously on Elastica's \"The Menace\", her records), and Captain Beefheart, 'Mona Bone Jakon', 'Tea for the Tillerman' and 'Teaser and the Firecat' by Cat Stevens, Mika (all albums released to date), \"Music from Big Pink\" (for The Band), \"Self Portrait\" and \"Planet Waves\" by Bob Dylan, \"Walls and Bridges\" by John Lennon.\n\nAlbum cover art was the subject of a 2013 documentary film, \"The Cover Story: Album Art\", by Eric Christensen, a San Francisco Bay Area record collector.\n\nThe physical design of album covers has been the subject of creative innovation. \"Ogden's Nut Gone Flake\" by the Small Faces was originally in a circular metal tin, and \"Happy to Meet – Sorry to Part\" by Horslips was in an octagonal package. Anyway by Family was originally issued in an opaque plastic package through which a design (a Leonardo sketch) could be seen. \"Magical Mystery Tour\" by the Beatles was first released as a double EP with a booklet between the records. \"Sgt. Pepper\" contained a cardboard sheet of images, and \"The Beatles\" (often referred to as the White Album) contained four large glossy photos of the individual Beatles along with a poster-sized collage. \"Live at Leeds\" by The Who also contained a generous supply of posters and printed material. \"Led Zeppelin III\" had a front cover that contained a revolving disc which brought different images into view through small cut-outs in the outer sleeve. A similar effect was used for the band's later album \"Physical Graffiti\" with cut-outs of the windows of a brownstone building. The original issue of \"Sticky Fingers\" by the Rolling Stones had an actual zipper incorporated into the picture of the crotch area of a pair of jeans. \"The Velvet Underground and Nico\" album had a Warhol-designed cardboard banana on the cover that could be peeled back. The record company Vertigo had a black-and-white design on the centre label that produced a hypnotic optical effect when the disc revolved on the turntable.\n\nThe album cover is a component of the overall packaging of an album. Especially in the case of vinyl records with paperboard sleeves, these packages are prone to wear and tear, although wear and tear does often take place to some degree on covers contained within plastic cases. A variety of treatments could be applied to improve both their appearance and durability, such as clear plastic wrap. Many products have been available for the storage of vinyl albums, often clear plastic sleeves.\n\nThe surface of a vinyl record is readily damaged, so aside from the outer paperboard sleeve, there is usually an inner protective cover to protect against dust and handling. This is normally shaped to allow it to readily slide within the outer cover. The inner sleeve is either thin white paper, either plain or printed with information on other recordings available from the same company, or a paper sleeve supporting a thin plastic bag. These quite often have a circular cut out so that the record label can be read without directly handling the record, though when the inner sleeve is printed with lyrics, which became quite common, then there is usually no hole. Decca Records used a system of colour-coding on these sleeves where a blue color denoted a stereophonic recording while red denoted a monophonic recording (the mono record players of the time were not always compatible with stereo records). This system was begun in the 1960s to reduce packaging costs.\n\nPackaging formats for compact discs widened the variety of presentations as well, even as the size of the CD meant that album covers were no longer so large.\n\nBesides the practicalities of identifying specific records, album covers serve the purpose of advertising the musical contents on the LP, through the use of graphic design, photography, and/or illustration. An album cover normally has the artist's name, sometimes in logo form; and the album title. Occasionally, though more common on historical vinyl records, the cover may include a reference number; a branding (the label), and possibly a track listing. Other information is seldom included on the cover, and is usually contained on the rear or interior of the packaging, such as a track listing together with a more detailed list of those involved in making the record, band members, guest performers, engineers and producer. On the \"spine\" of the package, the artist, title, and reference number are usually repeated so that albums can be identified while tightly packed on a shelf.\n\nWith the increasing popularity of digital music downloading services and the inflating cost of conducting business, the purpose and prevalence of the album cover is evolving. While the music industry tries to keep up with technological and cultural shifts, the role that packaging (and thus the \"album cover\") will play in consumer music sales in the near future is uncertain, although its role is certainly changing, and digital forms of packaging will continue to surface, which, to some degree (and to some consumers) take the place of physical packaging. Both MP3 and WMA music files are able to contain embedded digital album artworks (called cover images or simply covers) in jpeg format. , physical music products, with a physical \"album cover\", continue to outsell digital downloads.\n\nIn August 2008, album cover designer Peter Saville, responsible for cover art on albums by New Order and Roxy Music, suggested that the album cover was dead.\n\nAlternately, some artists have used Internet technology to generate even more cover art. For instance, Nine Inch Nails initially released its album \"The Slip\" as a free download on the band's website, attaching separate but thematically connected images to each individual track.\n\nOne digital solution is the iTunes LP format for interactive album artwork introduced by Apple on 9 September 2009.\n\nAlbum art is still considered a vital part of the listening experience to many, and despite the less-tangible nature of digital images, there are still many collectors trading cover art and music.\n\nIn September 2018, Interactive Marketing and Creative Studio Beaumonde released a first of its kind fully immersive and interactive album cover for Houston-based rapper Trill Sammy. For the first time ever fans can view the 2D album like they traditionally would, then dive into the album cover via an immersive world available on Trill Sammy's Website. \n\nSome album covers have been banned due to violence, nudity and other imagery. Guns N' Roses's 1987 album \"Appetite for Destruction\"s cover depicted a robot rapist about to be punished by a metal avenger. Kanye West's 2010 album \"My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy\" depicted West naked being straddled by a phoenix with her bare breasts and bare buttocks showing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36758112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36758112", "title": "Art squat", "text": "Art squat\n\nAn art squat is a name used to describe the action of artists to occupy (or squat in) an abandoned building, thereby creating studio space to create art. Art squats often have a semi-legal or illegal status.\n\nTacheles, in Berlin, Germany, was one of many buildings occupied by artists in the years after World War II and continued to operate as a studio space and gallery until 2012, when the authorities closed it for redevelopment.\n\nParis, France, has experienced several decades of art squats, a result of high rents and a large Bohemian artist population. Early examples include the Bateau-Lavoir (destroyed during the 1970s) and Hôpital Éphémère, occupied during the 1980s and 90s. In the 2000s the Paris city hall began an initiative to redevelop and legalise the city's art squats, beginning with a 6-storey squat on rue de Rivoli which was renovated and reopened in 2009.\n\nArt Squat was also the name of an Artists Collective co-founded by Johnny Otto in Los Angeles in the early 90's, which took over abandoned properties in the Fairfax District and converted them into Galleries. \n"}
{"id": "38782107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38782107", "title": "Arte Informale", "text": "Arte Informale\n\nArte Informale is a term coined in 1950 by the French critic Michel Tapié to refer to the art movement that began during the mid-1940s in post-World War II Europe. This movement also paralleled the Abstract Expressionism movement that was taking place at the same time in the United States, and had ties to the Arte Povera movement. Sometimes referred to as Tachism, Art Autre or Lyrical Abstraction, it was a type of abstraction in which form became less important than that of the expressive impulses of the artist, and was opposed to the rationalism of traditional abstraction. The qualities of informal art explore the possibilities of gesture, materials (often non traditional), and signage as the basis of communication. Oftentimes art characterized as informal is executed spontaneously and the approach to painting and sculpture are generally gestural, performative, expressionistic and experimental. Certain artists such as Lucio Fontana, Alberto Burri and Emilio Vedova were crucial figures of this movement.\n\nArte Informale is based on the convention of painting while expanding the concept to include time-based themes and viewer dependent trials. Alberto Burri, Emilio Vedova, and Lucio Fontana are the three main Italian artists to question the limits of painting and sculpture by reassigning the expressive qualities. They tried to create new channels of communication to forge new styles that would reach beyond their predecessors. However, they were unable to break away from the history of Italian art.\n\nArte Informale became an internationally accepted movement that reached the New York School, the Japanese Gutai Group, and the South American Abstractionists. However, the primary adherents were French and Italian avant-garde artists. It was a movement wherein artists created a dialogue between material, subject, and the world. It was a rejection of the constrained thoughts of previous modern painters.\n\nAlberto Burri worked in Rome and was a role model for younger artists. By observing the connection between culture and nature he saw that material had an existence of its own and that he as the artist was required to use the energy from the organic materials. Burri introduced energy, life, death, and destruction into his work through the use of natural and industrial materials. Burri was a solitary, quiet and aloof artist. His style emphasised the ethical weight and burden of living in a post-world war two era. As a modernist Burri tried to give shape and rationality to the disorder of post-atomic contemporary culture by extending and exploring the limits of painting.\n\nIn the 1950s in Rome the Gruppo Origine was founded which, brought artist like Ettore Colla and Burri together. They shared in common their rejection of abstract painters as too far detached from reality and realist painters as too disengaged from the relationship between life and art. However, Burri showed this through his work Sacchi by using thrown away burlap sacks and the method of suture that would reference human aspects and the practice of contemporary living. He used the terms 'form' and 'space' to attain synchronization and stability in his work. Burri addressed the issues of energy, life, death, and destruction into his work through the use of natural and industrial materials.\n\nThe Sacchi was first created in 1950 but hundreds were made. Burri created these Sacchi by tearing and scoring pieces of burlap, adding stitching, then placing them on a canvas. Sometimes they were singed or accompanied by paint, red plastic or resin. On one hand the Sacchi acted as a concept of incorporating aspects of everyday life into art. On the other hand, it was thought to be associated with the body. Burri had been trained as a doctor and worked as a surgeon in the war until he was captured and sent to an American POW camp in Texas, which is where he first started using burlap sacs. His past was the basis for a general consensus between critics was that it was a suggestion to the troubled status of Burri after the war. Lorenza Trucchi suggested that the burlap acted as a skin that Burri could project his traumatized recollections on. Francesco Arcangeli implied that Burri used violence to recognize and remind the viewers of the war. However, Maurizio Calvesi brought up the meaning of the material itself. At the time when Arte Informale was starting up in Italy the war had ended, the economy was fluctuating and the U.S Marshall Plan had been put into place. Calves thought that Burri’s use of the burlap sac was due to the commonality of the leftover food bags and that he was commemorating poverty.\n\nLucio Fontana (1899-1968) was one of the key figures of the post-war contemporary art scene in Europe. He was the founder of the Spatialism movement in Milan, and is best known for his Concetti spaziali (Spatial Concepts) where he pierced and cut canvases that worked to open up the flat surface of the painting into real space. His ideas were influential in the development of artists’ groups such as Azimuth and the Zero Group, as well as to the development of Arte Povera.\n\nIn 1946 he wrote Manifesto Blanco (White Manifesto) that was signed by a number of his students in Buenos Aires. At the end of the 1950s Fontana showed his work at the Venice Biennale and other parts of Europe such as Germany and France.\n\nThe work of Fontana during post-war Milan created a shift in autonomous art object towards an exploration of art as a total environment. Through Fontana’s Spatial Environment of 1949 he worked to tie together architecture, painting, and sculpture, and had proposed an art form which integrated both reality and ambient space. In these environments, the gallery space was transformed with the manipulation of light, shadow and space to create a complete experience. These gestural and experiential qualities of form and making are both characteristics of the informal artist movement.\n\nFontana’s Spatial Concept of 1951 sought to propose art forms that would complement modern developments in building technology. Light within space became grounds for this development in neon, which eventually was installed in the 1951 Milan Triennial. The Spatial Concept “engaged the viewer with an opulent vision of radiance that extended into real architectural space beyond the limited and private pictorial plane.” This inclusion of the audience in turn also provided Fontana’s environments with performers.\n\nBoth Spatial Environment and Spatial Concept was Fontana’s response to the difficult challenge of producing utopian artwork after the distress of World War II.\n\nFontana’s “research into ‘Spatialism’, together with his charismatic presence in Milan, were determinant in encouraging the rise of Arte Povera in Italy.” Fontana’s contribution lies in the transition from an art of representation to an art of sheer perception, in which the work is a part of reality. Although Fontana does not identify himself as an informal artist, the language used in his work fits within the qualities of this movement.\n\nEnnio Morlotti was an Italian painter who was part of the Arte Informale movement. He met up with the Arte Informale group when he visited Paris in 1947. This meeting is what started leading him in the direction of Matter Painting. He showed his works in the Venice Biennale in 1948, 1952, and 1956. The main theme of his works has been landscapes and his own style focuses on color and material on the work of art. He works with the natural pattern of nature in organic and inorganic forms. Morlotti along with Emilio Vedova and other artists signed the \"Manifestio del Realismo\" in 1946 in Milan stating that the style of Realism is dependent on communication with others as opposed to Naturalism or Abstraction.\n\nEmilio Vedova (1919-2006) was a self-taught painter from Venice. At the end of World War II he took an active part in the liberation of Venice and in 1946 he joined the Fronte Nuovo delle Arti, a movement that aimed at reconciling social revolution in artistic expression. \nVedova was influenced by art movements such as Cubism and Expressionism and admired the works of Tintoretto, Rembrandt, Goya and Picasso. In the 1940s his style became increasingly gestural and began to fit in with the qualities of Lyrical Abstraction or Abstract Expressionism. Vedova’s works were attempting to explore the three-dimensional space through painting and to achieve depth within space.\n\nGiuseppe Capogrossi (1900-1972) was an Italian painter from Rome. Around 1950 Capogrossi transitioned from figurative painting towards abstraction. In 1951 he founded the Gruppo Origine along with Ballocco, Colla and Burri. “Their manifesto advocated the refusal of three-dimensional figuration, the use of color to serve a purely expressive purpose, and the use of primitive images, whose significance dates back to the birth of writing systems and symbols”. After this time, Capogrossi composed his paintings on the basis of a single symbol- a sort of trident- which is repeated on his canvases and collages. In Capogrossi’s work he discussed the impossibility of communication from artist to viewer, so he stressed that the artist must show the viewer what he wishes to communicate.\n"}
{"id": "1212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212", "title": "Artist", "text": "Artist\n\nAn artist is a person engaged in an activity related to creating art, practicing the arts, or demonstrating an art. The common usage in both everyday speech and academic discourse is a practitioner in the visual arts only. The term is often used in the entertainment business, especially in a business context, for musicians and other performers (less often for actors). \"Artiste\" (the French for artist) is a variant used in English only in this context. Use of the term to describe writers, for example, is valid, but less common, and mostly restricted to contexts like criticism.\n\nWiktionary defines the noun 'artist' (Singular: artist; Plural: artists) as follows:\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines the older broad meanings of the term \"artist\":\n\n\nThe Greek word \"techně\", often translated as \"art,\" implies mastery of any sort of craft. The adjectival Latin form of the word, \"technicus\",\nbecame the source of the English words technique, technology, technical.\n\nIn Greek culture each of the nine Muses oversaw a different field of human creation:\n\nNo muse was identified with the visual arts of painting and sculpture. In ancient Greece sculptors and painters were held in low regard, somewhere between freemen and slaves, their work regarded as mere manual labour.\n\nThe word \"art\" derives from the Latin \"ars\" (stem \"art-\"), which, although literally defined, means \"skill method\" or \"technique\", and conveys a connotation of beauty.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages the word \"artist\" already existed in some countries such as Italy, but the meaning was something resembling \"craftsman\", while the word \"artesan\" was still unknown. An artist was someone able to do a work better than others, so the skilled excellency was underlined, rather than the activity field. In this period some \"artisanal\" products (such as textiles) were much more precious and expensive than paintings or sculptures.\n\nThe first division into major and minor arts dates back at least to the works of Leon Battista Alberti (1404–1472): \"De re aedificatoria, De statua, De pictura\", which focused on the importance of the intellectual skills of the artist rather than the manual skills (even if in other forms of art there was a project behind).\n\nWith the Academies in Europe (second half of 16th century) the gap between fine and applied arts was definitely set.\n\nMany contemporary definitions of \"artist\" and \"art\" are highly contingent on culture, resisting aesthetic prescription, in much the same way that the features constituting beauty and the beautiful cannot be standardized easily without corruption into kitsch.\n\n\"Artist\" is a descriptive term applied to a person who engages in an activity deemed to be an art. An artist also may be defined unofficially as \"a person who expresses him- or herself through a medium\". The word is also used in a qualitative sense of, a person creative in, innovative in, or adept at, an artistic practice.\n\nMost often, the term describes those who create within a context of the fine arts or 'high culture', activities such as drawing, painting, sculpture, acting, dancing, writing, filmmaking, new media, photography, and music—people who use imagination, talent, or skill to create works that may be judged to have an aesthetic value. Art historians and critics define artists as those who produce art within a recognized or recognizable discipline. Contrasting terms for highly skilled workers in media in the applied arts or decorative arts include artisan, craftsman, and specialized terms such as potter, goldsmith or glassblower. Fine arts artists such as painters succeeded in the Renaissance in raising their status, formerly similar to these workers, to a decisively higher level.\n\nThe term may also be used loosely or metaphorically to denote highly skilled people in any non-\"art\" activities, as well— law, medicine, mechanics, or mathematics, for example.\n\nOften, discussions on the subject focus on the differences among \"artist\" and \"technician\", \"entertainer\" and \"artisan\", \"fine art\" and \"applied art\", or what constitutes art and what does not. The French word \"artiste\" (which in French, simply means \"artist\") has been imported into the English language where it means a performer (frequently in Music Hall or Vaudeville). Use of the word \"artiste\" can also be a pejorative term.\n\nThe English word 'artiste' has thus a narrower range of meaning than the word 'artiste' in French.\n\nIn \"Living with Art\", Mark Getlein proposes six activities, services or functions of contemporary artists:\n\nAfter looking at years of data on arts school graduates as well as policies & program outcomes regarding artists, arts, & culture, Elizabeth Lingo and Steven Tepper propose the divide between \"arts for art's sake\" artists and commercially successful artists is not as wide as may be perceived, and that \"this bifurcation between the commercial and the noncommercial, the excellent and the base, the elite and the popular, is increasingly breaking down\" (Eikhof & Haunschild, 2007). Lingo and Tepper point out:\n\nThe US Bureau of Labor Statistics classifies many visual artists as either \"craft artists\" or \"fine artists\". A craft artist makes handmade functional works of art, such as pottery or clothing. A fine artist makes paintings, illustrations (such as book illustrations or medical illustrations), sculptures, or similar artistic works primarily for their aesthetic value.\n\nThe main source of skill for both craft artists and fine artists is long-term repetition and practice. Many fine artists have studied their art form at university and some have a master's degree in fine arts. Artists may also study on their own or receive on-the-job training from an experienced artist.\n\nThe number of available jobs as an artist is increasing more slowly than other fields. About half of US artists are self-employed. Others work in a variety of industries. For example, a pottery manufacturer will employ craft artists, and book publishers will hire illustrators.\n\nIn the US, fine artists have a median income of approximately US $50,000 per year, and craft artists have a median income of approximately US $33,000 per year. This compares to US $61,000 for all art-related fields, including related jobs such as graphic designers, multimedia artists, animators, and fashion designers. Many artists work part-time as artists and hold a second job.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16639868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16639868", "title": "Attractiveness", "text": "Attractiveness\n\nAttractiveness or attraction is a quality that causes an interest, desire in, or gravitation to something or someone.\n\"Attraction\" may also refer to the object of the attraction itself, as in \"tourist attraction\".\n\nVisual attractiveness or visual appeal is attraction produced primarily by visual stimuli.\n\nPhysical attractiveness is the perception of the physical traits of an individual human person as pleasing or beautiful. It can include various implications, such as sexual attractiveness, cuteness, similarity and physique.\n\nPhysical attractiveness can also include the attraction of smell. Pheromones secreted by animals and humans alike can attract others, and this is viewed as being attracted to smell. Human sex pheromones may play a role in human attraction, although it is unclear how well humans can actually pick up on the pheromones of another. \n\nJudgment of attractiveness of physical traits is partly universal to all human cultures, partly dependent on culture or society or time period, partly biological, and partly subjective and individual.\n\nAccording to a study determining the golden ratio for facial beauty, the most attractive face is one with average distances between facial features, and an average length and width of the face itself.. Facial attractiveness, or beauty, can also be determined by symmetry. If a face is asymmetrical, this can indicate unhealthy genetic information. Therefore, if a face is symmetrical (see Facial symmetry), healthy genetic information is implied. People will judge potential mates based off the physical expression of the genetic health, which is their apparent attractiveness. This supports the good genes theory, which indicates that attractiveness is seen as a way to ensure that offspring will have the healthiest genes and therefore the best chance of survival. Certain trains that indicate good genes (such as clear skin or facial symmetry) are seen as desirable when choosing a partner.\n\nAmong animals, females often are \"choosy\" about who they pick for a mate. They will look for characteristics in their potential mates that ensure their offspring will have healthy genetic material. Therefore, they will be attracted to certain traits or behaviors of their potential mates. Attraction among animals is based mostly on what will give the females the best chance of having the most and healthiest offspring that will likely survive to adulthood because of the traits they will inherit from the male. Females will look for signs of health in the males, such as large and fancy adornments, bright colors, or other features that the male will only have if he is in good health. .\n\nEye candy is a slang term for superficial attractiveness. In a 2017 \"Boston Globe\" article about the potential for cheerleading at the Olympics, eye candy was used to describe cheerleaders as \"entertainment popularized by professional sports in the United States.\" The term has also been used in professional sports in the United States referring to female athletes.\n\n"}
{"id": "9490727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9490727", "title": "BioArt", "text": "BioArt\n\nBioArt is an art practice where humans work with live tissues, bacteria, living organisms, and life processes. Using scientific processes such as biotechnology (including technologies such as genetic engineering, tissue culture, and cloning) the artworks are produced in laboratories, galleries, or artists' studios. The scope of BioArt is considered by some artists to be strictly limited to \"living forms\", while other artists would include art that uses the imagery of contemporary medicine and biological research, or require that it address a controversy or blind spot posed by the very character of the life sciences.\n\nAlthough BioArtists work with living matter, there is some debate as to the stages at which matter can be considered to be alive or living. Creating living beings and practicing in the life sciences brings about ethical, social, and aesthetic inquiry. The phrase \"BioArt\" was coined by Eduardo Kac in 1997 in relation to his artwork \"Time Capsule\". Although it originated at the end of the 20th century, through the works of pioneers like Joe Davis, Marta de Menezes and the artists hosted by Symbiotica, BioArt is more widely practiced now.\n\nBioArt is often intended to be shocking or humorous. One survey of the field, \"Isotope: A Journal of Literary Science and Nature Writing\", puts it this way: \"BioArt is often ludicrous. It can be lumpy, gross, unsanitary, sometimes invisible, and tricky to keep still on the auction block. But at the same time, it does something very traditional that art is supposed to do: draw attention to the beautiful and grotesque details of nature that we might otherwise never see.\"\n\nWhile raising questions about the role of science in society, \"most of these works tend toward social reflection, conveying political and societal criticism through the combination of artistic and scientific processes.\"\n\nWhile most people who practice BioArt are categorized as artists in this new media, they can also be seen as scientists, since the actual medium within a work pertains to molecular structures, and so forth. Because of this dual-acceptance, the Department of Cell Biology at Harvard University invites anyone to submit works based on scientific or artistic value. This can encourage anyone to submit work they strongly respond to.\n\nThe laboratory work can pose a challenge to the artist, at first, as the environment is often foreign to the artist. While some artists have prior scientific training, others must be trained to perform the procedures or work in tandem with scientists who can perform the tasks that are required. Bio artists often use formations relating to or engaged with science and scientific practices, such as working with bacteria or live-tissue.\n\nMuch of the art involves tissue-culturing and transgenics, a term for a variety of genetic engineering processes through which genetic material from one organism is altered by the addition of synthesized or transplanted genetic material from another organism.\n\nIn 2000, Eduardo Kac commissioned the creation of a transgenic GFP bunny as part of a piece called GFP Bunny. \"The PR campaign included a picture of Kac holding a white rabbit and another, iconic image of a rabbit photographically enhanced to appear green.\"\n\nThe Tissue Culture & Art Project in collaboration with Stelarc grew a 1/4 scale replica of an ear using human cells. The project was carried out at Symbiotica: the Art & Science Collaborative Research Laboratory, School of Anatomy and Human Biology, University of Western Australia.\n\nThe scope of the term BioArt is a subject of ongoing debate. The primary point of debate centers around whether BioArt must necessarily involve manipulation of biological material, as is the case in microbial art which by definition is made of microbes. A broader definition of the term would include work that addresses the social and ethical considerations of the biological sciences. Under these terms BioArt as a genre has many crossovers with fields such as critical or speculative design. This type of work often reaches a much broader general audience, and is focused on starting discussions in this space, rather than pioneering or even using specific biological practices. Examples in this space include Ray Fish shoes, which advertised shoes made and patterned with genetically engineered stingray skin, and BiteLabs, a biotech startup that attempted to make salami out of meat cultured from celebrity tissue samples.\n\nBioArt has been scrutinized for its apparent lack of ethics. \"USA Today\" reported that animal rights groups accused Kac and others of using animals unfairly for their own personal gain, and conservative groups question the use of transgenic technologies and tissue-culturing from a moral standpoint.\n\nAlka Chandna, a senior researcher with PETA in Norfolk, Virginia, has stated that using animals for the sake of art is no different from using animal fur for clothing material. \"Transgenic manipulation of animals is just a continuum of using animals for human end, regardless of whether it is done to make some sort of sociopolitical critique. The suffering and exacerbation of stress on the animals is very problematic.\"\n\nHowever, many BioArt projects deal with the manipulation of cells and not whole organisms, such as \"Victimless Leather\" by Symbiotica. \"An actualized possibility of wearing 'leather' without killing an animal is offered as a starting point for cultural discussion. Our intention is not to provide yet another consumer product, but rather to raise questions about our exploitation of other living beings.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36557722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36557722", "title": "Bus-Tops", "text": "Bus-Tops\n\nBus-Tops was a project for the 2012 Cultural Olympiad, part of the Artists Taking The Lead project funded by Arts Council England and in collaboration with LOCOG.\n\nBus-Tops saw a series of 30 red LED screens situated on the roofs of bus stops in 20 London boroughs displaying art work made by both the public and established artists. The screens were powered by Beagle Boards running custom software and 3G connections to receive art content and upload sensor-based information. The installations were fed art content via the project's website where anyone could upload artwork to be considered for inclusion on a screen.\n\nThe project was scheduled to end at the end of the Olympic period, 30 September 2012.\n"}
{"id": "26246590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26246590", "title": "Color symbolism", "text": "Color symbolism\n\nColor symbolism in art and anthropology refers to the use of color as a symbol in various cultures. There is great diversity in the use of colors and their associations between cultures and even within the same culture in different time periods. The same color may have very different associations within the same culture at any time. Diversity in color symbolism occurs because color meanings and symbolism occur on an individual, cultural and universal basis. Color symbolism is also context-dependent and influenced by changes over time. Symbolic representations of religious concepts or articles may include a specific color with which the concept or object is associated. There is evidence to suggest that colors have been used for this purpose as early as 90,000 BC.\n\nRed is often associated with love, passion, and lust. It is frequently used in relation to Valentine's Day. It can also be used to signify danger or warning. For instance, it is used for stop signs and fire engines. In China, red is often used to symbolize good luck or happiness, and is used for many holidays or weddings.\n\nBlue is the color of the ocean and the sky; it often symbolizes serenity, stability, or inspiration. It can be a calming color, and symbolize reliability. In the Catholic Church, the Virgin Mary is most often depicted wearing blue, to symbolize her divinity. Blue is widely used for baby boys' clothes or bedrooms, although the reason blue is so strongly associated with boys is debated.\n\nYellow is a color often associated with sunshine or joy. It is sometimes used in association with cowardice or fear, i.e, the phrase \"yellow-bellied\". Children tend to like this color, and it is used to market products to children; it is also used for school buses and taxi cabs since it is such a bright, noticeable color.\n\nGreen is most often used to represent nature, healing, or fertility, since it's such a dominant color in nature. It can be a very relaxing color but is also used in the US to symbolize money, greed, or jealousy. Saying that someone is \"green\" means they're inexperienced or new.\n\nBlack, in Western culture, is considered a negative color and usually symbolizes death, grief, or evil. People often wear black for mourning, although this practice isn't as wide-spread as it was in the past.\n\nWhite most often symbolizes perfection, faith, innocence, softness, and cleanliness. Brides often wear white dresses to symbolize virginity or purity.\n\nPink is associated with softness, femininity, sweetness, and love. However, it was formerly used as a masculine color, frequently used for baby boys; it wasn't until the early 20th century that the gender roles of pink and blue were reversed.\n\nColor plays an important role in setting expectations for a product and communicating its key characteristics. Color is the second most important element that allows consumers to identify brand packaging.\n\nMarketers for products with an international market navigate the color symbolism variances between cultures with targeted advertising. The car manufacturer, Volkswagen ran a commercial in Italy with a black sheep in the middle of a larger flock symbolizing those who owned a VW Golf as someone unique and self-assured among a crowd of others who were not. In several cultures around the world, a black sheep represents an outcast and is seen as something undesirable. In Italy, a black sheep represents confidence and independence. There are many additional variances in color symbolism between cultures. Cold is symbolized by blue in East Asia, the USA, and Sweden while warmth is symbolized by yellow in the USA and by blue in The Netherlands. Sometimes the meanings of colors are in stark opposition across geographic boundaries, requiring products marketed to specific demographics to account for those changes across different markets. For instance, feminity is symbolized by blue in The Netherlands and pink in the USA., whereas masculinity is symbolized by blue in Sweden and the USA, and red in the UK and France. In some instances color symbolism in marketing is constructed. For companies whose products are defined by the name of their color their sales are susceptible to the symbolism and association of that name. In one example, a company selling a paint color named “off white” more than doubled its sales by renaming the same color as “ancient silk.”\n\nColor symbolism has morphed over time. Between the 5th and 17th centuries color was largely related to in a religious context. Blue was symbolic of heaven and white of purity. Today, purity is still symbolized by white in Australia and the USA but by blue in other countries like India. Similarly, the church influenced the perception of colors like crimson and purple. Largely because the dyes for these colors could only be sourced from precious pigments, religious figures like Madonna, Cardinals, and the Virgin were seen in scarlet and purple. Today, purple symbolizes evil and infidelity in Japan, but the same is symbolized by blue in East Asia and by yellow in France. Additionally, the sacred color of Hindu and Buddhist monks is orange. The Renaissance was also a time in which black and purple were colors of mourning. Today, Mourning or death is symbolized by white in East Asia, black in the USA, and blue in Iran, while happiness is symbolized by white in Australia and NZ, and yellow in China.\n\nThere is a general disagreement over whether reactions to color and their symbolism are a result of cultural conditioning or of instinct. Several studies concluded that color is part of the social learning process because of the significant symbolism within the culture. High quality, trustworthiness and dependability are symbolized by blue in the USA, Japan, Korea and green and yellow in China - as well as purple in China, South Korea and Japan. Because of these variances, critical cues vary across cultures. Warning signs are coded differently as danger is symbolized by green in Malaysia, and red in the USA and Mexico. The same color of green symbolizes envy in Belgium and the USA, but envy is symbolized by yellow in Germany and Russia, and purple in Mexico. Even the colors that denote powerful emotions vary. Love is symbolized by green in Japan, red and purple in China, Korea, Japan and the USA. Unluckiness is symbolized by red in Chad, Nigeria and Germany. Luckiness is symbolized by red in China, Denmark and Argentina. The traditional bridal color is red in China and white in the USA. Ambition and desire are symbolized by red in India.\n\nColor has different meanings in different countries.  We can specifically look at the Arabic culture and take it into consideration. We can start with the color white. In the Arabic culture, white is thought of as the color that is symbolic for nature.  Since it related with nature, it has a meaning that is one of positivity. It also relates with that of being clean and pure.  White is a color that is commonly worn during prayers and with that, it symbolizes purity. White’s positive connotation carries out into other aspects.  It is also used as a symbol for positivity in the future. White is also used to symbolize the end of war. You will also see women adorn white at their weddings as a sign of positivity.  Since doves are white, they share the symbolic meaning that comes with the color.  This in turn causes them to be associated with positivity of good news. \n\nWhen you look at the color Black in Arabic culture you can find that it is related to funerals and death. Women will often wear black to funerals in order to show that they are sad for those who have passed.  Also relating to death, black is associated with hell. Black is also used to symbolize dark.  Hell is thought to be a dark black place associating black as negative.  Black in general is looked at as having negative connotations around it. For example, the symbolism of a black heart refers to someone who is unkind.  \n\nGreen is a color that is commonly found in Islam.  It is a color found in nature and with this, it is associated with and represents goodness. Green is a color that has an overall positive meaning.   The color green also has to do with truthfulness, again going with positivity.  If you look at phrases, the symbolic meanings are generally positive.  If you look at the phrase green hand, it relates to being generous which is a positive thing. \n\nRed has an overall positive association with it. Often you will find that red is a color associated with roses and blood.  The color red has to do with love and passion.  In sayings you can find it to have either a negative or positive meaning such as the term red eye relates with anger.  The Arabic culture also associates this color with death.\n\nBlue is related with positivity when discussing it with nature, otherwise it can be related with negative connotations. When used in the phrase blue eyes, it refers to jealousy. A blue body relates with death and therefore is associated with negativity.\n\nYellow is another color that is also associated with nature and the sun.  Again, since it is a color related with nature, it takes on the symbolic meaning of positivity.  Gold is also categorized under here and is also takes on a positive meaning.  Generally, when used in phrases, the color yellow has to do with negativity.  For example, a yellow smile means to be mean. \n\nColor symbolism is displayed in many ways. One of the most common ways we see color symbolism displayed in through our emotions. In this article Color-emotions associations: Past experience and personal preference it takes a look at how we connect colors with our emotions and how it depends on a person’s preference and or their past experiences. \n\n"}
{"id": "21011109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21011109", "title": "Combine painting", "text": "Combine painting\n\nA combine painting is an artwork that incorporates various objects into a painted canvas surface, creating a sort of hybrid between painting and sculpture. Items attached to paintings might include photographic images, clothing, newspaper clippings, ephemera or any number of three-dimensional objects. The term is most closely associated with the artwork of American artist Robert Rauschenberg (1925–2008) who coined the phrase to describe his own creations. Rauschenberg’s Combines explored the blurry boundaries between art and the everyday world. In addition, his cross-medium creations challenged the doctrine of medium specificity mentioned by modernist art critic Clement Greenberg. Frank Stella created a large body of paintings that recall the combine paintings of Robert Rauschenberg by juxtaposing a wide variety of surface and material in each work ultimately leading to Stella's sculpture and architecture of the 21st century.\n\nRauschenberg and his artist friend/flatmate Jasper Johns used to design window displays together for upscale retailers such as Tiffany's and Bonwit Teller in Manhattan before they became better established as artists. They shared ideas about art as well as career strategies. Paul Schimmel of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art described Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" as \"some of the most influential, poetic and revolutionary works in the history of American art.\" But they've also been called \"ramshackle hybrids between painting and sculpture, stage prop and three-dimensional scrap-book assemblage\" according to \"The Guardian\"s critic Adrian Searle. Searle believed the \"different elements of the Combines have been described as having no more relation than the different stories that vie for attention on a newspaper page.\" Jasper Johns, as well, used similar techniques; in at least one painting, Johns attached a paintbrush right inside his painting.\n\nExamples of Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" include \"Bed\" (1955), \"Canyon\" (1959), and the free-standing \"Monogram\" (1955–1959). Rauschenberg's works mostly incorporated two-dimensional materials held together with \"splashes and drips of paint\" with occasional 3-D objects. Critic John Perreault wrote \"The Combines are both painting and sculpture–or, some purists would say, neither.\" Perreault liked them since they were memorable, photogenic, and could \"stick in the mind\" as well as \"surprise and keep on surprising.\" Rauschenberg added stuffed birds on his 1955 work \"Satellite\", which featured a stuffed pheasant \"patrolling its top edge.\" In another work, he added a ladder. His Combine \"Broadcast\", featuring three radios blaring at once, was a \"melange of paint, grids, newspaper clips and fabric snippets.\" According to one source, his \"Broadcast\" had three radios playing simultaneously, which produced a sort of irritating static, so that one of the work's owners, at one point, replaced the \"noise\" with tapes of actual programs when guests visited. Rauschenberg's \"Bed\" had a pillow attached to a patchwork quilt with paint splashed over it. The idea was to promote immediacy.\n\nThe prevailing theme of Rauschenberg's \"combine\" paintings is \"nonmeaning, the absurd, or antiart.\" In this regard the combine paintings relate to Pop art and their much earlier predecessor Dada.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Rauschenberg's Combines sold from $400 to $7,500. But their value shot upwards. In 1999, the Museum of Modern Art, which had balked at buying Rauschenberg's work decades earlier, spent $12 million to buy his \"Factum II\" which the artist made in 1957. Rauschenberg's \"Rebus\" was valued in 1991 at $7.3 million. A three-panel work created in 1955 that takes its name from the Latin for a \"puzzle of images and words\", it \"builds a narrative from seemingly nonsensical sequences of found images and abstract elements,\" according to \"The New York Times\". MOMA bought \"Rebus\" in 2005. Rauschenberg reportedly said that the images in \"Rebus\" jostle with each other \"like pedestrians on a street.\" Rauschenberg's \"Photograph\", a Combine painting from 1959, was valued at $10.7 million by Sotheby's in 2008. His work \"Bantam\" sold for $2.6 million in 2009. In 2008, \"The New York Times\" art critic Roberta Smith, who described Combines as \"multimedia hybrids\", wrote MOMA was \"Rauschenberg Central\" because it owned over 300 of his works. The Whitney owned 60 Rauschenbergs. In 2012, \"Canyon\" was donated to MoMA by the children of Ileana Sonnabend as part of an IRS settlement that valued the work at $65 million.\n\n\"Canyon,\" one of Rauschenberg's most recognizable Combines, has been the subject of art historical debate revolving around the validity of reading Rauschenberg's work iconographically. Historian Kenneth Bendiner famously proposed \"Canyon\" as a playful recreation of a 1635 Rembrandt painting depicting the abduction of Ganymede, interpreting the suspended pillow as Ganymede's buttocks and the stuffed bald eagle as the form assumed by the Greek god Zeus. Other historians and critics, such as Joseph Branden have argued that searching for iconography in Rauschenberg's Combines is useless because it can be made to exist anywhere. Bendiner's interpretation is discredited for failing to account for compositional movement and for disregarding a number of elements within the work, for example the blue and red text in the center, in order to mould the interpretation to it.\n\nInterpretations of Rauschenberg's Combines vary from: a deeply personal and subjective collage of expression (often homoerotic), to a surface of indecipherable, or rather infinitely cipher-able, materials which challenge notions of painting, sculpture, reception, and chance, to a multivalent iconographic landscape that seems to resist fixed decoding in favor of a more open-ended play of meaning. Rauschenberg himself states \"I don't want a painting to be just an expression of my personality. I feel it ought to be much better than that … I’ve always felt as though, whatever I’ve used and whatever I’ve done, the method was always closer to a \"collaboration\" with materials than to any kind of conscious manipulation and control.\"\n\nMoira Roth links the Combines to Duchamp's indifferent attitude in art, arguing that the perceived density of the content, and the integration of mass media elements is a facade born out of the alienation and indifference experienced by the artist during the McCarthy Period. Jonathan Katz argues that underneath the impersonal and inexpressive appearance of his work is a secret homosexual code that can unlock some of the significance of Rauschenberg's work, but Ed Krčma points out the weakness of steering the analysis towards preconceived conclusions, especially since Rauschenberg's work is described as a poetry of infinite possibilities.\n\nMore recent interpretations of \"Canyon,\" reconsider the work in postmodern terms, claiming that the Combine works more like a human mind than a human eye; Fragmented scraps of images, news cutouts, found objects and paint interact in esoteric ways and more closely resemble a cerebral process than a 'traditional' image. Yve-Alain Bois calls the search for iconographic meaning in Rauschenberg's work misguided because it is too limiting. His art's \"lack of center\" is a statement in itself, and the infinite permutations of meaning that can result highlight the subjectivity of art reception that postmodernism explores.\n\nUnder U.S. law, \"Canyon\" can never be sold since it contains a stuffed bald eagle, violating the 1940 Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act as well as the 1918 Migratory Bird Treaty Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "3120054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3120054", "title": "Copyist", "text": "Copyist\n\nA copyist is a person who makes copies. \nThe term is sometimes used for artists who make copies of other artists' paintings. However, the modern use of the term is almost entirely confined to music copyists, who are employed by the music industry to produce neat copies from a composer or arranger's manuscript.\n\nUntil the 1990s, most copyists worked by hand to write out scores and individual instrumental parts neatly, using a calligraphy pen, manuscript paper, and often a ruler. Producing parts for an entire orchestra from a full score was a huge task. In the 1990s, copyists began using scorewriters - computer programs which are the music notation equivalent of a word processor. (Such programs include \"Sibelius\", \"Finale\", \"MuseScore\" or \"GNU LilyPond\"). Scorewriters allow the composer or songwriter to \"enter\" the melodies, rhythms and lyrics to their compositions into the computer using a mouse or by playing the notes on a MIDI-equipped keyboard. Once a composition is fully entered into a scorewriting program, the computer can be instructed to print out the parts for all of the different instruments.\n\nBoth handwritten and computer-based copying require significant understanding of musical notation, music theory, the musical styles and conventions of different styles of music (e.g., regarding appropriate ornamentation, harmony rules pertaining to accidentals, etc.), and strong attention to detail and past conventions. Ludwig van Beethoven had a contentious relationship with his copyists, who often made mistakes that remained uncorrected until the advent of Urtext editions; some musicologists have devoted a lot of effort to identifying Beethoven's copyists.\n\n"}
{"id": "39217270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39217270", "title": "Dalle de verre", "text": "Dalle de verre\n\nDalle de verre, from French: \"glass slab\", is a glass art technique that uses pieces of coloured glass set in a matrix of concrete and epoxy resin or other supporting material. \n\nThe technique was developed by Jean Gaudin in Paris in the 1930s. Slabs of coloured glass, to square or rectangular and typically up to thick, are shaped by breaking with a hammer or cutting with a saw. The edges of the resulting pieces may be chipped or faceted to increase the refraction and reflection effects.\n\nThe pieces are laid out to a design, similar to traditional stained-glass work. The pieces are laid on a bed of sand, bounded by a wooden casting frame. A matrix material, sand and cement or epoxy resin, is poured between the glass pieces and allowed to dry, typically requiring 24 hours to harden. The visible glass faces are then cleaned and the resulting solid panel can be relocated, embedded or hung as required.\n\nThe use of thicker glass produces deeper colour effects than traditional lead came stained-glass, especially when illuminated by bright natural or artificial light.\n\nThe technique achieved prominence in the stained glass literature of the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe resulting works may be subject to structural problems over time and, just like more traditional stained glass works, pose challenges to conservators and restorers.\n\nDalle de verre was brought to the UK by Pierre Fourmaintraux who joined James Powell and Sons (later Whitefriars Glass Studio) in 1956 and trained Dom Charles Norris in the technique. Norris was a Dominican Friar who went on to become arguably the most prolific British proponent of dalle de verre. His work is incorporated in several Modernist listed Catholic churches.\n"}
{"id": "466042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=466042", "title": "Décollage", "text": "Décollage\n\nDécollage, in art, is the opposite of collage; instead of an image being built up of all or parts of existing images, it is created by cutting, tearing away or otherwise removing, pieces of an original image. The French word \"décollage\" translates into English literally as \"take-off\" or \"to become unglued\" or \"to become unstuck\". Examples of décollage include etrécissements and cut-up technique. A similar technique is the \"lacerated poster\", a poster in which one has been placed over another or others, and the top poster or posters have been ripped, revealing to a greater or lesser degree the poster or posters underneath.\n\nAn important practitioner of décollage was Wolf Vostell. Wolf Vostell noticed the word \"décollage\" in Le Figaro on 6 September 1954, where it was used to describe the simultaneous take-off and crash of an aeroplane. He appropriated the term to signify an aesthetic philosophy, applied also to the creation of live performances, Vostell’s working concept of décollage, was the Dé-coll/age and begun in 1954, is as a visual force that breaks down outworn values and replaces them with thinking as a function distanced from media. He also called his Happenings Dé-coll/age-Happening.\n\nThe most celebrated artists of the décollage technique in France, especially of the lacerated poster, are François Dufrene, Jacques Villeglé, Mimmo Rotella and Raymond Hains. Raymond Hains used the lacerated poster as an artistic intervention that sought to critique the newly emerged advertising technique of large-scale advertisements. In effect his decollage destroys the advertisement, but leaves its remnants on view for the public to contemplate. Often these artists worked collaboratively and it was their intention to present their artworks in the city of Paris anonymously. These four artists were part of a larger group in the 1960s called Nouveau Réalisme (New realism), Paris' answer to the American Pop Art movement. This was a mostly Paris-based group (which included Yves Klein and Christo and was created with the help of critic Pierre Restany), although Rotella was Italian and moved back to Italy shortly after the group was formed. Some early practitioners sought to extract the defaced poster from its original context and to take it into areas of poetry, photography, or painting.\n\nLacerated posters are also closely related to Richard Genovese's practice of excavations. Contemporary artists employing similar décollage techniques are Mark Bradford, Michael Viviani and Brian Dettmer, who employs a novel method of decollage by removing material from books, leaving behind select images and text to form sculptural collages. Also there is Fizz Fieldgrass, an English artist, who uses digitally enhanced photographic images, overlaid by duplication on either Japanese Conservation Grade or fine Paper Mulberry, torn and rolled back to reveal other layers generating the three-dimensional image.\n\nDécollage is now commonly used in the French language in regard to aviation (as when an aeroplane lifts off the ground). More recently the term has been used in space flight; the web page for ESA indicates its use equivalent to \"We have lift-off!\" at a NASA launch center.\n\nDéchirage (from the French, déchirer: 'to tear') is an artistic style that distresses paper to create a three-dimensional patchwork. It is a form of décollage, taking the original image apart physically through incision, parting and peeling away. Romare Bearden (b. 1911 – d. 1988) the African American collage artist used déchirage as an important element of his abstract expressionist paintings. The first public display of \"Photographic\" Déchirage (the tearing of layers of digital photographs to create a distinctive three-dimensional image) was at the \"Art of Giving\" exhibition at the Saatchi Gallery in 2010.\n\nIt can be argued that the depliage is a form of décollage, as it is made by initially removing the staples from a staple-bound magazine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1727363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1727363", "title": "Empire style", "text": "Empire style\n\nThe Empire style (, \"style Empire\") is an early-nineteenth-century design movement in architecture, furniture, other decorative arts, and the visual arts, representing the second phase of Neoclassicism. It flourished between 1800 and 1815 during the Consulate and the First French Empire periods, although its life span lasted until the late-1820s. From France it spread into much of Europe and the United States. \n\nThe style originated in and takes its name from the rule of the Emperor Napoleon I in the First French Empire, when it was intended to idealize Napoleon's leadership and the French state. The previous fashionable style in France had been the Directoire style, a more austere and minimalist form of Neoclassicism, that replaced the Louis XVI style. The Empire style brought a full return to ostentatious richness. The style corresponds somewhat to the Biedermeier style in the German-speaking lands, Federal style in the United States, and the Regency style in Britain. \n\nThe style developed and elaborated the Directoire style of the immediately preceding period, which aimed at a simpler, but still elegant evocation of the virtues of the Ancient Roman Republic:\n\nThe stoic virtues of Republican Rome were upheld as standards not merely for the arts but also for political behaviour and private morality. \"Conventionels\" saw themselves as antique heroes. Children were named after Brutus, Solon and Lycurgus. The festivals of the Revolution were staged by David as antique rituals. Even the chairs in which the committee of \"Salut Publique\" sat were made on antique models devised by David. ...In fact Neo-classicism became fashionable.\n\nThe Empire style \"turned to the florid opulence of Imperial Rome. The abstemious severity of Doric was replaced by Corinthian richness and splendour\".\n\nTwo French architects, Charles Percier and Pierre Fontaine, were together the creators of the French Empire style. The two had studied in Rome and in the 1790s became leading furniture designers in Paris, where they received many commissions from Napoleon and other statesmen.\n\nArchitecture of the Empire style was based on elements of the Roman Empire and its many archaeological treasures, which had been rediscovered starting in the eighteenth century. The preceding Louis XVI and Directoire styles employed straighter, simpler designs compared to the Rococo style of the eighteenth century. Empire designs strongly influenced the contemporary American Federal style (such as design of the United States Capitol building), and both were forms of propaganda through architecture. It was a style of the people, not ostentatious but sober and evenly balanced. The style was considered to have \"liberated\" and \"enlightened\" architecture just as Napoleon \"liberated\" the peoples of Europe with his Napoleonic Code.\n\nThe Empire period was popularized by the inventive designs of Percier and Fontaine, Napoleon's architects for Malmaison. The designs drew for inspiration on symbols and ornaments borrowed from the glorious ancient Greek and Roman empires. Buildings typically had simple timber frames and box-like constructions, veneered in expensive mahogany imported from the colonies. Biedermeier furniture also used ebony details, originally due to financial constraints. Ormolu details (gilded bronze furniture mounts and embellishments) displayed a high level of craftsmanship.\n\nGeneral Bernadotte, later to become King Karl Johan of Sweden and Norway, introduced the Napoleonic style to Sweden, where it became known under his own name. The Karl Johan style remained popular in Scandinavia even as the Empire style disappeared from other parts of Europe. France paid some of its debts to Sweden in ormolu bronzes instead of money, leading to a vogue for crystal chandeliers with bronze from France and crystal from Sweden.\n\nAfter Napoleon lost power, the Empire style continued to be in favour for many decades, with minor adaptations. There was a revival of the style in the last half of the nineteenth century in France, again at the beginning of the twentieth century, and again in the 1980s.\n\nThe most famous Empire-style structures in France are the grand neoclassical Arc de Triomphe of Place de l'Étoile, Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel, Vendôme column, and La Madeleine, which were built in Paris to emulate the edifices of the Roman Empire. The style also was used widely in Imperial Russia, where it was used to celebrate the victory over Napoleon in such memorial structures as the General Staff Building, Kazan Cathedral, Alexander Column, and Narva Triumphal Gate. Stalinist architecture is sometimes referred to as Stalin's Empire style.\n\nThe style survived in Italy longer than in most of Europe, partly because of its Imperial Roman associations, partly because it was revived as a national style of architecture following the unification of Italy in 1870. Mario Praz wrote about this style as the Italian Empire. In the United Kingdom, Germany, and the United States, the Empire style was adapted to local conditions and gradually acquired further expression as the Egyptian Revival, Greek Revival, Biedermeier style, Regency style, and late-Federal style.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24621", "title": "En plein air", "text": "En plein air\n\nEn plein air (, French for outdoors, or plein air painting) is the act of painting outdoors. This method contrasts with studio painting or academic rules that might create a predetermined look.\n\nArtists have long painted outdoors, but in the mid-19th century, working in natural light became particularly important to the Barbizon school, Hudson River School, and Impressionists.\n\nIn 1830, the Barbizon School in France, inspired by John Constable, enabled artists like Charles-François Daubigny and Théodore Rousseau to more accurately depict the appearance of outdoor settings in various light and weather conditions. In the late 1800s, the en plein air approach was incorporated with the impressionists’ style, and artists such as Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Frédéric Bazille, and Edgar Degas began creating their work outdoors. From France, the movement expanded to America, starting in California then moving to other American locales notable for their natural light qualities, including the Hudson River Valley in New York.\n\nThe Macchiaioli were a group of Italian painters active in Tuscany in the second half of the nineteenth century, who, breaking with the antiquated conventions taught by the Italian academies of art, did much of their painting outdoors in order to capture natural light, shade, and colour. This practice relates the Macchiaioli to the French Impressionists who came to prominence a few years later, although the Macchiaioli pursued somewhat different purposes. Their movement began in Florence in the late 1850s.\n\nThe Newlyn School in England is considered another major proponent of the technique in the latter 19th century. The popularity of painting \"en plein air\" increased in the 1840s with the introduction of paints in tubes (like those for toothpaste). Previously, painters made their own paints by grinding and mixing dry pigment powders with linseed oil.\n\nThe act of outdoor painting from observation has been continually popular well into the 21st century.\n\nIt was during the mid-19th century that the \"box easel\", typically known as the \"French box easel\" or \"field easel\", was invented. It is uncertain who developed it, but these highly portable easels with telescopic legs and built-in paint box and palette made it easier to go into the forest and up the hillsides. Still made today, they remain a popular choice (even for home use) since they fold up to the size of a brief case and thus are easy to store.\n\nThe Pochade Box is a compact box that allows the artist to keep all their supplies and palette within the box and have the work on the inside of the lid. Some designs allow for a larger canvas which can be held by clamps built into the lid. There are designs which can also hold a few wet painting canvases or panels within the lid. These boxes have a rising popularity as while they are mainly used for plein air painting, can also be used in the studio, home, or classroom. Since pochade boxes are mainly used for painting on location, the canvas or work surface may be small, usually not more than 20 inches (50 cm).\n\nChallenges include the type of paint used to paint outdoors, animals, bugs, onlookers, and environmental conditions such as weather. Acrylic paint may harden and dry quickly in warm, sunny weather and it cannot be reused. On the opposite side of the spectrum is the challenge of painting in moist or damp conditions with precipitation. The advent of plein air painting predated the invention of acrylics. The traditional and well-established method of painting \"en plein air\" incorporates the use of oil paint.\n\nFrench impressionist painters such as Claude Monet, Camille Pissarro, and Pierre-Auguste Renoir advocated plein air painting, and much of their work was done outdoors in the diffuse light of a large white umbrella. Claude Monet was an avid en plein air artist who deduced that to seize the closeness and likeness of an outside setting at a specific moment one had to be outside to do so rather than just paint an outside setting in their studio. In the second half of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century in Russia, painters such as Vasily Polenov, Isaac Levitan, Valentin Serov, Konstantin Korovin and I. E. Grabar were known for painting \"en plein air\".\n\nBut enthusiasts of plein air painting were not limited to the Old World. American impressionists too, such as those of the Old Lyme school, were avid painters \"en plein air\". American impressionist painters noted for this style during this era included Guy Rose, Robert William Wood, Mary DeNeale Morgan, John Gamble, and Arthur Hill Gilbert. In Canada, the Group of Seven and Tom Thomson are examples of \"en plein air\" advocates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9295770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9295770", "title": "Festivals (book)", "text": "Festivals (book)\n\nFestivals is a 1973 anthology of festival-related folklore from around the world that have been compiled by Ruth Manning-Sanders. According to the book's dust jacket, \"This potpourri of festivals reveals fascinating customs and celebrations from many countries of the world. Each special day is preceded by background material on the origins of the holiday.\"\n\nSome of the special days covered are (using Manning-Sanders' words and spellings): New Year's Day, Saint Bride's Day, the Japanese Snow Festival, Saint Valentine's Day, Saint Patrick's Day, Shrove Tuesday, Mardi Gras, Easter Day, All Fools' Day, the Bright Weather Festival, Saint George's Day, May Day, the Padstow Hobby Horse, Independence Day, Michaelmas Day, Saint Crispin's Day, Hallow E'en, the Fifth of November, Hogmanay, and Christmas.\n\nFor many of the festivals, the book includes the writings of some famous authors or historical personalities. Among those included in the book are Robert Herrick, Fiona Macleod, Marco Polo, John Donne, Sir Charles Lyall, Norman Hunter, Chiang Yee, Flora Thompson, Laurie Lee, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Dylan Thomas, William Shakespeare, Richard Cobbold, P. L. Travers, Oliver Herford, Alison Uttley, Richard Crashaw, Jon and Rumer Godden, and Alfred Tennyson.\n\nEditor Manning-Sanders, a poet and author who was perhaps best known for her series of children's books in which she collected and retold fairy tales, contributes four pieces to this book:\n\n"}
{"id": "31908016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31908016", "title": "Fictive art", "text": "Fictive art\n\nFictive art is a practice that involves the production of objects, events, and entities designed to support the plausibility of a central narrative. Fictive art projects disguise their fictional essence by incorporating materials that stand as evidence for narrative factuality and thus are designed to deceive the viewer as to their ontological status. Very often, these materials take a form that carries presumptive cultural authority, such as 'historical' photographs or 'scientific' data. The key tension in fictive art projects stems from the impossibility of 'making real' a fiction, no matter how many or what kinds of objects are produced as evidence. Since fictive art projects are designed to pass at least temporarily as 'real', fictive artists may draw opprobrium as hoaxers, pranksters, forgers, or con artists when their projects are revealed as fictional.\n\nThe term fictive art was originated by the artists Antoinette LaFarge and Lise Patt, in the title of a panel at the College Art Association Conference of 2004. It is allied to the terms superfiction and parafiction but, unlike both, does not construct the central activity as a departure from (super, para) fiction. Instead, it argues for the primacy of the visual art components, emphasizing the role they play in establishing, extending, and enabling the central narrative. A number of exhibitions in recent years have included examples of fictive art as part of broad explorations of the relationship between media, illusion, and deception; examples include \"More Real? Art in the Age of Truthiness\" at SITE Santa Fe (2012) and \"Faking It\" at the Museum of Modern Art, New York (2012).\n\nFictive art has antecedents going back several centuries; for example, the 'Rowley' creations of Thomas Chatterton, the 'Formosan' inventions of George Psalmanazar, or the Cottingley fairy photographs. With the rise of mass media in the second half of the 20th century, the practice of fictive art has expanded; it now includes such familiar forms as mockumentaries. Notable practitioners and projects include David Wilson (The Museum of Jurassic Technology), Nicholas Kahn and Richard Selesnick (The Circular River), Beauvais Lyons (The Hokes Archives), Joan Fontcuberta (Sputnik), Eve Andree Laramee (Yves Fissiault), and Jim Shaw (O-ism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405304", "title": "Figure painting", "text": "Figure painting\n\nA figure painting is a work of fine art in any of the painting media with the primary subject being the human figure, whether clothed or nude.\nFigure painting may also refer to the activity of creating such a work. The human figure has been one of the constant subjects of art since the first stone age cave paintings, and has been reinterpreted in various styles throughout history.\nUnlike figure drawings which are usually nudes, figure paintings are often historical, mythological, allegorical or imaginary depictions that may have figures in appropriate costumes. A portrait painting is a figure painting that focuses on the creation of a likeness of a particular individual or group.\n\nThe nude has been a theme in Western art since classical antiquity and again in the Renaissance, after being largely absent during the Middle Ages.\n\nOil paint historically has been the ideal media for depicting the figure. By blending and layering paint, the surface can become more like skin. \"Its slow drying time and various degrees of viscosity enable the artist to achieve rich and subtle blends of color and texture, which can suggest transformations from one human substance to another.\" Although working from live models is preferred, the length of time needed to complete a painting has led most modern painters to use photographs as references at least part of the time if not for the entire work.\n\nFigure painting is not synonymous with figurative art, which may depict real objects of any kind (including humans and animals).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33835821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33835821", "title": "Formline art", "text": "Formline art\n\nFormline art is a feature in the indigenous art of the Northwest Coast of North America, distinguished by the use of characteristic shapes referred to as \"ovoids\", \"U forms\" and \"S forms\". Coined by Bill Holm in his 1965 book \"Northwest Coast Indian Art: An Analysis of Form\", the \"formline is the primary design element on which Northwest Coast art depends, and by the turn of the 20th century, its use spread to the southern regions as well. It is the positive delineating force of the painting, relief and engraving. Formlines are continuous, flowing, curvilinear lines that turn, swell and diminish in a prescribed manner. They are used for figure outlines, internal design elements and in abstract compositions.\"\n\nAfter European contact, in the late 18th century, the peoples who produced Northwest Coast art suffered huge population losses due to diseases such as smallpox, and cultural losses due to assimilation into European-North American culture. The production of their art dropped drastically as well.\n\nToward the end of the 19th century, Northwest Coast artists began producing work for commercial sale, such as small argillite carvings. The end of the 19th century also saw large-scale export of totem poles, masks and other traditional art objects from the region to museums and private collectors around the world. Some of this export was accompanied by financial compensation to people who had a right to sell the art, and some was not.\n\nIn the early 20th century, very few First Nations artists in the Northwest Coast region were producing art. A tenuous link to older traditions remained in artists such as Charles Gladstone, Stanley George (Heiltsuk) and Mungo Martin. The mid-20th century saw a revival of interest and production of Northwest Coast art, due to the influence of artists and critics such as Bill Reid, a grandson of Charles Gladstone, and others. This renewal of art is part of a wider cultural and political awakening among First Nations. It also saw an increasing demand for the return of art objects (known as Repatriation) that were illegally or immorally taken from First Nations communities. This demand continues to the present day. Today, there are numerous art schools teaching formal Northwest Coast art of various styles, and there is a growing market for new art in this style.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26073072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26073072", "title": "Fundred Dollar Bill Project", "text": "Fundred Dollar Bill Project\n\nThe Fundred Dollar Bill Project is an art project implemented by Mel Chin, and is aimed to connect and represent the voices of children across the United States, with the end goal to propose a funding solution for the lead contamination in the soil of New Orleans, Louisiana. People in the United States and around the globe are invited to draw their own 100 dollar bills and send to collection centers, or schools, for safekeeping. During a nationwide road-trip in an armored truck, the Fundred Dollar Bills will be collected.\n\nThe completed Fundred Dollar Bills will be presented to Congress for an even exchange of U.S. dollars to help the remediation of lead in the soil of New Orleans. This funding supports Operation Paydirt, which is the program that, once implemented, will make the lead content in the soil safe for inhabitants of New Orleans and cities affected by lead poisoning-across the United States.\n\nSo far nearly half a million people have created and sent in their unique Fundreds. \n\nArmored Truck Tour\n\nThroughout 2010, students at hundreds of schools across the country created Fundred Dollar Bills that were picked up in a specially designed armored truck. \nAs students and educators handed their Fundreds over to truck guards for safekeeping, schools held events that raised awareness of the gravity and persistence of the lead in our environment. \n\nThese events gave local elected officials and community organizations a chance to show their support for lead cleanup while giving local press brought the issue to larger audiences.\n\nAt every stop the armored truck tour connected the national campaign for lead awareness. Each event around the country not only provided public and impassioned demonstrations against lead poisoning, but brought people together to make connections around this public health health issue.\n\nGrand Rapids\n\nIn the fall of 2014, the ArtPrize competition in Grand Rapids, Michigan featuring the Fundred Dollar Bill Project, offered an opportunity to raise visibility of local lead issues and invite participation from the tends of thousands of expected visitors. \n\nVisitors to the exhibit sat at bank teller tables and drew their unique Fundreds. Once drawn, their Fundreds were added to hundreds of others on a wall in the exhibit, making their artful demonstrations part of the exhibit for its duration. In addition to creating a public display of action-oriented art, the Grand Rapids initiative brought together local public health specialists, educators, and scientists to talk about the challenges and solutions to lead poisoning in Grand Rapids.\n\nArt Academy in Cincinnati\n\nIn 2015, the Art Academy of Cincinnati partnered with the Fundred Dollar Bill Project and the Cincinnati Health Department Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program to create a course that used art and design to address and impact issues of lead contamination in Cincinnati. \n\nWith the Fundred Dollar Bill Project as a common starting point and inspiration, students launched group projects to increase awareness of childhood lead poisoning and our ability to put an end to it. Students exhibited their projects at a publicly accessible end of semester block party. Students explored lead poisoning through dance performance and graphic design and created a learning-through-play area. The Health Department shared information about lead, and a public Fundred drawing table provided opportunity for attendees to sit together for conversation and to creatively put their values in action.\n\nInitiatives\n\nFundred Reserve Open Lab at H-Space, located in DC, is a space to expand the Fundred program by continuing to amplify personal stories, having fact based dialogue about problems in DC, and engaging more people to take purposeful action. \n\nOpen Lab continues the presence after the 2017 Fundred Reserve exhibition at The Corcoran. Open Lab programming runs from October through April 2018, with space provided by Hamiltonian Artists, and support from The Kresge Foundation through our partnership with MIT CoLab. \n\nAs an extension of Mel Chin’s multi-venue exhibition, All Over the Place (April 8 - September 5, 2018), the Fundred Project is on view at the Queens Museum as part of the exhibition.\n\n"}
{"id": "31815567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31815567", "title": "Glitch art", "text": "Glitch art\n\nGlitch art is the practice of using digital or analog errors for aesthetic purposes by either corrupting digital data or physically manipulating electronic devices. Glitches appear in visual art such as the film \"A Colour Box\" (1935) by Len Lye, the video sculpture \"TV Magnet\" (1965) by Nam June Paik and more contemporary work such as \"Panasonic TH-42PWD8UK Plasma Screen Burn\" (2007) by Cory Arcangel.\n\nIn a technical sense, a glitch is the unexpected result of a malfunction, especially occurring in software, video games, images, videos, audio, and other digital artefacts. Early examples of glitches used in media art include \"Digital TV Dinner\" (1978) created by Jamie Fenton and Raul Zaritsky, with glitch audio done by Dick Ainsworth. This video was made by manipulating the Bally video game console and recording the results on videotape.\n\nThe term glitch came to be associated with music in the mid 90s to describe a genre of experimental/noise/electronica (see glitch music). Shortly after, as VJs and other visual artist began to embrace the glitch as an aesthetic of the digital age, glitch art came to refer to a whole assembly of visual arts.\n\nIn January 2002, Motherboard, a tech-art collective, held a glitch symposium in Oslo, Norway, to \"bring together international artists, academics and other Glitch practitioners for a short space of time to share their work and ideas with the public and with each other.\"\n\nOn September 29 thru October 3, 2010, Chicago played host to the first GLI.TC/H, a five-day conference in Chicago organized by Nick Briz, Evan Meaney, Rosa Menkman and Jon Satrom that included workshops, lectures, performances, installations and screenings. In November 2011, the second GLI.TC/H event traveled from Chicago to Amsterdam and lastly to Birmingham, UK. It included workshops, screenings, lectures, performance, panel discussions and a gallery show over the course of seven days at the three cities.\n\nWhat is called \"glitch art\" typically means visual glitches, either in a still or moving image. It is made by either \"capturing\" an image of a glitch as it randomly happens, or more often by artists/designers manipulating their digital files, software or hardware to produce these \"errors.\" Artists have posted a variety of tutorials online explaining how to make glitch art. There are many approaches to making these glitches happen on demand, ranging from physical changes to the hardware to direct alternations of the digital files themselves. Artist Michael Betancourt identified five areas of manipulation that are used to create \"glitchart.\" Betancourt notes that \"glitch art\" is defined by a broad range of technical approaches that can be identified with changes made to the digital file, its generative display, or the technologies used to show it (such as a video screen). He includes within this range changes made to analog technologies such as television (in video art) or the physical film strip in motion pictures:\n\nData manipulation (aka \"databending\") changes the information inside the digital file to create glitches. Databending involves editing and changing the file data. There are a variety of tutorials explaining how to make these changes using programs such as HexFiend. Adam Woodall explains in his tutorial\nLike all files, image files (.jpg .bmp .gif etc) are all made up of text. Unlike some other files, like .svg (vectors) or .html (web pages), when an image is opened in a text editor all that comes up is gobbldygook!\nRelated processes such as datamoshing changes the data in a video or picture file. Datamoshing with software such as Avidemux is a common method for creating glitch art by manipulating different frame types in compressed digital video: \n\"Datamoshing involves the removal of an encoded video’s I-frames (intra-coded picture, also known as key frames—a frame that does not require any information regarding another frame to be decoded), leaving only the P- (predicted picture) or B- (bi-predictive picture) frames. P-frames contain information predicting the changes in the image between the current frame and the previous one, and B-frames contain information predicting the image differences between the previous, current and subsequent frames. Because P- and B-frames use data from previous and forward frames, they are more compressed than I-Frames.\"\n\nThis process of direct manipulation of the digital data is not restricted to files that only appear on digital screens. \"3D model glitching\" refers to the purposeful corruption of the code in 3D animation programs resulting in distorted and abstract images of 3D virtual worlds, models and even 3D printed objects\n\nMisalignment glitches are produced by opening a digital file of one type with a program designed for a different type of file, such as opening a video file as a sound file, or using the wrong codec to decompress a file. Tools commonly used to create glitches of this type include Audacity and WordPad. Artist Jamie Boulton explains the process and the glitches it produces, noting that these glitches depend on how Audacity handles files, even when they are not audio-encoded:\nThe easiest way to manipulate a file in Audacity is to select a section of the file and apply one of the built in sound effects to it. Now I’m no computing whizz kid but the way I see it when you apply a sound effect to a sound file, the program takes that file and alters the file data in the manner which it’s been told will achieve that effect. So, for example, if you were to apply an echo effect then it would repeat parts of the file, diminishing the repetition after each iteration. The wonderful thing is that it will do this regardless of what the file actually is. Audacity doesn’t know or care whether the file is a sound or not, it will alter it in the manner instructed.\nHardware failure happens by altering the physical wiring or other internal connections of the machine itself, such as a short-circuit, in a process called \"circuit bending\" causes the machine to create glitches that produce new sounds and visuals. For example, by damaging internal pieces of something like a VHS player, one can achieve different colorful visual images. Video artist Tom DeFanti explained the role of hardware failure in a voice-over for Jamie Fenton's early glitch video \"Digital TV Dinner\" that used the Bally video game console system:\nThis piece represents the absolute cheapest one can go in home computer art. This involves taking a $300 video game system, pounding it with your fist so the cartridge pops out while its trying to write the menu. The music here is done by Dick Ainsworth using the same system, but pounding it with your fingers instead of your fist.\nPhysically beating the case of the game system would cause the game cartridge to pop out, interrupting the computer's operation. The glitches that resulted from this failure were a result of how the machine was set-up:\nThere was ROM memory in the cartridge and ROM memory built into the console. Popping out the cartridge while executing code in the console ROM created garbage references in the stack frames and invalid pointers, which caused the strange patterns to be drawn. [...] The Bally Astrocade was unique among cartridge games in that it was designed to allow users to change game cartridges with power-on. When pressing the reset button, it was possible to remove the cartridge from the system and induce various memory dump pattern sequences. Digital TV Dinner is a collection of these curious states of silicon epilepsy set to music composed and generated upon this same platform.\nMisregistration is produced by the physical noise of historically analog media such as motion picture film. It includes dirt, scratches, smudges and markings that can distort physical media also impact the playback of digital recordings on media such as CDs and DVDs, as electronic music composer Kim Cascone explained in 2002:\n\n\"There are many types of digital audio ‘failure.' Sometimes, it results in horrible noise, while other times it can produce wondrous tapestries of sound. (To more adventurous ears, these are quite often the same.) When the German sound experimenters known as Oval started creating music in the early 1990s by painting small images on the underside of CDs to make them skip, they were using an aspect of ‘failure' in their work that revealed a subtextual layer embedded in the compact disc.\n\nOval's investigation of ‘failure' is not new. Much work had previously been done in this area such as the optical soundtrack work of Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Oskar Fischinger, as well as the vinyl record manipulations of John Cage and Christian Marclay, to name a few. What is new is that ideas now travel at the speed of light and can spawn entire musical genres in a relatively short period of time.\" \nDistortion was one of the earliest types of glitch art to be produced, such as in the work of video artist Nam June Paik, who created video distortions by placing powerful magnets in close proximity to the television screen, resulting in the appearance of abstract patterns. Paik's addition of physical interference to a TV set created new kinds of imagery that changed how the broadcast image was displayed:\nThe magnetic field interferes with the television’s electronic signals, distorting the broadcast image into an abstract form that changes when the magnet is moved.\nBy recording the resulting distortions with a camera, they can then be shown without the need for the magnet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "446536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446536", "title": "Guerrilla art", "text": "Guerrilla art\n\nGuerrilla art is a street art movement that first emerged in the UK, but has since spread across the world and is now established in most countries that already had developed graffiti scenes. In fact, it owes so much to the early graffiti movement, in the United States guerrilla art is still referred to as ‘post-graffiti art’.\nGuerrilla art differs from other art forms in it has no external boundary between the image and the environment. While a traditional painting can be moved from one gallery to another without the meaning or the artistic credibility of the piece being affected, street art is environmental, the surface to which it is applied to being as fundamental to the piece's meaning as that which is applied. Without the dynamics of modern life, guerrilla art is reduced to ‘art for arts sake’ and would be defined by \"what it is\" as opposed to \"what it does\".\n\nThe production of guerrilla art is focused on cause and effect, not the material piece itself. It aims to produce an effect within the minds of those people who live within the environment being altered. It does not necessarily aim to produce meaningful art in itself.\n\nGuerrilla artists increasingly seem to be moving towards a philosophy of painting a continuous work of art, adding to it over time as less developed elements of the piece are erased by graffiti cleaning efforts or in the battle for space. Art on canvas is not guerrilla art. Although many guerrilla artists regularly produce ‘trapped art’, they do not generally consider it to be the same thing. This has manifested itself in a wave of new canvas styles that have a guerrilla art style, but are more comprehensive and finished. Few traditional artists would create artwork intentionally meaning for it to be mass produced with little fidelity and put up with wheat paste. Many guerrilla artists hijack major branding for their own publicity and identity, often at odds with the brand itself. This can be seen with D*Face's hijacking of the Walt Disney signature.\n\nIt's not a movement that attempts to support or to oppose brand conditioning. It is the general public's artistic response to it.\n\n\nIn 1978 in downtown Wellington, New Zealand artist Barry Thomas, in collaboration with Chris Lipscombe, Hugh Walton and others, planted 180 cabbages \"on the demolished Duke of Edinburgh/Roxy Theatre site in the centre of Wellington. This cabbage patch, planted in such a way as to spell the word CABBAGE immediately captured the imagination of both the media and the public and engendered a flurry of other activities on the site, culminating in a week-long festival... when the cabbages were ceremonially harvested.\" While a work of conceptual sculpture, this intervention is also an early example of Guerrilla art and guerilla gardening in New Zealand. Thomas' work remained for six months, \"astonishingly unvandalised, as a living, breathing sculpture in the heart of the city.\" Christina Barton writes in the following months, \"it captured the hearts and minds of Wellingtonians, who followed the growth of the cabbages, adding their own embellishments to the site, and contributed to the week of festivities (with poetry readings, performances, and the distribution of free coleslaw) that celebrated their harvest\", describing the work as \"a provocation to the local council and the city's developers\". Thomas' documentation of the project was recently purchased by New Zealand's national gallery Te Papa, who described the work as an \"important moment in New Zealand’s art and social history\" with links to the \"Occupy movement, urban farming and guerrilla gardening\".\n\nArtistic movements are responsive. This movement is a response to the ever-increasing power and importance of the brand in everyday life. Developed, inner-city environments are where both branding and guerrilla art flourish. This is not coincidental.\n\nThe most important development in the street art movement and the reason for its 'guerrilla' tag is the adoption of guerrilla marketing techniques over traditional artistic methods. The use of guerrilla marketing methods to create ‘artistic publicity’ has seen the evolution away from artists as creative individuals and towards artists as brands.\n\nIt is this branding and the profound effect it has upon the minds of the general public that drives the guerrilla art movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46845117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46845117", "title": "Haitian Vodou art", "text": "Haitian Vodou art\n\nHaitian Vodou art is art related to the Haitian Vodou religion. This religion has its roots in West African traditional religions brought to Haiti by slaves, but has assimilated elements from Europe and the Americas and continues to evolve. The most distinctive Vodou art form is the \"drapo Vodou\", an embroidered flag often decorated with sequins or beads, but the term covers a wide range of visual art forms including paintings, embroidered clothing, clay or wooden figures, musical instruments and assemblages. Since the 1950s there has been growing demand for Vodou art by tourists and collectors.\n\nArt historians disagree on the origins of Haitian Vodou arts. Suzanne Blier makes the case that they come from the coastal areas of Benin and Togo. Robert Farris Thompson makes a plausible connection with Central Africa based on similarities with \"nkisi\" figures from the Kongo, and cosmograms, flags, drums and dances from that region.\n\nThe first slaves from West and Central Africa were brought to the Caribbean in the 16th century. Europeans often claimed that the slaves were being rescued from devil worship. \nHowever, the slaves maintained their religious practices in secret, and their priests were among the leaders of the first revolt in Haiti in 1791.\nHaiti became the first independent nation of African people in the Western Hemisphere in 1804 under President Jean-Jacques Dessalines.\nThe traditional religion continued to be banned, and as late as the 1940s the Catholic church undertook a campaign against Vodou, ransacked temples and burned religious artifacts. \nMany of the techniques of sacred art have now been forgotten, and few sculptures were being made by 2001.\nThe Vodou religion was finally recognized officially in 2002.\n\nThe great majority of Haitians still practice the Vodou religion. \nThe religion continues to evolve, and in addition to the traditional West African \"lwo\" (spirits) it now includes the spirits of heroes of resistance to the colonial forces, and spirits of powerful religious leaders.\nThe iconography of the Haitian Vodou religion combines elements from Africa, Europe and the Americas.\nThus a \"drapo\" made for an African spirit may include an image of a Catholic saint. \nThe saint's image was originally in part designed to deceive Catholic missionaries, but also was chosen in recognition of similarity between the saint and the \"lwa\".\nSince then the saint and the spirit have become syncretized.\n\nVodou art can be difficult to classify in Western terms. \nRachel Beauvoir-Dominique, writing of Marianne Lehmann's Vodou art collection, notes that \"even today, the Creole language does not possess any word to designate what Western civilization qualifies as 'art'.\"\nPoet and critic André Breton dismissed Haitian art, noting that Haiti had no museums or art collections. \nHe apparently saw no value in the art associated with the \"backward\" Vodou religion.\n\nSome scholars distinguish narrative Haitian art, which may include depictions of events or ceremonies in which there are many images from Vodou, from \"Vodou art\" in the sense of art that has a sacred function. The latter would be designed for use in ceremonies or for placement in temples or on altars. \nGiven the omnipresence of Vodou in Haiti, most narrative art would also include Vodou images.\nHowever, the fluid and adaptive nature of Vodou makes it hard to clearly distinguish religion, art and religious art.\n\nAlessandra Benedicty points out that Western scholars are led by their postmodern intellectual framework into trying to explain Vodou art in terms of \"intellectual truths\". \nVodou is open-ended and sometimes purposely dissimulates. \nBenedicty writes that in \"the Vodou/Haitian aesthetic system, the \"objet d'art\" nurtures ambivalence and demands that the reader or the spectator interpret and thus participate in the production of an artistic text's meaning.\" If there is a \"veve\" in the work, there is a possibility that the \"lwa\" the work was made for will possess the viewer.\nThe purchaser of a Vodou altar or other artwork may be possessed by their purchase.\nA 1995 exhibit at the Fowler Museum of Cultural History in California of \"The Sacred Arts of Haitian Vodou\" included dramatic ritual interactions between Vodouists and \"lwa\" that may have included possession.\n\nA \"drapo Vodou\" is a handmade flag, typically embroidered and decorated with beads and sequins.\nAlthough flags may have been made in West Africa before the arrival of Europeans, the flags widely used there by 1600 were derived from European flags. \nThey were used as symbols of ethnic, military or religious allegiance.\nThe \"drapo Vodou\" also drew on Yoruba beadwork, Catholic vestments and Masonic aprons.\nIn the 19th century and early 20th century most \"drapo Vodou\" were made from one or two colored fabric pieces decorated with embroidery, metal bangles and glass beads, with an image of the \"lwa\" made of shiny fabrics appliquéd to the cloth using techniques still followed in West Africa.\nFlags and banners used in the 21st century in rural areas often still have stylistically simple designs, in part due to the high cost of decorative material.\n\nWith the older flags the background field that frames the image was usually decorated with widely spaced sequins or beads. \nModern flag makers often completely cover the fabric of the field with sparkling sequins of one color, or with intricate geometrical patterns. \nBorders, which were either simple or did not exist on early \"drapo Vodou\", have evolved into highly elaborate patterns.\nThe use of sequins in modern \"drapos\" dates to 1940, when Joseph Fortine saw a troupe of Afro-Brazilian samba dancers wearing sequin costumes in a Carnival parade. Fortine began to decorate the costumes of Rara band players with sequins, and in 1943 made a \"drapo Vodou\" for Damballa from a burlap coffee sack which he stretched on a wooden frame.\nHe made the image from sequin lines on a satin background, and added random sequins surrounding the image. \nFortine taught his techniques to sequin artists such as Edgard Jean Louis, Sylva Joseph, Clotaire Bazile, and Yves Telemak. \nThe youngest of these, Telemak, was the first to sign his work.\n\nThere are two kinds of \"drapo Vodou\". The \"drapo servis\" are made for ceremonial use, and art flags are made for sale.\n\nThe \"drapo servis\" are important religious icons. \nThey are kept in shrine rooms, and carried by flag bearers in elaborate ceremonies in the main chamber of the temple. A \"drapo servis\" will include an image of a Catholic saint or a \"vèvè\" (trace-work emblem) of an \"lwa\" (spirit) such as Papa Legba or Ogun of the Yoruba religion.\nThere are many \"lwas\", including Erzulie, Guédé, Damballa and La Sirene. \nThe purpose of a ceremonial \"drapo\" is to flatter the \"lwa\" in the hope of gaining favor in return. \nUsually \"drapo servis\" are made in pairs, for example representing Ogun and Damballa.\nOgun was the \"lwa\" who led the slaves to freedom, and Damballa is the snake, representing the life force.\nOgun may be paired with other \"lwas\".\n\nA \"drapo servis\" will have a central image surrounded by a diamond-shaped border, will often have a fringe, and will be in size. The image may depict a Catholic saint associated with an \"lwa\" or may be a \"veve\" that represents the \"lwa\" symbolically and provides a gateway for it to enter the world of humans.\nThe image may be a chromolithograph, a vividly colored paper image from Italy, Mexico or Spain of a Catholic saint that has been syncretized with the corresponding African spirit of the drapo. The image may be an outline of the saint traced from a chromolithograph, or may be a detailed and faithful copy of a chromolithograph in beads and sequins.\n\nThe most widely used images of saints are those of Saint Isidore, Saint James Major, Saint Patrick and the Holy Virgin.\nVeves include the ship of Agwé, the cemetery cross of Baron Samedi, the crossroads of Legba and so on.\nAn image of a mermaid is used on flags for the water spirit LaSiren. \nThis does not derive from \"veve\" or Catholic origins, but seems to have come from European nautical sources.\nThe image of a fish is important in Vodou as in Christian art, but the Vodou symbol comes from Fon mythology rather than Christianity.\nIt represents Agwé, who corresponds to the Fon sea deity Agbê.\nAgbê took the shape of a fish when he was given responsibility for the sea.\n\nArt flags show much wider variation in size and theme than \"drapo servis\", and rarely have a fringe. Some flags are closer to tapestries.\nIn the 1950s collectors started to buy \"drapo Vodou\", and the \"oungan\" (priests) began to make them for sale as a source of income. \nThe next generation of artists, active in the 1990s, included Eviland Lalanne, Joseph Oldof Pierre, Le Petit Frere Mogirus, Wagler Vital, Georges Valris, Roland Rockville, Ronald Gouin, and Antoine Oleyant. They introduced various innovations, in part driven by the shortage of materials for flagmaking. Antoine Oleyant has been called \"the artist who really brought the flags into the realm of fine art.\"\n\nIn Port-au-Prince the skilled \"drapo\" artists have ready access to beads and sequins brought in from Canada and the United States. \nThese artists earn their living from sales to tourists and to art galleries.\nIn the 21st century there have been considerable changes to \"drapo Vodou\" as an art-form, in which artists such as Myrlande Constant have introduced new themes and techniques.\nOther contemporary \"drapo\" artists include Evelyne Alcide, Roudy Azor, Gabriel Chery, Lindor Chiler, Mireille Delice, Christian Dorleus and Josiane Joseph.\nTheir large and elaborate \"drapo\" represent in greater details the interactions with the \"lwas\" in events such as Vodou ceremonies and weddings.\nThey may also represent evangelical Christian themes, or have secular subjects. \nEdgard Jean Louis, a well-known flagmaker, made a flag called \"Diana Erzulie\" that included a photograph of the English Princess Diana.\nThere is growing demand for such \"drapo\" by international art collectors.\n\nIn the 1940s Haitian professional artists began to create imitations of images provided by foreign entrepreneurs. The images represented the foreigners' view of the essence of Vodou art. This interaction was later dismissed and the Haitian works were stated to be authentic.\nIn 1949 fifteen artists decorated the Episcopal Saint Trinite Cathedral in Port-au-Prince with murals that contrast Vodou art and traditional scenes from the bible.\nThirteen of the artists were Catholics and/or Vodouists.\nIn the 1950s the murals became world famous. African gods were found in the symbolism of Christian images. Thus the \"Damballah Virgin\" by Andre Dimanche was identified as Erzulie, a lwa connected to Aphrodite, Mater Dolorosa, health and an angry Madonna.\n\nA doll incorporated in a work of Vodou art can be animated so it can perform supernatural work, protecting the home. The Haitian Vodou priest Georges René explains the process, saying \"anything can do mystique if you believe in it... you have to turn it into mystic. You baptize it. You make a ceremony. You put the food the \"lwa\" eats... after that you can work with it. It gets a soul. You can put it on an altar.\"\n\nPierrot Barra (1942–99) and Marie Cassaise made sacred altar installations from everyday objects such as dolls, sunglasses, sequins, speedometers, rosaries, mirrors and tinsel.\nBarra said his work was inspired by the Vodou spirits, who sometimes demanded it. He said, \"When I sleep, while I'm dreaming, I see the Mysteries. When I sleep I see the spirits...they show me a design, some face, some kind of thing. Then when I wake up I create it.\"\nA visitor to Port-au-Prince in 1991 described an altar installation Barra made for the mother goddess Ezili Dantor. Her head came from a plaster doll, with rouge, lipstick and white synthetic hair. She held a cutout picture of the baby Jesus, which represented the goddess's daughter Anais.\nA red fabric snake was wrapped round the body of the goddess, and a small rubber baby doll was at the foot of the statue. The whole was decorated with sparkles and cheap jewelry. This was not a traditional design, but was immediately recognized by Vodouists as authentic Vodou art.\n\n"}
{"id": "10499965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10499965", "title": "Immersion (virtual reality)", "text": "Immersion (virtual reality)\n\nImmersion into virtual reality is a perception of being physically present in a non-physical world. The perception is created by surrounding the user of the VR system in images, sound or other stimuli that provide an engrossing total environment.\n\nThe name is a metaphoric use of the experience of submersion applied to representation, fiction or simulation. Immersion can also be defined as the state of consciousness where a \"visitor\" (Maurice Benayoun) or \"immersant\" (Char Davies)'s awareness of physical self is transformed by being surrounded in an artificial environment; used for describing partial or complete suspension of disbelief, enabling action or reaction to stimulations encountered in a virtual or artistic environment. The degree to which the virtual or artistic environment faithfully reproduces reality determines the degree of suspension of disbelief. The greater the suspension of disbelief, the greater the degree of presence achieved.\n\nAccording to Ernest W. Adams, author and consultant on game design, immersion can be separated into three main categories:\n\n\n\n\nStaffan Björk and Jussi Holopainen, in \"Patterns In Game Design\", divide immersion into similar categories, but call them sensory-motoric immersion, cognitive immersion and emotional immersion, respectively. In addition to these, they add a new category:\n\n\nPresence, a term derived from the shortening of the original \"telepresence\", is a phenomenon enabling people to interact with and feel connected to the world outside their physical bodies via technology. It is defined as a person's subjective sensation of being there in a scene depicted by a medium, usually virtual in nature. Most designers focus on the technology used to create a high-fidelity virtual environment; however, the human factors involved in achieving a state of presence must be taken into account as well. It is the subjective perception, although generated by and/or filtered through human-made technology, that ultimately determines the successful attainment of presence.\n\nVirtual reality glasses can produce a visceral feeling of being in a simulated world, a form of spatial immersion called Presence. According to Oculus VR, the technology requirements to achieve this visceral reaction are low-latency and precise tracking of movements.\n\nMichael Abrash gave a talk on VR at Steam Dev Days in 2014. According to the VR research team at Valve, all of the following are needed to establish presence.\n\nImmersive virtual reality is a hypothetical future technology that exists today as virtual reality art projects, for the most part. It consists of immersion in an artificial environment where the user feels just as immersed as they usually feel in consensus reality.\n\nThe most considered method would be to induce the sensations that made up the virtual reality in the nervous system directly. In functionalism/conventional biology we interact with consensus reality through the nervous system. Thus we receive all input from all the senses as nerve impulses.\nIt gives your neurons a feeling of heightened sensation. It would involve the user receiving inputs as artificially stimulated nerve impulses, the system would receive the CNS outputs (natural nerve impulses) and process them allowing the user to interact with the virtual reality. Natural impulses between the body and central nervous system would need to be prevented. This could be done by blocking out natural impulses using nanorobots which attach themselves to the brain wiring, whilst receiving the digital impulses of which describe the virtual world, which could then be sent into the wiring of the brain. A feedback system between the user and the computer which stores the information would also be needed. Considering how much information would be required for such a system, it is likely that it would be based on hypothetical forms of computer technology.\n\nA comprehensive understanding of which nerve impulses correspond to which sensations, and which motor impulses correspond to which muscle contractions will be required. This will allow the correct sensations in the user, and actions in the virtual reality to occur. The Blue Brain Project is the current, most promising research with the idea of understanding how the brain works by building very large scale computer models.\n\nThe nervous system would obviously need to be manipulated. Whilst non-invasive devices using radiation have been postulated, invasive cybernetic implants are likely to become available sooner and be more accurate. Manipulation could occur at any stage of the nervous system – the spinal cord is likely to be simplest; as all nerves pass through here, this could be the only site of manipulation.\nMolecular nanotechnology is likely to provide the degree of precision required and could allow the implant to be built inside the body rather than be inserted by an operation.\n\nA very powerful computer would be necessary for processing virtual reality complex enough to be nearly indistinguishable from consensus reality and interacting with central nervous system fast enough.\n\nAn immersive digital environment is an artificial, interactive, computer-created scene or \"world\" within which a user can immerse themselves.\n\nImmersive digital environments could be thought of as synonymous with virtual reality, but without the implication that actual \"reality\" is being simulated. An immersive digital environment could be a model of reality, but it could also be a complete fantasy user interface or abstraction, as long as the user of the environment is immersed within it. The definition of immersion is wide and variable, but here it is assumed to mean simply that the user feels like they are part of the simulated \"universe\". The success with which an immersive digital environment can actually immerse the user is dependent on many factors such as believable 3D computer graphics, surround sound, interactive user-input and other factors such as simplicity, functionality and potential for enjoyment. New technologies are currently under development which claim to bring realistic environmental effects to the players' environment – effects like wind, seat vibration and ambient lighting.\n\nTo create a sense of full immersion, the 5 senses (sight, sound, touch, smell, taste) must perceive the digital environment to be physically real. Immersive technology can perceptually fool the senses through:\n\nOnce the senses reach a sufficient belief that the digital environment is real (it is interaction and involvement which can never be real), the user must then be able to interact with the environment in a natural, intuitive manner. Various immersive technologies such as gestural controls, motion tracking, and computer vision respond to the user's actions and movements. Brain control interfaces (BCI) respond to the user's brainwave activity.\n\nTraining and rehearsal simulations run the gamut from part task procedural training (often buttonology, for example: which button do you push to deploy a refueling boom) through situational simulation (such as crisis response or convoy driver training) to full motion simulations which train pilots or soldiers and law enforcement in scenarios that are too dangerous to train in actual equipment using live ordinance.\n\nComputer games from simple arcade to massively multiplayer online game and training programs such as flight and driving simulators. Entertainment environments such as motion simulators that immerse the riders/players in a virtual digital environment enhanced by motion, visual and aural cues. Reality simulators, such as one of the Virunga Mountains in Rwanda that takes you on a trip through the jungle to meet a tribe of mountain gorillas. Or training versions such as one which simulates taking a ride through human arteries and the heart to witness the buildup of plaque and thus learn about cholesterol and health.\n\nIn parallel with scientist, artists like Knowbotic Research, Donna Cox, Rebecca Allen, Robbie Cooper, Maurice Benayoun,\nChar Davies, and Jeffrey Shaw use the potential of immersive virtual reality to create physiologic or symbolic experiences and situations.\n\nOther examples of immersion technology include physical environment / immersive space with surrounding digital projections and sound such as the CAVE, and the use of virtual reality headsets for viewing movies, with head-tracking and computer control of the image presented, so that the viewer appears to be inside the scene. The next generation is VIRTSIM, which achieves total immersion through motion capture and wireless head mounted displays for teams of up to thirteen immersants enabling natural movement through space and interaction in both the virtual and physical space simultaneously.\n\nNew fields of studies linked to the immersive virtual reality emerges every day. Researchers see a great potential in virtual reality tests serving as complementary interview methods in psychiatric care.\nImmersive virtual reality have in studies also been used as an educational tool in which the visualization of psychotic states have been used to get increased understanding of patients with similar symptoms. New treatment methods are available for schizophrenia and other newly developed research areas where immersive virtual reality is expected to achieve melioration is in education of surgical procedures, rehabilitation program from injuries and surgeries and reduction of phantom limb pain.\n\nIn the domain of architectural design and building science, immersive virtual environments are adopted to facilitate architects and building engineers to enhance the design process through assimilating their sense of scale, depth, and spatial awareness. Such platforms integrate the use of virtual reality models and mixed reality technologies in various functions of building science research, construction operations, personnel training, end-user surveys, performance simulations and building information modeling visualization. Head-mounted displays (with both 3 degrees of freedom and 6 degrees of freedom systems) and CAVE platforms are used for spatial visualization and building information modeling (BIM) navigations for different design and evaluation purposes. Clients, architects and building owners use derived applications from game engines to navigate 1:1 scale BIM models, allowing a virtual walkthrough experience of future buildings. For such use cases, the performance improvement of space navigation between virtual reality headsets and 2D desktop screens has been investigated in various studies, with some suggesting significant improvement in virtual reality headsets while others indicate no significant difference. Architects and building engineers can also use immersive design tools to model various building elements in virtual reality CAD interfaces, and apply property modifications to building information modeling (BIM) files through such environments.\n\nIn the building construction phase, immersive environments are used to improve site preparations, on site communication and collaboration of team members, safety and logistics. For training of construction workers, virtual environments have shown to be highly effective in skill transfer with studies showing similar performance results to training in real environments. Moreover, virtual platforms are also used in the operation phase of buildings to interact and visualize data with Internet of Things (IoT) devices available in buildings, process improvement and also resource management.\n\nOccupant and end-user studies are performed through immersive environments. Virtual immersive platforms engage future occupants in the building design process by providing a sense of presence to users with integrating pre-construction mock-ups and BIM models for the evaluation of alternative design options in the building model in a timely and cost efficient manner. Studies conducting human experiments have shown users perform similarly in daily office activities (object identification, reading speed and comprehension) within immersive virtual environments and benchmarked physical environments. In the field of lighting, virtual reality headsets have been used investigate the influence of façade patterns on the perceptual impressions and satisfaction of a simulated daylit space. Moreover, artificial lighting studies have implemented immersive virtual environments to evaluate end-users lighting preferences of simulated virtual scenes with the controlling of the blinds and artificial lights in the virtual environment.\n\nFor structural engineering and analysis, immersive environments enable the user to focus on structural investigations without getting too distracted to operate and navigate the simulation tool. Virtual and augmented reality applications have been designed for finite element analysis of shell structures. Using stylus and data gloves as input devices, the user can create, modify mesh, and specify boundary conditions. For a simple geometry, real-time color-coded results are obtained by changing loads on the model. Studies have used artificial neural networks (ANN) or approximation methods to achieve real-time interaction for the complex geometry, and to simulate its impact via haptic gloves. Large scale structures and bridge simulation have also been achieved in immersive virtual environments. The user can move the loads acting on the bridge, and finite element analysis results are updated immediately using an approximate module.\n\nSimulation sickness, or simulator sickness, is a condition where a person exhibits symptoms similar to motion sickness caused by playing computer/simulation/video games (Oculus Rift is working to solve simulator sickness).\n\nMotion sickness due to virtual reality is very similar to simulation sickness and motion sickness due to films. In virtual reality, however, the effect is made more acute as all external reference points are blocked from vision, the simulated images are three-dimensional and in some cases stereo sound that may also give a sense of motion. Studies have shown that exposure to rotational motions in a virtual environment can cause significant increases in nausea and other symptoms of motion sickness.\n\nOther behavioural changes such as stress, addiction, isolation and mood changes are also discussed to be side-effects caused by immersive virtual reality.\n\n"}
{"id": "27645253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27645253", "title": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1896–1970", "text": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1896–1970\n\nList of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1896 – 1970 records those American artists and scholars who have been awarded the Rome Prize from 1896 to 1970.\n\nThe Rome Prize is a prestigious American award made annually by the American Academy in Rome since 1896, through a national competition. The categories for the prize have changed since the earliest years of the academy to the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "41390737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41390737", "title": "List of art critics", "text": "List of art critics\n\nThis incomplete list of art critics enumerates persons who had or have a significant part of their known creative output in the form of art criticism, which consists mostly of the written discussion and aesthetic evaluation of works of art.\n\nThere is no official list of art critics, the compilation of which is compounded by problems in defining art criticism – not least of which is the overlap with art history, and philosophy of art. Herein will be included those authors that are mentioned as being art critics or producing art criticism in works of reference, as are encyclopedias, dictionaries or scholarly reviews.\n\nAccording to one authority, art criticism, in a close approximation to the current sociocultural framework of the activity, started in the 18th century CE in Western Europe. However, many authors living before that time and outside that region of the world wrote on the subject of art and aesthetic experience, though using terms and concepts that may not have a direct translation into the lexicon of the Western tradition. These, when mentioned, will be included as well though pertinently noted.\n"}
{"id": "5118841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5118841", "title": "List of occult terms", "text": "List of occult terms\n\nThe occult (from the Latin word \"occultus\" \"clandestine, hidden, secret\") is \"knowledge of the hidden\". In common English usage, \"occult\" refers to \"knowledge of the paranormal\", as opposed to \"knowledge of the measurable\", usually referred to as science. The term is sometimes taken to mean knowledge that \"is meant only for certain people\" or that \"must be kept hidden\", but for most practicing occultists it is simply the study of a deeper spiritual reality that extends beyond pure reason and the physical sciences. The terms \"esoteric\" and \"arcane\" can also be used to describe the occult, in addition to their meanings unrelated to the supernatural.\n\nIt also describes a number of magical organizations or orders, the teachings and practices taught by them, and to a large body of current and historical literature and spiritual philosophy related to this subject.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16615403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16615403", "title": "List of women warriors in folklore", "text": "List of women warriors in folklore\n\nThis is a list of women who engaged in war, found throughout mythology and folklore, studied in fields such as literature, sociology, psychology, anthropology, film studies, cultural studies, and women's studies. A \"mythological\" figure does not always mean a \"fictional\" one, but rather, someone of whom stories have been told that have entered the cultural heritage of a people. Some women warriors are documented in the written record and as such form part of history (e.g. the Ancient Briton queen Boudica, who led the Iceni into battle against the Romans). However, to be considered a warrior, the woman in question must have belonged to some sort of military, be it recognized, like an organized army, or unrecognized, like revolutionaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNonhelema was a Shawnee chieftess and sister of Cornstalk. She was known by white settlers as the Grenadier or Grenadier Squaw because of her height. She promoted an alliance with the Americans on the frontier in Ohio.\n\nWoman Chief (c. 1806 – 1858) was a Crow chief and war leader in the mid-19th century. Born to the Gros Ventre people, she was adopted into the Crow. She gained renown in battles and raids, and assumed leadership of her lodge when her father died, becoming a leading chief. She married four wives and later participated in peace negotiations after the 1851 Treaty of Fort Laramie.\n\nFallen Leaf (often called Woman Chief by the Americans): She was born to the Gros Ventre nation and taken captive by the Crow when she was 12. After she had counted coup four times in the prescribed Crow tradition, she was considered a warrior and chief and sat in the council of chiefs.\n\nRunning Eagle: she became a Blackfoot (Piegan) warrior after her husband was killed by the Crow.\n\nColestah: In the 1858 battle of Spokane Plains in Washington, Yakama leader Kamiakin's wife Colestah was known as a medicine woman, psychic, and warrior. Armed with a stone war club, Colestah fought at her husband's side. When Kamiakin was wounded, she rescued him, and then used her healing skills to cure him.\n\nBuffalo Calf Road Woman: In the 1876 battle of the Rosebud in Montana, Buffalo Calf Road (aka Calf Trail Woman), the sister of Comes in Sight, rode into the middle of the warriors and saved the life of her brother. Buffalo Calf Road had ridden into battle that day next to her husband Black Coyote. This was considered to be one of the greatest acts of valor in the battle.\n\nMoving Robe Woman: One of the best-known battles in the annals of Indian-American warfare is the 1876 Battle of the Greasy Grass in Montana where Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer was defeated. One of those who led the counterattack against the cavalry was the woman Tashenamani (Moving Robe).\n\nLozen (c. 1840-June 17, 1889) was a female warrior and prophet of the Chihenne Chiricahua Apache. She spent most of her adult life fighting the Apache Wars alongside her brother Victorio and the legendary Geronimo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSomdet Phra Sri Suriyothai () was a royal consort during the 16th century Ayutthaya period of Siam (now Thailand). She is famous for having given up her life in the defense of her husband, King Maha Chakkraphat, in a battle during the Burmese-Siamese War of 1548. For the movie, see \"The Legend of Suriyothai\".\n\nThao Thep Kasattri () and Thao Sri Sunthon () were styles awarded to Than Phuying Chan (), wife of the then recently deceased governor, and her sister, Khun Muk (), who defended Phuket Province in the late 18th century. According to popular belief, they repelled a five-week invasion by Burmaese in 1785, by dressing up as male soldiers and rallying Siamese troops. Chan and Muk were later honored by King Rama I with the Thai honorific \"Thao\", as Thao Thep Kasattri and Thao Sri Sunthon, respectively. The \"Heroine's Monument\" honouring them is situated on the main highway (402) between the Phuket International Airport and Phuket town.\n\n\nThree historical women:\n\nTwo legendary women:\n\nThis Amazon is famous in their traditions: her house or dairy of stone is yet extant; some of the inhabitants dwell in it all summer, though it be some hundred years old; the whole is built of stone, without any wood, lime, earth, or mortar to cement it, and is built in form of a circle pyramid-wise towards the top, having a vent in it, the fire being always in the centre of the floor; the stones are long and thin, which supplies the defect of wood; the body of this house contains not above nine persons sitting; there are three beds or low vaults that go off the side of the wall, a pillar betwixt each bed, which contains five men apiece; at the entry to one of these low vaults is a stone standing upon one end fix’d; upon this they say she ordinarily laid her helmet; there are two stones on the other side, upon which she is reported to have laid her sword: she is said to have been much addicted to hunting, and that in her time all the space betwixt this isle and that of Harries, was one continued tract of dry land.\n\nSimilar stories of a female warrior who hunted the now submerged land between the Outer Hebrides and St Kilda are reported from Harris.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \"From sunrise to the sundown no paragon had she.\n\n\n\n\nKhawlah bint al-Azwar was the daughter of one of the chiefs of Bani Assad tribe, and her family embraced Islam in its first days. The recorded history of that era mentions repeatedly the feats of Khawla in battles that took place in Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Palestine. In one instance, she fought in disguise as a man to rescue her brother Derar after the Romans captured him. The Romans eventually lost the battle and fled. When her identity was discovered, the commander of the Moslem army was very impressed with her courage, and he allowed her to lead the attack against the fleeing Romans; they were defeated and the prisoners were all released. In another battle in Ajnadin, Khawla's spear broke, and her mare was killed, and she found herself a prisoner. But she was astonished to find that the Romans attacked the women camp and captured several of them. Their leader gave the prisoners to his commanders, and ordered Khawla to be moved into his tent. She was furious, and decided that to die is more honorable than living in disgrace. She stood among the other women, and called them to fight for their freedom and honor or die. They took the tents' poles and pegs and attacked the Roman guards, keeping a formation of a tight circle, as she told them. Khawla led the attack, killed the first guard with her pole, with the other women following her. According to Al Wakidi, they managed to kill 30 Roman soldiers, five of whom were killed by Khawla herself, including the soldier who wanted to rape her. She was a brunette, tall, slim and of great beauty, and she was also a distinguished poet.\n\nNusaybah bint Ka’ab, also known as Umm Ammarah (Ammarah's mother), a Hebrew woman by origin from the Banu Najjar tribe, was an early convert to Islam. Nusaybah was attending the Battle of Uhud like other women, and her intention was to bring water to the soldiers, and attend the wounded while her husband and son fought on the side of the Moslems. But after the Moslem archers disobeyed their orders and began deserting their high ground believing victory was at hand, the tide of the battle changed, and it appeared that defeat was imminent. When this occurred, Nusaybah entered the battle, carrying a sword and shield. She shielded Muhammad from the arrows of the enemy, and received several wounds while fighting. She was highly praised by Muhammad on her courage and heroism. During the battle her son was wounded and she cut off the leg of the aggressor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5906291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5906291", "title": "List of works by Michelangelo", "text": "List of works by Michelangelo\n\nThe following is a list of works of painting, sculpture and architecture by the Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo. Lost works are included, but not commissions that Michelangelo never made. Michelangelo also left many drawings, sketches, and some works in poetry.\n"}
{"id": "34596784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34596784", "title": "Los Angeles Pop Art", "text": "Los Angeles Pop Art\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art (also known as LA Pop Art) is an American company, founded by Joseph Leibovic, headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada. The company creates text based artwork, entirely drawn by hand, also known as Micrography.\nBy using entire movie scripts, complete song lyrics and manuscripts, Los Angeles Pop Art creates images out of the text that tell the story of that specific image.\n\nThe portfolio of designs are used for the manufacture of a number of products, which include wall art, apparel, tote bags and aprons. These products are sold online in numerous stores as well as in traditional brick and mortar retailers. The portfolio is also licensed out to partner companies for the manufacture of a wide range of products that include everything from stickers to beach towels.\n\nIn 1994 founder Joseph Leibovic was living in Israel when he stumbled upon the Micrography style of art while watching street artists, in the mystical town of Tzvat. The idea of Americanizing this style of art, by creating posters of classic films out of entire scripts, and music icons out of their legendary lyrics, was matured over the following 9 years. It wasn’t until Joseph moved back to Los Angeles, in 2004, that the idea was finally brought to life and Los Angeles Pop Art was founded.\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art has worked with some of the biggest names in music and film creating pieces for The Bob Marley Estate, Godfather, Rocky, Nirvana and many more A+ properties.\n\nThe work developed at Los Angeles Pop Art has been featured in top magazines such as Playboy, Rolling Stone, Maxim and Stuff, as well as in top rated TV and films like Breaking Bad, Weeds, The Sopranos, The Girls Next Door, Workaholics and Battle: Los Angeles.\n\nSome of Los Angeles Pop Art’s original art is also included in major art collections and exhibits, such as The Ronald Reagan Presidential Art Collection and being included in The Amazing Collection at Ripley’s Believe it Or Not museums around the world.\n\nA Ronald Reagan design, recreating President Ronald Reagan’s face out of his famous \"Tear down this wall!\" speech, given at the Brandenburg Gate in Germany, was created by Los Angeles Pop Art in 2005. This piece of art was accepted by the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library into the Official Presidential Art Collection. The artwork is currently on display in the Lobby of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California.\n\nA partnership with Vivendi Games, in 2006, regarding the release of video game, led Los Angeles Pop Art to create an exclusive poster to be used as a pre-order gift by Vivendi Games, in order to assist in the pre-ordering of the game. The poster consisted in depicting an iconic film scene, using micrography, with the original film script.\n\nJoseph Leibovic was interviewed live on the nationwide Top Rated Mancow Radio show after host Mancow Muller discovered LA Pop Art and wanted to share the art with his listeners.\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art was approached in 2010 by Ripley's Believe It or Not! Museums. Ripley’s now shows several Los Angeles Pop Art originals in different locations all over the world, spanning from Tokyo to Hollywood, as part of their permanent collection of amazing things.\n\nAlso in 2010, Los Angeles Pop Art received 2 awards for vendor excellence from Overstock.com. The first was for Highest Average Partner Scorecard and the other was for Best in Stock % Score in the Clothing and Shoes category.\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art work is published in the Ripley's Believe It or Not Annual 2012 book featuring an illustration based on the Lewis Carroll's novel, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.\n\nHigh-profile tourist gift shops, as of 2012, will be supplied by Los Angeles Pop Art with its unique products. Some of the locations include Times Square, Chicago Skydeck, Washington National Cathedral, Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library, The Mob Museum in Las Vegas, Ford’s Theatre, Gettysburg Battlefield Museum, Independence Visitors Center, U.S.S. Midway Museum The American Museum of Natural History in NYC, Museum of Science Boston and countless others.\n\nSince its inception, Los Angeles Pop Art has had a strong licensing program, acting as a licensee for some of the world’s largest Music and Film Properties.\n\nProperties in which Los Angeles Pop Art has acted as a licensee for include:\n\nStudios/Companies in which Los Angeles Pop Art have had licensing partnerships with include:\n\nWith its growing portfolio of original artwork, Los Angeles Pop Art has been building its own licensing program licensing out its original designs to be used on wide variety of products. In 2011, Los Angeles Pop Art entered into an exclusive agent agreement with Beth Schlansky Inc., New York City; renown licensing expert and former L.I.M.A. Board of Director. Beth Schlansky Inc. currently acts as the sole Licensing Agent for Los Angeles Pop Art.\n\nStudios/Companies in which Los Angeles Pop Art have licensing original artwork to include:\n\n"}
{"id": "25120842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25120842", "title": "Ludic interface", "text": "Ludic interface\n\nA ludic interface is a type of computer interface. In the field of human–computer interaction (HCI), the term ludic Interfaces describes a discipline that focuses on user interfaces that are inherently \"playful\". This field of interface research and design draws on concepts introduced by Dutch historian and cultural theorist Johan Huizinga in the book Homo Ludens (\"Man the Player\" or \"Playing Man\").\nHuizinga's work is considered an important contribution to the development of game studies.\n\nThe various tools and concepts associated with ludic interface development differ from mainstream technological systems that employ human computer interfacing and interaction. Ludic interfaces tend to be more playful, are user-generated and user-driven, flexible, low-cost and cooperative. Such interfaces are often experimental and draw upon methods and knowledge from video game design, interactive media, modding cultures, media conversion, and social networking. The goal of ludic interface design is to create interfacing technology that offers ease of use and is inherently playful.\n\nAt its core, \"ludic interfaces\" is a subcategory of interfaces in general. The notion is not restricted to electronics or human–computer interaction, even if the terminology was developed in respect to digital technology. Various authors suggest to use the term \"ludic interfaces\" for non-digital phenomena, e.g. architectural facades, skins, wearable computers, media art. \"Ludic Interfaces\" is also a Masters programme development on a European level. It is the title of a European collaboration in creating a network of academic institutions and of world leading media centres to investigate, design and test publicly shared digital content. The programme development is a joint project by the University of Potsdam, Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Universität für künstlerische und industrielle Gestaltung in Linz, and by the University of Salford in Greater Manchester.\n\nLudic interface design was first defined in 2002 by William Gaver, in \"Designing for Homo Ludens\", expanded in a later article in 2009.\n\nThe term was revisited in 2008 by International Symposium on Electronic Art) curators Gunalan Nadarajan and Vladimir Todorović to describe a panel section of ISEA2008 in Singapore. The term was introduced with the aim of counterbalancing the tendency of \"infantilization of play\" and stressing the \"complicities between technology and pleasure\".\n\nIn the same year a group of game artists and scholars at Leuphana University in Lueneburg started lecturing and writing about the theory of Ludic Interfaces and applied for a European grant to develop a Masters programme in Ludic Interfaces. The application was successful and the development has successfully been completed in 2013.\n\nThe notion of \"ludic interfaces\" has also historical roots in artistic practice and analysis of interfaces (cf. Christa Sommerer, Laurent Mignonneau), the notion of \"playfulness\" as a design and arts strategy, or the \"Ludic Society\" arts organisation.\n\nJess Kilby’s RFID Tarot table consists of a hand-painted black table with letters and signs drawn upon it, and a white set of cards containing radio-frequency tags. The installation is an example for a ludic set-up where the interface contributes significantly to the magic of the game. Hidden information within the blank cards allows the RFID reader, a digital tarot reader automaton, to interpret information hidden from the human eye. Kilby’s system interprets the information contained within the cards and displays videos of a frightening future. The game could certainly be implemented as a Flash simulation or be built for a 2D monitor display system, but without the materiality of the ludic interface, without the special lighting, and without the artist dressed in a fortune teller’s dress the game would not work at all. The same holds true for Mary Flanagan’s “Giant Joystick”. It is the interface with all its materiality, erotic connotations and haptic features which makes the ludic installation work so well. Ludic interfaces can also facilitate play in a musical sense. The \"postvinyl\" performance, originally commissioned by futuresonic festival Manchester in 2004 recontextualizes a computer game in a performance environment.\n\nAn introduction to the field appropriate for general audiences is a publication to be issued in summer of 2010 by furtherfield, London.\n\nNotable conferences in the field include:\n\n"}
{"id": "174252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174252", "title": "Mezzotint", "text": "Mezzotint\n\nMezzotint is a printmaking process of the intaglio family, technically a drypoint method. It was the first tonal method to be used, enabling half-tones to be produced without using line- or dot-based techniques like hatching, cross-hatching or stipple. Mezzotint achieves tonality by roughening a metal plate with thousands of little dots made by a metal tool with small teeth, called a \"rocker\". In printing, the tiny pits in the plate hold the ink when the face of the plate is wiped clean. A high level of quality and richness in the print can be achieved.\n\nThe mezzotint printmaking method was invented by the German amateur artist Ludwig von Siegen (1609–). His earliest mezzotint print dates to 1642 and is a portrait of Countess Amalie Elisabeth of Hanau-Münzenberg. This was made by working from light to dark. The rocker seems to have been invented by Prince Rupert of the Rhine, a famous cavalry commander in the English Civil War, who was the next to use the process, and took it to England. Sir Peter Lely saw the potential for using it to publicise his portraits, and encouraged a number of Dutch printmakers to come to England. Godfrey Kneller worked closely with John Smith, who is said to have lived in his house for a period; he created about 500 mezzotints, some 300 copies of portrait paintings. \n\nThe process was especially widely used in England from the eighteenth century, to reproduce portraits and other paintings. Since the mid-nineteenth century it has been relatively little used. Robert Kipniss and Peter Ilsted are two notable 20th-century exponents of the technique; M. C. Escher also made eight mezzotints.\n\nBritish mezzotint collecting was a great craze from about 1760 to the Great Crash of 1929, also spreading to America. The main area of collecting was British portraits; hit oil paintings from the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition were routinely, and profitably, reproduced in mezzotint throughout this period, and other mezzotinters reproduced older portraits of historical figures, or if necessary, made them up. The favourite period to collect was roughly from 1750 to 1820, the great period of the British portrait. There were two basic styles of collection: some concentrated on making a complete collection of material within a certain scope, while others aimed at perfect condition and quality (which declines in mezzotints after a relatively small number of impressions are taken from a plate), and in collecting the many \"proof states\" which artists and printers had obligingly provided for them from early on. Leading collectors included William Eaton, 2nd Baron Cheylesmore and the Irishman John Chaloner Smith.\n\nThis became the most common method. The whole surface (usually) of a metal, usually copper, plate is roughened evenly, manually with a rocker, or mechanically. If the plate were printed at this point it would show as solid black. The image is then created by selectively burnishing areas of the surface of the metal plate with metal tools; the smoothed parts will print lighter than those areas not smoothed by the burnishing tool. A burnisher has a smooth, round end, which flattens the minutely protruding points comprising the roughened surface of the metal printing plate. Areas smoothed completely flat will not hold ink at all; such areas will print \"white,\" that is, without ink. By varying the degree of smoothing, mid-tones between black and white can be created, hence the name \"mezzo-tinto\" which is Italian for \"half-tone\" or \"half-painted\". This is called working from \"dark to light\", or the \"subtractive\" method.\n\nAlternatively, it is possible to create the image directly by only roughening a blank plate selectively, where the darker parts of the image are to be. This is called working from \"light to dark\", or the \"additive\" method. The first mezzotints by Ludwig von Siegen were made in this way. Especially in this method, the mezzotint can be combined with other intaglio techniques, such as engraving, on areas of the plate not roughened, or even with the dark to light method.\n\nPrinting the finished plate is the same for either method, and follows the normal way for an intaglio plate; the whole surface is inked, the ink is then wiped off the surface to leave ink only in the pits of the still rough areas below the original surface of the plate. The plate is put through a high-pressure printing press next to a sheet of paper, and the process repeated.\n\nBecause the pits in the plate are not deep, only a small number of top-quality impressions (copies) can be printed before the quality of the tone starts to degrade as the pressure of the press begins to smooth them out. Perhaps only one or two hundred really good impressions can be taken.\n\nPlates can be mechanically roughened; one way is to rub fine metal filings over the surface with a piece of glass; the finer the filings, the smaller the grain of the surface. Special roughening tools called 'rockers' have been in use since at least the eighteenth century. The method commonly in use today is to use a steel rocker approximately five inches wide, which has between 45 and 120 teeth per inch on the face of a blade in the shape of a shallow arc, with a wooden handle projecting upwards in a T-shape. Rocked steadily from side to side at the correct angle, the rocker will proceed forward creating burrs in the surface of the copper. The plate is then moved – either rotated by a set number of degrees or through 90 degrees according to preference – and then rocked in another pass. This is repeated until the plate is roughened evenly and will print a completely solid tone of black.\n\nMezzotint is known for the luxurious quality of its tones: first, because an evenly, finely roughened surface holds a lot of ink, allowing deep solid colors to be printed; secondly because the process of smoothing the plate with burin, \"burnisher\" and \"scraper\" allows fine gradations in tone to be developed. The scraper is a triangular ended tool, and the burnisher has a smooth round end – not unlike many spoon handles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24796807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24796807", "title": "Modular art", "text": "Modular art\n\nModular art is art created by joining together standardized units (modules) to form larger, more complex compositions. In some works the units can be subsequently moved, removed and added to – that is, \"modulated\" – to create a new work of art, different from the original or ensuing configurations.\n\nHistorically, alterable objects of art have existed since the Renaissance, for example, in the Triptych \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\" by Hieronymus Bosch or in the so-called \"alterable altarpieces\", such as the Isenheim Altarpiece by Matthias Grünewald, or Albrecht Dürer's Paumgartner altarpiece, where changing motifs could be revised in accord with the changing themes of the ecclesiastical calendar.\n\nBeginning in the first half of the 20th century, a number of contemporary artists sought to incorporate kinetic techniques into their work in an attempt to overcome what they saw as the predominantly static nature of art. Alexander Calder's mobiles are among the most widely known demonstrations of physical dynamism in the visual arts, in which form has the potential to continually vary through perpetual motion, sometimes even without the agency of the human hand. Jean Tinguely's efforts to create a self-destructive art machine constitute perhaps the ultimate expression of art's mutability, in this case by taking the form of its total eradication. Victor Vasarely postulated in his \"Manifest Jaune\" in 1955 in Paris that works of art should feature the properties of being multiplicable and repeatable in series. More recently, the notion that visual art need not be conceived solely in terms of perpetually fixed objects is embodied in performance and installation art by virtue of their unfolding and temporary qualities. \n\nModularity enters the modern artistic repertory largely through the disciplines of industrial design and architecture. Belgian architect Louis Herman De Koninck led a team of countrymen in creating one of the first modular product systems in their Cubex kitchen series of 1932. The series consisted of standardized and industrially produced components that could be combined and arrayed in limitless combinations to accommodate almost any size kitchen. New York designer Gilbert Rohde crafted several lines of modular casework for the Herman Miller Corporation in the 1930s and 40s; like De Koninck, Rohde standardized the units in dimensions, materials and configurations to facilitate mass production and interchangeability. His Executive Office Group (EOG) line, launched in 1942, was a similarly ground-breaking systems approach to office furniture. Just a year before Eero Saarinen and Charles Eames had jointly produced a suite of modular domestic furniture for the Red Lion Company, a result of a competition held by the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In 1950 Herman Miller brought out the EAS Storage Unit series by Charles and Ray Eames, a very successful modular shelving and wall unit system that remains in production today.\n\nThe module enjoys a long history in the realm of architecture. In antiquity architects utilized the module primarily as a unit of measurement guiding the proportions of plan and elevation. The Roman author and architect Vitruvius deployed the modular method in his descriptions of the classical orders and the composition of buildings in his treatise \"Ten Books on Architecture\", the only complete text on architecture to survive from antiquity. Architects of the Renaissance perpetuated the Vitruvian system in their resurrection of the classical orders, a tradition which continues to the present day. Among modern architects, the module is frequently employed as a design and planning tool.\n\nArchitecture and modular sculpture intersected starting in the 1950s in the work of Norman Carlberg, Erwin Hauer and Malcolm Leland. All three received commissions to design perforated architectural screens built out of repetitive modular motives cast in concrete. Non-structural, the screens were used on building exteriors to divide space, filter light and create visual interest. Their work has come to be described as Modular Constructivism, reflecting both its compositional methodology and its architectural context. Each created stand-alone modular-themed sculptures into the 1960s and after as well.\n\nRobert Rauschenberg's \"White Painting\" of 1951; consisting of just four equal white squares, with its geometry of interlocking forms, is among the earliest statements of modularity as an autonomous subject of art. Rauschenberg explored this theme that same year in a three- and seven-panel format; the linear array of rectangular panels in these versions suggests their potentially infinite replication. The cool abstraction of these canvases presages the emergence of modularity as a full-fledged topic of Minimalist art in the 1960s. Tony Smith, Sol LeWitt, Dan Flavin and Donald Judd are among this school's most prolific exponents during the period. In particular, the work of Smith is key to understanding the transformation of modularity from a compositional and production tool into a broadly investigated artistic theme in its own right.\n\nSmith began his career as an architectural designer. To further his education he apprenticed himself on some projects by Frank Lloyd Wright for a couple of years starting in 1938. From Wright he learned to utilize modular systems in generating architectural designs in two-dimensional plans as well as in three-dimensional applications, such as the development of building sections and interior built-ins. As an architect, Wright himself was part of a centuries-old continuum stretching back through Vitruvius to Greco-Roman antiquity in which the module was utilized to proportion built and sculpted form. In the case of Wright, the interest in modular design also may have derived from his familiarity with modular practice in traditional Japanese architecture.\n\nWright's Hanna House of 1937 is a clear example of the master's facility with modern modular design in multiple dimensions. Its striking angled forms are built up from the individual hexagonal modules that define the floor plan and various vertical elements. Wright's use of the hexagon here is by no means an arbitrary aesthetic choice, but an example of how he rooted his architecture in nature by drawing from its forms and principles – the interlocking hexagonal cells of the bee's honeycomb being nature's most perfect representation of modular design. Not surprisingly, this project is sometimes referred to as the \"Honeycomb House\".\n\nSmith would employ the hexagon and other elemental geometries in his own architectural practice and again in the sculpture he began to fabricate in the early 1960s. Freed from the programmatic and extensive structural requirements of his architectural work, Smith's sculptures are three-dimensional extrusions of modular form with no ostensible pragmatic purpose beyond aesthetic contemplation.\n\nSignificantly, Smith himself did not manually fabricate the final version of his sculptures. Instead, he outsourced their production to skilled ironworkers in foundries and industrial facilities, who worked off his drawings and models to manufacture the designs. In part this reflects Smith's training as an architect, who customarily designs and documents but does not construct his art. It further reinforces the idea of modular art as a generative system in which the arrangement of pre-determined formal units – rather than wholesale imaginative invention – defines the creative act. Finally, it is consistent with the notion implicit in modularity that the supply of modules in a modular system must be infinite, that is, that they be industrially rather than artisanally produced, for the system to be realized. (Bees in a honeycomb are essentially operating as an industrial enterprise insofar as the production of cells is without end.)\n\nThe work of Smith and the minimalist school constitute the most far-ranging exploration of modularity in art before the millennium. However, neither it nor the explorations of movable and alterable art in the preceding centuries synthesized the two central features of modular art. Mobiles and other kinetic pieces were not modular, and the modular work of the mid-century Minimalist artists was, with a few exceptions, not changeable.\n\nA school of thought coming out of the United States emphasizes modular art's alignment with the post-industrial character of 21st century culture and its contrast with traditional notions of art. Core characteristics of post-industrialism, as largely defined by the theorist Daniel Bell in his 1973 book \"The Coming of Post-Industrial Society\", include the emergence of a service economy in place of a manufacturing one; the social and economic pre-eminence of the creative, professional and technical classes; the central place of theoretical knowledge as a font of innovation; the strong influence of technology on daily life; and high levels of urbanization.\n\nModular art appears to synchronize perfectly with several of these criteria. For example, its manual changeability opens up the possibility of co-creative art, in which the collector or user collaborates with the originating modular artist to jointly determine the appearance of the work of art. This presupposes the existence of creative people capable of and interested in serving such a role – a demographic evolution that was already underway in Bell's time and that has since been studied in works like Richard Florida's \"Rise of the Creative Class\" (2002).\n\nCo-creation is closely associated with mass customization, a production model that combines the opportunity for individual personalization with mass production. Modular art and mass customization share a commonality in their synthesis of two opposing qualities. On the one hand, as previously stated the very concept of modularity implies a limitless supply of identical modules such as only industrial production can provide; on the other hand, the ability of the individual to re-arrange these modules in the work of art based on aesthetic criteria re-injects a subjective and purely human dimension into the creative act.\n\nMass customization is itself only made possible with the advent of computers and a type of software known as a configurator. A configurator is a software tool used by the buyer to configure a product from the options made available by the vendor. Applied to the purpose of composing a work of modular art onscreen, it can greatly facilitate the design of a modular assembly by allowing the user to study multiple design options more quickly and in far greater depth than by using analog methods. Once the design is established a computer file is then sent over the air to a manufacturing facility where robotically controlled equipment produces the object according to its specifications. Not only does this computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) allow for the customization of mass-produced objects, it also enables a much higher level of precision and fit – qualities critical for modules to be physically joined together. Bell's identification of technology as a central axis of post-industrial life is underscored in the intertwining of the digital with the physical realization of modular art.\n\nIn Europe, where the 1960s Minimalist school of modular art was often seen as a principally American phenomenon, the discussion of modularity often focuses on its changeability. For example, the mutability of art is a core principle of Arte Povera, a contemporaneous movement that emerged in Italy which holds that works of art \"should not be seen as fixed entities\", but as objects of change and movement to \"include time and space in a new manner. At stake is the issue of transferring the phenomenology of human experience\" into the arts.\n\nMore recently, the artist Leda Luss Luyken has produced modular paintings, composed of movable painted panels set in steel frames. Luss Luyken has dubbed her work \"ModulArt\". In her work, changing the configuration of a modular painting constitutes a form of motion, offering the spectator alternative views and alternative interpretations, and thus aligning the work more closely than a static object to the dynamism of physical human experience. Art historian and theorist Denys Zacharopoulos called this \"a new way of motion in painting\". The concept of modular art allows the user to de-compose and to re-compose a work of art that is already completed by re-arranging its parts, thus providing numerous possibilities for ever newer pictures not yet imagined. The original painting can be re-contextualized ad libitum and ad infinitum.\n\nWorking in the 1950-60s in Manchester (UK), American artist Mitzi Cunliffe developed sculptures consisting of multiple blocks about twelve inches square which she put together in a variety of combinations to give a sculptured effect on a large scale. She referred to them as \"modular sculptures\". The University of Manchester and the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST) acquired some of these works, although there are no references to them in published accounts of her work.\n\nSculptor and ceramicist Malcolm Leland designed in 1954 a similar modular sculpture system based on a single 23-inch tall module that could be stacked vertically by means of a centering pin; the module has a generally biomorphic, curvilinear outline that yields an undulating silhouette when multiple modules are placed on top of each other. The technique of stacking repetitive elements in the round recalls Brancusi's \"Endless Column\" of 1938.\n\nStarting in the 1970s, Leland's contemporary Norman Carlberg produced groups of square framed prints which he placed together on a wall in a tight grid, each print conceived as an independent module. The viewer is then invited to rotate or reposition them to generate new composite images. The abstract quality of the prints enhanced the creative possibilities of their re-orientation insofar as they are non-directional and geometrically inter-related.\n\nGreek-born conceptual artist Leda Luss Luyken, who was initially trained as an architect, has been exploring modularity in the medium of painting since the 1990s. In her work standardized canvas panels are mounted as modules onto a steel frame within which they can be moved and rotated.\n\nIn the U.S. Moshé Elimelech creates what he has called \"Cubic Constructions\". These are multiple groupings of approximately three-inch cubes set inside pockets in a framed shadow box. On each cube he applies paint in fields of bright color and abstract pattern with precise, controlled brush strokes. Like Carlsberg, Elimelech then invites the viewer to reposition any or all of the cubes to display one of their six sides, each of which is painted in a different pattern. Exhibiting since the 1980s, Elimelech shows primarily in California galleries, and has work represented in several museum design stores as well.\n\nAnother portfolio of interactive modular art comes out of Studio for A.R.T. and Architecture, a New York-based firm headed by Donald Rattner. Rattner has designed modular art in the media of wall sculpture, rotational paintings, tapestries, artist's wallpapers and artist's books. To bring his work and those of other \"modulartists\" to the marketplace, Rattner founded A.R.T. (art-rethought), an art storefront focused on co-creative and modular work. In his writings Rattner has emphasized the post-industrial aspect of the most recent trends in modular art, coining the term \"New Industrialism\" to denote mass customization, production on demand, open innovation, co-creative design, tele-fabrication, robotics and other computer-driven technologies that are re-defining how things are made in the global marketplace.\n\nModularity in music can be seen as bringing two key elements of musical composition and film into the world of painting: variation of a theme and movement of and within a picture. For this very reason the contemporary composer Minas Borboudakis has dedicated the third part of his trilogy ROAI III for piano and electronics to the modular methodology.\n\nItalian composer and arts theoretician Stefano Vagnini has developed a theory of open-source composition based on modular aggregation. The concept of a musical work of art being something closed, limited and immobile disappears in favor of a process of numerous aggregations that allow a composition to become infinite in principle. Several such compositions were performed in Europe, South America, Asia and in North America and discussed through conferences in Europe. The approach is being academically discussed at the University of West Georgia and the Carrollton Cultural Arts Centre in the USA. Writer, painter, and art theorist Gian Ruggero Manzoni described the modularity of Vagnini's compositions as “circular like the existence, his works are not finished, but merely stimulus for new voices”. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2562742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2562742", "title": "New Primitivism", "text": "New Primitivism\n\nNew Primitivism (Serbo-Croatian: Novi primitivizam, Нови примитивизам) was a subcultural movement established in Sarajevo, SR Bosnia-Herzegovina, SFR Yugoslavia in March 1983. It primarily used music, along with subversive comedy on radio and television as its form of expression. Its protagonists and followers called themselves the new primitives. \n\nEven though the movement initially encompassed several bands in the city of Sarajevo, including some such as Plavi orkestar that quickly distanced themselves from it, the movement predominantly functioned as a banner that summarizes and encompasses the work of two rock bands Zabranjeno Pušenje and Elvis J. Kurtović & His Meteors as well as \"Top lista nadrealista\" radio segment that eventually grew into a television sketch show, the discourse of New Primitivism was seen as primarily irreverent and humorous.\n\nThe movement officially disbanded sometime in 1987, although the bands and television show continued up until the breakup of Yugoslavia.\n\nBasing itself on the spirit of the Bosnian ordinary populace outside of the cultural mainstream, the movement was credited for introducing the jargon of Sarajevo mahalas (brimming with slang and Turkish loanwords) into the official Yugoslav public scene. Many of the New Primitivism songs and sketches involve stories of small people — coalminers, petty criminals, street hoodlums, provincial girls, etc. — being placed in unusual and absurd situations. There are comparisons between \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" and the New Primitives' methods, as they share the short sketch form and utilize absurdity as means of eliciting laughs from an audience. The embodiment of New Primitivism is a youth who both reads challenging works such as Hegel's \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\", but also does not mind getting into fistfights. The movement got established as a Sarajevan reaction to the New wave and Punk movements that were sweeping the alternative music scene in Yugoslavia. Some of the movement's most notable traits were promoting and popularizing Sarajevan street jargon and slang that was not well known outside of Sarajevo, extolling the mentality and culture of the Sarajevan Mahala, depicting local fringe characters such as petty criminals, alcoholics, lesser-known pop cultural figures, blue-collar workers and local streets hoodlums. Because of this, the movement was concidered locally patriotic and an eclectic expression of Sarajevan urban culture.\n\nThe movement's protagonists had a specific view of New Primitivism. Perhaps the most prominent of them, Nele Karajlić, explicated it as being \"created within clearly defined historical coordinates, both spatially and temporally, at the precise midpoint between the spot where Gavrilo Princip assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand in June 1914 and the spot where the Olympic flame was lit in February 1984 while temporally, it took place sometime during the period between Tito's death in May 1980 and the beginning of the Agrokomerc Affair in 1987\" and seeing it as \"resistance to any form of establishment - cultural, social, and political - not just the rock'n'roll one that dominated Sarajevo at the time with so-called 'dinosaur' bands like Bijelo Dugme and Indexi, which the new primitives held in contempt to a certain extent\". The movement's dominant method of social and cultural critique was to fully localize the narrative to Sarajevo, and use local urban legends, cultural and social phenomena and living fringe characters as catalysts for painting a wider political picture. In doing so, the movement became both a rigidly local expressional form that gave a platform to the language, culture and myths of the Sarajevan streets, while also breaking out into the wider Yugoslav arena. A major characteristic of the movement was the adoption of pseudonyms by all its leading figures, which tended to be either comical in nature or based on the semantics of nicknames that have always been very prevelent in Sarajevo. The main reason for this was so that none of the members could be ethnically identified. The second reason was to give a platform to the stylization of nicknames that was prominent in Sarajevo - a form of local patriotism and self-mockery. \n\nThe movement's \"chief ideologue\" referred to New Primitivism simply as \"the first Sarajevan bullet to hit its target since Princip assassinated Ferdinand in 1914\".\n\nThe movement's name — New Primitivism — got introduced as a mock reaction to two early 1980s pop-culture movements: New Romanticism in the West and Neue Slowenische Kunst in the Yugoslav constituent republic of SR Slovenia. On one hand, the term New Primitivism was a clear anti-reference to New Romantic, as the Sarajevo lads sought to be anything but romantic and sugarsweet while on the other hand, they also wanted to emphasize the stereotypes encountered in many popular Yugoslav jokes about Bosnians and Slovenians — the former portrayed as raw, unsophisticated, dim-witted, and openhearted, and the latter presented as stiff, cold, serious, distant, and calculated. In the artistic and expressional sense, New Primitivism was a reaction to the New wave and Punk movements.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and early 1980s, a generation of kids from the Sarajevo neighbourhood of Koševo, all born in the early to mid-1960s, was coming up. Raised within upper-middle-class families inhabiting post-World War II apartment buildings typical of communist Yugoslavia, their interests included music, football, and movies. They soon converged on music as their main activity and simultaneous with entering high school started forming bands despite possessing very limited musical skills. Most of their musical influences were found in Western popular culture — from early ones such as Jerry Lee Lewis, Lou Reed, the Rolling Stones, The Who, etc. to those found later on the emerging punk scene.\n\nBy early 1980, the kids were able to adapt a cellar at the 19 Fuada Midžića Street low-rise apartment building into a makeshift rehearsal space where they held band practices, chamber plays, even an odd fashion show. Initially very informal with irregular rehearsals and frequently changing lineups (often through swapping band members), by 1981 the bands — named Zabranjeno Pušenje and Elvis J. Kurtović & His Meteors — took on a more serious note. Adopting garage/punk rock sensibility, they started devoting more attention to songwriting and began playing small clubs around town. In parallel, from May 1981, some of the kids from both bands got a chance to collaborate on \"Top lista nadrealista\", a comedy segment on \"Primus\" radio show that aired weekly, Saturday mornings, on Radio Sarajevo's channel two.\n\nThe idea to create a movement as an umbrella entity encompassing their entire activity had been tossed about for months during the second part of 1982 and early 1983 between the individuals in and around Elvis J. Kurtović & His Meteors — the band's manager Malkolm Muharem, its main lyricist and mascot Elvis J. Kurtović, and its singer Rizo Kurtović.\n\nAdditional notable members of the movement included dr. Nele Karajlić, mr. Sejo Sexon, Dražen Ričl, Boris Šiber, Zenit Đozić, and others from the Sarajevo neighbourhood of Koševo. Along the way, individuals outside of the Koševo milieu, most notably Branko \"Đuro\" Đurić, joined in and also became prominent. Despite being a bit older and not from the same neighbourhood, film director Emir Kusturica (who was already well-established with his award-winning movie \"Sjećaš li se Doli Bel?\") was an associate and friend of the crew; although his movies can not be directly associated with the movement, their spirit certainly shares some sentiment with New Primitivism. With the bands playing small demo gigs around the city, they encountered other up and coming rock bands such as Plavi orkestar and Crvena jabuka that also cultivated similar thematic narratives focused on stories of local small time characters, but would eventually move away from the aesthetic and turn towards the mainstream. \n\nThe movement's wider unofficial unveiling was said have taken place at an Elvis J. Kurtović & His Meteors gig in Sarajevo's CEDUS club venue during early March 1983. Also playing the gig was Zabranjeno Pušenje. Influenced by movies like 1979's \"Quadrophenia\" that portray the youth scene of London with subcultures like mods, rockers, and teddy boys, the guys from Koševo tried to create their own local version of that. The formal introduction of the new entity changed nothing in the internal group dynamic as they all continued functioning like a neighbourhood gang of friends, but it gave the press something to latch onto and made it easier to market the bands outside of the city. By his own admission, Muharem used the movement \"to create an impression to those in Belgrade and Zagreb that there's something more going on in Sarajevo than there actually is\".\n\nIn addition to music and comedy on radio, the lads decided to expand their modes of expression now that they functioned as a movement — attempting to come up with a clothing style to associate with New Primitivism. The movement's unofficial look was thus born with a démodé style consisting of waist tight bell-bottom pants, plaid suit jackets, thin golden necklace worn above the shirt, and pointy shoes (the so-called \"špicoke\") — similar to the 1970s leisure suit look — which the lads adopted from petty hoodlums and small-time smugglers and pickpockets seen around Baščaršija selling, though not wearing, clothing items such as Levi's 501 jeans that were either smuggled in from Italy or counterfeit locally in Yugoslavia. Elvis J. Kurtović & His Meteors especially embraced this throwback look, with young crowds soon showing up to their club gigs dressed this way. Meanwhile, Karajlić came up with the movement's unofficial creed: \"Tuđe hoćemo, svoje nemamo\" (\"What's not ours, we want; because ours, we haven't got.\"), a parody on one of the often used political slogans of the communist period: \"Tuđe nećemo, svoje ne damo.\" (\"What's not ours, we don't want; ours, we won't give up on.\").\n\nOne of the very first activities on the movement's behalf was writing an open letter to Sarajevo's own Goran Bregović, the best known and the most established rock musician in Yugoslavia, who was at the moment going through a well-documented creative and commercial crisis with his band Bijelo Dugme's latest studio effort getting poor reviews and selling underwhelmingly, not to mention constant reports of infighting and vocalist Željko Bebek's imminent departure. Dripping with jovial sarcasm and backhanded compliments, the new primitives' letter invited Bregović to join them, offering him a fresh start along with a creative reset.\n\nElvis J. Kurtović & His Meteors were the first to establish a bit of a buzz on the scene. Promoted by Muharem, who in addition to the band's business side also handled many of its creative aspects, EJK&HM were not only gigging in clubs around Sarajevo, but in 1983 also started playing clubs nationwide, in Belgrade (SKC), Zagreb (Kulušić and Lapidarij), Rijeka (Palah), Pula, etc., getting enthusiastic reactions from young club crowds everywhere. Though their sound was hardly original with straight covers of the Rolling Stones, The Who, etc. dominating the repertoire, EJK&HM live shows were a unique mixture of rock'n'roll with elements of performance art and stand-up comedy, full of youthful exuberance with Elvis J. Kurtović, the band's lyrics writer and mascot, constantly interacting with the crowd between songs. They mostly played student clubs with their promotional activities strictly limited to printed press. Muharem would get them publicity by talking up New Primitivism and ensuring journalists from youth-oriented papers — \"Džuboks\" and \"Reporter\" from Belgrade, \"Polet\" from Zagreb, and \"Mladina\" from Ljubljana — have the 'right angle' for the story while the band members would contribute by providing colourful interviews and quotable sound bytes often delivered in form of a manifesto.\n\nIn late July 1983, the fledgling band received a huge boost after \"\", a Yugoslavia-wide high-circulation weekly newsmagazine in the vein of \"Playboy\" and \"Lui\", deployed its journalist Goran Gajić to Sarajevo for a story on the unconventional group. Published as a two-page spread headlined \"Meteorski uspon Elvisa J. Kurtovića\" (Elvis J. Kurtović's Meteoric Rise) in a magazine that's circulated in 200,000 copies, the story was by far the biggest media exposure the band had gotten up to that point. Building upon talking points already well established and developed by Muharem and Kurtović through the country's youth print media, the \"Start\" piece was extremely affirmative and flattering for the EJK&HM youngsters — proclaiming them to be \"the next important thing in Yugoslav rock\". Along with a new batch of the band members' trademark off-the-wall soundbytes sprinkled throughout, the article also re-published — on Muharem's insistence despite Kurtović's apparent opposition — their sarcastic open letter to Goran Bregović that thus got a much bigger audience.\n\nRiding the wave of publicity generated by the \"Start\" piece, Muharem acted quickly in the fall of 1983 by ambitiously booking Elvis J. Kurtovich & His Meteors for a double bill concert with D' Boys at Sarajevo's Đuro Đaković Hall, an all-seater venue holding almost a thousand people. The show sold out quickly and was a smashing success, a remarkable triumph for a band that at the time hadn't been on television yet and still had no studio recordings.\n\nMuharem soon arranged for the band to get some time in Akvarijus studio in Belgrade during December 1983 in order to record material for their debut album whose production was originally supposed to be handled by Peđa Vranešević of Laboratorija Zvuka, but was eventually done by Goran Vejvoda as well as Elvis J. Kurtović and Muharem themselves. Margita Stefanović from Katarina II made a guest appearance on the synthesizer during the album recording sessions as her band was recording its own debut album in the same studio at the same time.\n\nEJK&HM and Muharem soon agreed a record contract with ZKP RTLj and their debut album \"Mitovi i legende o Kralju Elvisu\" came out in February 1984 right in the middle of the Winter Olympics being held in the city. Figuring that promoting the album during the Olympics would get them extra attention due to all the press and other visitors gathered in the city, EJK&HM held a press junket that largely turned shambolic as well as a series of club gigs at the popular student club Trasa. They also made one of their first proper TV appearances, lip-synching \"Baščaršy Hanumen\" on \"Hit meseca\" (Yugoslav counterpart to \"Top of the Pops\") while hamming it up for the cameras. The album release was followed by a promotional club tour of bigger Yugoslav cities, but since the record was selling poorly with less than 15,000 copies sold, the tour ended quickly and the deflated band members returned to Sarajevo.\n\nMalkolm Muharem soon quit working with the band.\n\nA few months later, in April 1984, Zabranjeno Pušenje's debut album \"Das ist Walter\" came out for Jugoton in limited issue of 3,000 copies, clearly indicative of the label's extremely low commercial expectations. Recorded in immensely modest circumstances and over an unreasonably long period of 7 months due to reasons beyond their control, the album features punk and garage rock sensibility with songs referencing local toponyms and social strata such as an obscure Sarajevo movie theater, Bosnian coal miners, local thugs from various city neighbourhoods, a local hoodlum being incarcerated in the Zenica prison etc. Its initial sales were nothing to speak of.\n\nSimultaneously with the album release, \"Top lista nadrealista\" moved to television as a weekly sketch comedy programme. The shows started airing on 2 June 1984 on TV Sarajevo's channel two as well as on JRT exchange for the rest of the country. Despite being placed in a milieu well removed from their natural setting — their comedy sketches were essentially fillers in-between folk music numbers — the show eventually proved a good vehicle for reaching a wider audience. After the opening few episodes that were largely met with indifference, the show started gaining a bit of an audience outside of its Sarajevo youth core with whom it had immediately struck a cord.\n\nThis gradually increased viewership of \"Top lista nadrealista\" had a positive effect on \"Das ist Walter\" sales. Riding the buzz created by the TV show as well as the growing popularity of the \"Zenica Blues\" track (cover of Johnny Cash's \"San Quentin\"), Karajlić's and Sexon's blend of punk and local storytelling began finding an increasingly receptive audience months after its initial release. No one was more surprised at this turn of events than the label itself as it was forced to order multiple new batches of the album copies on records and cassettes.\n\nNew Primitivism as a term also started catching on as Yugoslav media began using it when referencing the band's style or when talking about the television show. Also, another of the more popular songs on the album, \"Anarhija All Over Baščaršija\" (Anarchy All Over Baščaršija), explicitly mentions New Primitives, bringing them up in the context of \"violent locals from Vratnik who listen to Yugoslav folk music, attack hippies, and are repulsed by the West\".\n\nOn 15 September 1984 as \"Top lista nadrealista\" episodes resumed broadcasting following the summer break, the band played Sarajevo's Dom mladih on a bill that also included Bajaga i Instruktori in front of a raucous crowd of 4,500. The band was officially out of the clubs and now playing larger halls. In October, Zabranjeno Pušenje went to Belgrade for a show at SKC where they were surprised to discover their newly found popularity. In addition to having to add an extra show in the same venue the next day due to popular demand, they also started getting recognized by kids on the street. The two SKC shows launched the band on an extensive and successful Yugoslavia-wide tour; on 4 November 1984 they sold out Hala sportova, a sports arena in Belgrade with 6,000 in attendance. They would end up playing over 60 concerts on that tour.\n\nIn parallel, the album sales ended up hitting the 100,000 mark while the term New Primitives also became well established in the process. However, the increased profile also meant increased scrutiny as Karajlić and the band were about to find out.\n\nAt a concert in Rijeka's Dvorana Mladosti before a crowd of some two and a half thousand people on Tuesday, 27 November 1984, the band inadvertently set off a firestorm of controversy.\n\nDuring soundcheck before the show, the band's amplifier went bust to which Karajlić jokingly exclaimed: \"Crk'o maršal\" (The \"Marshall has croaked!\"), followed by a pause before adding: \"Mislim na pojačalo\" (\"The amplifier, that is\") (a switcheroo remark about the 1980 death of Marshal Tito), getting a chuckle from a small group of people within the earshot. Liking the reaction he got during soundcheck, he decided to start the actual concert by delivering the same joke as an explanation to why the show is starting late.\n\nThere was hardly any negative reactions during the concert or immediately after it, and the band continued its tour with a triumphant concert at Ledena dvorana in Zagreb in front of 12,000 fans on 10 December 1984. Though a few write-ups mentioning Karajlić's marshal quip appeared in neutral tone in Zagreb-based papers leading up to the concert, it would be the op-ed piece by journalist Veljko Vičević in Rijeka-based daily newspaper \"Novi list\" that started the avalanche with far-reaching consequences. Headlined \"Opak dim Zabranjenog pušenja\" (Zabranjeno Pušenje's Sinister Smoke), Vičević strongly denounces the band for lack of morals and stepping over the line, and additionally reproaches the group members for things they said in the past such as \"Tuđe hoćemo/nećemo, svoje nemamo\".\n\nThis was the initial stone and the signal for numerous bodies of the communist system to criticize the band (as well as, by proxy, new primitives and \"Top lista nadrealista\") on various grounds. The controversy also served to open another front in the row between two internal factions wrestling for the control of SR Croatia's SSO, the provincial branch of the Yugoslav Socialist Youth League (SSOJ), itself a youth wing of the country's one and only political party — Yugoslav Communist League (SKJ). Since the Rijeka concert was organized by the local pro-Šuvar SSO in Rijeka, the rival pro-Bakarić faction within the organization used Karajlić's Marshal quip to smear the organizing group.\n\nBy January 1985, news of the Rijeka flap made it back to Sarajevo where more journalists, most notably Pavle Pavlović in the \"As\" newspaper, were ready to condemn the band further. In his piece headlined \"Otrovni dim Zabranjenog pušenja\" (Zabranjeno Pušenje's Poisonous Smoke), Pavlović labels Karajlić's words \"an insensitive association and piece of sarcasm that insults right to the heart\". The columnist then trails off to even take ideological issue with the humorous sound bytes in radio jingles promoting the December 1984 release of the \"Top lista nadrealista\" radio material on audio cassette by Diskoton. He continues by predicting that \"the young band's life span will be little longer than that of a butterfly\" before adding that \"sadly even such short time is enough to indoctrinate the impressionable kids with new thoughts, including continuous ridicule of everything that we've created so far as well as banal, low-brow tampering with the basic tenet of the People's Liberation War — Tuđe nećemo, svoje ne damo\". Pavlović concludes by musing \"whether the time has come to extinguish Zabranjeno Pušenje's poisonous smoke for good\".\n\nIn a communist country where verbal offence was defined as a crime and as such punishable by law, Karajlić and other band members were summoned for dozens of police questionings. Communist Yugoslavia had its sacred cows and public criticism or ridicule, either veiled or open, of Tito, the party, or the People's Liberation War was grounds for severe punishment. Karajlić ended up being taken to court with a criminal charge that was eventually reduced to a misdemeanor one in a legal process that stretched on for years.\n\nHowever, an even bigger problem was that Zabranjeno Pušenje became blacklisted as a result of the Marshal episode. While not banned outright, their songs were taken off radio playlists, their access to television was restricted, and more than 30 of their already booked concerts in early 1985 ended up getting cancelled due to pressure from above that manifested itself through sudden introduction of administrative obstacles such as denying permits for the venues on the day of the show and so on.\n\nThroughout January 1985, the new primitives experienced multiple bizarre manifestations of this sudden anti-Zabranjeno Pušenje hysteria in Sarajevo.\n\nEach January, during winter school break, TV Sarajevo's daytime schedule consisted of various kids' shows reruns, and one such show happened to feature the band's hit song \"Zenica Blues\". Not being aware of that, the technician running the control room that day let the show air by mistake. Since Zabranjeno Pušenje were essentially banned from the station, TV Sarajevo executives found it sufficiently necessary to apologize for the oversight later that day in the station's central daily newscast \"Dnevnik 2\" and also to issue temporary suspensions both to the technician as well as to the executive in charge.\n\nBy association, the hysteria also spread to \"Top lista nadrealista\" activities. While promoting the freshly released audio cassette in Sarajevo containing the best of compilation of 'Top lista nadrealista' radio segment, there was such a stigma attached to the group's activity in the city that not a single journalists was brave enough to show up at the promotional press event at Muzikalije record store in Štrosmajerova Street, fearing that being seen there would be interpreted as a public show of support for beleaguered Karajlić and the rest of his mates.\n\nAttempting to rectify and calm the situation, members of Zabranjeno Pušenje issued a letter to all socio-political organizations within Sarajevo and the Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, including the print media outlets that had been criticizing the band. The gist of the letter was the claim that they never insulted the image and legacy of Comrade Tito thus denying media reports claiming otherwise and labeling them \"monstrous lies\". However, the letter was generally ignored within Sarajevo and SR Bosnia-Herzegovina as the only press outlets to publish it were Zagreb's youth paper \"Polet\" and later Belgrade's \"Politika\".\n\nDue to all the problems and hassle suddenly associated with organizing a Zabranjeno Pušenje gig, local promoters began avoiding the band despite clear demand for their concerts. Finding itself increasingly isolated in addition to seeing its commercial momentum slip away, the band decided to invest all its energy into organizing a single high-profile gig that would hopefully as much as anything serve as a statement of encouragement for all potential promoters not to shy away from the band. Still, despite selling out Hala Pionir in Belgrade on Saturday, 16 February 1985 with more than 7,000 people in attendance, the concert didn't have the desired media effect and the band's downward slide continued with gigs now completely dried up.\n\nFacing insurmountable obstacles, the group gave in temporarily, deciding to lay low for some time while some of the members went back to making \"Top lista nadrealista\" on Radio Sarajevo. However, in March 1985, the authorities put an end to that too, removing the segment for good from the radio schedule.\n\nJust as the career of one New Primitivism band, Zabranjeno Pušenje, was suddenly spiraling downhill, another band from the same milieu, Plavi Orkestar, was getting big.\n\nOther bands that at one time or another identified with New Primitives include: Bombaj Štampa, Plavi Orkestar, Dinar and Crvena Jabuka, although they quickly moved on to more commercial and communicative forms of expression.\n\nThough the torch of New Primitivsm had primarily been carried by Elvis J. Kurtovich & His Meteors and Zabranjeno Pušenje, other bands were also associated with the movement.\nAfter splitting with Elvis J. Kurtovich & His Meteors following the lacklustre reception of their debut album, crafty manager Malkolm Muharem switched over to another local Sarajevo outfit — Plavi Orkestar — a band that had also been gigging on the city's student club scene for some time already and was now looking to take the next step by recording and releasing a studio album. Though also starting out as a garage/punk rock group that often crossed paths with Pušenje and EJK (Orkestar's bassist Ćera I even played on Pušenje's demo recordings before joining Orkestar while the bands also often held club gigs together), over time, especially after achieving stable lineup of Loša, Pava, Ćera I, and Ćera II in early summer 1983, Plavi Orkestar moved to more conventional forms of expression within Yugoslav general cultural context. In practice, that meant pretty much abandoning punk in favour of pop and openly flirting with Yugoslav commercial folk in their sound. Though opening doors for them commercially, this practice somewhat placed them on the fringes of New Primitivism. Compared to the two main new primitive outfits, their stage appearance was far more orderly and their lyrics were less cerebral.\n\nNevertheless, Muharem saw a new opportunity with the four fresh-faced lads each of whom just turned 20 having recently returned to the city from their respective year-long mandatory army services. In fall 1984 when Muharem took the youngsters under his wing, the band barely existed as its main creative duo — frontman Saša Lošić and guitarist Mladen \"Pava\" Pavičić — were not on speaking terms and Pava left the band. Not deterred, Muharem took the remaining three members to Zagreb and through personal connections got Parni Valjak's Husein \"Hus\" Hasanefendić to record a few more demos with them, while also managing to secure a pre-contract with Jugoton.\n\nThe news of the pre-contract signing brought Pavičić back into the fold and by January 1985 all four were off to Zagreb to record in SIM studio. The album named \"Soldatski bal\" came out in February 1985 and instantly created a sensation all over Yugoslavia, placing the young band among the most successful Yugoslav rock acts like Bijelo Dugme and Riblja Čorba. Muharem essentially stayed true to the promotional techniques he previously implemented with Elvis J. Kurtovich & His Meteors — print media and soundbytes — though the sarcastic bravado of EJK&HM was now replaced with Plavi Orkestar's dreamy boyish charm. However, this time it had a tremendous commercial effect as the band embarked on a Yugoslavia-wide tour in late summer 1985 with scenes of thousands of screaming and fainting teenage girls repeated in town after town. Named 'Bolje biti pijan nego star' (Better Drunk than Old) after the band's hit track, the tour included 140 concerts in sports arenas and other large venues throughout the country. Muharem additionally hired journalist-turned-filmmaker Goran Gajić to shoot a tour documentary thus reuniting with him two years after Gajić wrote a glowing summer 1983 piece on Elvis J. Kurtović in \"Start\". Furthermore, Gajić directed a video for Plavi Orkestar's hit track \"Kad mi kažeš, paša\" featuring actresses Tanja Bošković, Sonja Savić, journalist Mirjana Bobić-Mojsilović, and TV personality Suzana Mančić. The album ended up selling 550,000 copies. Though with unexpected and sudden success the band's sensibility quickly transformed even more into folkish pop as they almost morphed into a sugary boy band, many media outlets still presented them as a new primitive group, giving the movement unprecedented promotion in Yugoslavia during the first half of 1985.\n\nInitial wider media reaction to the movement wasn't positive. During New Primitivism's nascent stage, following a summer 1983 double-bill concert by Elvis J. Kurtovich & His Meteors and Plavi Orkestar at Belgrade's SKC, a blurb appeared in the high-circulation \"Politika\" daily reviewing the show, but also discussing the movement in general. In his negative review, rock critic Ljuba Trifunović placed New Primitivsm in the same context with commercial folk singer Lepa Brena's then current flirtation with rock sound (\"naïve rock\"), expressing disappointment that \"both appeared precisely when we began to think Yugoslav rock finally became immune to such diseases due to new wave effectively washing away the so-called '' and all of its derivatives\". Seeing New Primitivsm in continuity with several past offerings from the Sarajevo musical scene such as composer Nikola Borota Radovan's opus, Jutro, early Bijelo Dugme, and Milić Vukašinović's collaboration with Hanka Paldum, Trifunović felt that adjective \"new\" was entirely superfluous in the movement's name: \"Elvis J. Kurtovich & His Meteors and Plavi Orkestar are representatives of this renewed and stripped-down primitivsm, and even if some inconsequential differences do exist when comparing the two bands' interpretative dilettantism (with EJK&HM coming out on top), what's really depressing is their absolute creative pathos embodied in the creed 'let's be ourselves' - primitive Balkanoids\".\n\nAs the movement got more profiled in late 1983 and especially throughout 1984 with the emergence of Zabranjeno Pušenje's debut album and the start of \"Top lista nadrealista\" on television, it began getting better media notices.\n\nIn July 1984, rock critic Darko Glavan wrote a detailed opinion piece on New Primitivism in general as well as EJK&HM and Zabranjeno Pušenje specifically. Expressing mild approval, he summarized his personal acceptance of the movement: \"If someone likes them, I'm not going to dissuade them, however, if someone doesn't like them, I'm not going to attempt convincing them otherwise\". Furthermore, while noting new primitives are deserving of the media attention they've been receiving, he wondered whether they're getting too much publicity because \"they are terrific as an added flavourful spice to a developed and varied rock scene, but can hardly function as the dominant trend\". Focusing on EJK&HM, he labelled them \"Bosnia's answer to Sha Na Na\", before proclaiming them an acceptable form of entertainment for the general masses and a welcome break from incoherent art rock pretentiousness. Though further expressing skepticism whether this is still enough for a conventional rock career, citing EJK&HM's unwillingness to freshen up their repetitive jokes and yucks as a concern for their long term career prospects. Glavan was more upbeat about Pušenje, finding them to be \"more musical, more talented, and in the context of an LP, simply stronger than EJK&HM\". Comparing Pušenje to The Clash in addition to extolling their artistic ambition that \"saves them from becoming one-dimensional caricatures and additionally invokes locally flavoured stylized neorealism of Emir Kusturica's \"Sjećaš li se Doli Bel?\"\", Glavan felt that, despite occasionally failing to properly articulate their inventiveness, the band has a fresh voice and a couple of great tracks off their debut album.\n\nGoran Bregović once referred to New Primitivism as \"the only authentic Yugoslav answer to punk\".\n\nNovelist Miljenko Jergović considered it \"a general cultural emancipatory movement that was supposed to rid the Bosnians of their eternal inferiority complex towards Zagreb and Belgrade\".\n\nIn his scathing 1993 rebuke of the movement, Muhidin Džanko, a professor at the University of Sarajevo's Faculty of Philosophy, labeled New Primitivism an \"exceptionally anti-Islamic movement\" that \"thanks to the charisma of its protagonists, managed to directly obstruct and even eliminate the national feelings of the Bosnian Muslim youth, majority of whom are proud members of the 'new primitive nation'\". He furthermore saw the poetics of New Primitivism to be rooted in its specific language containing \"supposed speech patterns and parlance of the Sarajevo čaršija and mahalas\", before rejecting it as a \"cheap trick meant to lampoon the traditional verbal expression of Sarajevo Muslims and degrade their Oriental lexicology\".\n\nZoran \"Cane\" Kostić, the Partibrejkers frontman, wasn't a fan of the movement; in 1997 he mentioned it in passing during an interview: \"Bosnians (Plavi Orkestar and Crvena Jabuka) took over Belgrade sometime around 1986 and it was because of these raucous new primitive guys that they were able to pull that off. They were their Trojan Horses. I never got into that new primitive thing precisely because I saw something else in it. I mean, in the end, their schtick enabled all these dumb bands such as Valentino\".\n\nNew Primitivism as a sub-cultural movement retained prominence well after its demise.\n\nTo many it also gained added relevance in the context of the breakup of Yugoslavia. Books like 2013's \"Shake, Rattle and Roll: Yugoslav Rock Music and the Poetics of Social Critique\" written by Dalibor Mišina, assistant professor of sociology at Lakehead University, devote a significant portion to the study of New Primitivism's overall significance in the last decade of SFR Yugoslavia's existence, arguing that the country could've survived had it adopted values propagated by New Primitivism and similar genres as its new cultural model.\n\nAsked in 2012 whether New Primitivism was a political or a cultural movement, Nele Karajlić said: \n\nDiscussing the interest New Primitivism has been getting from social scientific circles, Elvis J. Kurtović wrote in his online column in 2013: \n\n"}
{"id": "13794465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794465", "title": "October (journal)", "text": "October (journal)\n\nOctober is a peer-reviewed academic journal specializing in contemporary art, criticism, and theory, published by MIT Press.\n\n\"October\" was established in 1976 in New York by Rosalind E. Krauss and Annette Michelson, who left \"Artforum\" to do so. The founders of the journal were originally known as \"Octoberists\". Its name is a reference to the that set the tone of intellectual, politically engaged writing that has been the hallmark of the journal. The journal was a participant in introducing French post-structural theory on the English-speaking academic scene. According to \"The Art Story\", Krauss used the journal \"as a way to publish essays on her emergent ideas on post-structuralist art theory, Deconstructionist theory, psychoanalysis, postmodernism and feminism\". Jeremy Gilbert-Rolfe, one of the co-founders of the journal, withdrew after only a few issues, and by the spring of 1977, Douglas Crimp joined the editorial team. In 1990, after Crimp left the journal, Krauss and Michelson were joined by Yve-Alain Bois, Hal Foster, Benjamin H. D. Buchloh, Denis Hollier, and John Rajchman.\n\nAs well as in-depth articles and reviews of 20th century and contemporary art, the journal features critical interpretations of cinema and popular culture from a progressive viewpoint.\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the journal was an \"influential vehicle for the debate surrounding the emergence of postmodernism and New Historicism in 20th-century art-historical studies\", and the journal \"contributed greatly to Anglo-American academics’ adoption of French theoretical innovations, especially those pertaining to the analysis of cinema\". \"The Art Story\" describes the journal as \"significant for revisiting and stressing the historical importance of early modes of 20th-century avant-garde art, such as Cubism, Surrealism and Expressionism\".\n\nMIT Press has released two anthologies of articles and a book series.\n"}
{"id": "3033764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033764", "title": "Paseo Arts District", "text": "Paseo Arts District\n\nThe Paseo Arts District, originally referred to as the Spanish Village, was built in 1929 as the first commercial shopping district north of Downtown Oklahoma City by Oklahoman G.A. Nichols. Early business in the area included a swimming pool called the Paseo Plunge, a dry cleaner, drug store, shoe repair store, and restaurants. The Spanish Village era is said to have ended in the mid-1950s.\n\nPaseo has undergone transformations; currently, the Paseo is enjoying a renaissance since the 1980s. Today, a vibrant group of artists and other interested people are transforming this community through creative thinking and arts activities.\n\nLocated along Paseo Drive at roughly N. Walker Ave and NW 28th Street, the faux Spanish village with its stucco buildings and clay tile roofs is the home to many of Oklahoma City's Artists.\n\nThe Paseo Arts district is home to a number of chic bars, restaurants, boutiques, nightclubs, art galleries, and avant-garde businesses. Since 1975, Paseo hosts the annual Paseo Arts Festival each Memorial Day weekend, which showcases original works of visual and performing arts. Other events within the Paseo Arts district include its annual Fairy Ball, as well as the First Friday Gallery Walk. The First Friday Gallery Walk is an event in which Paseo art galleries and restaurants host Art Opening Receptions on the first Friday of every month in order to displaying new artist's work and invite people to visit the Paseo district.\n\nThe district is also home to the oldest church in Oklahoma, Old Trinity of Paseo. The former Anglican church was built in New Brunswick, Canada in 1842 and was closed in 1990. Oklahoma City photographer Tom Lee purchased the church in 2000 and had it dismantled and moved to Oklahoma City to serve as his studio. Lee sold the church in 2007 to be rented as a venue for weddings and other events.\n\nThe Paseo district is listed as a neighborhood ‘worthy of preservation’ on the National Register of Historic Places and in 2010, was named as one of the ’10 Great Neighborhoods for 2010’ by the American Planning Association.\n\nAmong the galleries in the district is JRB Art at the Elms Gallery, housed in the former home of painter and museum director Nan Sheets.\n\n"}
{"id": "103326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103326", "title": "Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood", "text": "Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood (later known as the Pre-Raphaelites) was a group of English painters, poets, and art critics, founded in 1848 by William Holman Hunt, John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. The three founders were joined by William Michael Rossetti, James Collinson, Frederic George Stephens and Thomas Woolner to form the seven-member \"brotherhood\". Their principles were shared by other artists, including Ford Madox Brown, Arthur Hughes and Marie Spartali Stillman.\n\nA later, medievalising strain inspired by Rossetti included Edward Burne-Jones and extended into the twentieth century with artists such as John William Waterhouse.\n\nThe group's intention was to reform art by rejecting what it considered the mechanistic approach first adopted by Mannerist artists who succeeded Raphael and Michelangelo. Its members believed the Classical poses and elegant compositions of Raphael in particular had been a corrupting influence on the academic teaching of art, hence the name \"Pre-Raphaelite\". In particular, the group objected to the influence of Sir Joshua Reynolds, founder of the English Royal Academy of Arts, whom they called \"Sir Sloshua\". To the Pre-Raphaelites, according to William Michael Rossetti, \"sloshy\" meant \"anything lax or scamped in the process of painting ... and hence ... any thing or person of a commonplace or conventional kind\". The brotherhood sought a return to the abundant detail, intense colours and complex compositions of Quattrocento Italian art. The group associated their work with John Ruskin, an English critic whose influences were driven by his religious background.\n\nThe group continued to accept the concepts of history painting and mimesis, imitation of nature, as central to the purpose of art. The Pre-Raphaelites defined themselves as a reform movement, created a distinct name for their form of art, and published a periodical, \"The Germ\", to promote their ideas. The group's debates were recorded in the \"Pre-Raphaelite Journal\".\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood was founded in John Millais's parents' house on Gower Street, London in 1848. At the first meeting, the painters John Everett Millais, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and William Holman Hunt were present. Hunt and Millais were students at the Royal Academy of Arts and had met in another loose association, the Cyclographic Club, a sketching society. At his own request Rossetti became a pupil of Ford Madox Brown in 1848. At that date, Rossetti and Hunt shared lodgings in Cleveland Street, Fitzrovia, Central London. Hunt had started painting \"The Eve of St. Agnes\" based on Keats's poem of the same name, but it was not completed until 1867.\n\nAs an aspiring poet, Rossetti wished to develop the links between Romantic poetry and art. By autumn, four more members, painters James Collinson and Frederic George Stephens, Rossetti's brother, poet and critic William Michael Rossetti, and sculptor Thomas Woolner, had joined to form a seven-member-strong brotherhood. Ford Madox Brown was invited to join, but the more senior artist remained independent but supported the group throughout the PRB period of Pre-Raphaelitism and contributed to \"The Germ\". Other young painters and sculptors became close associates, including Charles Allston Collins, and Alexander Munro. The PRB intended to keep the existence of the brotherhood secret from members of the Royal Academy.\n\nThe brotherhood's early doctrines, as defined by William Michael Rossetti, were expressed in four declarations:\n\n\nThe principles were deliberately non-dogmatic, since the brotherhood wished to emphasise the personal responsibility of individual artists to determine their own ideas and methods of depiction. Influenced by Romanticism, the members thought freedom and responsibility were inseparable. Nevertheless, they were particularly fascinated by medieval culture, believing it to possess a spiritual and creative integrity that had been lost in later eras. The emphasis on medieval culture clashed with principles of realism which stress the independent observation of nature. In its early stages, the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood believed its two interests were consistent with one another, but in later years the movement divided and moved in two directions. The realists were led by Hunt and Millais, while the medievalists were led by Rossetti and his followers, Edward Burne-Jones and William Morris. The split was never absolute, since both factions believed that art was essentially spiritual in character, opposing their idealism to the materialist realism associated with Courbet and Impressionism.\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood was greatly influenced by nature and its members used great detail to show the natural world using bright and sharp focus techniques on a white canvas. In attempts to revive the brilliance of colour found in Quattrocento art, Hunt and Millais developed a technique of painting in thin glazes of pigment over a wet white ground in the hope that the colours would retain jewel-like transparency and clarity. Their emphasis on brilliance of colour was a reaction to the excessive use of bitumen by earlier British artists, such as Reynolds, David Wilkie and Benjamin Robert Haydon. Bitumen produces unstable areas of muddy darkness, an effect the Pre-Raphaelites despised.\n\nIn 1848, Rossetti and Hunt made a list of \"Immortals\", artistic heroes whom they admired, especially from literature, some of whose work would form subjects for PRB paintings, notably including Keats and Tennyson.\n\nThe first exhibitions of Pre-Raphaelite work occurred in 1849. Both Millais's \"Isabella\" (1848–1849) and Holman Hunt's \"Rienzi\" (1848–1849) were exhibited at the Royal Academy. Rossetti's \"\" was shown at a Free Exhibition on Hyde Park Corner. As agreed, all members of the brotherhood signed their work with their name and the initials \"PRB\". Between January and April 1850, the group published a literary magazine, \"The Germ\" edited by William Rossetti which published poetry by the Rossettis, Woolner, and Collinson and essays on art and literature by associates of the brotherhood, such as Coventry Patmore. As the short run-time implies, the magazine did not manage to achieve sustained momentum. (Daly 1989)\n\nIn 1850, the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood became the subject of controversy after the exhibition of Millais' painting \"Christ in the House of His Parents\" was considered to be blasphemous by many reviewers, notably Charles Dickens. Dickens considered Millais' Mary to be ugly. Millais had used his sister-in-law, Mary Hodgkinson, as the model for Mary in his painting. The brotherhood's medievalism was attacked as backward-looking and its extreme devotion to detail was condemned as ugly and jarring to the eye. According to Dickens, Millais made the Holy Family look like alcoholics and slum-dwellers, adopting contorted and absurd \"medieval\" poses. A rival group of older artists, The Clique, used its influence against the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood and its principles were publicly attacked by the President of the Academy, Sir Charles Lock Eastlake.\n\nAfter the controversy, Collinson left the brotherhood and the remaining members met to discuss whether he should be replaced by Charles Allston Collins or Walter Howell Deverell, but were unable to make a decision. From that point the group disbanded, though its influence continued. Artists who had worked in the style initially continued but no longer signed works \"PRB\".\nThe brotherhood found support from the critic John Ruskin, who praised its devotion to nature and rejection of conventional methods of composition. The Pre-Raphaelites were influenced by Ruskin's theories. He wrote to \"The Times\" defending their work and subsequently met them. Initially, he favoured Millais, who travelled to Scotland in the summer of 1853 with Ruskin and Ruskin's wife, Euphemia Chalmers Ruskin, née Gray (now best known as Effie Gray). The main object of the journey was to paint Ruskin's portrait. Effie became increasingly attached to Millais, creating a crisis. In subsequent annulment proceedings, Ruskin himself made a statement to his lawyer to the effect that his marriage had been unconsummated.\n\nBy 1853 the original PRB had virtually dissolved, with only Holman Hunt remaining true to its stated aims. But the term \"Pre-Raphaelite\" stuck to Rossetti and others, including William Morris and Edward Burne-Jones, with whom he became involved in Oxford in 1857. Hence the term Pre-Raphaelite is associated with the much wider and long-lived art movement, including the dreamy, yearning images of women produced by Rossetti and several of his followers.\n\nArtists influenced by the brotherhood include John Brett, Philip Calderon, Arthur Hughes, Gustave Moreau, Evelyn De Morgan, Frederic Sandys (who entered the Pre-Raphaelite circle in 1857) and John William Waterhouse. Ford Madox Brown, who was associated with them from the beginning, is often seen as most closely adopting the Pre-Raphaelite principles. One follower who developed his own distinct style was Aubrey Beardsley, who was pre-eminently influenced by Burne-Jones.\n\nAfter 1856, Dante Gabriel Rossetti became an inspiration for the medievalising strand of the movement. He was the link between the two types of Pre-Raphaelite painting (nature and Romance) after the PRB became lost in the later decades of the century. Rossetti, although the least committed to the brotherhood, continued the name and changed its style. He began painting versions of femme fatales using models like Jane Morris, in paintings such as \"Proserpine\", \"The Blue Silk Dress\", and \"La Pia de' Tolomei\". His work influenced his friend William Morris, in whose firm Morris, Marshall, Faulkner & Co. he became a partner, and with whose wife Jane he may have had an affair. Ford Madox Brown and Edward Burne-Jones also became partners in the firm. Through Morris's company, the ideals of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood influenced many interior designers and architects, arousing interest in medieval designs and other crafts leading to the Arts and Crafts movement headed by William Morris. Holman Hunt was involved with the movement to reform design through the Della Robbia Pottery company.\n\nAfter 1850, Hunt and Millais moved away from direct imitation of medieval art. They stressed the realist and scientific aspects of the movement, though Hunt continued to emphasise the spiritual significance of art, seeking to reconcile religion and science by making accurate observations and studies of locations in Egypt and Palestine for his paintings on biblical subjects. In contrast, Millais abandoned Pre-Raphaelitism after 1860, adopting a much broader and looser style influenced by Reynolds. William Morris and others condemned his reversal of principles.\nPre-Raphaelitism had a significant impact in Scotland and on Scottish artists. The figure in Scottish art most associated with the Pre-Raphaelites was the Aberdeen-born William Dyce (1806–64). Dyce befriended the young Pre-Raphaelites in London and introduced their work to Ruskin. His later work was Pre-Raphaelite in its spirituality, as can be seen in his \"The Man of Sorrows\" and \"David in the Wilderness\" (both 1860), which contain a Pre-Raphaelite attention to detail. Joseph Noel Paton (1821-1901) studied at the Royal Academy schools in London, where he became a friend of Millais and he subsequently followed him into Pre-Raphaelitism, producing pictures that stressed detail and melodrama such as \"The Bludie Tryst\" (1855). His later paintings, like those of Millais, have been criticised for descending into popular sentimentality. Also influenced by Millais was James Archer (1823-1904) and whose work includes \"Summertime, Gloucestershire\" (1860) and who from 1861 began a series of Arthurian-based paintings including \"La Morte d'Arthur\" and \"Sir Lancelot and Queen Guinevere\".\n\nPre-Raphaelism also inspired painters like Lawrence Alma-Tadema.\n\nThe movement influenced many later British artists into the 20th century. Rossetti came to be seen as a precursor of the wider European Symbolist movement. In the late 20th century the Brotherhood of Ruralists based its aims on Pre-Raphaelitism, while the Stuckists and the Birmingham Group have also derived inspiration from it.\n\nBirmingham Museum & Art Gallery has a world-renowned collection of works by Burne-Jones and the Pre-Raphaelites that, some claim, strongly influenced the young J. R. R. Tolkien, who wrote \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\", with influences taken from the same mythological scenes portrayed by the Pre-Raphaelites.\n\nIn the 20th century artistic ideals changed, and art moved away from representing reality. Since the Pre-Raphaelites were fixed on portraying things with near-photographic precision, though with a distinctive attention to detailed surface-patterns, their work was devalued by many painters and critics. After the First World War, British Modernists associated Pre-Raphaelite art with the repressive and backward times in which they grew up. In the 1960s there was a major revival of Pre-Raphaelitism. Exhibitions and catalogues of works, culminating in a 1984 exhibition in London's Tate Gallery, re-established a canon of Pre-Raphaelite work. Among many other exhibitions, there was another large show at Tate Britain in 2012–13.\n\n\nMany members of the ‘inner’ Pre-Raphaelite circle (Dante Gabriel Rossetti, John Everett Millais, William Holman Hunt, Ford Madox Brown, Edward Burne-Jones) and ‘outer’ circle (Frederick Sandys, Arthur Hughes, Simeon Solomon, Henry Hugh Armstead, Joseph Noel Paton, Frederic Shields, Matthew James Lawless) were working concurrently in painting, illustration, and sometimes poetry. Victorian morality judged literature as superior to painting, because of its “noble grounds for noble emotion.” Robert Buchanan (a writer and opponent of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood) felt so strongly about this artistic hierarchy that he wrote: “The truth is that literature, and more particularly poetry, is in a very bad way when one art gets hold of another, and imposes upon it its conditions and limitations.\" This was the hostile environment in which Pre-Raphaelites were defiantly working in various media. The Pre-Raphaelites attempted to revitalize subject painting, which had been dismissed as artificial. Their belief that each picture should tell a story was an important step for the unification of painting and literature (eventually deemed the Sister Arts), or at least a break in the rigid hierarchy promoted by writers like Robert Buchanan.\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelite desire for more extensive affiliation between painting and literature also manifested in illustration. Illustration is a more direct unification of these media and, like subject painting, can assert a narrative of its own. For the Pre-Raphaelites, and Dante Gabriel Rossetti specifically, there was anxiety about the constraints of illustration. In 1855, Rossetti wrote to William Allingham about the independence of illustration: “I have not begun even designing for them yet, but fancy I shall try the ‘Vision of Sin’ and ‘Palace of Art’ etc. – those where one can allegorize on one’s own hook, without killing for oneself and everyone a distinct idea of the poet’s.\" This passage makes apparent Rossetti’s desire to not just support the poet’s narrative, but to create an allegorical illustration that functions separately from the text as well. In this respect, Pre-Raphaelite illustrations go beyond depicting an episode from a poem, but rather function like subject paintings within a text.\n\nThere are major collections of Pre-Raphaelite work in United Kingdom museums such as the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery, the Tate Gallery, Victoria and Albert Museum, Manchester Art Gallery, Lady Lever Art Gallery, and Liverpool's Walker Art Gallery. The Art Gallery of South Australia and the Delaware Art Museum in the US have the most significant collections of Pre-Raphaelite art outside the UK. The Museo de Arte de Ponce in Puerto Rico also has a notable collection of Pre-Raphaelite works, including Sir Edward Burne-Jones' \"The Last Sleep of Arthur in Avalon\", Frederic Lord Leighton's \"Flaming June\", and works by William Holman Hunt, John Everett Millais, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and Frederic Sandys.\n\nThere is a set of Pre-Raphaelite murals in the Old Library at the Oxford Union, depicting scenes from the Arthurian legends, painted between 1857 and 1859 by a team of Dante Gabriel Rossetti, William Morris, and Edward Burne-Jones. The National Trust houses at Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton, and at Wallington Hall, Northumberland, both have significant and representative collections. Andrew Lloyd Webber is an avid collector of Pre-Raphaelite works, and a selection of 300 items from his collection were shown at an exhibition at the Royal Academy in London in 2003.\n\nKelmscott Manor, the country home of William Morris from 1871 until his death in 1896, is owned by the Society of Antiquaries of London and is open to the public. The Manor is featured in Morris' work \"News from Nowhere\". It also appears in the background of \"Water Willow\", a portrait of his wife, Jane Morris, painted by Dante Gabriel Rossetti in 1871. There are exhibitions connected with Morris and Rossetti’s early experiments with photography.\n\nThe story of the brotherhood, from its controversial first exhibition to being embraced by the art establishment, has been depicted in two BBC television series. The first, \"The Love School\", was broadcast in 1975; the second is the 2009 BBC television drama serial \"Desperate Romantics\" by Peter Bowker. Although much of the latter's material is derived from Franny Moyle's factual book \"Desperate Romantics: The Private Lives of the Pre-Raphaelites\", the series occasionally departs from established facts in favour of dramatic licence and is prefaced by the disclaimer: \"In the mid-19th century, a group of young men challenged the art establishment of the day. The pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood were inspired by the real world around them, yet took imaginative licence in their art. This story, based on their lives and loves, follows in that inventive spirit.\"\n\nKen Russell's television film \"Dante's Inferno\" (1967) contains brief scenes on some of the leading Pre-Raphaelites but mainly concentrates on the life of Rossetti, played by Oliver Reed.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243703", "title": "Public folklore", "text": "Public folklore\n\nPublic folklore is the term for the work done by folklorists in public settings in the United States and Canada outside of universities and colleges, such as arts councils, museums, folklife festivals, radio stations, etc. The term is actually short for \"public sector folklore\" and was first used by members of the American Folklore Society in the early 1970s. Archie Green is generally credited as the founder of the public folklore movement, although his work builds on that of Ben Botkin and Alan Lomax, going back as far as the 1930s. (They called their work \"applied folklore,\" a related but distinct paradigm.)\n\nThe birth of public folklore can be traced back to the creation of the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress in 1970, by an act of Congress, sponsored by Sen. Ralph Yarborough (D-TX) and written by Green and then-Senate aide Jim Hightower. Other national programs were later established at the Smithsonian Institution and the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), where prominent folklorists such as Ralph Rinzler, Alan Jabbour, and Bess Lomax Hawes worked. Funding programs were also established in the 1970s and 1980s in over 40 state arts councils, and these facilitated the eventual creation or funding of major non-profit centers for folklife documentation and presentation, such as City Lore and the Center for Traditional Music and Dance in New York, Texas Folklife Resources, Northwest Folklife, the Western Folklife Center, and the Philadelphia Folklore Project.\n\nPublic folklorists are engaged with the documentation, preservation, and presentation of traditional forms of folk arts, craft, folk music, and other genres of traditional folklife. In later years, public folklorists have also become involved in economic and community development projects.\n\nEach year, some 15 outstanding American folk artists and performers are awarded National Heritage Fellowships from the NEA for their lifetime achievement. Some more widely known awardees over the years have included John Lee Hooker, B.B. King, Clifton Chenier, Earl Scruggs, Michael Flatley, Shirley Caesar, Albertina Walker, Janette Carter, Koko Taylor, Brownie McGhee, Sonny Terry, Jean Ritchie, Sunnyland Slim, Lydia Mendoza, Boozoo Chavis, Zakir Hussain, Helen Cordero, Margaret Tafoya, Santiago Jiménez, Jr., John Cephas, Bois Sec Ardoin, Mick Moloney, Clarence Fountain & the Blind Boys, Esther Martinez, and the Dixie Hummingbirds.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution features the Smithsonian Folklife Festival every June and July which attracts upwards of two million people to hear live performances and view demonstrations of traditional crafts.\n\nPublic folklorists also work in \"folk arts in the schools\" programs, presenting master traditional artists to primary and secondary schools in demonstrations and residencies. They develop apprenticeship programs to foster the teaching of traditional arts by recognized masters. They also present traditional music on radio programs such as \"American Routes\" on Public Radio International. Occasionally they produce documentary films on aspects of traditional arts; Smithsonian folklorist Marjorie Hunt won an Academy Award for her 1984 short documentary film \"The Stone Carvers\" about the carvers at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "188949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188949", "title": "Quest", "text": "Quest\n\nA quest is a journey toward a specific mission or a goal. The word serves as a plot device in mythology and fiction: a difficult journey towards a goal, often symbolic or allegorical. Tales of quests figure prominently in the folklore of every nation and ethnic culture. In literature, the object of a quest requires great exertion on the part of the hero, who must overcome many obstacles, typically including much travel. The aspect of travel allows the storyteller to showcase exotic locations and cultures (an objective of the narrative, not of the character). The object of a quest may also have supernatural properties, often leading the protagonist into other worlds and dimensions. The moral of a quest tale often centers on the changed character of the hero.\n\nThe hero normally aims to obtain something or someone by the quest, and with this object to return home. The object can be something new, that fulfills a lack in his life, or something that was stolen away from him or someone with authority to dispatch him.\n\nSometimes the hero has no desire to return; Sir Galahad's quest for the Holy Grail is to find it, not return with it. A return may, indeed, be impossible: Aeneas quests for a homeland, having lost Troy at the beginning of Virgil's \"Aeneid,\" and he does not return to Troy to re-found it but settles in Italy (to become an ancestor of the Romans).\n\nIf the hero does return after the culmination of the quest, he may face false heroes who attempt to pass themselves off as him, or his initial response may be a rejection of that return, as Joseph Campbell describes in his critical analysis of quest literature, \"The Hero With a Thousand Faces\".\n\nIf someone dispatches the hero on a quest, the overt reason may be false, with the dispatcher actually sending him on the difficult quest in hopes of his death in the attempt, or in order to remove him from the scene for a time, just as if the claim were sincere, except that the tale usually ends with the dispatcher being unmasked and punished. Stories with such false quest-objects include the legends of Jason and Perseus, the fairy tales \"The Dancing Water, the Singing Apple, and the Speaking Bird\", \"Go I Know Not Whither and Fetch I Know Not What\", and the story of Beren and Lúthien in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"Silmarillion\".\n\nThe quest object may, indeed, function only as a convenient reason for the hero's journey. Such objects are termed MacGuffins. When a hero is on a quest for several objects that are only a convenient reason for his journey, they are termed plot coupons.\n\nThe quest, in the form of the Hero's Journey, plays a central role in the Monomyth described by Joseph Campbell; the hero sets forth from the world of common day into a land of adventures, tests, and magical rewards. Most times in a quest, the knight in shining armor wins the heart of a beautiful maiden/ princess.\n\nAn early quest story tells the tale of Gilgamesh, who seeks a secret to eternal life after the death of Enkidu, including the search for an emerald.\n\nAnother ancient quest tale, Homer's \"Odyssey\", tells of Odysseus, whom the gods have cursed to wander and suffer for many years before Athena persuades the Olympians to allow him to return home. Recovering the Golden Fleece is the object of the travels of Jason and the Argonauts in the \"Argonautica\". Psyche, having lost Cupid, hunted through the world for him, and was set tasks by Venus, including a descent into the underworld.\n\nMany fairy tales depict the hero or heroine setting out on a quest, such as:\n\n\nOther characters may set out with no more definite aim than to \"seek their fortune\", or even be cast out instead of voluntarily leaving, but learn of something that could aid them along the way and so have their journey transformed from aimless wandering into a quest. Other characters can also set forth on quests — the hero's older brothers commonly do — but the hero is distinguished by his success.\n\nMany medieval romances sent knights out on quests. The term \"Knight-errant\" sprang from this, as \"errant\" meant \"roving\" or \"wandering\". Sir Thomas Malory included many in \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". The most famous—perhaps in all of western literature—centers on the Holy Grail in Arthurian legend. This story cycle recounts multiple quests, in multiple variants, telling stories both of the heroes who succeed, like Percival (in Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival) or Sir Galahad (in the Queste del Saint Graal), and also the heroes who fail, like Sir Lancelot. This often sent them into a bewildering forest. Despite many references to its pathlessness, the forest repeatedly confronts knights with forks and crossroads, of a labyrinthine complexity. The significance of their encounters is often explained to the knights—particularly those searching for the Holy Grail—by hermits acting as wise old men -- or women. Still, despite their perils and chances of error, such forests, being the location where the knight can obtain the end of his quest, are places where the knights may become worthy; one romance has a maiden urging Sir Lancelot on his quest for the Holy Grail, \"which quickens with life and greenness like the forest.\"\n\nSo consistently did knights quest that Miguel de Cervantes set his Don Quixote on mock quests in a parody of chivalric tales. Nevertheless, while Don Quixote was a fool, he was and remains a hero of chivalry.\n\nQuests continued in modern literature. Analysis can interpret many (perhaps most) stories as a quest in which the main character is seeking something that he desires, but the literal structure of a journey seeking something is, itself, still common. Quests often appear in fantasy literature, as in Rasselas by Samuel Johnson, or \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", where Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion go on a quest for the way back to Kansas, brains, a heart, and courage respectively. Quests, also, play a major role in Rick Riordan's fantasy books, among them \"Percy Jackson & the Olympians\", \"The Heroes of Olympus\", and \"The Kane Chronicles\".\n\nA familiar modern literary quest is Frodo Baggins's quest to destroy the One Ring in \"The Lord of the Rings\". The One Ring, its baleful power, the difficult method which is the only way to destroy it, and the spiritual and psychological torture it wreaks on its Bearer; J. R. R. Tolkien uses all these elements to tell a meaningful tale of friendship and the inner struggle with temptation, against a background of epic and supernatural warfare.\n\n\"The Catcher in the Rye\" is often thought of as a quest plot, detailing Holden's search not for a tangible object but for a sense of purpose or reason.\n\nSome writers, however, may devise arbitrary quests for items without any importance beyond being the object of the quest. These items are known as MacGuffins, which is sometimes merely used to compare quests and is not always a derogatory term. Writers may also motivate characters to pursue these objects by meanings of a prophecy that decrees it, rather than have them discover that it could assist them, for reasons that are given.\n\n"}
{"id": "7772650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7772650", "title": "Rasika", "text": "Rasika\n\nA rasika is a term for an aesthete of Hindustani classical music. The term is derived from Sanskrit meaning full of Passion, elegant; with discrimination. Connoisseur - An expert able to appreciate a field; especially in the fine arts.\n\nA rasika is a term for audience in Sinhalese\n\nA rasika, in carnatic music terminology, is a person who has some knowledge of carnatic music and is able to appreciate carnatic music. In carnatic music concerts (or katcheri, as they are called), the audience is usually called rasikas.\n"}
{"id": "52142710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52142710", "title": "Resist", "text": "Resist\n\nA resist, used in many areas of manufacturing and art, is something that is added to parts of an object to create a pattern by protecting these parts from being affected by a subsequent stage in the process. Often the resist is then removed. For example in the resist dyeing of textiles, wax or a similar substance is added to places where the dye is not wanted. The wax will \"resist\" the dye, and after it is removed there will be a pattern in two colours. Batik, \"shibori\" and tie-dye are among many styles of resist dyeing. \n\nWax or grease can also be used as a resist in pottery, to keep some areas free from a ceramic glaze; the wax burns away when the piece is fired. Song dynasty Jizhou ware used paper cut-outs and leaves as resists or stencils under glaze to create patterns. Other uses of resists in pottery work with slip or paints, and a whole range of modern materials used as resists. A range of similar techniques can be used in watercolour and other forms of painting. While these artistic techniques stretch back centuries, a range of new applications of the resist principle have recently developed in microelectronics and nanotechnology. An example is resists in semiconductor fabrication, using photoresists (often just referred to as \"resists\") in photolithography.\n\nEtching processes use a resist, though in these typically the whole object is covered in the resist (called the \"ground\" in some contexts), which is then selectively removed from some parts. This is the case when a resist is used to prepare the copper substrate for champlevé enamels, where parts of the field are etched (with acid or electrically) into hollows to be filled with powdered glass, which is then melted. In chemical milling, as many forms of industrial etching are called, the resist may be referred to as the \"maskant\", and in many contexts the process may be known as masking. A fixed resist pre-shaped with the pattern is often called a stencil, or in some contexts a frisket.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary does not record the word \"resist\" in this sense before the 1830s, when it was used in relation to both \"calico-printing\" (1836) and metalwork with copper (1839). Resists were also used to etch steel from the mid 19th-century.\n"}
{"id": "1237259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237259", "title": "Seventh son of a seventh son", "text": "Seventh son of a seventh son\n\nThe seventh son of a seventh son is a concept from folklore regarding special powers given to, or held by, such a son. The seventh son must come from an unbroken line with no female siblings born between and, in turn, be born to such a seventh son. The number has a long history of mystical and biblical significance: seven virtues, seven deadly sins, Seven Sleepers, seven days of creation, etc. In this case, it refers to a man who is the seventh son of a man who is himself a seventh son.\n\nIn some beliefs, the special powers are inborn, inherited simply by virtue of his birth order; in others the powers are granted to him by God or the gods because of his birth order.\n\nThe seventh son of a seventh son is gifted as a healer. The seventh son of a seventh son is part of a more general phenomenon known as the \"cure\" (sometimes also called the \"charm\").\n\nAccording to Kendall's \"Travels through the Northern Parts of the United States, in the year 1807–1808\" while visiting the Newgate copper mine and prison, the author met an innkeep who told him that \"there was to be found in the surrounding hills, a black stone, of a certain species, through which a seventh son of a seventh son, born in the month of February, with a caul on his head, can discern everything that lies in the depths and interior of the globe.\" The author speculates that the importance of mining to the community gave rise to this localized belief.\n\nAmerican author Jackson Pearce uses the folklore around seventh sons in her novel \"Sisters Red\", in which potential werewolves are seventh sons of seventh sons.\n\nIt is believed that he will be a werewolf, \"lobizón\" or \"lobisomem\" (the word in Portuguese language that means \"werewolf\"). To stop the curse the newborn should be baptized in seven different churches, or be baptized by the name of \"Benito\" while the eldest son is his godfather. It is important to note that the local myth of the \"lobizón\" is not connected to the custom that began over 100 years ago by which every seventh son (or seventh daughter) born in Argentina becomes godchild to the president.\n\n\"Ciarallo\" was the seventh son who had the power to enchant and recall snakes, and who was immune to snake venom. It wasn't enough to be a seventh son but was needed a special initiation rite called \"inciaramazione\". Recourse was made to Ciarallo when a snake sneaked into the house and it is said that the reptile was promptly attracted by the sound of his whistle. Another social task of Ciarallo was \"inciaramare\" other people by spreading a special oil, complete with a special recipe, on the arm of those who requested the treatment to ensure protection from snakes bites. Children were led to Ciarallo by their mothers to get protection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49833293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49833293", "title": "Solapur Terry Towel", "text": "Solapur Terry Towel\n\nSolapur Terry Towel is terry towel weaving or knitting work that are manufactured in the Solapur district of Maharashtra state, India. The terry towel work has been protected under the Geographical indication (GI) of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement. It is listed at item 9 as \"Solapur Terry Towel\" of the GI Act 1999 of the Government of India with registration confirmed by the Controller General of Patents Designs and Trademarks.\n\nSolapur Terry Towel has unique design and it has global market. Also, it is allied production of Solapuri chaddar. The handicraft work gives livelihood assistance to nearly 200,000 people in Solapur district. Terry towel made by cotton yarn.\n"}
{"id": "87683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87683", "title": "Straw marquetry", "text": "Straw marquetry\n\nStraw marquetry is a craft very similar to that of wood marquetry, except that straw replaces the wood veneer. It is thought to have first been practised in the East; examples were brought to England in the 17th century.\n\nTo mimic the varying shades of wood veneer, wheat or oat straw has to be split, then soaked in cold, warm, or hot water. The strips are then ironed, and there will be a variety of tones from pale gold to deepest dark brown. \n\nThere are accounts of nuns in France and Switzerland making a variety of items using straw marquetry.\n\nThe most famous straw marquetry was practised by prisoners of war from the Napoleonic wars. Dartmoor and other prisons had been built for them; the prison most famous for straw marquetry was Norman Cross, Huntingdon. \n\nEaster eggs are decorated with straw applique, especially in Eastern European countries. Geometric shapes, stars and flower motifs are the most common themes. There is a slight difference in the way the straw is prepared, however; for marquetry, the straws are soaked, split and ironed; for egg decoration the straw is not ironed.\n\n"}
{"id": "3910427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3910427", "title": "Street poster art", "text": "Street poster art\n\nStreet poster art is a kind of graffiti, more specifically categorized as \"street art\". Posters are usually handmade or printed graphics on thin paper. It can be understood as an art piece that is installed on the streets as opposed to in a gallery or museum, but by some it is not comprehended as a form of contemporary art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "708181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708181", "title": "Subtext", "text": "Subtext\n\nSubtext or undertone is any content of a creative work which is not announced explicitly by the characters or author, but is implicit or becomes something understood by the observer of the work as the production unfolds. Subtext can also refer to the thoughts and motives of the characters which are only covered in an aside. Subtext can also be used to imply controversial subjects without specifically alienating people from the fiction, often through use of metaphor. Especially in light of their inherently ambiguous and self-referential character, many authors have explicitly used subtexts (or subtexts about subtexts) in humor. \n\nSubtext is content underneath the dialogue. Under dialogue, there can be conflict, anger, competition, pride, showing off, or other implicit ideas and emotions. Subtext is the unspoken thoughts and motives of characters — what they really think and believe. \n\nSubtext is also a frequently used method of subtly inserting social or political commentary into fiction. Subtext is often also inserted in narratives where explicit themes are unable to be shown or expressed due to censorship or simply interest in appealing to a general audience. Frequently, these subtexts may include a sexual nature or possible references to sexual orientation. Their inclusion is such so that they are easily overlooked by younger viewers but may be caught by more mature viewers. Subtext also serves to add complexity to a premise that may superficially appeal to younger viewers but may also attract older fans, as is often the case with cartoons, science fiction and fantasy. It also may serve to aid in suspension of disbelief.\n\nSubtext includes information about the period and culture in which the author of a book is writing that may not be deliberately articulated but is conveyed through the text in speech, social customs or historical details. \n\nA more recently coined term, metamessage is considered by some authors to be synonymous with subtext. \"Metamessage\" is a term more commonly used in the analysis of business communication rather than of literary works.\n\nThe author David Baboulene, in his practical academic work on story theory, \"The Story Book\", defines subtext as \"the result of any form of gap in knowledge between any of the participants in a story; for example, between the author and a character, between two characters or between the audience and at least one character.\"\n\nAn example occurs in the 1978 movie Superman. Lois Lane has just met Clark Kent. The subtext is that she has taken an instant dislike to him. At the surface, however, their conversation seems only to solicit and supply information about the existence of others of Clark Kent's type. \"Any more at home like you?\" she inquires. \"Uh, not really, no\", Clark replies. \n\nIn the play \"Ghosts\" by Henrik Ibsen, subtext is important in gaining a greater understanding of the characters, as they cannot always speak freely due to the constrictions of social conventions at the time.\n\nA scene in Woody Allen's movie \"Annie Hall\", in which subtitles explain the characters' inner thoughts during an apparently innocent conversation, is an example of the subtext of a scene being made explicit.\n\nVictorian novels may feature confining social norms such as strict marriage conventions, taboos against births out of wedlock, inheritance to first born sons, etc., that form the subtext of plot and character. These issues can be deployed unconsciously, as in Wilkie Collins' \"The Woman in White\" or as part of a concealed critique of gender politics, as in Charlotte Brontë's \"Jane Eyre\".\n\nIn the episode \"My Best Friend's Bottom\" of the British comedy TV series \"Coupling\", \"Captain Subtext\" is a tool used in the narrative to explicitly make the viewers aware of the subtextual message in the dialogue. In it, the dialogue and the subtext have been deliberately made humorous.\n\nTelevision sci-fi such as the original \"Star Trek\" and \"Doctor Who\" (both of which implicitly avoided onscreen sexual situations) have often been discussed with respect to certain scenes or lines of dialogue.\n\nCues for the subtext are sometimes given in the main text in the form of \"intertexts\", which are allusions to the themes of other texts. An example is \"Blade Runner\", which can be interpreted as containing numerous biblical (intertextual) allusions, framing the subtext as a religiously inspired theme—the search for the Creator and the meaning of life beyond physical existence.\n\nHistorians have often identified an anticipated future revolution, often without the ruling party's understanding.\n\nSuch an example of the power and controversy of subtexts might include the deliverance theme pervasive in the songs, stories, and symbols of the slaves in the United States up through the Civil Rights era and, perhaps, still today. The slave prayers, with their theme of deliverance, may have seemed subversive, as striking at planter ideology and control \n\nSubtext messages have seen fairly widespread use as a way to combat censorship in literary works, for example in the former Communist bloc. The practice is of course much older; e.g. one find works from the middle ages criticizing the church establishment. Some of these works use a formal technique called \"double structure\" in which the same text can have different (usually antithetical) meanings by reading sentences or verses in two different orders.\n\nAccording to a 2008 organizational communication textbook, \"meta message\" is a term coined by lawyer Gerard Nierenberg in his 1995 book \"The Art of Negotiating\" to denote (in the words of the textbook) \"those messages that are conveyed between the lines of what we explicitly say or write, possibly due to the purpose, context, or timing of the message and/or the relationship between the people communicating\".\n\nThe term also appears in a 1972 book of Gregory Bateson, who suggested a somewhat similar distinction, although in the form of a potentially infinite hierarchy of messages, metamessages, meta-metamessages and so on. Bateson argued that any message needs to be interpreted in the frame of reference established by a superordinate message cueing how the textual message is intended. Alan Wolfe points out that Bateson's concepts and terminlogy are rather technical, and are thus commonly misinterpreted. In particular, in Bateson's work the metamessage is the framing message, not the actual (subtext) meaning assigned to the subordinate message in the context of the framing message. About two decades before introducing the metamessage terminology into his works, Bateson studied by what \"mood sign[al]\" (his earlier term for metamessage) subordinated messages are interpreted \"seriously, jokingly, sarcastically, as gestures of friendliness, as acts of aggression\" etc. Invoking Bertrand Russell's Theory of Logical Types, Bateson proposed that for every signal, there is always signal level above it which precisely determines its interpretation. Bateson's theory was however criticized as too rigid and lacking explanatory power for real-world communication phenomena in which signals of any kind (at any level) can be deceitful.\n\nMetamessages can be delivered by a wide variety of means, including verbal modifiers (like \"certainly\", \"only\", \"just\", etc.), and—in spoken communication—by paralanguage, e.g. by rhythm and pitch. Metamessages can also be conveyed by body language.\n\nThe famous pipe image from \"The Treachery of Images\" with the subtitle \"ceci n'est pas une pipe\" (meaning \"this is not a pipe\") is sometimes given as an example of metamessage conveyed by paralanguage.\n"}
{"id": "20000436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20000436", "title": "The Aesthetic Dimension", "text": "The Aesthetic Dimension\n\nThe Aesthetic Dimension: Toward a Critique of Marxist Aesthetics () is a 1977 book on aesthetics by the philosopher Herbert Marcuse, in which the author provides an account of modern art's political implications and relationship with society at large.\n\nIt is the final major work by Marcuse, a founding member of the Frankfurt School. The book is also noteworthy as a demarcation of Marcuse's split with Marxism via his rejection of Marxist aesthetics.\n\n\"The Aesthetic Dimension\" (not to be confused with a chapter from Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\" of the same name) is a response to previous writings within critical theory on the subject of art, notably those of Walter Benjamin and Theodor Adorno. Marcuse rejected Benjamin's call in \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" for the politicization (i.e., a literal reflection of perceived political realities) of modern, reproducible art both to reflect the state of a society and to incite change. Like both Benjamin and Adorno, Marcuse believed that art promises resistance to societal repression, and that a cultural revolution is necessarily connected to a political or social revolution. Adorno (as represented mainly by his posthumous \"Aesthetic Theory\") and Marcuse agreed that this possibility must be realized through artistic detachment and symbolism. Marcuse however offered a more inclusive and less radical suggestion for modern art's source of power than did Adorno, who believed that the works of high culture were the sole artistic source of potential emancipation.\n\nMarcuse instead pointed to what he perceived to be the successes of high culture and translated these to all areas of art. For Marcuse, art's promise of transcendence could only be fulfilled via a conceptual independence from society, but this independence is accessible through a host of media. The successful artist will attain \"truth\" in his work through \"detachment\" that results in \"symbolic representation.\" This successful art must necessarily invoke a longing for something utopian and the promise of ultimate happiness represented by beauty. This symbolic longing for fulfillment will awaken us from complacency.\n\nMarcuse stated in the book's introduction that he considered literature the primary source of his influence for this system, but feels that the ideas would apply to music and plastic arts as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "19910219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19910219", "title": "Top-left lighting", "text": "Top-left lighting\n\nTop-left lighting is an artistic convention in which illustrations are produced so that the light appears to come from the top left of the picture.\n\nMost people prefer lighting from the left when resolving a convex-concave ambiguity, and this preference may be stronger for right-handed people. This is reflected in Roman mosaics and in Renaissance, baroque and impressionist art.\n\nIn cartography, the predominant custom of placing the shadow on the right-hand side of hill profiles was established during the 15th century. Computer interfaces tend to use top left lighting as well, although this trend has gradually shifted more towards light coming straight from the top.\n\nThere are notable exceptions to this convention, such as Sandro Botticelli's The Birth of Venus due to the point of view which may represent geographical perspective and location.\n"}
{"id": "10011626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011626", "title": "Warli", "text": "Warli\n\nThe Warlis or \"Varli\"s are an indigenous tribe or Adivasis, living in mountainous as well as coastal areas of Maharashtra-Gujarat border and surrounding areas. They have their own animistic beliefs, life, customs and traditions, as a result of acculturation they have adopted many Hindu beliefs. The Warlis speak an unwritten Varli language which belong to the southern zone of the Indo-Aryan languages.\n\nWarlis are found in Jawhar, Mokhada, Dahanu and Talasari talukas of the northern Thane district, parts of Nashik and Dhule districts of Maharashtra, Valsad, Dangs, Navsari and Surat districts of Gujarat, and the union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.\n\nThe Warli speak in Varli language, classified as Konkani, with some degree\nof influence from Gujarati.\n\nWarli language is classified under Marathi by Grierson (Grierson's Linguistic Survey of India) as well as A.M. Ghatage (Warli of Thana, vol.VII of A Survey of Marathi dialects)\n\nIn the book \"The Painted World of the Warlis\" Yashodhara Dalmia claimed that the Warlis carry on a tradition stretching back to 2500 or 3000 BCE. Their mural paintings are similar to those done between 500 and 10,000 BCE in the Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka, in Madhya Pradesh.\n\nEverything about Warli is earthy and soothing. It takes you back to the painting’s provenance where you could almost smell the wet soil, feel the touch of the calloused hand that painted the background and admire meticulous brush stroke of the rural artist who created the master piece. Warli paintings succeed in adding elegance to a rural hut or a five star hotel lobby with the same charm.\n\nNo wonder, designers were so enthralled by this art form, that they decided to create an entire line of dresses based on Warli paintings. Designers have used very traditional patterns, rich and folksy colours to recreate the magic of Warli paintings in her dresses.\n\nTheir extremely rudimentary wall paintings use a very basic graphic vocabulary: a circle, a triangle and a square.Their paintings were monosyllabic. The circle and triangle come from their observation of nature, the circle representing the sun and the moon, the triangle derived from mountains and pointed trees. Only the square seems to obey a different logic and seems to be a human invention, indicating a sacred enclosure or a piece of land. So the central motive in each ritual painting is the square, known as the \"chauk\" or \"chaukat\", mostly of two types: \"Devchauk\" and \"Lagnachauk\". Inside a \"Devchauk\", we find Palaghata, the mother goddess, symbolizing fertility. Significantly, male gods are unusual among the Warli and are frequently related to spirits which have taken human shape. The central motive in these ritual paintings is surrounded by scenes portraying hunting, fishing and farming, festivals and dances, trees and animals. Human and animal bodies are represented by two triangles joined at the tip; the upper triangle depicts the trunk and the lower triangle the pelvis. Their precarious equilibrium symbolizes the balance of the universe, and of the couple, and has the practical and amusing advantage of animating the bodies.\n\nThe pared down pictorial language is matched by a rudimentary technique. The ritual paintings are usually done inside the huts. The walls are made of a mixture of branches, earth and cow dung, making a Red Ochre background for the wall paintings. The Warli use only white for their paintings. Their white pigment is a mixture of rice paste and water with gum as a binding. They use a bamboo stick chewed at the end to make it as supple as a paintbrush. The wall paintings are done only for special occasions such as weddings or harvests. The lack of regular artistic activity explains the very crude style of their paintings, which were the preserve of the womenfolk until the late 1970s. But in the 1970s this ritual art took a radical turn, when Jivya Soma Mashe and his son Balu Mashe started to paint, not for any special ritual, but because of his artistic pursuits. Warli painting also featured in Coca-Cola's 'Come home on Diwali' ad campaign in 2010 was a tribute to the spirit of India’s youth and a recognition of the distinct lifestyle of the Warli tribe of Western India.\n\nWarli Painting is cultural intellectual property of the tribal community. Today, there is an urgent need for preserving this traditional knowledge in tribal communities across the globe. Understanding the need for intellectual property rights, tribal non-profit Organisation \"Adivasi Yuva Seva Sangh\" initiated efforts to start a registration process in 2011. Now, Warli Painting is registered with a Geographical Indication under the intellectual property rights act. With the use of technology and the concept of social entrepreneurship, Tribals established the Warli Art Foundation, a non-profit company dedicated to Warli art and related activities.\n\n\n"}
