{"id": "54159957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54159957", "title": "Administrative history", "text": "Administrative history\n\nAdministrative history is a historiographic field which looks at the history of state administrations and bureaucracies. Originally considered a sub-field of Administrative Sciences that was intended to improve contemporary governance, administrative history has become an increasingly separate field. Administrative historians study the changes in administrative ideologies and administrative law while also looking at civil servants and the relationship between government and society. It is related to political and constitutional history. The discipline is most common in France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Italy.\n\nAcademic journals which specialise in administrative history include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11119595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11119595", "title": "Anne Knight", "text": "Anne Knight\n\nAnne Knight (2 November 1786 – 4 November 1862) was a social reformer, abolitionist and a pioneer of feminism. She was at the 1840 Anti-Slavery convention where the need to improve women's rights became obvious. In 1847 Knight produced what is considered the first leaflet for women's suffrage. She formed the first UK women's suffrage organisation in Sheffield in 1851.\n\nAnne Knight was born in Chelmsford in 1786. She the daughter of William Knight (1756–1814), a Chelmsford grocer, and his wife Priscilla Allen (1753-1829). Her parent's families were both Quakers and several of their members took an active part in the temperance and anti-slavery movements.\n\nIn 1825 she was a member of the Chelmsford Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society when she toured Europe with a group of Quakers. The tour was part sightseeing but also took in good causes. Knight could speak in both French and German.\n\nKnight worked closely with other leading abolitionist Thomas Clarkson, Elizabeth Pease and Joseph Sturge.\n\nWhen women were prevented from participating in the World Anti-Slavery Convention in London in 1840, Knight was outraged, and started to campaign for women's rights. A few women were included in the painting of the convention with Knight; these were Elizabeth Pease, Amelia Opie, Baroness Byron, Mary Anne Rawson, Mrs John Beaumont, Elizabeth Tredgold, Thomas Clarkson's daughter-in-law and niece Mary and right at the back Lucretia Mott.\n\nIn 1847 Knight produced what is considered the first leaflet for women's suffrage. Her efforts to impress the importance of women's suffrage on such reform leaders as Henry Brougham and Richard Cobden proved of little use, as did her efforts with the Chartist leadership.\n\nKnight was described by the American Quaker Lucretia Mott in the 1840s as \"a singular looking woman - very pleasant and polite.\"\n\nShe moved to France in 1846 and participated in the revolution of 1848, and attended the international peace conference in Paris in 1849. With Jeanne Deroin she challenged the banning of women from political clubs and of publication of feminist material. In 1851, she worked with Anne Kent to form the Sheffield Female Political Association, the first British organisation to call for women's suffrage.\n\nAnne Knight never married. She died at Waldersbach, near Strasbourg, France, on 4 November 1862, at the house of the grandson of Jean-Frédéric Oberlin (1740–1820), a philanthropist whose work she revered.\n\nA village, Knightsville in Jamaica, was named after her, or possibly after her younger sister Maria (1791–1870), who visited the West Indies in the mid-1810s with the abolitionist John Candler (1787–1869).\n\nSome of the new student accommodation at the University of Essex, Anne Knight House, is named after her. So also is Anne Knight House, opened in January 2005 by the Colchester Quaker Housing Association a hostel for young people. A Grade II listed building opposite the railway station in Chelmsford, her birthplace, used as a Quaker Meeting House from 1823 until the 1950s, was named Anne Knight Building in her honour. It formed part of the Anglia Ruskin University central campus until this was relocated in 2008. The building was subsequently vacant until 2015 when it enjoyed a brief period of use as a cultural project before being turned into a family-owned chain restaurant.\n"}
{"id": "42498130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42498130", "title": "Climate Summit", "text": "Climate Summit\n\nThe Climate Summit 2014 (sometimes also referred to as the Leader's Climate Summit) was a meeting on climate change in New York on September 23, 2014. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced it in September 2013 and invited leaders of governments, the private sector, and civil society to unite in taking concrete action towards a low-carbon world.\n\nThe Summit's focus was on initiatives and actions rather than on negotiations between countries. It was seen as a milestone on the path towards closing the \"emissions gap\" between reduction pledges and the necessary emission cuts for the 2 °C scenario (with \"pursue efforts to\" limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C), and to a new legal agreement on climate change, to be approved by the COP21 in Paris in December 2015. One product of the Summit was the New York Declaration on Forests.\n\nAfter the COP19 in Warsaw, the Climate Summit was the next high-level gathering on climate change. Since the Kyoto Protocol's second commitment period expires in 2020, the UNFCCC process attempts to establish a new worldwide contract about climate protection and emission reduction objectives, that is to be drafted in 2014 at the COP20 in Lima and adopted in 2015 at the COP21 in Paris. The Climate Summit in September 2014 is not part of this negotiating process, but is expected to serve as a kick-off for a year of intense activity in climate policy and an indicator on the countries' ambitions to reduce emissions and support climate protection. Having this in mind, UN Secretary-General Ban invited leaders of governments, the private sector and civil society from all over the world to unite in action:\n\nIn December 2013, Secretary-General Ban appointed the former President of Ghana, John Kufuor, and Jens Stoltenberg, former Prime Minister of Norway, as special envoys on climate change, to assist Ban in connection with the Climate Summit and provide strategic advice.\n\nIn preparation of the Climate Summit, on May 4 and 5 the \"Abu Dhabi Ascent\" was held in Abu Dhabi, UAE, as a meeting in order to cross-link initiatives between governments, the private sector and civil society and to \"generate momentum\" for the Climate Summit.\n\nIn July 2014, Ban Ki-moon appointed former President of Ireland, and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, a special envoy for climate change to interact with global leaders ahead of the Climate Summit, to forge political commitment towards finalizing an agreement in 2015.\n\nThe Climate Summit took place at UN Headquarters in New York City on September 23, 2014, one day ahead of the annual General Assembly Debate.\n\nA major protest against climate change took place outside the conference and on Sunday two days before the conference in other countries worldwide to encourage the leaders to take strong climate action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23731192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23731192", "title": "Communibiology", "text": "Communibiology\n\nCommunibiology is a term referring to a research paradigm that emphasizes the \"neurobiological foundations of human communication behavior\". Communibiologists take the nature side of the nature versus nurture debate in communication development. The communibiological paradigm was developed by Beatty and McCroskey as an alternative to the nature side supporting social learning paradigm. They believe genetics to be far more important in the development of communication behavior than learning processes and the environment. These researchers do concede, however, that genetic factors are not the sole source of communication behavior. One accepted ratio is 20% influence of cultural, situational, or environmental stimuli and 80% influence of inborn, neurobiological structures on behavior. \n\nA main idea of communibiology is that temperaments are based on genetics and not learned. Communication behavior is an expression of a person's temperament, though the behavior and the temperament do not completely correlate with one another. Identical genetics producing identical temperaments may result in non-identical communication behaviors because one's temperament can be expressed in various ways. The behaviors, though, will be very similar.\n\nHans Eysenck found that the two main aspects of personality are temperament and intelligence. He identified three personality types:\nEysenck argues that these three personalities are inherited lending it useful to the communibiological paradigm. Other research has also found that the genetic component of these three personalities is between 50% and 80%.\n\nJ.A. Gray proposed a behavioral inhibition system (BIS) and a behavioral activation system (BAS). The threshold for activation of the BIS or BAS is inherited.\n\nHorvath compared identical and fraternal twins in order to determine if communicator styles were inherited. This was the first study of heredity and communication and it found that communicator style variables are partially inherited, leading the way for the future studies regarding inheritance and communication behavior.\n\n\nThere exist many opponents to the communibiological paradigm. First are the \"nurture\" and social learning paradigm supporters that believe learning has more to do with communication behavior than genetics. Then there are others who believe the whole argument is pointless. Condit calls for a multi-causal model that would incorporate both nature and nurture. Condit also claims that the 80% genetic influence found by Beatty and McCroskey lacks solid evidence and a number in the 40-60% range is more likely, helping to support her view of incorporating both nature and nurture.\n\nCommunication apprehension afflicts millions of people worldwide. Much of the communibiological research done on communication apprehension has found that the causes of the affliction are inherited.\n\nBeatty and McCroskey first developed their communibiological paradigm in order to more effectively diagnose communication apprehension. Using Eysenck's personality theory they identified the primary components of communication apprehension to be introversion and neuroticism. They also used Gray's theory to say that activation of the behavioral inhibition system is related to anxiety. They make note that both the personalities of Eysenck's theory and the activation threshold of the BIS in Gray's theory have been found to be inherited. Differences in communication apprehension correspond to differences in BIS activation threshold, supporting the idea that communication apprehension is genetically determined.\n\nInterpersonal communication motives explain why people with communication apprehension communicate the way they do. People with low communication apprehension communicate for pleasure, affection, control, and relaxation while people with high communication apprehension communicate for inclusion and escape. Paulsel and Mottet (2004) found that interpersonal communication motives such as these are at least a partially influenced by genetically inherited traits.\n\nJung and McCroskey (2004) studied the presence of communication apprehension in those speaking their first language and those speaking their second language. Communication apprehension in the first language predicted communication apprehension in the second language. This combated the social learning perspective which would say that the learning of the second language would influence and change the communication apprehension in the second language. They concluded that communication apprehension is a cross-linguistic trait and that the trait is genetically inherited.\n\nThe fact that the causes of communication apprehension are inherited has major implications in how it can be treated as some believe that if communication apprehension is genetically inherited then it cannot be changed. Others contend, as Beatty and McCroskey did, that since traits are not exclusively genetically inherited, treatment is viable. Treatment in terms of the communibiological paradigm involves learning to control the negative aspects of one's inherited temperament.\n\nComminubiologists argue that people are born with specific temperaments based on their genetics. This does not, however, mean that they do not learn. Culture plays an important role in this learning process. While they are born with a certain temperament a person learns how to respond to specific temperamental demands based on the culture they are surrounded by. As children they learn which temperamental actions are appropriate and which are not. So while the basis of a person's communication behavior is based on genetics, a good portion of their behavior is also affected by the culture they are raised in. In fact, the communication behaviors ethnocentrism and homophobia were found to have no relationship with a person's genetic make-up or temperament. These traits are instead developed through culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "181592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181592", "title": "Competition", "text": "Competition\n\nCompetition is, in general, a contest or rivalry between two or more entities, organisms, animals, individuals, economic groups or social groups, etc., for territory, a niche, for scarce resources, goods, for mates, for prestige, recognition, for awards, for group or social status, or for leadership and profit. It arises whenever at least two parties strive for a goal which cannot be shared, where one's gain is the other's loss (an example of which is a zero-sum game).\n\nCompetition occurs naturally between living organisms which co-exist in the same environment. For example, animals compete over water supplies, food, mates, and other biological resources. Humans usually compete for food and mates, though when these needs are met deep rivalries often arise over the pursuit of wealth, power, prestige, and fame.\n\nCompetition is often considered to be the opposite of cooperation, however in the real world, mixtures of cooperation and competition are the norm. Optimal strategies to achieve goals are studied in the branch of mathematics known as game theory.\n\nCompetition is also a major tenet of market economies and business. It is often associated with business competition as most companies are in competition with at least one other firm over the same group of customers. Also competition inside a company is usually stimulated with the larger purpose of meeting and reaching higher quality of services or improved products that the company may produce or develop.\n\nCompetition can have both beneficial and detrimental effects. Many evolutionary biologists view inter-species and intra-species competition as the driving force of adaptation, and ultimately of evolution. However, some biologists disagree, citing competition as a driving force only on a small scale, and citing the larger scale drivers of evolution to be abiotic factors (termed 'Room to Roam'). Richard Dawkins prefers to think of evolution in terms of competition between single genes, which have the welfare of the organism 'in mind' only insofar as that welfare furthers their own selfish drives for replication (termed the 'selfish gene').\n\nSome social Darwinists claim that competition also serves as a mechanism for determining the best-suited group; politically, economically and ecologically. Positively, competition may serve as a form of recreation or a challenge provided that it is non-hostile. On the negative side, competition can cause injury and loss to the organisms involved, and drain valuable resources and energy. In the human species competition can be expensive on many levels, not only in lives lost to war, physical injuries, and damaged psychological well beings, but also in the health effects from everyday civilian life caused by work stress, long work hours, abusive working relationships, and poor working conditions, that detract from the enjoyment of life, even as such competition results in financial gain for the owners.\n\nCompetition within, between, and among species is one of the most important forces in biology, especially in the field of ecology.\n\nCompetition between members of a species (\"intraspecific\") for resources such as food, water, territory, and sunlight may result in an increase in the frequency of a variant of the species best suited for survival and reproduction until its fixation within a population. However, competition among resources also has a strong tendency for diversification between members of the same species, resulting in coexistence of competitive and non-competitive strategies or cycles between low and high competitiveness. Third parties within a species often favour highly competitive strategies leading to species extinction when environmental conditions are harsh (evolutionary suicide).\n\nCompetition is also present between species (\"interspecific\"). When resources are limited, several species may depend on these resources. Thus, each of the species competes with the others to gain access to the resources. As a result, species less suited to compete for the resources may die out unless they adapt by character dislocation, for instance. According to evolutionary theory, this competition within and between species for resources plays a significant role in natural selection. At shorter time scales, competition is also one of the most important factors controlling diversity in ecological communities, but at larger scales expansion and contraction of ecological space is a much more larger factor than competition. This is illustrated by living plant communities where asymmetric competition and competitive dominance frequently occur. Multiple examples of symmetric and asymmetric competition also exist for animals.\n\nGame theory is \"the study of mathematical models of conflict and cooperation between intelligent rational decision-makers.\" Game theory is mainly used in economics, political science, and psychology, as well as logic, computer science, biology and poker. Originally, it mainly addressed zero-sum games, in which one person's gains result in losses for the other participants.\n\nGame theory is a major method used in mathematical economics and business for modeling competing behaviors of interacting agents. Applications include a wide array of economic phenomena and approaches, such as auctions, bargaining, mergers & acquisitions pricing, fair division, duopolies, oligopolies, social network formation, agent-based computational economics, general equilibrium, mechanism design, and voting systems; and across such broad areas as experimental economics, behavioral economics, information economics, industrial organization, and political economy.\n\nThis research usually focuses on particular sets of strategies known as \"solution concepts\" or \"equilibria\". A common assumption is that players act rationally. In non-cooperative games, the most famous of these is the Nash equilibrium. A set of strategies is a Nash equilibrium if each represents a best response to the other strategies. If all the players are playing the strategies in a Nash equilibrium, they have no unilateral incentive to deviate, since their strategy is the best they can do given what others are doing.\n\nMerriam-Webster defines competition in business as \"the effort of two or more parties acting independently to secure the business of a third party by offering the most favorable terms\". It was described by Adam Smith in \"The Wealth of Nations\" and later economists as allocating productive resources to their most highly valued uses and encouraging efficiency. Later microeconomic theory distinguished between perfect competition and imperfect competition, concluding that no system of resource allocation is more efficient than perfect competition. Competition, according to the theory, causes commercial firms to develop new products, services and technologies, which would give consumers greater selection and better products. The greater selection typically causes lower prices for the products, compared to what the price would be if there was no competition (monopoly) or little competition (oligopoly).\n\nHowever, competition may also lead to wasted (duplicated) effort and to increased costs (and prices) in some circumstances. For example, the intense competition for the small number of top jobs in music and movie acting leads many aspiring musicians and actors to make substantial investments in training which are not recouped, because only a fraction become successful. Critics have also argued that competition can be destabilizing, particularly competition between certain financial institutions.\n\nExperts have also questioned the constructiveness of competition in profitability. It has been argued that competition-oriented objectives are counterproductive to raising revenues and profitability because they limit the options of strategies for firms as well as their ability to offer innovative responses to changes in the market. In addition, the strong desire to defeat rival firms with competitive prices has the strong possibility of causing price wars.\n\nThree levels of economic competition have been classified:\n\n\nIn addition, companies also compete for financing on the capital markets (equity or debt) in order to generate the necessary cash for their operations. An investor typically will consider alternative investment opportunities given his risk profile and not only look at companies just competing on product (direct competitors). Enlarging the investment universe to include indirect competitors leads to a broader peer universe of comparable, indirectly competing companies.\n\nCompetition does not necessarily have to be between companies. For example, business writers sometimes refer to internal competition. This is competition within companies. The idea was first introduced by Alfred Sloan at General Motors in the 1920s. Sloan deliberately created areas of overlap between divisions of the company so that each division would be competing with the other divisions. For example, the Chevrolet division would compete with the Pontiac division for some market segments. The competing brands by the same company allowed parts to be designed by one division and shared by several divisions, for example parts designed by Chevrolet would also be used by Pontiac. Also, in 1931, Procter & Gamble initiated a deliberate system of internal brand-versus-brand rivalry. The company was organized around different brands, with each brand allocated resources, including a dedicated group of employees willing to champion the brand. Each brand manager was given responsibility for the success or failure of the brand, and compensated accordingly.\n\nFinally, most businesses also encourage competition between individual employees. An example of this is a contest between sales representatives. The sales representative with the highest sales (or the best improvement in sales) over a period of time would gain benefits from the employer. This is also known as intra-brand competition.\n\nShalev and Asbjornsen also found that success (i.e. the saving resulted) of reverse auctions correlated most closely with competition. The literature widely supported the importance of competition as the primary driver of reverse auctions success. Their findings appear to support that argument, as competition correlated strongly with the reverse auction success, as well as with the number of bidders.\n\nIt should also be noted that business and economic competition in most countries is often limited or restricted. Competition often is subject to legal restrictions. For example, competition may be legally prohibited, as in the case with a government monopoly or a government-granted monopoly. Tariffs, subsidies or other protectionist measures may also be instituted by government in order to prevent or reduce competition. Depending on the respective economic policy, pure competition is to a greater or lesser extent regulated by competition policy and competition law. Another component of these activities is the discovery process, with instances of higher government regulations typically leading to less competitive businesses being launched.\n\nCompetition between countries is quite subtle to detect, but is quite evident in the world economy. Countries compete to provide the best possible business environment for multinational corporations. Such competition is evident by the policies undertaken by these countries to educate the future workforce. For example, East Asian economies such as Singapore, Japan and South Korea tend to emphasize education by allocating a large portion of the budget to this sector, and by implementing programmes such as gifted education.\n\nCompetition law, known in the United States as antitrust law, has three main functions. First, it prohibits agreements aimed to restrict free trading between business entities and their customers. For example, a cartel of sports shops who together fix football jersey prices higher than normal is illegal. Second, competition law can ban the existence or abusive behaviour of a firm dominating the market. One case in point could be a software company who through its monopoly on computer platforms makes consumers use its media player. Third, to preserve competitive markets, the law supervises the mergers and acquisitions of very large corporations. Competition authorities could for instance require that a large packaging company give plastic bottle licenses to competitors before taking over a major PET producer. In this case (as in all three), competition law aims to protect the welfare of consumers by ensuring business must compete for its share of the market economy.\n\nIn recent decades, competition law has also been sold as good medicine to provide better public services, traditionally funded by tax payers and administered by democratically accountable governments. Hence competition law is closely connected with the law on deregulation of access to markets, providing state aids and subsidies, the privatisation of state-owned assets and the use of independent sector regulators, such as the United Kingdom telecommunications watchdog Ofcom. Behind the practice lies the theory, which over the last fifty years has been dominated by neo-classical economics. Markets are seen as the most efficient method of allocating resources, although sometimes they fail, and regulation becomes necessary to protect the ideal market model. Behind the theory lies the history, reaching back further than the Roman Empire. The business practices of market traders, guilds and governments have always been subject to scrutiny and sometimes severe sanctions. Since the twentieth century, competition law has become global. The two largest, most organised and influential systems of competition regulation are United States antitrust law and European Community competition law. The respective national authorities, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in the United States and the European Commission's Competition Directorate General (DGCOMP) have formed international support and enforcement networks. Competition law is growing in importance every day, which warrants for its careful study.\n\nCompetition is also found in trade. For nations, as well as firms it is important to understand trade dynamics in order to market their goods and services effectively in international markets. Balance of trade can be considered a crude, but widely used proxy for international competitiveness across levels: country, industry or even firm. Research data hints that exporting firms have a higher survival rate and achieve greater employment growth compared with non-exporters.\n\nUsing a simple concept to measure heights that firms can climb may help improve execution of strategies. International competitiveness can be measured on several criteria but few are as flexible and versatile to be applied across levels as Trade Competitiveness Index (TCI) \n\nCompetition is also found in politics. In democracies, an election is a competition for an elected office. In other words, two or more candidates strive and compete against one another to attain a position of power. The winner gains the seat of the elected office for a predefined period of time, towards the end of which another election is usually held to determine the next holder of the office.\n\nIn addition, there is inevitable competition inside a government. Because several offices are appointed, potential candidates compete against the others in order to gain the particular office. Departments may also compete for a limited amount of resources, such as for funding. Finally, where there are party systems, elected leaders of different parties will ultimately compete against the other parties for laws, funding and power.\n\nFinally, competition also exists between governments. Each country or nationality struggles for world dominance, power, or military strength. For example, the United States competed against the Soviet Union in the Cold War for world power, and the two also struggled over the different types of government (in these cases representative democracy and communism). The result of this type of competition often leads to worldwide tensions, and may sometimes erupt into warfare.\n\nWhile some sports and games (such as fishing or hiking) have been viewed as primarily recreational, most sports are considered competitive. The majority involve competition between two or more persons (sometimes using horses or cars). For example, in a game of basketball, two teams compete against one another to determine who can score the most points. When there is no set reward for the winning team, many players gain a sense of pride. In addition, extrinsic rewards may also be given. Athletes, besides competing against other humans, also compete against nature in sports such as whitewater kayaking or mountaineering, where the goal is to reach a destination, with only natural barriers impeding the process. A regularly scheduled (for instance annual) competition meant to determine the \"best\" competitor of that cycle is called a championship.\n\nCompetitive sports are governed by codified rules agreed upon by the participants. Violating these rules is considered to be unfair competition. Thus, sports provide artificial (not natural) competition; for example, competing for control of a ball, or defending territory on a playing field is not an innate biological factor in humans. Athletes in sports such as gymnastics and competitive diving compete against each other in order to come closest to a conceptual ideal of a perfect performance, which incorporates measurable criteria and standards which are translated into numerical ratings and scores by appointed judges.\n\nSports competition is generally broken down into three categories: individual sports, such as archery; dual sports, such as doubles tennis, and team sports competition, such as cricket or football. While most sports competitions are recreation, there exist several major and minor professional sports leagues throughout the world. The Olympic Games, held every four years, is usually regarded as the international pinnacle of sports competition.\n\nCompetition is a major factor in education. On a global scale, national education systems, intending to bring out the best in the next generation, encourage competitiveness among students through scholarships. Countries such as England and Singapore have special education programmes which cater for specialist students, prompting charges of academic elitism. Upon receipt of their academic results, students tend to compare their grades to see who is better. In severe cases, the pressure to perform in some countries is so high that it can result in stigmatization of intellectually deficient students, or even suicide as a consequence of failing the exams; Japan being a prime example (see Education in Japan). This has resulted in critical re-evaluation of examinations as a whole by educationalists . Critics of competition as a motivating factor in education systems, such as Alfie Kohn, assert that competition actually has a net negative influence on the achievement levels of students, and that it \"turns all of us into losers\" (Kohn 1986). Economist Richard Layard has commented on the harmful effects, stating \"people feel that they are under a great deal of pressure. They feel that their main objective in life is to do better than other people. That is certainly what young people are being taught in school every day. And it's not a good basis for a society.\"\n\nHowever, other studies such as the Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking show that the effect of competition on students depends on each individual's level of agency. Students with a high level of agency thrive on competition, are self-motivated, and are willing to risk failure. Compared to their counterparts who are low in agency, these students are more likely to be flexible, adaptable and creative as adults.\n\nLiterary competitions, such as contests sponsored by literary journals, publishing houses and theaters, have increasingly become a means for aspiring writers to gain recognition. Awards for fiction include those sponsored by the \"Missouri Review\", \"Boston Review\", \"Indiana Review\", \"North American Review\" and \"Southwest Review\". The Albee Award, sponsored by the Yale Drama Series, is among the most prestigious playwriting awards.\n\nIn Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, competitions or lottos are the equivalent of what are commonly known as sweepstakes in the United States. The correct technical name for Australian consumer competitions is a trade promotion lottery or lottos.\n\nCompetition or trade promotion lottery entrants enter to win a prize or prizes, hence many entrants are all in competition, or competing for a limited number of prizes.\n\nA trade promotion lottery or competition is a free entry lottery run to promote goods or services supplied by a business. An example is where you purchase goods or services and then given the chance to enter into the lottery and possibly win a prize. A trade promotion lottery can be called a lotto, competition, contest, sweepstake, or giveaway.\n\nSuch competitions can be games of luck (randomly drawn) or skill (judged on an entry question or submission), or possibly a combination of both.\n\nPeople that enjoy entering competitions are known as compers. Many compers attend annual national conventions. In 2012 over 100 members of the online competitions community of lottos.com.au from around Australia met on the Gold Coast, Queensland to discuss competitions.\n\nCompetition has been studied in several fields, including psychology, sociology and anthropology. Social psychologists, for instance, study the nature of competition. They investigate the natural urge of competition and its circumstances. They also study group dynamics, to detect how competition emerges and what its effects are. Sociologists, meanwhile, study the effects of competition on society as a whole. In addition, anthropologists study the history and prehistory of competition in various cultures. They also investigate how competition manifested itself in various cultural settings in the past, and how competition has developed over time.\n\nMany philosophers and psychologists have identified a trait in most living organisms which can drive the particular organism to compete. This trait, called competitiveness, is viewed as an innate biological trait which coexists along with the urge for survival. Competitiveness, or the inclination to compete, though, has become synonymous with aggressiveness and ambition in the English language. More advanced civilizations integrate aggressiveness and competitiveness into their interactions, as a way to distribute resources and adapt. Many plants compete with neighboring ones for sunlight.\n\nHowever, Stephen Jay Gould and others have argued that as one ascends the evolutionary hierarchy, competitiveness (the survival instinct) becomes less innate, and more a learned behavior. The same could be said for co-operation: in humans, at least, both co-operation and competition are considered learned behaviors, because the human species learns to adapt to environmental pressures. Consequently, if survival requires competitive behaviors, the individual will compete, and if survival requires co-operative behaviors, the individual will co-operate. In the case of humans, therefore, aggressiveness may be an innate characteristic, but a person need not be competitive at the same time, for instance when scaling a cliff. On the other hand, humans seem also to have a nurturing instinct, to protect newborns and the weak. While that does not necessitate co-operative behavior, it does help.\n\nThe term also applies to econometrics. Here, it is a comparative measure of the ability and performance of a firm or sub-sector to sell and produce/supply goods and/or services in a given market. The two academic bodies of thought on the assessment of competitiveness are the Structure Conduct Performance Paradigm and the more contemporary New Empirical Industrial Organisation model. Predicting changes in the competitiveness of business sectors is becoming an integral and explicit step in public policymaking. Within capitalist economic systems, the drive of enterprises is to maintain and improve their own competitiveness.\n\nThe tendency toward extreme, unhealthy competition has been termed hypercompetitiveness. This concept originated in Karen Horney's theories on neurosis; specifically, the highly aggressive personality type which is characterized as \"moving against people\". In her view, some people have a need to compete and win at all costs as a means of maintaining their self-worth. These individuals are likely to turn any activity into a competition, and they will feel threatened if they find themselves losing. Researchers have found that men and women who score high on the trait of hypercompetitiveness are more narcissistic and less psychologically healthy than those who score low on the trait. Hypercompetitive individuals generally believe that \"winning isn't everything; it's the only thing\".\n\nMargaret Heffernan's study, \"A Bigger Prize\",\nexamines the perils and disadvantages of competition in (for example) biology, families, sport, education, commerce and the Soviet Union.\n\nKarl Marx insisted that \"the capitalist system fosters competition and egoism in all its members and thoroughly undermines all genuine forms of community\".\nIt promotes a \"climate of competitive egoism and individualism\", with competition for jobs and competition between employees; Marx said competition between workers exceeds that demonstrated by company owners. He also points out that competition separates individuals from one another and while concentration of workers and development of better communication alleviate this, they are not a decision.\n\nSigmund Freud explained competition as a primal dilemma in which all infants find themselves. The infant competes with other family members for the attention and affection of the parent of the opposite sex or the primary caregiving parent. During this time, a boy develops a deep fear that the father (the son's prime rival) will punish him for these feelings of desire for the mother, by castrating him. Girls develop penis envy towards all males. The girl’s envy is rooted in the biologic fact that, without a penis, she cannot sexually possess mother, as the infantile id demands, resultantly, the girl redirects her desire for sexual union upon father in competitive rivalry with her mother. This constellation of feelings is known as Oedipus Complex ( after the Greek Mythology figure who accidentally killed his father and married his mother). This is associated with the phallic stage of childhood development where intense primal emotions of competitive rivalry with (usually) the parent of the same sex are rampant and create a crisis that must be negotiated successfully for healthy psychological development to proceed. Unresolved Oedipus complex competitiveness issues can lead to lifelong neuroses manifesting in various ways related to an overdetermined relationship to competition.\n\nGandhi speaks of egoistic competition. For him, such qualities glorified and/or left unbridled, can lead to violence, conflict, discord and destructiveness. For Gandhi, competition comes from the ego, and therefore society must be based on mutual love, cooperation and sacrifice for the well-being of humanity. In the society desired by Gandhi, each individual will cooperate and serve for the welfare of others and people will share each other's joys, sorrows and achievements as a norm of a social life. For him, in a non-violent society, competition does not have a place and this should become realized with more people making the personal choice to have fewer tendencies toward egoism and selfishness.\n\n"}
{"id": "25862206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25862206", "title": "Crisis camp", "text": "Crisis camp\n\nA crisis camp is a BarCamp gathering of IT professionals, software developers, and computer programmers to aid in the relief efforts of a major crisis such as those caused by earthquakes, floods, or hurricanes. Projects that crisis camps often work on include setting up social networks for people to locate missing friends and relatives, creating maps of affected areas, and creating inventories of needed items such as food and clothing.\n\nFollowing the 2010 Haiti earthquake, many crisis camps were set up around the world, often under the name \"Crisis Camp Haiti\", to help with the relief effort. \nDue to the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the Crisis Commons volunteer community was mobilized and part of the effort is being coordinated by Japanese students at U.S. universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "37961224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37961224", "title": "Cultural studies", "text": "Cultural studies\n\nCultural studies is a field of theoretically, politically, and empirically engaged cultural analysis that concentrates upon the political dynamics of contemporary culture, its historical foundations, defining traits, conflicts, and contingencies. Cultural studies researchers generally investigate how cultural practices relate to wider systems of power associated with or operating through social phenomena, such as ideology, class structures, national formations, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, and generation. Cultural studies views cultures not as fixed, bounded, stable, and discrete entities, but rather as constantly interacting and changing sets of practices and processes. The field of cultural studies encompasses a range of theoretical and methodological perspectives and practices. Although distinct from the discipline of cultural anthropology and the interdisciplinary field of ethnic studies, cultural studies draws upon and has contributed to each of these fields.\n\nCultural studies was initially developed by British academics in the late 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, and has been subsequently taken up and transformed by scholars from many different disciplines around the world. Cultural studies is avowedly and even radically interdisciplinary and can sometimes be seen as antidisciplinary. A key concern for cultural studies practitioners is the examination of the forces within and through which socially organized people conduct and participate in the construction of their everyday lives. As a result, Cultural Studies as a field of research is not concerned with the linguistically uncategorized experiences of individuals, or, in a more radical approach, holds that individual experiences do not exist, being always the result of a particular social-political context.\n\nCultural studies combines a variety of politically engaged critical approaches drawn including semiotics, Marxism, feminist theory, ethnography, critical race theory, post-structuralism, postcolonialism, social theory, political theory, history, philosophy, literary theory, media theory, film/video studies, communication studies, political economy, translation studies, museum studies and art history/criticism to study cultural phenomena in various societies and historical periods. Cultural studies seeks to understand how meaning is generated, disseminated, contested, bound up with systems of power and control, and produced from the social, political and economic spheres within a particular social formation or conjuncture. Important theories of cultural hegemony and agency have both influenced and been developed by the cultural studies movement, as have many recent major communication theories and agendas, such as those that attempt to explain and analyze the cultural forces related to processes of globalization.\n\nDuring the rise of neo-liberalism in Britain and the US, cultural studies both became a global movement, and attracted the attention of many conservative opponents both within and beyond universities for a variety of reasons. Some left-wing critics associated particularly with Marxist forms of political economy also attacked cultural studies for allegedly overstating the importance of cultural phenomena. While cultural studies continues to have its detractors, the field has become a kind of a worldwide movement that is to this day associated with a raft of scholarly associations and programs, annual international conferences, publications and students and practitioners from Taiwan to Amsterdam and from Bangalore to Santa Cruz. Somewhat distinct approaches to cultural studies have emerged in different national and regional contexts such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, Asia, Africa and Italy.\n\nIn his 1994 book, \"Introducing Cultural Studies\", Ziauddin Sardar lists the following five main characteristics of cultural studies:\n\n\nAs Dennis Dworkin writes, \"a critical moment\" in the beginning of cultural studies as a field was when Richard Hoggart used the term in 1964 in founding the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies (CCCS) at the University of Birmingham in the UK, which was to become home for the development of the intellectual orientation that has become known internationally as the \"Birmingham School\" of cultural studies. CCCS at the university thus became the world's first institutional home of cultural studies.\n\nHoggart appointed Stuart Hall as his assistant, and Hall was effectively directing CCCS by 1968. Hall formally assumed the directorship of CCCS in 1971, when Hoggart left Birmingham to become Assistant Director-General of UNESCO. Thereafter, the field of cultural studies became closely associated with Hall's work. In 1979, Hall left Birmingham to accept a prestigious chair in Sociology at the Open University in the UK, and Richard Johnson took over the directorship of the Centre.\n\nIn the late 1990s, \"restructuring\" at the University of Birmingham led to the elimination of CCCS and the creation of a new Department of Cultural Studies and Sociology (CSS) in 1999. Then, in 2002, the University of Birmingham's senior administration abruptly announced the disestablishment of CSS, provoking a substantial international outcry. The immediate reason for disestablishment of the new department was an unexpectedly low result in the UK's Research Assessment Exercise of 2001, though a dean from the university attributed the decision to \"inexperienced ‘macho management.’\" The RAE, a holdover initiative of the Margaret Thatcher-led UK government of 1986, determines research funding for university programs.\n\nThere are numerous published accounts of the history of cultural studies.\n\nBeginning in 1964, after the initial appearance of the founding works of British Cultural Studies in the late 1950s, Stuart Hall's pioneering work at CCCS, along with that of his colleagues and postgraduate students including Paul Willis, Dick Hebdige, David Morley, Charlotte Brunsdon, John Clarke, Richard Dyer, Judith Williamson, Richard Johnson, Iain Chambers, Dorothy Hobson, Chris Weedon, Tony Jefferson, Michael Green and Angela McRobbie, gave shape and substance to the field of cultural studies. Many cultural studies scholars employed Marxist methods of analysis, exploring the relationships between cultural forms (the superstructure) and that of the political economy (the base). By the 1970s, the work of Louis Althusser radically rethought the Marxist account of \"base\" and \"superstructure\" in ways that had a significant influence on the \"Birmingham School.\" Much of the work done at CCCS studied youth subcultural expressions of antagonism toward \"respectable\" middle-class British culture in the post-WWII period. Also during the 70s, the politically formidable British working classes were in decline. Britain's manufacturing industries were fading and union rolls were shrinking. Yet millions of working class Britons backed the rise of Margaret Thatcher. For Stuart Hall and his colleagues, this shift in loyalty from the Labour Party to the Conservative Party had to be explained in terms of cultural politics, which they had been tracking even before Thatcher's victory. Some of this work was presented in the cultural studies classic, \"Policing the Crisis\", and in other later texts such as Hall's \"The Hard Road to Renewal: Thatcherism and the Crisis of the Left\" and \"New Times: The Changing Face of Politics in the 1990s\".\n\nTo trace the development of British Cultural Studies, see, for example, the work of Richard Hoggart, E. P. Thompson, Raymond Williams, Stuart Hall, Paul Willis, Angela McRobbie, Paul Gilroy, David Morley, Charlotte Brunsdon, Richard Dyer, and others.\n\nBy the late 1970s, scholars associated with The Birmingham School had firmly placed questions of gender and race on the cultural studies agenda, where they have remained ever since. Also by the late 1970s, cultural studies had begun to attract a great deal of international attention. It spread globally throughout the 1980s and 90s. As it did so, it both encountered new conditions of knowledge production, and engaged with other major international intellectual currents such as poststructuralism, postmodernism and postcolonialism. The wide range of cultural studies journals now located throughout the world, as shown below, is one indication of the globalization of the field.\n\nIn the US, prior to the emergence of British Cultural Studies, several versions of cultural analysis had emerged largely from pragmatic and liberal-pluralist philosophical traditions. However, when British Cultural Studies began to spread internationally in the late 1970s, and to engage with feminism, poststructuralism, postmodernism and race in the late 70s and 1980s, critical cultural studies (i.e., Marxist, feminist, poststructuralist, etc.) expanded tremendously in US universities in fields such as communication studies, education, sociology and literature. \"Cultural Studies\", the flagship journal of the field, has been based in the US since its founding editor, John Fiske, brought it there from Australia in 1987.\n\nA thriving cultural studies scene has existed in Australia since the late 1970s, when several key CS practitioners emigrated there from the UK, taking British Cultural Studies with them, after Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister of the UK in 1979. A school of cultural studies known as \"cultural policy studies\" is one of the distinctive Australian contributions to the field, though it is not the only one. Australia also gave birth to the world's first professional cultural studies association (now known as the Cultural Studies Association of Australasia) in 1990. Cultural studies journals based in Australia include \"International Journal of Cultural Studies\", \"\" and \"Cultural Studies Review\".\n\nIn Canada, cultural studies has sometimes focused on issues of technology and society, continuing the emphasis in the work of Marshall McLuhan, Harold Innis, and others. Cultural studies journals based in Canada include \"Topia: Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies\".\n\nIn Africa, human rights and Third World issues are among the central topics treated. Cultural Studies journals based in Africa include the \"Journal of African Cultural Studies\".\n\nIn Latin America, cultural studies has drawn on thinkers such as José Martí, Ángel Rama and other Latin American figures, in addition to the Western theoretical sources associated with cultural studies in other parts of the world. Leading Latin American cultural studies scholars include Néstor García Canclini, Jésus Martín-Barbero, and Beatriz Sarlo. Among the key issues addressed by Latin American cultural studies scholars are decoloniality, urban cultures, and postdevelopment theory. Latin American cultural studies journals include the \"Journal of Latin American Cultural Studies\".\n\nEven though cultural studies developed much more rapidly in the UK than in continental Europe, there is a significant cultural studies presence in countries such as France, Spain and Portugal. The field is relatively undeveloped in Germany, probably due to the continued influence of the Frankfurt School, which is now often said to be in its third generation, which includes notable figures such as Axel Honneth. Cultural studies journals based in continental Europe include the \"European Journal of Cultural Studies\", the \"Journal of Spanish Cultural Studies\", \"French Cultural Studies\", and \"Portuguese Cultural Studies\".\n\nIn Germany, the term \"cultural studies\" specifically refers to the field in the Anglo-sphere especially British Cultural Studies to differentiate it from the German which developed along different lines and is characterized by its distance from political science. However, Kulturwissenschaft and cultural studies are often used interchangeably, particularly by lay persons.\n\nThroughout Asia, cultural studies has boomed and thrived since at least the beginning of the 1990s. Cultural studies journals based in Asia include \"Inter-Asia Cultural Studies\". In India the Centre for Study of Culture and Society, Bangalore and the Department of Cultural Studies at The English and Foreign Languages University Hyderabad at two major institutional spaces for Cultural Studies.\n\nAs noted above, Marxism has been an important influence upon cultural studies. Those associated with CCCS initially engaged deeply with the structuralism of Louis Althusser, and later in the 1970s turned decisively toward Antonio Gramsci. Cultural studies has also embraced the examination of race, gender, and other aspects of identity, as is illustrated, for example, by a number of key books published collectively under the name of CCCS in the late 1970s and early 80s, including \"Women Take Issue: Aspects of Women's Subordination\" (1978), and \"The Empire Strikes Back: Race and Racism in 70s Britain\" (1982).\n\nTo understand the changing political circumstances of class, politics and culture in the United Kingdom, scholars at The Birmingham School turned to the work of Antonio Gramsci, an Italian thinker, writer and communist party leader of the 1910s, 20s and '30s. Gramsci had been concerned with similar issues: why would Italian laborers and peasants vote for fascists? What strategic approach is necessary to mobilize popular support in more progressive directions? Gramsci modified classical Marxism, and argued that culture must be understood as a key site of political and social struggle. In his view, capitalists used not only brute force (police, prisons, repression, military) to maintain control, but also penetrated the everyday culture of working people in a variety of ways in their efforts to win popular \"consent.\" It is important to recognize that for Gramsci, historical leadership, or \"hegemony,\" involves the formation of alliances between class factions, and struggles within the cultural realm of everyday common sense. Hegemony was always, for Gramsci, an interminable, unstable and contested process.\n\nScott Lash writes:\nEdgar and Sedgwick write:\n\nThe theory of hegemony was of central importance to the development of British cultural studies [particularly The Birmingham School. It facilitated analysis of the ways subordinate groups actively resist and respond to political and economic domination. The subordinate groups needed not to be seen merely as the passive dupes of the dominant class and its ideology.\n\nThe development of hegemony theory in cultural studies was in some ways consonant with work in other fields exploring agency, a theoretical concept that insists on the active, critical capacities of subordinated peoples (e.g. the working classes, colonized peoples, women). As Stuart Hall famously argued in his 1981 essay, \"Notes on Deconstructing 'the Popular',\" \"ordinary people are not cultural dopes.\" Insistence on accounting for the agency of subordinated peoples runs counter to the work of traditional structuralists. Some analysts have however been critical of some work in cultural studies that they feel overstates the significance of or even romanticizes some forms of popular cultural agency.\n\nCultural studies often concerns itself with agency at the level of the practices of everyday life, and approaches such research from a standpoint of radical contextualism. In other words, cultural studies rejects universal accounts of cultural practices, meanings, and identities.\n\nJudith Butler, an American feminist theorist whose work is often associated with cultural studies, wrote that\n\nthe move from a structuralist account in which capital is understood to structure social relations in relatively homologous ways to a view of hegemony in which power relations are subject to repetition, convergence and rearticulation brought the question of temporality into the thinking of structure. It has marked a shift from a form of Althusserian theory that takes structural totalities as theoretical objects to one in which the insights into the contingent possibility of structure inaugurate a renewed conception of hegemony as bound up with the contingent sites and strategies of the rearticulation of power.\n\nIn recent decades, as capitalist culture has spread throughout the world via contemporary forms of globalization, cultural studies has generated important analyses of local sites and practices of negotiation with and resistance to Western hegemony.\n\nCultural Studies criticizes the traditional view of the passive consumer, particularly by underlining the different ways people \"read,\" receive and interpret cultural texts, or appropriate other kinds of cultural products, or otherwise participate in the production and circulation of meanings. On this view, a consumer can appropriate, actively rework or challenge the meanings circulated through cultural texts. In some of its variants, then, cultural studies has thus shifted the analytical focus from (traditional understandings of) production to consumption, which is nevertheless understood as a form of production (of meanings, of identities, etc.) in its own right. Stuart Hall, John Fiske, and others have been influential in these developments.\n\nA special 2008 issue of the field's flagship journal, \"Cultural Studies\", examined \"Anti-Consumerism\" from a variety of cultural studies angles. As Jeremy Gilbert noted in his contribution to this issue, cultural studies must grapple with the fact that “we now live in an era when, throughout the capitalist world, the overriding aim of government economic policy is to maintain consumer spending levels. This is an era when ‘consumer confidence’ is treated as the key indicator and cause of economic effectiveness.\"\n\nCultural studies, drawing upon and developing semiotics, uses the concept of \"text\" to designate not only written language, but also television programs, films, photographs, fashion, hairstyles, and so forth; the texts of cultural studies comprise all the meaningful artifacts of culture. This conception of textuality derives especially from the work of the pioneering and influential semiotician, Roland Barthes, but also owes debts to other sources, such as Juri Lotman and his colleagues from Tartu–Moscow School. Similarly, the field widens the concept of \"culture.\" \"Culture,\" for a cultural studies researcher, includes not only traditional high culture (the culture of ruling social groups), but also everyday meanings and practices, which have, as noted above, become a central focus of cultural studies. Cultural studies even approaches sites and spaces of everyday life, such as pubs, living rooms, gardens and beaches, as \"texts.\"\n\nJeff Lewis summarized much of the work on textuality and textual analysis in his cultural studies textbook and a post-9/11 monograph on media and terrorism. According to Lewis, 'textual studies' use complex and difficult heuristic methods and require both powerful interpretive skills and a subtle conception of politics and contexts. The task of the cultural analyst, for Lewis, is to engage with both knowledge systems and texts, and observe and analyse the ways the two interact with one another. This engagement represents the critical dimensions of the analysis, its capacity to illuminate the hierarchies within and surrounding the given text and its discourses.\n\nCultural studies has evolved through the confluence of various disciplines—anthropology, media and communication studies, literary studies, education, geography, philosophy, sociology, politics and others. While some have accused certain areas of cultural studies of meandering into political relativism and a kind of empty version of \"postmodern\" analysis, others hold that at its core, cultural studies provides a significant conceptual and methodological framework for cultural, social and economic critique. This critique is designed to \"deconstruct\" the meanings and assumptions that are inscribed in the institutions, texts and practices that work with and through, and produce and re-present, culture. Thus, while some scholars and disciplines like to dismiss cultural studies for its methodological openness and rejection of disciplinarity, its core strategies of critique and analysis have had a profound influence throughout the more progressive and critical areas of the social sciences and humanities. Cultural studies work on forms of social differentiation, control and inequality, identity, community-building, media, and knowledge production, for example, has had a substantial impact. Moreover, the influence of cultural studies has become increasingly evident in areas as diverse as translation studies, health studies, international relations, development studies, computer studies, economics, archaeology, and neurobiology, as well as across the range of disciplines that initially shaped the emergence of cultural studies, including literature, sociology, communication studies, and anthropology.\n\nCultural studies has also diversified its own interests and methodologies, incorporating a range of studies on media policy, democracy, design, leisure, tourism, warfare and development. While certain key concepts such as ideology or discourse, class, hegemony, identity and gender remain significant, cultural studies has long engaged with and integrated new concepts and approaches such as deconstruction and postmodernism. The field thus continues to pursue political critique through its engagements with the forces of culture and politics.\n\nThe Blackwell \"Companion to Cultural Studies\", edited by leading cultural studies scholar Toby Miller, contains essays that analyze the development of cultural studies approaches within each of a wide range of disciplines across the contemporary social sciences and humanities.\n\nMany cultural studies practitioners work in departments of English or Comparative Literature. Nevertheless, some traditional literary scholars such as Yale professor Harold Bloom have been outspoken critics of cultural studies. On the level of methodology, these scholars dispute the theoretical underpinning of the movement's critical framework.\n\nBloom stated his position during the September 3, 2000 episode of C-SPAN's \"Booknotes\", while discussing his book \"How to Read and Why\":\n\nMarxist literary critic Terry Eagleton is not wholly opposed to cultural studies, but has criticised aspects of it and highlighted what he sees as its strengths and weaknesses in books such as \"After Theory\" (2003). For Eagleton, literary and cultural theory have the potential to say important things about the \"fundamental questions\" in life, but theorists have rarely realized this potential.\n\nCultural studies has also had a substantial impact on sociology. For example, when Stuart Hall left CCCS at Birmingham, it was to accept a prestigious professorship in Sociology at the Open University in Britain. The subfield of cultural sociology, in particular, is disciplinary home to many cultural studies practitioners. Nevertheless, there are some differences between sociology as a discipline and the field of cultural studies as a whole. While sociology was founded upon various historic works purposefully distinguishing the subject from philosophy or psychology, cultural studies has explicitly interrogated and criticized traditional understandings and practices of disciplinarity. Most CS practitioners think it is best that cultural studies neither emulate disciplines nor aspire to disciplinarity for cultural studies. Rather, they promote a kind of radical interdisciplinarity as the basis for cultural studies.\n\nOne sociologist whose work has had a major influence upon cultural studies is Pierre Bourdieu. Bourdieu's work makes innovative use of statistics and in-depth interviews. However, although Bourdieu's work has been highly influential within cultural studies, and although Bourdieu regarded his work as a form of science, cultural studies has never embraced the idea that it should aspire toward \"scientificity,\" and has marshalled a wide range of theoretical and methodological arguments against the fetishization of \"scientificity\" as a basis for cultural studies.\n\nTwo sociologists who have been critical of cultural studies, Chris Rojek and Bryan S. Turner, argue in their article, \"Decorative sociology: towards a critique of the cultural turn\", that cultural studies, particularly the flavor championed by Stuart Hall, lacks a stable research agenda, and privileges the contemporary reading of texts, thus producing an ahistorical theoretical focus. Many, however, would argue, following Hall, that cultural studies has always sought to avoid the establishment of a fixed research agenda; this follows from its critique of disciplinarity. Moreover, Hall and many others have long argued against the misunderstanding that textual analysis is the sole methodology of cultural studies, and have practiced numerous other approaches, as noted above. Rojek and Turner also level the accusation that there is \"a sense of moral superiority about the correctness of the political views articulated\" in cultural studies\n\nIn 1996, physicist Alan Sokal expressed his opposition to cultural studies by submitting a hoax article to a cultural studies journal, \"Social Text\". The article, which was crafted as a parody of what Sokal referred to as the \"fashionable nonsense\" of postmodernism, was accepted by the editors of the journal, which did not at the time practice peer review. When the paper appeared in print, Sokal published a second article in a self-described \"academic gossip\" magazine, \"Lingua Franca\", revealing his hoax on \"Social Text\". Sokal stated that his motivation stemmed from his rejection of contemporary critiques of scientific rationalism:\n\nHall and others have identified some core originating texts, or the original \"curriculum\", of the field of cultural studies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146700", "title": "Deadly force", "text": "Deadly force\n\nDeadly force, also known as lethal force, is use of force that is likely to cause serious bodily injury or death to another person. In most jurisdictions, the use of deadly force is justified only under conditions of extreme necessity as a last resort, when all lesser means have failed or cannot reasonably be employed.\n\nFirearms, bladed weapons, explosives, and vehicles are among those weapons the use of which is considered deadly force. The use of non-traditional weapons in an offensive manner, such as a baseball bat, sharp pencil, tire iron or other, may also be considered deadly force.\n\nThe United States Armed Forces defines deadly force as \"force that a person uses causing, or that a person knows or should know would create a substantial risk of causing, death or serious bodily harm or injury\".\nIn the United States, the use of deadly force by sworn law enforcement officers is lawful when the officer reasonably believes the subject poses a significant threat of serious bodily injury or death to themselves or others. The use of deadly force by law enforcement is also lawful when used to prevent the escape of a fleeing felon when the officer believes escape would pose a significant threat of serious bodily injury or death to members of the public. Common law allowed officers to use any force necessary to effect a felony arrest but this was narrowed in the \"Tennessee v. Garner\" ruling in 1985 when the U.S. Supreme Court said that \"deadly force...may not be used unless necessary to prevent the escape and the officer has probable cause to believe that the suspect poses a significant threat of death or serious bodily harm to the officer or others.\" \n\nIn the 1989 \"Graham v. Connor\" ruling, the Supreme Court expanded its definition to include \"objective reasonableness\" standard—not subjective as to what the officer's intent might have been—and it must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer at the scene—and its calculus must embody the fact that police officers are often forced to make split-second decisions about the amount of force necessary in a particular situation.\n\nMost law enforcement agencies establish a use of force continuum starting with simple presence through deadly force. With this model, officers attempt to control subjects and situations with the minimum force necessary. Agencies often have policies limiting the force used to be equal or one step higher on the continuum to the force they are opposing.\n\nA civilian's use of deadly force is generally justified if he or she reasonably believe that he or she is or other innocent lives are in imminent danger of death or serious injury. Justification and affirmative defenses vary by state and may include certain property crimes, specific crimes against children or prevention of sexual assaults. \n\nU.S. law requires an investigation whenever a person causes another person's death, but the mechanism for such investigations can vary by state. The investigation develops evidence regarding the use of deadly physical force for the particular state or jurisdiction. An investigation may performed by a local or state police agency and also a civilian agency, such as a county prosecutor or State Attorney General. A report of the findings of such an investigation may be submitted for prosecution and made public.\n\nIn , the (U.S. Supreme Court 2007) held that a police officer's attempt to terminate a dangerous high-speed car chase that threatened the lives of innocent bystanders did not violate the Fourth Amendment, even when it places the fleeing motorist at risk of serious bodily injury or death. In the \"Harris\" case, Officer Scott applied his police car's push bumper to the rear of the suspect's vehicle, causing the suspect vehicle to lose control and crash, resulting in the fleeing suspect being paralyzed from the waist down.\n\nTraditionally, intentional contact between vehicles has been characterized as unlawful deadly force, though some U.S. federal appellate cases have mitigated this precedent. In\nthe Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that although fatalities may result from intentional collisions between automobiles such fatalities are infrequent, and therefore unlawful deadly force should not be presumed to be the level of force applied in such incidents; the Adams case was subsequently called into question by\n, which in turn was reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court in the \"Scott v. Harris\" case discussed above; the extent to which \"Adams\" can continue to be relied on is uncertain. In the \"Adams\" case, the officer rammed the suspect's vehicle.\n\nIn\n, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals recognized this principle but added that collisions between automobiles and motorcycles frequently lead to the death of the motorcyclist, and therefore a presumption that unlawful deadly force was used in such intentional collisions is more appropriate. In the \"Donovan\" case, the suspect lost control of his motorcycle and became airborne, crashing into the officer's vehicle, which was parked as part of an intercepting roadblock.\n"}
{"id": "47762582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47762582", "title": "Elena Mederos", "text": "Elena Mederos\n\nElena Inés Mederos y Cabañas de González (13 January 1900 - 25 September 1981) was a Cuban human rights and women's rights activist, a feminist, and social reformer. She was the first Minister of Social Work in Cuba. \n\nMederos founded several organizations including the School of Social Services at the University of Havana; the Foundation for Social Services, which developed programs for children's organizations in Cuba; \"Of Human Rights\" (New York City, 1961); and a Cuban exile lobby that worked for the release of political prisoners. A suffragist, Mederos was a co-founder of the Alianza Nacional Feminista, a suffragist organization active in Cuba during the 1920s. She was the founding vice president of the National Association of Cuban American Women (NACAW). Mederos is \"considered the most prominent Cuban woman of the 20th century\".\n\nMederos was born in Havana on 13 January 13, 1900. Her father, a well-to-do tobacco merchant, gave Mederos and her sister tobacco estates, which allowed each of the daughters to live a comfortable life without dependence on a husband for financial support. Her education included a Ph.D. in pharmacology. She married Hilario González Arrieta, a young lawyer, in 1924. \n\nThe Sixth Pan American Union conference was held in 1928 in Havana. Attended by a large assembly of Cuban women led by Mederos, the conference established the Inter-American Commission of Women (CIM). Representing Cuba, Mederos was a member of the first CIM conference which met in Havana in 1930. In September 1959, Mederos served for five months as first Minister of Social Work in Cuba, under . She arrived in the US in 1961 where she worked for UNICEF. Mederos died 25 September 1981 in Washington, DC. The Elena Mederos Award was established in her honor by the NACAW.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61098", "title": "Ethnic cleansing", "text": "Ethnic cleansing\n\nEthnic cleansing is the systematic forced removal of ethnic or racial groups from a given territory by a more powerful ethnic group, often with the intent of making it ethnically homogeneous. The forces applied may be various forms of forced migration (deportation, population transfer), intimidation, as well as genocide and genocidal rape.\n\nEthnic cleansing is usually accompanied with efforts to remove physical and cultural evidence of the targeted group in the territory through the destruction of homes, social centers, farms, and infrastructure, and by the desecration of monuments, cemeteries, and places of worship.\n\nInitially used by the perpetrators during the Yugoslav Wars and cited in this context as a euphemism akin to that of Nazi Germany's \"Final Solution\", by the 1990s, the term gained widespread acceptance due to journalism and the media's heightened use of the term in its generic meaning.\n\nAn antecedent to the term is the Greek word \"andrapodismos\" (; lit. \"enslavement\"), which was used in ancient texts to describe atrocities that accompanied Alexander the Great's conquest of Thebes in 335 BC. In the early 1900s, regional variants of the term could be found among the Czechs \"(očista)\", the Poles \"(oczyszczanie)\", the French \"(épuration)\" and the Germans \"(Säuberung)\". A 1913 Carnegie Endowment report condemning the actions of all participants in the Balkan Wars contained various new terms to describe brutalities committed toward ethnic groups.\nDuring World War II, the euphemism \"čišćenje terena\" (\"cleansing the terrain\") was used by the Croatian Ustaše to describe military actions in which non-Croats were purposely killed or otherwise uprooted from their homes. Viktor Gutić, a senior Ustaše leader, was one of the first Croatian nationalists on record to use the term as a euphemism for committing atrocities against Serbs. The term was later used in the internal memorandums of Serbian Chetniks in reference to a number of retaliatory massacres they committed against Bosniaks and Croats between 1941 and 1945. The Russian phrase очистка границ (\"ochistka granits\"; lit. \"cleansing of borders\") was used in Soviet documents of the early 1930s to refer to the forced resettlement of Polish people from the border zone in the Byelorussian and Ukrainian SSRs. This process was repeated on an even larger scale in 1939–41, involving many other groups suspected of disloyalty towards the Soviet Union. During The Holocaust, Nazi Germany pursued a policy of ensuring that Europe was \"cleansed of Jews\" \"(Judenrein)\". \n\nIn its complete form, the term appeared for the first time in the Romanian language (\"purificare etnică\") in an address by Vice Prime Minister Mihai Antonescu to cabinet members in July 1941. After the beginning of the invasion of the USSR, he concluded: “I do not know when the Romanians will have such chance for ethnic cleansing.\" In the 1980s, the Soviets used the term \"ethnic cleansing\" to describe the inter-ethnic violence in Nagorno-Karabakh. At around the same time, the Yugoslav media used it to describe what they alleged was an Albanian nationalist plot to force all Serbs to leave Kosovo. It was widely popularized by the Western media during the Bosnian War (1992–95). The first recorded mention of its use in the Western media can be traced back to an article in \"The New York Times\" dated 15 April 1992, in a quote by an anonymous Western diplomat.\n\nSynonyms include \"ethnic purification\".\n\nThe Final Report of the Commission of Experts established pursuant to Security Council Resolution 780 defined ethnic cleansing as \"a purposeful policy designed by one ethnic or religious group to remove by violent and terror-inspiring means the civilian population of another ethnic or religious group from certain geographic areas\". In its previous, first interim report it noted, \"[b]ased on the many reports describing the policy and practices conducted in the former Yugoslavia, [that] 'ethnic cleansing' has been carried out by means of murder, torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, extra-judicial executions, rape and sexual assaults, confinement of civilian population in ghetto areas, forcible removal, displacement and deportation of civilian population, deliberate military attacks or threats of attacks on civilians and civilian areas, and wanton destruction of property. Those practices constitute crimes against humanity and can be assimilated to specific war crimes. Furthermore, such acts could also fall within the meaning of the Genocide Convention.\"\n\nThe official United Nations definition of ethnic cleansing is \"rendering an area ethnically homogeneous by using force or intimidation to remove from a given area persons of another ethnic or religious group\".\n\nAs a category, ethnic cleansing encompasses a continuum or spectrum of policies. In the words of Andrew Bell-Fialkoff:[E]thnic cleansing [...] defies easy definition. At one end it is virtually indistinguishable from forced emigration and population exchange while at the other it merges with deportation and genocide. At the most general level, however, ethnic cleansing can be understood as the expulsion of a population from a given territory\".\n\nTerry Martin has defined ethnic cleansing as \"the forcible removal of an ethnically defined population from a given territory\" and as \"occupying the central part of a continuum between genocide on one end and nonviolent pressured ethnic emigration on the other end\".\n\nIn reviewing the International Court of Justice (ICJ) Bosnian Genocide Case in the judgement of Jorgic v. Germany on July 12, 2007 the European Court of Human Rights quoted from the ICJ ruling on the \"Bosnian Genocide Case\" to draw a distinction between \"ethnic cleansing\" and \"genocide\":\n\nThere is no international treaty that specifies a specific crime of ethnic cleansing. However, ethnic cleansing in the broad sense—the forcible deportation of a population—is defined as a crime against humanity under the statutes of both International Criminal Court (ICC) and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). The gross human-rights violations integral to stricter definitions of ethnic cleansing are treated as separate crimes falling under public international law of crimes against humanity and in certain circumstances genocide.\n\nThere are however situations, such as the expulsion of Germans after World War II, where ethnic cleansing has taken place without legal redress (see \"Preussische Treuhand\" v. Poland). Timothy V. Waters argues therefore that similar ethnic cleansing could go unpunished in the future.\n\nAcademic discourse considers both genocide and ethnic cleansing to exist in a spectrum of assaults on nations or religio-ethnic groups. Ethnic cleansing is similar to forced deportation or population transfer whereas genocide is the intentional murder of part or all of a particular ethnic, racial, religious, or national group. While ethnic cleansing and genocide may share the same goal and the acts used to perpetrate both crimes may often resemble each other, ethnic cleansing is intended to displace a persecuted population from a given territory, while genocide is intended to destroy a population. \n\nSome academics consider genocide as a subset of \"murderous ethnic cleansing\". Thus, these concepts are different, but related, as Norman Naimark writes: \"literally and figuratively, ethnic cleansing bleeds into genocide, as mass murder is committed in order to rid the land of a people\". William Schabas adds, \"Ethnic cleansing is also a warning sign of genocide to come. Genocide is the last resort of the frustrated ethnic cleanser.\"\n\nIn 1946 Königsberg was renamed Kaliningrad. The survivors of the German population were forcibly expelled and the city was repopulated with Soviet citizens.\n\nIn the 1990s Bosnian war, ethnic cleansing was a common phenomenon. It typically entailed intimidation, forced expulsion and/or killing of the undesired ethnic group, as well as the destruction or removal of key physical and cultural elements. These included places of worship, cemeteries, works of art and historic buildings. According to numerous ICTY verdicts, both Serb and Croat forces performed ethnic cleansing of their intended territories in order to create ethnically pure states (Republika Srpska and Herzeg-Bosnia). Serb forces were also judged to have committed genocide in Srebrenica and Zepa at the end of the war.\n\nBased on the evidence of numerous attacks by Croat forces against Bosnian Muslims (Bosniaks), the ICTY Trial Chamber concluded in the \"Kordić and Čerkez case\" that by April 1993, the Croat leadership from Bosnia and Herzegovina had a designated plan to ethnically cleanse Bosniaks from the Lašva Valley in Central Bosnia. Dario Kordić, the local political leader, was found to be the instigator of this plan.\n\nIn the same year (1993), ethnic cleansing was also occurring in another country. During the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict, the armed Abkhaz separatist insurgency implemented a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the large population of ethnic Georgians. This was actually a case of trying to drive out a majority, rather than a minority, since Georgians were the single largest ethnic group in pre-war Abkhazia, with a 45.7% plurality as of 1989. As a result of this deliberate campaign by the Abkhaz separatists, more than 250,000 ethnic Georgians were forced to flee, and approximately 30,000 people were killed during separate incidents involving massacres and expulsions (see Ethnic cleansing of Georgians in Abkhazia). This was recognized as ethnic cleansing by Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe conventions, and was also mentioned in UN General Assembly Resolution GA/10708.\n\nAs a tactic, ethnic cleansing has a number of systemic impacts. It enables a force to eliminate civilian support for resistance by eliminating the civilians—recognizing Mao Zedong's dictum that guerrillas among a civilian population are fish in water, it removes the fish by draining the water. When enforced as part of a political settlement, as happened with the forced resettlement of ethnic Germans to the new Germany after 1945, it can contribute to long-term stability. Some individuals of the large German population in Czechoslovakia and prewar Poland had encouraged Nazi jingoism before the Second World War, but this was forcibly resolved. It thus establishes \"facts on the ground\"—radical demographic changes which can be very hard to reverse.\n\nSilent ethnic cleansing is a term coined in the mid-1990s by some observers of the Yugoslav Wars. Apparently concerned with Western media representations of atrocities committed in the conflict—which generally focused on those perpetrated by the Serbs—atrocities committed against Serbs were dubbed \"silent\" on the grounds that they did not receive adequate coverage.\n\nSome incidents in Northern Ireland and during the Troubles between Protestants and Catholics were considered to be \"ethnic cleansing\". This included events after the Holy Cross dispute in 2001 when Protestant paramilitaries were accused of carrying out ethnic cleansing of Catholics in north Belfast.\n\nIn many cases where accusations of ethnic cleansing have circulated, partisans have fiercely disputed such an interpretation and the details of the events which have been described as ethnic cleansing by academic or legal experts. This often leads to the promotion of vastly different versions of the event in question.\n\nGregory Stanton, the founder of Genocide Watch, has criticised the rise of the term and its use for events that he feels should be called \"genocide\": as \"ethnic cleansing\" has no legal definition, its media use can detract attention from events that should be prosecuted as genocide. Because of widespread acceptance after media influence, it has become a term used legally, but carries no legal repercussions as there is no legal definition.\n\nIn 1992, the German equivalent of ethnic cleansing\" () was named German Un-Word of the Year by the \"Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache\" due to its euphemistic, inappropriate nature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17226693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17226693", "title": "Fersommling", "text": "Fersommling\n\nA Fersommling (plural, Fersommlinge) (also spelled Versammling or Fersammling) is a Pennsylvania Dutch social event in which food is served, speeches are made, and one or more \"g'spiel\" (plays or skits) are performed for entertainment. \"A high degree of theatricality and ceremony is involved, especially in the groundhog lodges: pledging loyalty to the lodge and the groundhog, listening to a weather report, singing patriotic songs in Deitsch, and ending every meeting by asking God to allow them to keep their way of life and their merriment.\" as described by William W. Donner. Among these traditions is the singing of the German folk song \"Schnitzelbank\" and the patriotic \"My Country, 'Tis of Thee\", in Pennsylvania German, as translated by John Birmelin. \" there is continual creativity, as current events are incorporated into the versammling performances, speeches, and skits.\" \n\nFersommlinge are typically attended by the Fancy Dutch, as opposed to the \"Plain sects\" of the Amish, Brethren and Mennonites. The term literally means \"a congregation,\" not in the sense of a group of church-goers, but as a \"social gathering of people.\" Fersommlinge are not religious functions, though many churches and church groups hosted the events and used them to raise money. The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event, and those who speak English pay a penalty, usually in the form of a nickel, dime or quarter, per word spoken, put into a bowl in the center of the table. \n\nThe first Fersommling was held by Dr. John I. Woodruff of Susquehanna University in 1933. Shortly afterward, on March 13, 1933, a second was held in Allentown, Pennsylvania at the home of William S. Troxell, who wrote a daily column on Pennsylvania German culture for the Allentown \"Morning Call\" under the pseudonym \"Pumpernickle Bill.\" The purpose of the gathering was to plan the formation of the first Grundsow (Groundhog) Lodge. On the next Groundhog Day, February 2, 1934, the first Fersommling of Grundsow Lodge Nummer Ains an Da Lechaw (Number One on the Lehigh) took place in Northampton, Pennsylvania.\n\nFersommlinge continue to be held throughout eastern Pennsylvania as a means of preserving the Pennsylvania German dialect and culture. For example, the Berks County Fersommling, which started in 1937, annually attracts more than 700 participants, most of whom are of Pennsylvania German ancestry.\n\nSince 1997, some of the texts presented at Fersommlinge are also published in the Pennsylvania German newspaper Hiwwe wie Driwwe. Current Fersommling and Grundsau lodge information is kept up to date at groundhoglodge.org and the Pennsylvania German Society\n\n\"The versammlinge which started as a way to celebrate Pennsylvania German heritage and ethnicity became over time part of that heritage and ethnicity\"\n"}
{"id": "5891930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5891930", "title": "Frontiers of Science", "text": "Frontiers of Science\n\nFrontiers of Science was a popular illustrated comic strip created by Professor Stuart Butler of the School of Physics at the University of Sydney in collaboration with Robert Raymond, a documentary maker from the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) in 1961. The artist was Andrea Bresciani. After 1970 the comic was illustrated by David Emerson.\n\nIt explained scientific concepts and recent research and in a 3 or 4 panel illustrated strip in an accessible and easily comprehensible way. The strip was syndicated to hundreds of newspapers around the world for 25 years, from 1961 to 1987. It was also published as soft cover books.\n\nThe strips are archived at Rare Books and Special Collections in Fisher Library at the University of Sydney. The entire series is available for viewing online. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "179219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179219", "title": "Future Shock", "text": "Future Shock\n\nFuture Shock is a 1970 book by the futurists Alvin and Heidi Toffler, in which the authors define the term \"future shock\" as a certain psychological state of individuals and entire societies. Their shortest definition for the term is a personal perception of \"too much change in too short a period of time\". The book, which became an international bestseller, grew out of an article \"The Future as a Way of Life\" in \"Horizon\" magazine, Summer 1965 issue. The book has sold over 6 million copies and has been widely translated.\n\nA documentary film based on the book was released in 1972 with Orson Welles as on-screen narrator.\n\nThe Tofflers argued that society is undergoing an enormous structural change, a revolution from an industrial society to a \"super-industrial society\". This change overwhelms people. He believed the accelerated rate of technological and social change left people disconnected and suffering from \"shattering stress and disorientation\"—future shocked. The Tofflers stated that the majority of social problems are symptoms of future shock. In their discussion of the components of such shock, they popularized the term \"\"information overload\".\"\n\nThis analysis of the phenomenon of information overload is continued in later publications, especially \"The Third Wave\" and \"\".\n\nIn the introduction to an essay entitled \"Future Shock\" in his book, \"Conscientious Objections\", Neil Postman wrote: \"Sometime about the middle of 1963, my colleague Charles Weingartner and I delivered in tandem an address to the National Council of Teachers of English. In that address we used the phrase \"future shock\" as a way of describing the social paralysis induced by rapid technological change. To my knowledge, Weingartner and I were the first people ever to use it in a public forum. Of course, neither Weingartner nor I had the brains to write a book called \"Future Shock\", and all due credit goes to Alvin Toffler for having recognized a good phrase when one came along\" (p. 162).\n\nAlvin and Heidi distinguished three stages in development of society and production: agrarian, industrial and post-industrial.\n\nAll these waves develops own \"super-ideology” with which explain the reality. This ideology affects all the spheres which make up a civilization phase: technology, social patterns, information patterns and \"power\" patterns.\n\nThe first stage began in the period of the Neolithic Era when people invented agriculture, thereby passing from barbarity to a civilization. A large number of people acted as prosumers (eating their grown food, hunting animals, building their own houses, making clothes...). People traded by exchanging their own goods for commodities of others. The second stage began in England with the Industrial Revolution during which people invented the machine tool and the steam engine. People worked in factories to make money they could spend on goods they needed (it means they produced for exchange, not for use). Countries also created new social systems. The third stage began in the second half of the 20th century in the West when people invented automatic production, robotics and the computer. The services sector attained great value. \n\nThe Tofflers proposed one criterion for distinguishing between industrial society and post-industrial society: the share of the population occupied in agriculture versus the share of city labor occupied in the services sector. In a post-industrial society, the share of the people occupied in agriculture does not exceed 15%, and the share of city laborers occupied in the services sector exceeds 50%. Thus, the share of the people occupied with brainwork greatly exceeds the share of the people occupied with physical work in post-industrial society.\n\nThe third wave led to the Information Era (now). Homes are the dominant institutions. Most people carry on their own production and consumption in their homes or electronic cottages, they produce more of their own products and services and markets become less important for them. People consider each other to be equally free as vendors of prosumer-generated commodities.\n\nAlvin and Heidi Toffler's main thought consists of the fact that modern man feels shock from rapid changes. For example, Toffler's daughter went to shop in New York City and she couldn't find a shop in its previous location. Thus New York has become a city without a history. The urban population doubles every 11 years. The overall production of goods and services doubles each 50 years in developed countries. Society experiences an increasing number of changes with an increasing rapidity, while people are losing the familiarity that old institutions (religion, family, national identity, profession) once provided. The so-called \"brain drain\" – the emigration of European scientists to the United States – is both an indicator of the changes in society and also one of their causes.\n\n\nThe book has been reprinted several times:\n\nCurtis Mayfield's song \"Future Shock\" on the album \"Back to the World\" took its name from this book, and was in turn covered by Herbie Hancock as the title track for his 1983 recording \"Future Shock\". That album was considered groundbreaking for fusing jazz and funk with electronic music. Stanley Clarke performed a song with the same title on his 1984 album Time Exposure. The rock band, BANG released \"Future Shock\" on their self titled Capitol Records release in 1972\n\nIn the 1974 movie \"The Parallax View\" the character Joe relates a story to Lee about a wife having an affair with her psychiatrist and then a bulldozer knocking down his house by calling it \"future shock\".\n\nOther works taking their title from the book include: the \"Futurama\" episode \"Future Stock\"; The Gordons 1981 EP on Flying Nun Records; a segment on \"The Daily Show\" starring Samantha Bee; Kevin Goldstein's recurring column on the \"Baseball Prospectus\" website; a \"\" pre-constructed deck; and the National Wrestling Alliance's 1989 Starrcade event.\n\nSince 1977, UK Comic 2000 AD has run a series of short stories called Future Shocks based on this concept, some of which were written by Alan Moore. The abbreviated derogatory term \"Futsies\" was applied to citizens in 2000 AD stories (mainly in the Judge Dredd universe) who had been driven insane by Future Shock.\n\nWorks deriving themes and elements from Future Shock include the science fiction novels \"The Forever War\" (1974) by Joe Haldeman, \"The Shockwave Rider\" (1975) by John Brunner, the RPG \"Transhuman Space\" (2002) by Steve Jackson Games, and the indie RPG \"\" (2006) by designer Joshua A.C. Newman. Experimental music group Death Grips use the lyric \"Culture shock, future shock, fuck yourself, choke yourself\" in their song \"Culture Shock\".\n\nThe line \"You knocked a future shock crowbar upside my head\" occurs in the track \"The Outsiders\" on the alternative rock band R.E.M.'s 2004 album \"Around the Sun\".\n\nIn 2011, a song titled \"Future Shock\" by Darwin, Obie, and Mr-E appeared on the album \"Nu Nrg 100\", the final installment of the world-renowned label Nu Energy, while Brooklyn-based band TV on the Radio included a song titled \"No Future Shock\" on their album \"Nine Types of Light\". The same year, the Unsound Music Festival in Krakow, Poland took the concept of 'future shock' as its theme.\n\nWilliam Brittelle, the Brooklyn-based composer of pop-influenced electro-acoustic art music, has an album called \"Future Shock\".\n\nThe sense of future shock is an integral aspect of cyberpunk.\n\nFutureshock were also an electronic music duo recording for Junior Boys Own and Parlophone / EMI. The members were Phil Dockerty and Alex Tepper.\n\nThe Future Shock Book was lying on the deceased Wendell Armbruster Sr.'s desk in the 1972 movie Avanti! starring Jack Lemmon.\n\n"}
{"id": "54196507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54196507", "title": "Global High-Level Panel on Water and Peace", "text": "Global High-Level Panel on Water and Peace\n\nThe Global High-Level Panel on Water and Peace was established on 16 November 2015 in Geneva at the initiative of 15 co-convening UN Member States, i.e. Cambodia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Estonia, France, Ghana, Hungary, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Oman, Senegal, Slovenia, Spain and Switzerland. Following the establishment of the Global High Level Panel on Water and Peace (hereinafter referred to as the Panel) and in response to the high interest generated, a Group of Friends on Water and Peace was created in early 2016. It provides a group of countries with an opportunity to interact with the work of the Panel and offers them a platform for regular dialogue on these issues. The Geneva Water Hub acts as the Secretariat of both the Global High-Level Panel and the Group of Friends on Water and Peace.\n\nThe focus of the Panel is the nexus between water and cooperation and maintenance of peace and security. This includes preventive activities and arrangements, such as trans-border water cooperation regimes and institutions, protection of water infrastructure during armed conflicts and water arrangements in the context of post-conflict peace-building.\n\nThe Global High-Level Panel on Water and Peace will present a set of recommendations at the United Nations General Assembly in September 2017.\n\nThe Global High Level Panel on Water and Peace aims at taking the issue of water in the context of maintenance of peace and security, from a technical to a political level. It has the following objectives:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24860432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24860432", "title": "Global network", "text": "Global network\n\nA global network is any communication network which spans the entire Earth. The term, as used in this article refers in a more restricted way to \"bidirectional\" communication networks, and to technology-based networks. Early networks such as international mail and unidirectional communication networks, such as radio and television, are described elsewhere.\n\nThe first global network was established using electrical telegraphy and global span was achieved in 1899. The telephony network was the second to achieve global status, in the 1950s. More recently, interconnected IP networks (principally the Internet, with estimated 2.5 billion users worldwide in 2014 ), and the GSM mobile communication network (with over 6 billion worldwide users in 2014) form the largest global networks of all.\n\nSetting up global networks requires immensely costly and lengthy efforts lasting for decades. Elaborate interconnections, switching and routing devices, laying out physical carriers of information, such as land and submarine cables and earth stations must be set in operation. In addition, international communication protocols, legislation and agreements are involved.\n\nGlobal networks might also refer to networks of individuals (such as scientists), communities (such as cities) and organizations (such as civil organizations) worldwide which, for instance, might have formed for the management, mitigation and resolval of global issues.\n\nCommunication satellites are an important part of global networks. However, there are specific low Earth orbit (LEO) global satellite constellations, such as Iridium, Globalstar and Orbcomm, which are comprised by dozens of similar satellites which are put in orbit at regularly spaced positions and form a mesh network, sometimes sending and receiving information directly among themselves. Using VSAT technology, satellite internet access has become possible.\n\nIt is estimated that 80% of the global mobile market uses the GSM standard, present in more than 212 countries and territories. Its ubiquity makes international roaming very common between mobile phone operators, enabling subscribers to use their phones in many parts of the world. In order to achieve this, these networks must be interconnected by way of peering arrangements, and therefore the GSM network is a truly global one.\n\nThe telegraph and telex communication networks have been phased out, so interconnection among existing global networks arise at several points, such as between the voice telephony and digital data networks, and between these and satellite networks. Many applications run now on several networks, such as VoIP (voice over IP). Mobile communication (voice and data) networks are also intimately intertwinned, because the majority of 21st century cell phones have both voice and data (internet navigation and emailing) capabilities.\n\nDigital global networks require huge carrying capacity in the main backbones. This is currently achieved by fiber optic cables.\n\nThe Canadian sociologist Marshall McLuhan was the first to forecast the huge impact of the matrix of global networks upon society, coining the term global village. His work, however, related to radio and television networks, which are broadcast (unidirectional) networks, thus predating the much larger impact of the internet.\n\nGlobal networks have revolutionized human communication several times. The first to do so was the electrical telegraph. Its impact was so large that it has been dubbed the Victorian Internet. It was expanded many times in its coverage with the advent of radiotelegraphy, and with text messaging using telex machines.\n\nThe Internet and mobile communication networks have made possible entirely new forms of social interaction, activities and organizing, thanks to its basic features such as widespread usability and access, and instant communication from any connected point to another. Thus, its social impact has been, and still is, enormous. Finally, the impact on governance have been significant facilitating the emergence of 'transnational policy networks' \n"}
{"id": "30427088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30427088", "title": "Google Science Fair", "text": "Google Science Fair\n\nThe Google Science Fair is a worldwide (excluding Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Myanmar/Burma, Syria, Zimbabwe and any other U.S. sanctioned country) online science competition sponsored by Google, Lego, Virgin Galactic, National Geographic and \"Scientific American\". It occurred annually between 2011 and 2016.\n\nThe first Google Science Fair was announced in January 2011; entries were due on April 7, 2011 and judging occurred in July 2011. The competition is open to 13- to 18-year-old students around the globe, who formulate a hypothesis, perform an experiment, and present their results. All students must have an internet connection and a free Google Account to participate, and the projects must be in English, German, Italian, Spanish, or French. The final submission must include ten sections, which are the summary, an \"About Me\" page, the steps of the project, and a works cited page.\nEntries are judged on eight core criteria, which include the student's presentation, question, hypothesis, research, experiment, data, observations, and conclusion. Prizes are awarded to three finalists. The grand prize includes a National Geographic trip to the Galapagos Islands, a US $50,000 scholarship, and an \"experience\" at a small broken shack for a small organization; finalists will receive a US $15,000 scholarship and assorted packages from sponsoring organizations. While Larry Page and Sergey Brin were PhD students at Stanford University in California, they created Google in January 1996 as a research project; Google employee Tom Oliveri highlighted the company's early days: \"Science fairs help students to explore their vision and curiosity through science. Our company was founded on an experiment. We firmly believe that science can change the world,\" he stated.\n\nThe on-line site also contains a number of highlighted guest interviews with selected individuals, each well established and prominent in their field of science, with the aim being for them to act as inspiration to young students. The individuals chosen include Mitch Resnick, Spencer Wells, Kevin Warwick, and Mariette DiChristina.\n\nShree Bose, a 17-year-old girl in Texas, won the grand prize and $50,000 for her research on the chemotherapy drug, cisplatin, that is commonly taken by women with ovarian cancer, tackling the problem of cancer cells growing resistant to cisplatin over time.\n\nNaomi Shah of Portland, OR, won the age 15–16 category with a study of the effects of air quality on lungs, particularly for people who have asthma. Ms. Shah recruited 103 test subjects, performed 24-hour air quality measurements at their homes and workplaces and had each blow into a device that measured the force of their breath.\n\nLauren Hodge of York, PA, won the age 13–14 category for research on whether marinades reduce the amount of cancer-causing compounds produced by the grilling of meat. She found that lemon juice and brown sugar cut the level of carcinogens sharply, while soy sauce increased them.\n\nPeople around the world (90 countries) had the opportunity to vote for their favorite projects in Google’s online voting gallery. Google has had more than 100,000 votes and the competition was really tight. Nimal Subramanian won the People’s Choice Award for receiving the most among the 60 semi-finalists. The public really loved Nimal's project on Cancer Busters. Nimal received a $10,000 scholarship.\n\nBrittany Wenger, who was 17, won the grand prize with her \"Global Neural Network Cloud Service for Breast Cancer\". Designed to noninvasively diagnose malignant cancerous tumors, it successfully detected over 99% of malignant breast tumors in a test set. She received $50,000, a trip to the Galapagos Islands, mentoring and internship opportunities for winning the competition.\n\nIván Hervías Rodríguez, Marcos Ochoa, and Sergio Pascual, all of Spain, won the 15-16 age group using microscopy to examine microscopic creatures in aquatic ecosystems.\n\nJonah Kohn won the age 13-14 group by designing and building a device designed to enhance the listening experience of those with hearing loss. His device attached to different parts of the body, translating sound into tactile stimulation.\n\nThe winners of the 2013 Google Science Fair were:\n\n13-14 age category: Viney Kumar (Australia) — The PART (Police and Ambulances Regulating Traffic) Program. Viney’s project looked for new ways to provide drivers with more notice when an emergency vehicle is approaching, so they can take evasive action to get out of the emergency vehicle’s way.\n\n15-16 age category: Ann Makosinski (Canada) — The Hollow Flashlight. Using Peltier tiles and the temperature difference between the palm of the hand and ambient air, Ann designed a flashlight that provides bright light without batteries or moving parts.\n\n17-18 age category Grand Prize Winner: Eric Chen (USA) — Computer-aided Discovery of Novel Influenza Endonuclease Inhibitors to Combat Flu Pandemic. Combining computer modeling and biological studies, Eric’s project looks at influenza endonuclease inhibitors as leads for a new type of anti-flu medicine, effective against all influenza viruses including pandemic strains.\n\nThe 2014 Google Science Fair started accepting entries on February 12, 2014 and the entries closed on May 13, 2014. And the results for the local, regional and Science in Action award nominees were declared. The Grand Prize was won by three girls from Ireland, Ciara Judge (16), Emer Hickey (16) and Sophie Healey (17). They were the first group winners of the competition and the youngest winners to date (they also won the 15-16 age category prize). Their project was entitled 'Combating the Global Food Crisis: Diazatroph Bacteria as a Cereal Crop Growth Promoter.'\n\nThe 13-14 age category was won by Mihir Garimella (14) from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with a project titled 'Fruit-fly Inspired Robots.' Hayley Todesco (17) of Canada won the 17-18 age category with her project titled 'Cleaning up Oil Sands Waste.'\n\nAlong with the overall prizes for each category, a number of special awards were also announced. Kenneth Shinozuka (15) was declared as the Science In Action Award winner in recognition of the practical potential of his project 'Wearable Sensors for Aging Society.' Arsh Shah Dilbagi (16) from India won the Voter's Choice Award for creating an augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) device that converts breath into words, enabling mute people to speak.\n\nThe 2015 Google Science Fair closed for entries on May 18, 2015 with regional finalists announced in London on July 7, 2015. These included Lauren McKenzie (14) who built an automatic soil watering system, Shadab Karnachi (14) who designed a low-cost gaming device for people with visual impairments and Peter He (14) who developed an innovative wireless virtual reality system.\n\nThe global finalists were announced on August 4, 2015 and the winners on September 21, 2015. The Grand Prize was won by Olivia Hallisey (16) with her project ‘Temperature-Independent, Portable, and Rapid Field Detection of Ebola via a Silk-Derived Lateral-Flow System’. The Google Technologist Award was won by Girish Kumar (17) for his project ‘Revup: Automatically Generating Questions from Educational Texts’ and the Incubator Award was won by Elliott Sarrey (14) with his project ‘Bot2karot: Manage Your Vegetable Garden via Your Smartphone’. The Lego Education Builder Award won by Anurudh Ganesan (15), the Virgin Galactic Pioneer Award won by Jeff Cheema (15), the Scientific American Innovator Award won by Krtin Nithiyanandam (15), the National Geographic Explorer Award won by Deepika Kurup (17) and the Community Impact Award won by Lalita Prasida.\n\nThe 2016 Google Science Fair closed its entries on May 17, 2016, the Global 16 Finalist were announced on August 11, 2016. The final event took place during 24 to 27 September 2016 at Mountain View, California. Sixteen finalists competed for top five awards. The first two rounds had two age groups 13-15 and 16-18. However, unlike previous years, top awards during the finalist event did not distinguish between the two age groups of the previous rounds, thus making it particularly challenging event for the contestant compared to all previous years.\n\nThe Grand Prize was won by Kiara Nirghin (16) of South Africa for her project 'Fighting Drought with Fruit'. The Lego Education Builder award was won by Anushka Naiknaware (13) of United States, the youngest contestant to win a top award ever, for 'Smart Wound Care for the Future'. The National Geographic Explorer award was won by Mphatso Simbao (18) of Zambia. The Scientific American Innovator Award was won by a team of three for 'Fighting Foam Waste with Recycled Filters' from the US [Ashton (14), Luke (14) and Julia (14)]. The Virgin Galactic Pioneer award was won by Charlie Fenske (16) for 'Making Rockets more Efficient', also from the United States.\n\nThe competition did not begin as usual in May, 2017. Starting from the late summer, the official website stated that \"We're conducting some experiments\" and \"Coming Fall 2017\". The submissions of competition in 2018 began on 13th September 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162600", "title": "Hacktivism", "text": "Hacktivism\n\nIn Internet activism, hacktivism or hactivism (a portmanteau of \"hack\" and \"activism\") is the use of technology to promote a political agenda or a social change. With roots in hacker culture and hacker ethics, its ends are often related to the free speech, human rights, or freedom of information movements.\n\nThe term was coined in 1994 by a Cult of the Dead Cow (cDc) member known as \"Omega\" in an e-mail to the group. Due to the variety of meanings of its root words, hacktivism is sometimes ambiguous and there exists significant disagreement over the kinds of activities and purposes it encompasses. Some definitions include acts of cyberterrorism while others simply reaffirm the use of technological hacking to effect social change.\n\nHacktivist activities span many political ideals and issues. Freenet, a peer-to-peer platform for censorship-resistant communication, is a prime example of translating political thought (anybody should be able to speak freely) into code. Hacking as a form of activism can be carried out through a network of activists, such as Anonymous and WikiLeaks, or through a singular activist, working in collaboration toward a common goals without an overarching authority figure.\n\n\"Hacktivism\" is a controversial term with several meanings. The word was coined to characterize electronic direct action as working toward social change by combining programming skills with critical thinking. But just as \"hack\" can sometimes mean cyber crime, \"hacktivism\" can be used to mean activism that is malicious, destructive, and undermining the security of the Internet as a technical, economic, and political platform.\n\nDepending on who is using the term, hacktivism can be a politically motivated technology hack, a constructive form of anarchic civil disobedience, or an undefined anti-systemic gesture. It can signal anticapitalist or political protest; it can denote anti-spam activists, security experts, or open source advocates.\n\nSome people describing themselves as hacktivists have taken to defacing websites for political reasons, such as attacking and defacing government websites as well as web sites of groups who oppose their ideology. Others, such as Oxblood Ruffin (the \"foreign affairs minister\" of Cult of the Dead Cow and Hacktivismo), have argued forcefully against definitions of hacktivism that include web defacements or denial-of-service attacks.\n\nHactivism is often seen as shadowy due to its anonymity, commonly attributed to the work of fringe groups and outlying members of society. The lack of responsible parties to be held accountable for the social-media attacks performed by hactivists has created implications in corporate and federal security measures both on and offline.\n\nWhile some self-described hacktivists have engaged in DoS attacks, critics suggest that DoS attacks are an attack on free speech and that they have unintended consequences. DoS attacks waste resources and they can lead to a \"DoS war\" that nobody will win. In 2006, Blue Security attempted to automate a DoS attack against spammers; this led to a massive DoS attack against Blue Security which knocked them, their old ISP and their DNS provider off the Internet, destroying their business.\n\nFollowing denial-of-service attacks by Anonymous on multiple sites, in reprisal for the apparent suppression of WikiLeaks, John Perry Barlow, a founding member of the EFF, said \"I support freedom of expression, no matter whose, so I oppose DDoS attacks regardless of their target... they're the poison gas of cyberspace...\". On the other hand, Jay Leiderman, an attorney for many hacktivists, argues that DDoS can be a legitimate form of protest speech in situations that are reasonably limited in time, place and manner.\n\nSelf-proclaimed \"Hactivists\" often work anonymously, sometimes operating in groups while other times operating as a lone-wolf with several cyber-personas all corresponding to one activist within the cyberactivism umbrella that has been gaining public interest and power in pop-culture. Hactivists generally operate under apolitical ideals and express uninhibited ideas or abuse without being scrutinized by society while representing or defending them publicly under an anonymous identity giving them a sense of power in the cyberactivism community. \n\nIn order to carry out their operations, hacktivists might create new tools; or integrate or use a variety of software tools readily available on the Internet. One class of hacktivist activities includes increasing the accessibility of others to take politically motivated action online.\n\n\nThe earliest known instance of hacktivism as documented by Julian Assange is as follows: \"Hacktivism is at least as old as October 1989 when DOE, HEPNET and SPAN (NASA) connected VMS machines world wide were penetrated by the anti-nuclear WANK worm.\"\n\nPerhaps the most prolific and well known hacktivist group, Anonymous has been prominent and prevalent in many major online hacks over the past decade. Anonymous originated on the forums of 4chan during 2003, but didn't rise to prominence until 2008 when they directly attacked the Church of Scientology in a massive DoS attack. Since then, Anonymous has participated in a great number of online projects such as Operation: Payback and Operation: Safe Winter. However, while a great number of their projects have been for a charitable cause, they have still gained notoriety from the media due to the nature of their work mostly consisting of illegal hacking.\n\nFollowing the Paris terror attacks in 2015, Anonymous posted a video declaring war on ISIS, the terror group that claimed responsibility for the attacks. Since declaring war on ISIS, Anonymous since identified several Twitter accounts associated with the movement in order to stop the distribution of ISIS propaganda. However, Anonymous fell under heavy criticism when Twitter issued a statement calling the lists Anonymous had compiled \"wildly inaccurate,\" as it contained accounts of journalists and academics rather than members of ISIS.\n\nAnonymous has also been involved with the Black Lives Matter movement. Early in July 2015, there was a rumor circulating that Anonymous was calling for a Day of Rage protests in retaliation for the shootings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, which would entail violent protests and riots. This rumor was based off a video that was not posted with the official Anonymous YouTube account. None of the Twitter accounts associated with Anonymous had tweeted anything in relation to a Day of Rage, and the rumors were identical to past rumors that had circulated in 2014 following the death of Mike Brown. Instead, on July 15, a Twitter account associated with Anonymous posted a series of tweets calling for a day of solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. The Twitter account used the hashtag \"#FridayofSolidarity\" to coordinate protests across the nation, and emphasized the fact that the Friday of Solidarity was intended for peaceful protests. The account also stated that the group was unaware of any Day of Rage plans.\n\nIn February 2017 the group took down more than 10,000 sites on the Dark web related to child porn. \n\nWikiLeaks was founded in 2006 by Julian Assange as a \"multi-national media organization and associated library.\" WikiLeaks operated under the principle of \"principled leaking,\" in order to fight societal corruption. The not-for-profit functions as a whistleblowing organization that serves as an archive of classified documents. Originally, WikiLeaks was operated with the principles of a wiki site, meaning that users could post documents, edit others' documents, and help decide which materials were posted.\n\nThe first notable release of documents by WikiLeaks was the release of Afghanistan War logs. In July 2010, WikiLeaks published over 90,000 documents regarding the war in Afghanistan. Prior to the leak, WikiLeaks gave access to the documents to three newspapers. Though WikiLeaks did not identify a source for the documents, it was speculated that the leak came from Chelsea Manning, a U.S. Army intelligence analyst arrested in May 2010 and accused of leaking classified information. The war logs revealed 144 incidents of formerly unreported civilian casualties by the U.S. military. The leak of the Afghanistan war logs was the greatest military leak in United States history.\n\nWikiLeaks is also notable for its leak of over 20,000 confidential emails and 8,000 file attachments from the Democratic National Committee (DNC), on July 22, 2016. The emails are specifically from the inboxes of seven prominent staffers of the DNC, and they were leaked as a searchable database. The emails leaked showed instances of key DNC staffers working to undermine Senator Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign prior to primary elections, which was directly against the DNC's stated neutrality in primary elections. Examples of targeting Senator Bernie Sanders included targeting his religion, hoping for his dropping out of the race, constructing negative narratives about his campaign and more. Other emails revealed criticism of President Barack Obama for not helping more in fundraising. Following the leak, DNC chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz announced she would be stepping down from her position in the DNC. On July 25, 2016, the Democratic National Convention opened without Wasserman Schultz. The DNC issued an apology to Sanders the same day the Democratic National Convention opened.\n\nIn May 2011, five members of Anonymous formed the hacktivist group Lulz Security, otherwise known as LulzSec. LulzSec's name originated from the conjunction of the internet slang term \"lulz\", meaning laughs, and \"sec\", meaning security. The group members used specific handles to identify themselves on Internet Relay Channels, the most notable being: \"Sabu,\" \"Kayla,\" \"T-Flow,\" \"Topiary,\" \"AVUnit,\" and \"Pwnsauce.\" Though the members of LulzSec would spend up to 20 hours a day in communication, they did not know one another personally, nor did they share personal information. For example, once the members' identities were revealed, \"T-Flow\" was revealed to be 15 years old. Other members, on the basis of his advanced coding ability, thought he was around 30 years old.\n\nOne of the first notable targets that LulzSec pursued was HBGary, which was performed in response to a claim made by the technology security company that it had identified members of Anonymous. Following this, the members of LulzSec targeted an array of companies and entities, including but not limited to: Fox Television, Tribune Company, PBS, Sony, Nintendo, and the Senate.gov website. The targeting of these entities typically involved gaining access to and downloading confidential user information, or defacing the website at hand. Though the attacks carried out by LulzSec were not as strongly political as those typical of WikiLeaks or Anonymous, they shared similar sentiments for the freedom of information. One of their distinctly politically-driven attacks involved targeting the Arizona State Police in response to new immigration laws.\n\nThe group's first attack that garnered significant government attention was in 2011, when they collectively took down a website of the FBI. Following the incident, the leader of LulzSec, \"Sabu,\" was identified as Hector Xavier Monsegur by the FBI, and he was the first of the group to be arrested. Immediately following his arrest, Monsegur admitted to criminal activity. He then began his cooperation with the US government, helping FBI authorities to arrest 8 of his co-conspirators, prevent 300 potential cyber attacks, and helped to identify vulnerabilities in existing computer systems. In August 2011, Monsegur pleaded guilty to \"computer hacking conspiracy, computer hacking, computer hacking in furtherance of fraud, conspiracy to commit access device fraud, conspiracy to commit bank fraud, and aggravated identity theft pursuant to a cooperation agreement with the government.\" He served a total of one year and seven months and was charged a $1,200 fine.\n\n\"Culture jamming\" is the practice of subverting and criticizing political messages as well as media culture with the aim of challenging the status quo. It is often targeted toward subliminal thought processes taking place in the viewers with the goal of raising awareness as well as causing a paradigm shift. Culture jamming takes many forms including billboard hacking, broadcast signal intrusion, ad-hoc art performances, memes, and artivism. \n\nThe term \"culture jamming\" was first coined in 1984 by American musician Donald Joyce of the band Negativland. However, some speculation remains as to when the practice of culture jamming first began. Social researcher Vince Carducci believes culture jamming can be traced back to the 1950s with European social activist group Situationist International. Author and cultural critic Mark Dery believes medieval carnival is the earliest form of culture jamming as a way to subvert the social hierarchy at the time.\n\nCulture jamming is sometimes confused with acts of vandalism. However, unlike culture jamming, the main goal of vandalism is to cause destruction with any political themes being of lesser importance. Artivism usually has the most questionable nature as a form of culture jamming because defacement of property is usually involved.\n\n\"Media hacking\" refers to the usage of various electronic media in an innovative or otherwise abnormal fashion for the purpose of conveying a message to as large a number of people as possible, primarily achieved via the World Wide Web. A popular and effective means of media hacking is posting on a blog, as one is usually controlled by one or more independent individuals, uninfluenced by outside parties. The concept of social bookmarking, as well as Web-based Internet forums, may cause such a message to be seen by users of other sites as well, increasing its total reach.\n\nMedia hacking is commonly employed for political purposes, by both political parties and political dissidents. A good example of this is the 2008 US Election, in which both the Democratic and Republican parties used a wide variety of different media in order to convey relevant messages to an increasingly Internet-oriented audience. At the same time, political dissidents used blogs and other social media like Twitter in order to reply on an individual basis to the presidential candidates. In particular, sites like Twitter are proving important means in gauging popular support for the candidates, though the site is often used for dissident purposes rather than a show of positive support.\n\nMobile technology has also become subject to media hacking for political purposes. SMS has been widely used by political dissidents as a means of quickly and effectively organising smart mobs for political action. This has been most effective in the Philippines, where SMS media hacking has twice had a significant impact on whether or not the country's Presidents are elected or removed from office.\n\n\"Reality hacking\" is any phenomenon that emerges from the nonviolent use of illegal or legally ambiguous digital tools in pursuit of politically, socially, or culturally subversive ends. These tools include website defacements, URL redirections, denial-of-service attacks, information theft, web-site parodies, virtual sit-ins, and virtual sabotage.\n\nArt movements such as Fluxus and Happenings in the 1970s created a climate of receptibility in regard to loose-knit organizations and group activities where spontaneity, a return to primitivist behavior, and an ethics where activities and socially engaged art practices became tantamount to aesthetic concerns.\n\nThe conflation of these two histories in the mid-to-late 1990s resulted in cross-overs between virtual sit-ins, electronic civil disobedience, denial-of-service attacks, as well as mass protests in relation to groups like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The rise of collectivies, net.art groups, and those concerned with the fluid interchange of technology and real life (often from an environmental concern) gave birth to the practice of \"reality hacking\".\n\nReality hacking relies on tweaking the everyday communications most easily available to individuals with the purpose of awakening the political and community conscience of the larger population. The term first came into use among New York and San Francisco artists, but has since been adopted by a school of political activists centered around culture jamming.\n\nThe 1999 science fiction-action film \"The Matrix\", among others, popularized the simulation hypothesis — the suggestion that reality is in fact a simulation of which those affected by the simulants are generally unaware. In this context, \"reality hacking\" is reading and understanding the code which represents the activity of the simulated reality environment (such as Matrix digital rain) and also modifying it in order to bend the laws of physics or otherwise modify the simulated reality.\n\nReality hacking as a mystical practice is explored in the Gothic-Punk aesthetics-inspired White Wolf urban fantasy role-playing game \"\". In this game, the Reality Coders (also known as Reality Hackers or Reality Crackers) are a faction within the Virtual Adepts, a secret society of mages whose magick revolves around digital technology. They are dedicated to bringing the benefits of cyberspace to real space. To do this, they had to identify, for lack of a better term, the \"source code\" that allows our Universe to function. And that is what they have been doing ever since. Coders infiltrated a number of levels of society in order to gather the greatest compilation of knowledge ever seen. One of the Coders' more overt agendas is to acclimate the masses to the world that is to come. They spread Virtual Adept ideas through video games and a whole spate of \"reality shows\" that mimic virtual reality far more than \"real\" reality. The Reality Coders consider themselves the future of the Virtual Adepts, creating a world in the image of visionaries like Grant Morrison or Terence McKenna.\n\nIn a location-based game (also known as a pervasive game), reality hacking refers to tapping into phenomena that exist in the real world, and tying them into the game story universe.\n\nThere have been various academic approaches to deal with hacktivism and urban hacking. In 2010, Günther Friesinger, Johannes Grenzfurthner and Thomas Ballhausen published an entire reader dedicated to the subject. They state: \"Urban spaces became battlefields, signifiers have been invaded, new structures have been established: Netculture replaced counterculture in most parts and also focused on the everchanging environments of the modern city. Important questions have been brought up to date and reasked, taking current positions and discourses into account. The major question still remains, namely how to create culturally based resistance under the influence of capitalistic pressure and conservative politics.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9594858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594858", "title": "Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research", "text": "Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research\n\nThe Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research (HIIK) is an independent and interdisciplinary registered association located at the Department of Political Science at the University of Heidelberg. Since 1991, the HIIK has been committed to the distribution of knowledge about the emergence, course and settlement of interstate and intrastate political conflicts. The Conflict Barometer is published annually and contains the current research results.\n\nThe HIIK's annual publication Conflict Barometer describes the recent trends in global conflict developments, escalations, de-escalations, and settlements. Coup d'état, attempted coups d'états, as well as implemented measures of conflict resolution are also reported. It is subdivided into five world regions and presents all present conflicts in detailed charts and short descriptions. The methodological approach consists of the conflict definition and the measuring of the conflict intensity.\n\nFollowing a methodological revision in 2011, changes in the Heidelberg methodology included allocating intensities not only based on state units and calendar years, but also on the level of subnational units and calendar months. Furthermore, the establishment of intensities now follows an analysis of clearly conceived proxy indicators, used for the assessment of means and consequences of a conflict measure. This analysis continues to be based on the actions of conflict actors, as well as the communication between them. Through the conceptual refinement and standardization of data collection and documentation, the HIIK data achieves a higher degree of precision, reliability, and comprehensibility regarding information on political conflicts.\n\nA political conflict is a positional difference between at least two assertive and directly involved actors regarding values relevant to a society (the conflict items including (territory, secession, decolonization, autonomy, system/ideology, national power, regional predominance, international power, resources, other)) which is carried out using observable and interrelated conflict measures that lie outside established regulatory procedures and threaten core state functions, the international order, or hold the prospect of doing so.\n(1) There must be at least two entities possessing intellectual capacity and vision, and who are capable of communicating. Such an entity is called an actor.\n(2) In order for the actors to sense incompatibility between their ideas and beliefs, there must be reciprocal actions and acts of communication between said actors. These actions and acts of communication are called measures.\n(3) A communicating act always refers to a specific issue, an action always refers to a certain object. The subject behind a measure is called item.\nFor the purpose of defining the term political conflict more precisely, the three elements aforementioned shall be further defined. These elements are necessary requirements for the existence of a political conflict.\n\nThe table below presents data after the 2011 methodology revision. Violent conflicts include highly violent ones, the latter being classified into limited and full-scale wars.\n\n"}
{"id": "47076494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47076494", "title": "Helsinki Challenge", "text": "Helsinki Challenge\n\nHelsinki Challenge is a science-based competition and idea accelerator which brings together the academic community and society at large to solve the world’s grand challenges in cooperation. The competition goal is not only to create new scientific information, but to influence society.\n\nMultidisciplinary teams consisting of experts from the academic and artistic communities, the business world, the public and third sectors, media and other actors of the society are welcome to take part in the competition. Participating teams are evaluated by the jury using the following criteria: originality, creativity, impact, focus on solutions and use of science-based methods. The competition prize is 375,000 euros and it is meant for the implementation of the solution.\n\nHelsinki Challenge was held for the first time in 2015. In 2017, the competition is organised by the University of Helsinki in collaboration with Aalto University, Hanken School of Economics, University of Eastern Finland, University of Jyväskylä, University of Oulu, University of the Arts Helsinki, University of Turku, University of Vaasa and Åbo Akademi University.\n\nThe first ever Helsinki Challenge was organised by the University of Helsinki and celebrated the University’s 375th anniversary in 2015. The first Helsinki Challenge competition themes were: environmental change, health and wellbeing, future learning, global Helsinki and new world view.\n\nOut of 80 proposals, a list of 20 semifinalists were announced in December 2014. Teams’ competition ideas ranged from developing tools to analyze big data on the Finnish discussion forum Suomi24 to studying our expectations of robot morality.\n\nFuture Organization, team leader Veikko Eranti\n\nClimate Whirl, team leader Eija Juurola\n\nSustainability tracker, team leader Kaisa Korhonen-Kurki\n\nPlay Learn Heal, team leader Kristiina Kumpulainen\n\nMoralities of Intelligent Machines, team leader Michael Laakasuo\n\nThe Citizen Mindscapes, team leader Krista Lagus\n\nGround and Growth, team leader Kristina Lindström\n\nEngaging Future Workplace, team leader Kirsti Lonka\n\nLab Impact Africa, team leader Christina Lyra\n\nHigher Education Unbounded, team leader Katalin Miklossy\n\nUrban Academy, team leader Jari Niemelä\n\nTell Us, team leader Maria Niemi\n\nBiodiversity Now, team leader Markku Ollikainen\n\nHelsinki Sleep Factory, team leader Anu-Katriina\n\nViewfinder, team leader Paavo Pylkkänen\n\nSafePreg – Health into Next Generation, team leader Katri Räikkönen\n\nNEMO - Natural Emotionality in Digital Interaction, team leader Katri Saarikivi\n\nGeneration Green, team leader Tiina Sikanen\n\nThe Happiness Project, team leader Laura Visapää\n\nGenetic Correction of Inherited Hemoglobin Disease, team leader Kirmo Wartiovaara\n\nIn October 2015, the five finalist teams were chosen: Moralities of Intelligent Machines, Biodiversity Now, Helsinki Sleep Factory, SafePreg – Health into Next Generation and NEMO - Natural Emotionality in Digital Interaction. The jury for the final included Chancellor Thomas Wilhelmsson (chair), Pro-Vice Chancellor of Education Sally Mapstone from the University of Oxford, Professor of Practice Pasi Sahlberg from Harvard University’s Harvard Graduate School of Education, Director Ulrich Weinberg from the Hasso Plattner Institute School of Design Thinking and President Mikko Kosonen of the Finnish Innovation Fund SITRA.\n\nThe €375,000 prize for the science-based idea competition Helsinki Challenge was divided between two teams. The winner was NEMO – Natural Emotionality in Digital Interaction, which received €250,000, while the runner-up, Biodiversity Now, received €125,000.The prize money is intended for realising the team’s idea.\n\nNEMO is developing new ways to digitise and transmit emotion online.The team is planning small add-ons for digital interaction platforms that would consider emotions.This way participants in online discussions could see or even experience the emotions of others in a new way that would be equivalent to natural interaction.The team wants to create an open protocol for emotion transmission for any coder to use for building new empathy-enabling applications.\n\nBiodiversity Now team wants to establish a Finnish habitat bank so that, for example, companies reducing biodiversity through a construction project could offset this by increasing biodiversity elsewhere.\n\nThe second Helsinki Challenge was kicked off in August 2016. The winner will be announced in conjunction with the centennial of Finland's independence in 2017. The new Helsinki Challenge themes: Sustainable Plant, Urban Future and People in Change are linked to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals. The intention is to create solutions for future wellbeing through cooperation with a range of different institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "15671347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15671347", "title": "John Roberton (1797)", "text": "John Roberton (1797)\n\nJohn Roberton (20 March 1797 – 24 August 1876) was a Scottish physician and social reformer. He was a pioneer of modern obstetrics and of evidence-based medicine, and influential in the intellectual life of Victorian Manchester.\n\nRoberton was born near Hamilton, Lanarkshire and educated for the medical profession at Glasgow and Edinburgh. He was admitted a member of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh in 1817. He intended to be a ship's surgeon, and was on his way to the West Indies when he was wrecked on the Lancashire coast. While at Liverpool he was encouraged to take up his residence at Warrington. He became a Licentiate of the Society of Apothecaries in 1822, and on 9 October 1823 married Mary (1794/5–1851), daughter of David Bellhouse. The couple subsequently moved to Manchester. He soon had an extensive general practice, and, on his appointment in 1827 to the post of surgeon to the Manchester Lying-in Hospital, turned his special attention to midwifery and to the physiology and diseases of women and children. He was also a lecturer at the Marsden Street School of Medicine. His first publication was \"Observations on the Mortality and Physical Management of Children\" (1827). From 1830 onwards he wrote a series of scientific papers for the \"Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal\" on the time of onset of female puberty in various countries, which led James Cowles Prichard to alter some of the conclusions which he had arrived at in the earlier editions of his \"Physical History of Mankind\". These, along with other similar papers, are reprinted in Roberton's most important work, \"Essays and Notes on the Physiology and Diseases of Women and on Practical Midwifery\" (London, 1851). He devoted much time to the subject of hospital construction and the provision of convalescent homes, on which he wrote a number of pamphlets between 1831 and 1861.\n\nRoberton's advice was largely sought in the discipline in which he had specialised, obstetrics, and he was aware of the broader social and medical context of his work. He helped much to extend the fame of the Manchester school of obstetrics founded by Charles White and continued by John Hull and Thomas Radford.\n\nHe was an active social reformer, interesting himself in all local and national movements for improving the condition of working people and active in the Manchester Statistical Society. In religion he was a puritan and nonconformist, and the intimate friend of the popular preachers Robert Stephen McAll and Robert Halley.\n\nHe died at his residence at New Mills, Derbyshire, where he had retired on relinquishing his practice. His wealth at death was under £40,000 (under £2.9 million at 2003 prices).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46550108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46550108", "title": "Legal technology", "text": "Legal technology\n\nLegal technology, also known as Legal Tech, refers to the use of technology and software to provide legal services. Legal Tech companies are generally startups founded with the purpose of disrupting the traditionally conservative legal market. According to TechCrunch, as of December 2014, \"legal technology is booming, with companies attempting to disrupt the legal space at every level and from every angle\" and Forbes noted in February 2015 that there were “hundreds of legal startups popping up all over the US and Europe”.\n\nLegal technology traditionally referred to the application of technology and software to help law firms with practice management, document storage, billing, accounting and electronic discovery. Since 2011, Legal Tech has evolved to be associated more with technology startups disrupting the practice of law by giving people access to online software that reduces or in some cases eliminates the need to consult a lawyer, or by connecting people with lawyers more efficiently through online marketplaces and lawyer-matching websites.\n\nThe legal industry is widely seen to be conservative and traditional, with Law Technology Today noting that \"in 50 years, the customer experience at most law firms has barely changed\". Reasons for this include the fact law firms face weaker cost-cutting incentives than other professions (since they pass disbursements directly to their client) and are seen to be risk averse (as a minor technological error could have significant financial consequences for a client).\n\nHowever, the growth of the hiring by businesses of in-house counsel and their increasing sophistication, together with the development of email, has led to clients placing increasing cost and time pressure on their lawyers. In addition, there are increasing incentives for lawyers to become technologically competent, with the American Bar Association voting in August 2012 to amend the Model Rules of Professional Conduct to require lawyers to keep abreast of \"the benefits and risks associated with relevant technology\", and the saturation of the market leading many lawyers to look for cutting-edge ways to compete. The exponential growth in the volume of documents (mostly email) that must be reviewed for litigation cases has greatly accelerated the adoption of technology used in eDiscovery, with elements of machine language and artificial intelligence being incorporated and cloud-based services being adopted by law firms.\n\nInvestment in Legal Tech is predominantly focused in the United States with more than $254 million invested in 2014 in the United States, however there is significant growth worldwide.\n\nStanford Law School has started CodeX, the Center for Legal Informatics, an interdisciplinary research center, which also incubates companies started by law students and computer scientists. Some companies that have come out of the program include Lex Machina and Legal.io.\n\nTraditional areas of Legal Tech include:\n\nMore recent areas of growth in Legal Tech focus on:\n\nLegal research:\n\n\nSeed round:\nSeries A and beyond:\n\nOther legal technology companies:\n\n"}
{"id": "21938890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21938890", "title": "List of interstellar radio messages", "text": "List of interstellar radio messages\n\nThis is a list of interstellar radio messages.\n\nThere are eleven realized IRM projects:\n\n\nThe Across the Universe message, A Simple Response to an Elemental Message and Hello From Earth are not always considered serious. The first two of them were sent to Polaris, which is 431 light years distant from us and whose planetary system, even if it exists, may not be suited for life, because it is a supergiant star, spectral type F7Ib which is only 70 million years old. In addition, both transmission rates were very high, about 128 kbit/s, for such moderate transmitter power (about 18 kW). The main defect of the \"Hello From Earth\" is an insufficient scientific and technical justification, since no famous SETI scientist made statements with validation of HFE's design. As it follows from : \"After the final message was collected on Monday 24 August 2009, messages were exported as a text file and sent to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California, where they were encoded into binary, packaged and tested before transmission\", but nobody explained why he hopes that such encoded and packaged text will be understood and conceived by possible extraterrestrials.\n\nSome use the term \"Active SETI Project\", but Alexander Zaitsev, who was a scientific head of composing and transmissions of Cosmic Call 1999 & 2003, and Teen Age Message 2001, and a scientific consultant of A Message From Earth, emphasized that he considers above IRMs as the METI (\"Messaging to Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence Projects\").\n\nThese seven messages have targeted stars between 20 and 69 light-years from the Earth. The exception is the Arecibo message, which targeted globular cluster M13, approximately 24,000 light-years away. The first message to reach its destination will be A Message From Earth, which should reach the Gliese 581 planetary system in Libra in 2029.\n\nOn 13 February 2015, scientists (including Geoffrey Marcy, Seth Shostak, Frank Drake, Elon Musk and David Brin) at a convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, discussed Active SETI and whether transmitting a message to possible intelligent extraterrestrials in the Cosmos was a good idea; one result was a statement, (which was not signed by Seth Shostak or Frank Drake), that a \"worldwide scientific, political and humanitarian discussion must occur before any message is sent\".\n\nStars to which messages were sent include:\n\nAlong with serious IRM projects, a bulk of pseudo-METI projects also exist:\n\n"}
{"id": "26456741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26456741", "title": "List of largest residences in Saudi Arabia", "text": "List of largest residences in Saudi Arabia\n\nThis is a list of single-family residences located in Saudi Arabia which have living space in excess of .\n\n"}
{"id": "7631543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7631543", "title": "List of things named after Albert Einstein", "text": "List of things named after Albert Einstein\n\nThis is a list of things named after Albert Einstein.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165622", "title": "Neophile", "text": "Neophile\n\nNeophile or Neophiliac, a term popularised by cult writer Robert Anton Wilson, is a personality type characterized by a strong affinity for novelty. The term was used earlier by Christopher Booker in his book The Neophiliacs (1969), and by J. D. Salinger in his short story Hapworth 16, 1924 (1965).\n\nNeophiles/Neophiliacs have the following basic characteristics:\n\n\nA neophile is distinct from a revolutionary in that anyone might become a revolutionary if pushed far enough by the reigning authorities or social norms, whereas neophiles are revolutionaries by nature. Their intellectual abhorrence of tradition and repetition usually bemoans a deeper emotional need for constant novelty and change. The meaning of neophile approaches and is not mutually exclusive to the term visionary, but differs in that a neophile actively seeks first-hand experience of novelty rather than merely pontificating about it.\n\nThe opposite of a neophile is a neophobe; a person with an aversion to novelty and change. Wilson observes that neophobes tend to regard neophiles, especially extreme ones, with fear and contempt, and to brand them with titles such as \"witch,\" \"satanist,\" \"heretic,\" etc. He also speculates in his Prometheus Rising series of books that the industrial revolution and related enlightenment represents one of the first periods of history in which neophiles were a dominant force in society. Neophiles accelerate change because they like it that way.\n\nOpen-source advocate and programmer Eric S. Raymond observes that this personality is especially prevalent in certain fields of expertise; in business, these are primarily computer science and other areas of high technology. Raymond speculates that the rapid progress of these fields (especially computers) is a result of this. A neophile's love of novelty is likely to lead them into subjects outside of the normal areas of human interest. Raymond observes a high concentration of neophiles in or around what he calls \"leading edge subcultures\" such as science fiction fandom, neo-paganism, transhumanism, etc. as well as in or around nontraditional areas of thought such as fringe philosophy or the occult. Raymond observes that most neophiles have roving interests and tend to be widely well-read.\n\nThere is more than one type of neophile. There are social neophiles (the extreme social butterfly), intellectual neophiles (the revolutionary philosopher and the technophile), and physical/kinetic neophiles (the extreme sports enthusiast). These tendencies are not mutually exclusive, and might exist simultaneously in the same individual.\n\nThe word \"neophilia\" has particular significance in Internet and hacker culture. \"The New Hacker's Dictionary\" gave the following definition to neophilia:\n\nThe trait of being excited and pleased by novelty. Common among most hackers, SF fans, and members of several other connected leading-edge subcultures, including the pro-technology 'Whole Earth' wing of the ecology movement, space activists, many members of Mensa, and the Discordian/neo-pagan underground (see geek). All these groups overlap heavily and (where evidence is available) seem to share characteristic hacker tropisms for science fiction, music.\n\nResearch has uncovered a possible link between certain predisposition to some kind of neophilia and increased levels of the enzyme monoamine oxidase A.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9744337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9744337", "title": "Omorashi", "text": "Omorashi\n\n, sometimes abbreviated as simply \"omo\", is a form of urolagnia (urine fetish) subculture originating and predominately recognized in Japan, in which participants experience arousal from having a full bladder or wetting themselves, or from seeing someone else experiencing a full bladder or wetting themselves. Outside Japan, it is not usually distinguished from urolagnia, though they are different things. Westerners who do make the distinction commonly use phrases such as \"bladder desperation\" or \"panty wetting\", although a number of fetishist communities in the West have also adopted the more specific Japanese language terminology. The term \"omorashi\" means \"to wet oneself\", literally translated, \"leaking\". The word is also occasionally romanized as \"omorasi\" in the Kunrei-shiki romanization system.\n\nMost fetish activities concerning the use of bodily waste are considered by the general public as \"hardcore\", taboo, or edgeplay. However, because the object of the fetish is clothed incontinence, omorashi videos do not necessarily feature direct sexual contact. The focus on clothed (rather than overtly sexual images) makes garment fetishism a prominent feature in most omorashi erotica: commonly featured outfits include those worn by schoolgirls, working professionals, and other people attempting to look dignified before succumbing to the need to urinate.\n\nThere are many ways in which omorashi fetishism is practiced in Japan.\n\nOne of the variations is known as \"omorashi yagai\", which translates as \"to wet oneself outdoors (or publicly).\" A further variation includes \"yagai hōnyō\", or \"outdoor (or public) urination\", in which the subject publicly removes their clothes to urinate. Other \"yagai hōnyō\" practitioners operate much like graffiti artists, attempting public urination acts without being caught.\n\nAnother variation of omorashi play is \"omutsu omorashi\" or \"omutsu play (おむつ·プレイ)\" , less commonly called \"oshime omorashi\", both of which translate as \"to wet oneself in a diaper.\" This omutsu variation is essentially the same as the standard omorashi, except that the participants are wearing a diaper. Diapers may be favorable for public wetting because they render it more discreet and eliminate mess, and their use is not limited specifically to those with a diaper fetish. However, omorashi fetishists specifically interested in this aspect of the subculture could be considered a Japanese variation of the diaper lover community.\n\nJapanese acceptance of adult diaper use is comparatively high, with the market for such products growing as much as 6–10% a year. However, these are largely intended for and worn by the elderly, with the growth due to Japan's aging population, and younger people wearing these have met with some criticism. In 2012, the Japanese magazine SPA ran an article entitled \"The Ultimate Form of Slob\", which criticized the trend of young Japanese women who wear diapers to avoid public restrooms. The article included an interview with a 25-year-old woman who had been wearing diapers \"instead of going to the toilet\" for a period of six months, \"wearing [them] almost every day.\"\n\n\"See also: Underwear fetishism\"\n\nSome individuals find it attractive when one was to wet themself in a skirt. Typically, in Japan, this would be a high-school girl wearing a short pleated skirt resembling a school uniform.\n\nIn order to avoid Japan's strict censorship laws, which limited depictions of actual sex and pubic hair, erotic films (known as \"pink films\") often relied on fetish elements which could skirt such restrictions. One such film, \"\" in 1973, would be the first to depict an omorashi scenario to a theatrical audience.\n\nAs the AV (adult video) genre took hold in the 1980s, videos specifically devoted to omorashi began to appear. Several notable AV idols have starred in such scenes, including Sakura Sakurada. However, perhaps because of its softcore nature, omorashi never became a clearly pornographic genre.\n\nToday, Japanese omorashi fans also enjoy game show-style pornographic videos in which contestants must compete in various urine-holding challenges. The Giga video company's \"Desperation Tournament\" series is an example of this kind of contest. One such activity is a panel of contestants competing to hold their bladders, or to guess which woman has to use the restroom the most.\n\nSince the 1990s, magazine companies catering to the Japanese kink community have produced a number of periodicals dedicated to omorashi subculture, including most notably 's (rendered phonetically as the wasei-eigo おもらし倶楽部, or \"Omorashi Kurabu\"). First published September 22, 1994, \"Omorashi Club\"'s success allowed Sanwa to extend the brand in 2006 to include a DVD magazine. The following year, the demand for material catering specifically to \"omutsu omorashi\" fandom led to further expansion with the spin-off periodical (おむつ倶楽部, or \"Omutsu Kurabu\"). The scarcity of earlier issues of these magazines has caused them to become collector's items.\n\nJapanese-produced omorashi media also include comic books and cartoons. These range from independently produced dōjinshi to large, commercially-produced manga. Some focus exclusively on omorashi stories, while others include only the occasional scene. Some contain obvious sexual themes and could be considered a form of H manga, while others, like \"Iinari! Aibure-shon\", are well known to be suitable for all ages, since they have only mild ecchi content such as panchira. Omorashi manga may also adopt the formula of an existing genre while shifting the focus towards wetting scenarios, as in \"Omujo! Omutsu Joshi\", which follows the typical Harem formula but features teenage characters who wet their panties and wear diapers.\n\nWetting scenes have existed in anime as early as the popular Doraemon and \"Devilman\" series of the 1970s. \nHowever, these did not have the erotic context which characterizes modern omorashi media, since they predated the first full-blown anime pornography, which was not available until 1984, when the advent of the first H anime OVAs such as Wonder Kids' \"Lolita Anime\" were made possible by the widespread availability of home video. One example of this later erotic context is the 1994 H anime OVA \"Vixens\", which features scenes of incontinence in a setting that is overtly sexual.\n\nThere are also sites where users can upload and watch their own pictures. It can be fanart or manga. Sometimes there are GIFs involved. The most known site for such fanart is omorashi.org. Those pictures are more likely the fanart of already existing anime or game characters (SAO or Touhou), but there are some own pictures too.\n\nAn \"eroge\" (erotic game) is a Japanese video or computer game that features erotic content, usually in the form of anime-style artwork. The crossover of omorashi and anime fandom has produced a number of games such as \"Water Closet: The Forbidden Chamber\" which are specifically focused on omorashi. The limited popularity of omorashi in the West has prompted a number of programmers in the scene to create software patches for these Japanese games which translate the on screen text into English.\n\nSome eroge game designers have capitalized on the omorashi fandom's niche market by including the occasional wetting scene in their games as a selling point. \"MAID iN HEAVEN SuperS\", for example, which contains only a single, diapered wetting scene, was used to spin-off an entire set of collectible figures in various omorashi poses. These PVC model figures were created by toy manufacturer Giga Pulse, which is not related to the video company of similar name.\n\nWith the translation of omorashi into manga and its subsequent adoption by otaku fandom, a number of omorashi themed collectibles have appeared on the Japanese market, including figurines and \"Shizukuishi kyuun kyuun toilet paper\" printed with wetting scenes featuring the character Shizukuishi from the omorashi manga, \"Iinari! Aibure-shon\".\n\nThough there is a small community devoted to such fetishism outside Japan, it is usually overshadowed by the more hardcore fetishes, urolagnia and urophagia. Vice Media has documented an account of an omorashi community existing in the United States since at least 1970. Outside Japan omorashi groups sometimes refer to their shared interest as \"desperation/wetting\" fetishism, often making a distinction between content featuring males and females. Some English language websites with a focus on females simply identify as \"panty wetting.\" Since such sites abandon the \"desperation\" title which implies an effort not to wet, they are more likely to include nudity, overtly sexual models and situations, as well as purposeful (as opposed to accidental) wetting. There are still communities which focus on the more tame or softcore aspects of omorashi, which are generally focused on simple wetting in fully or semi-clothed situations without the overtly sexual models and situations. However, this softcore side is more rare in English-speaking communities than the more explicitly sexual omorashi content.\n\nThough there is generally no wide acceptance of incontinence-based play, recent studies in England have shown that urinary incontinence during sexual activity is a \"common, but rarely volunteered symptom\" observed in 24% of sexually active women. Moreover, no connection could be identified with any specific abnormality of bladder function associated with these symptoms, indicating that such leakage is both normal and healthy.\n\nBecause of the western stigma in numerous countries against urine, omorashi subculture has not received such diverse exposure in non-Japanese media. In some countries, governments have even banned such materials. In New Zealand for example, creating, trading, distributing (e.g. making available on one's web page) anything promoting or supporting \"the use of urine or excrement in association with degrading or dehumanising conduct or sexual conduct\" is a felony punishable by up to ten (10) years in jail.\n\nAn early example of pants-wetting appearing in a sexualized context in the west can be found in the 1928 erotic novel Story of the Eye.\n\nOmorashi periodicals outside of Japan include the Australia based, internationally distributed, \"Wet Set Magazine\". The welcome header on their website reads:\n\nThough Wet Set publications were originally only available in English, readership in German speaking countries has since proved high enough to justify printing some materials in German.\n\nThough Wet Set does not generally acknowledge the comparatively large Asian fan base over any other country, some Western advocates of omorashi recognize a heavy Asian influence. For instance, in a February 2006 issue of The Brooklyn Rail, American poet Garrett Caples of Oakland, California chose to describe the shooting of an omorashi film in a Japanese setting.\n\nAside from lending Western omorashi media an \"authentic\" quality, the inclusion of Japanese models and settings might also be seen as an attempt to play upon the stereotype of ultrapassivity globally associated with Asian women, further enhancing their perceived \"moe\" qualities and catering to Asian fetishists.\n\nOmorashi may be practiced in BDSM, where the dominant controls how and when the submissive is allowed to use the bathroom. This is sometimes referred to as \"bathroom use control\". The 2002 award-winning film \"Secretary\" depicted a scene of bathroom use control resulting in the submissive wetting her dress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8545988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8545988", "title": "Participatory development communication", "text": "Participatory development communication\n\nParticipatory development communication is the use of mass media and traditional, inter-personal means of communication that empowers communities to visualise aspirations and discover solutions to their development problems and issues.\n\nParticipatory communication is \"the theory and practices of communication used to involve people in the decision-making of the development process. It intends to return to the roots of its meaning, which, similarly to the term community, originate from the Latin word 'communis', i.e. common (Mody, 1991). Therefore, the purpose of communication should be to make something common, or to share...meanings, perceptions, worldviews or knowledge. In this context, sharing implies an equitable division of what is being shared, which is why communication should almost be naturally associated with a balanced, two-way flow of information.\"\n\nBased on a \"Results\" section which synthesises and recaps the main issues by reviewing how the conception and levels of participation identified in his research have shifted in each phase of the project, Mefalopulos concludes by arguing that participatory communication is an approach capable of facilitating people's involvement in decision-making about issues impacting their lives – a process capable of addressing specific needs and priorities relevant to people and at the same time assisting in their empowerment. In fact, he says, participatory communication is \"a necessary component, consistent with a democratic vision of international development, needed to increase projects sustainability and ensure genuine ownership by the so-called 'beneficiaries'.\"\n\nCommunication planning for development is a logical process guided by a systematic and rational framework. This framework could be developed through situation-specific data gathered using participatory research techniques.\n\nSituation assessment could be done most effectively in a participatory manner through PRCA or participatory rural communication appraisal. Three kinds of analysis are done in PRCA: audience analysis, programme analysis, and situation analysis.\nAudience analysis Audience analysis is essentially \"listening\" to what potential users of information need. They are the ones whom the communication program intends to reach. Users of information are also referred to as stakeholders of a communication program. Collecting baseline information about these stakeholders is an essential preliminary step towards developing a communication strategy.\nSegmentation, or dividing large groups of stakeholders into smaller groups, helps achieve focus in communication strategy development. Segmentation is usually done in two ways:\n\nWhat are the factors which cause a gap between the existing and desired behavior of stakeholders? Is the problem due to the stakeholders' lack of awareness or knowledge of the nature of the problem? Or is it attitudinal in nature? Could the gap be due to their lack of skills to carry out certain practices?\nSituation analysis likewise includes assessing the communication resources in the area which could be tapped for the communication program. Knowledge of the area's mass and small media, as well as interpersonal means of communication, should contribute substantially to strategy development.\nProgramme analysis\nWhen doing program analysis, program planners need to take both an inward and an outward look at the situation that is, looking at the organization's own vision, policies, resources, strengths, and weaknesses relevant to the problem.\nAre there adequate resources to realize this vision? How well are program managers using available resources? At the same time, it is important to scan the environment for existing programs that could affect, positively or negatively, the communication strategy to be developed.\n\nData that have been collected need to be analyzed and interpreted carefully as these will serve as bases of the communication strategy. Communication strategy is the combination of methods, messages, and approaches by which the planner seeks to achieve the communication objectives.\nThe second phase of the process charts the direction of the communication program. It is at this stage where objectives and the corresponding standards and indicators for monitoring and evaluation are formulated.\nThe very word strategy suggests a unique combination of techniques or approaches by which to achieve program goals and objectives.\nDuring strategy design formulation, planners also begin thinking of the following:\n\nThe main activities under the message design phase are selection of message appeals and approaches and selection of communication channels and media. The big challenge at this stage is the development of the big idea or the creative concept around which the whole communication program would revolve.\nProfessional communication outfits are often tapped to develop messages and communication materials for the above-mentioned processes. The disadvantage of this approach, aside from the huge expense involved, is the lack of participation from the stakeholders themselves.\nInvolving the stakeholders in message and materials development increases the likelihood that the communication program would help achieve the bigger development goals.\n\nActual development of communication methods and materials are undertaken once the communication strategy is in place.\nA useful reminder to planners concerns the importance of pretesting not only the materials themselves, but also the creative idea and the messages. Pretesting allows for adjustments in the communication activities before substantial time, efforts, and resources are spent on their actual production.\nPretesting measures potential effectiveness of communication messages, methods, and materials in terms of their being able to attract attention, to be understood, to be accepted, and to generate the feeling of self-involvement among the stakeholders.\n\nManagement of the organization carrying out the communication program and networking are two of the most important activities in this phase.\nA manager's internal task entails preparing or training people for their respective tasks in the organization within a positive organizational climate. The external task calls for forging linkages with key organizations engaged in the same area of development work.\nAfter all the preparatory stages, launching and carrying out the communication campaign or program now takes priority. Together with this come monitoring the process of dissemination, transmission, and reception of programme inputs.\nThe management aspect also covers the management improvement process and the concept of leadership as they affect implementation of communication programmes.\n\nMonitoring enables the planners and implementors to answer the question: Are things going all right? Evaluation, on the other hand, provides answers to the question: So, did it work?\nTogether, monitoring and evaluation help planners and implementors:\nTo help gauge programme impact on stakeholders, it is important to set up clear standards and indicators based on the objectives set. How much have the activities contributed to achieving objectives of key organizations? This can be gauged by comparing evaluation with baseline data, specifically those gathered during the PRCA.\nMore importantly, monitoring and evaluation data contribute to planning for program sustainability and self-sufficiency.\n\nParticipation can be used as a goal or as a tool for specific projects. The four categories below refer to different levels of participation and communication:\n\nThe stakeholders of a project essentially act as \"empty vessels\" and receive information. Feedback is minimal if at all and participation is assessed through methods such as head counts.\n\nResearchers or \"experts\" pose questions to the stakeholders. Input can be provided at different points in time but the final analysis and decision-making power lies in the hands of the external professionals whom may or may not take the stakeholders' decisions into consideration.\n\nGroups of primary stakeholders are formed in order to participate in discussion and analysis. Objectives are predetermined. This method incorporates components of horizontal communication and capacity building among all stakeholders.\n\nPrimary stakeholders are capable and willing to become involved in the process and take part in decision-making. Outsiders are equal partners, but the stakeholders make the final decisions as ownership and control of the process rests in their hands. Knowledge exchange leads to solutions.\n\nMinga Peru is a non-profit organization formed to address issues of \"social justice, gender equality, reproductive health, and human rights\". Minga has targeted the northern Loreto region for its development of \"communicative spaces\" which hope to spark debate and participation from the community. In order to achieve these goals they have produced a radio program, started a community empowerment and leadership program and supported income generating activities.\n\nThese activities are community-based approaches as evidenced by editorial letters being sent to the radio program, use of youth correspondents which provides the community with access to and voice within the broadcast, and emphasis on social networking which has resulted in stronger social cohesion. The most prominent outcomes in the empowerment of women through self-confidence. Women are better able to develop professional and social networks and have improved capacity to handle health challenges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "307834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307834", "title": "Public", "text": "Public\n\nIn public relations and communication science, publics are groups of individual people, and the public (a.k.a. the general public) is the totality of such groupings. This is a different concept to the sociological concept of the Öffentlichkeit or public sphere. The concept of a public has also been defined in political science, psychology, marketing, and advertising. In public relations and communication science, it is one of the more ambiguous concepts in the field. Although it has definitions in the theory of the field that have been formulated from the early 20th century onwards, it has suffered in more recent years from being blurred, as a result of conflation of the idea of a public with the notions of audience, market segment, community, constituency, and stakeholder.\n\nThe name \"public\" originates with the Latin \"publicus\" (also \"poplicus\"), from \"populus\", to the English word 'populace', and in general denotes some mass population (\"the people\") in association with some matter of common interest. So in political science and history, a public is a population of individuals in association with civic affairs, or affairs of office or state. In social psychology, marketing, and public relations, a public has a more situational definition. John Dewey defined a public as a of who, in facing a , recognize it and organize themselves to address it. Dewey's definition of a public is thus situational: people organized about a situation. Built upon this situational definition of a public is the situational theory of publics by James E. Grunig , which talks of \"nonpublics\" (who have no problem), \"latent publics\" (who have a problem), \"aware publics\" (who recognize that they have a problem), and \"active publics\" (who do something about their problem).\n\nIn public relations and communication theory, a public is distinct from a stakeholder or a market. A public is a subset of the set of stakeholders for an organization, that comprises those people concerned with a specific issue. Whilst a market has an exchange relationship with an organization, and is usually a passive entity that is created by the organization, a public does not necessarily have an exchange relationship, and is both self-creating and self-organizing. Publics are targeted by public relations efforts. In this, \"target publics\" are those publics whose involvement is necessary for achieving organization goals; \"intervening publics\" are opinion formers and mediators, who pass information to the target publics; and \"influentials\" are publics that the target publics turn to for consultation, whose value judgements are influential upon how a target public will judge any public relations material. The public is often targeted especially in regard to political agendas as their vote is necessary in order to further the progression of the cause. As seen in Massachusetts between 2003 and 2004, it was necessary to \"win a critical mass of states and a critical mass of public support\" in order to get same-sex marriage passed in the commonwealth.\n\nPublic relations theory perspectives on publics are situational, per Dewey and Grunig; mass, where a public is simply viewed as a population of individuals; agenda-building, where a public is viewed as a condition of political involvement that is not transitory; and \"homo narrans\", where a public is (in the words of Gabriel M. Vasquez, assistant professor in the School of Communication at the University of Houston) a collection of \"individuals that develop a group consciousness around a problematic situation and act to solve the problematic situation\" . Public schools are often under controversy for their \"agenda-building,\" especially in debates over whether to teach a religious or secular curriculum. The promotion of an agenda is commonplace whenever one is in a public environment, but schools have exceptional power in that regard. In the public school system, it is the responsibility of those within the system to determine what agenda is being promoted.\n\nOne non-situational concept of a public is that of Kirk Hallahan, professor at Colorado State University, who defines a public as \"a group of people who relate to an organization, who demonstrate varying degrees of activity—passivity, and who might (or might not) interact with others concerning their relationship with the organization\".\n\nSamuel Mateus's 2011 paper \"Public as Social Experience\" considered to view the concept by an alternative point of view: the public \"is neither a simple audience constituted by media consumers nor just a rational-critical agency of a Public Sphere\". He argued \"the concept should also be seen in the light of a publicness principle, beyond a critic and manipulative publicity (...). In accordance, the public may be regarded as the result of the social activities made by individuals sharing symbolic representations and common emotions in publicness. Seen with lower-case, the concept is a set of subjectivities who look publicly for a feeling of belonging. So, in this perspective, the public is still a fundamental notion to social life although in a different manner in comparison to 18th century Public Sphere's Public. He means above all the social textures and configurations where successive layers of social experience are built up.\"\n\nThe general public also sets social norms which causes people to express themselves in socially acceptable manners. Although this is present within every community, this is often especially applicable within the transgender community as they feel the need to \"perform\" to a certain set of expectations to be seen as their true gender.\n\nSocial publics are groups of people united by common ideas, ideology, or hobbies.\n\nNetworked publics are social publics which have been socially restructured by the networking of technologies. As such, they are simultaneously both (1) the space constructed through networked technologies and (2) the imagined collective which consequently emerges as a result of the intersection of human persons, shared technologies, and their practices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7787984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7787984", "title": "Public and private screening", "text": "Public and private screening\n\nA public screening is the showing of moving pictures to an audience in a public place. The event screened may be live or recorded, free or paid, and may use film, video, or a broadcast method such as satellite or closed-circuit television. Popular events for public screenings include films, sporting events, and concerts. Private screening refers to the screening of a commercially made film to a group of people somewhere other than one of their homes. Private screening can be legally complex, as the rules and regulations vary from country to country.\n\nLive public screenings of association football matches, called \"\", became especially popular at the 2006 football World Cup in Germany.\n\nShowing a video to a group of people outside of the home is legally regarded as a public showing, and is therefore in breach of copyright for DVDs/videos that have been purchased or hired for domestic use. To organise a group screening, permission from the copyright owner of the title in question will need to be obtained. Obtaining such rights clearances can be a complex procedure.\n\nFor certain types of screening (\"non-theatrical\" screening), it is possible to hire a copy of a film from its distributor with the rights already cleared. The primary non-theatrical distributors of feature films on DVD, video and 16mm in Britain are the BFI and Filmbank Distributors.\n\nAnother option is to buy a \"blanket\" licence for the year known as a 'Public Video Screening Licence' which may work out cheaper if showing film is to be a regular event.\n\n"}
{"id": "37110651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37110651", "title": "Public bookcase", "text": "Public bookcase\n\nA public bookcase is a cabinet which may be freely and anonymously used for the exchange and storage of books without the formalities associated with libraries. When in public places these cabinets are of a robust and weatherproof design which are available at all times. However, cabinets installed in public or commercial buildings may be simple, unmodified book-shelves and may only be available during certain periods.\n\nClosely allied with the BookCrossing concept, the original public bookcases were conceived as artistic acts. Very early examples are the creations of performance artist duo Clegg & Guttmann in 1991. Collections of bookcases were conceived as \"free open-air libraries\" in Darmstadt and Hannover in the late 1990s.\n\nIn 2002, the Bonn Community Foundation awarded Trixy Royeck funding for her idea \"outdoor books – books in the open\" which she submitted while studying interior design in Mainz and since this time the concept has been widely replicated. A public bookcase opened in 2010 in Vienna, Austria. In Basel, Switzerland, where many coffee shops and other venues host open bookshelves, a public bookcase was unveiled in June 2011.\n\nOpen bookcases are financed by a wide range of organisations (individuals, foundations, Lions Clubs, civic associations, and so on). Visitors to the bookcases decide which books to deposit and borrow, and whether to return or exchange borrowed books for others.\n\nIf a public bookcase is centrally and accessibly located and is stocked with sufficient material, public bookcases are quickly and widely appreciated. Vandalism has occurred in some places and, in successful cases, is countered by \"bookcase sponsors\" or \"godfathers\" who devote their time and attention to care of the collection.\n\nThe acceptance, motivation and user-profile of public bookshelves was examined in 2008 by a study at the University of Bonn. It was found that the system had developed as a notable alternative to conventional bookstores. One cannot equate public bookcases with classic peer-to-peer exchange, but they certainly represent the voluntary transfer of goods. Surveyed users also indicated that they believed that regular use of public bookcases could function as an example for similar schemes for other desirable goods. This acceptance has led to a rapid dissemination of public bookshelves throughout Germany. It has been found that durable construction and storm-resistance promote sustained use.\n\nIn Oerlinghausen there is a modified version of the public bookcase. A small bookcase has been installed in Simon Square by the Friends of The Public Library, in collaboration with the Cohabitation/Society/Culture group of the local Agenda 21. These groups stock the bookcase as needed from a so-called \"book exchange\", a larger public event which has taken place in the Dietrich-Bonhoeffer-Haus in Oerlingsausen-South every Saturday since 2007. One may also deposit book requests to be matched from stock by the operators of the exchange.\n\nThe Salbke Bookmark is a large, open-air construction which includes a number of public bookcases. Originally built on the site of a demolished library in a depopulated district of Magdeburg, the local civic association has moved much of the stock to a nearby vacant shop where more than 10000 donations are securely housed.\n\nA cafe in Marburg includes a public bookcase. The city library now includes a cabinet of books which may be freely taken or exchanged by patrons rather than organising complex book disposal events. The operation of this variant combines the library's daily operations with community control. As the bookcase is located in a protected space it does not require sponsorship or weather protection.\n\nIn the United States, small enclosed bookcases, usually in front of residences, have become a common sight in many cities. Some of these are officially registered with the Little Free Library network. In Europe many public bookcases are registered via the Open Book Case project. The Open source /crowdsourcing mapping project OpenStreetMap has a designated tag for registering the location types and more of public bookcases. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2250557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2250557", "title": "Public duties", "text": "Public duties\n\nPublic duties are performed by military personnel, and usually have a ceremonial or historic significance rather than an overtly operational role.\n\nThere are two regiments in Denmark, who provide soldiers for public duties, the Royal Life Guard regiment and Guard Hussar Regiment. \n\nThe Guard Hussar Regiment Mounted Squadron provide mounted escorts for the Royal family and foreign dignitaries, and carry ceremonial services for the Royal Danish Army. \n\nThe Royal Life Guards provide a permanent guard at the Amalienborg Palace, Kastellet (part of the old fortification of Copenhagen), Rosenborg Castle/garrison of the Royal Life Guards in Copenhagen and the garrison of Høvelte. On occasions guard is kept at Fredensborg Palace, Marselisborg Palace, Gråsten Palace, Christiansborg Palace and other locations inside the Danish realm.\nThe \"Wachregiment Berlin\" was founded in early 1921. In addition to genuine security duties, the unit was used for ceremonial public duties in the capital. The regiment was disbanded in June 1921 and shortly after was revived as \"Kommando der Wachtruppe\" (lit. Headquarters Guard Troop). \n\nThe \"Wachtruppe\" comprised seven companies, each drawn from one of the seven active army divisions. Each company served for three months before returning to its parent division. In this way, the Wachtruppe represented the whole Reichswehr.\n\nThe \"Kommando\" was based at Moabit Barracks, and every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, performed a modest changing of the guard ceremony for the public. On each Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday, the entire \"Wachtruppe\", accompanied by the regimental band, marched from the barracks through the Brandenburg Gate and to the Berlin War Memorial, providing a greater spectacle for public view.\n\nIn 1934, the unit was renamed \"Wachtruppe Berlin\" and in 1936, a headquarters and administration company were added. In June 1937, the unit was again renamed \"Wach Regiment Berlin\". Postings were now done by individuals, not entire companies, and each man served six-month tours of duty. The unit provided escorts and Guards of Honour for State Visits, Conferences and even the Olympic Games.\n\nIn 1939, the unit was reorganized as the Infantry Regiment Großdeutschland. While equipped as a field unit, the regiment also maintained a public duties detachment in the capital. The ceremonial guard was pressed into service during the July bomb plot in 1944 and helped round up conspirators in the capital. \n\nIn 1957, the post-war Bundeswehr established the Wachbataillon, a tri-service unit, for ceremonial duties.\n\nThree infantry battalions of the British army are currently tasked with the provision of Public Duties. Two of these are from the Foot Guards of the Household Division, and one (since 1996) is a line infantry battalion. The former are normally based at Wellington Barracks in central London, within a short distance of Buckingham Palace, and at Victoria Barracks in Windsor Castle, while the latter is at the Cavalry Barracks, Hounslow. Permanent Public Duties companies of the Foot Guards also supplement these men.\n\nApart from providing the Queen's Guard at Buckingham Palace and St James's Palace, and the Tower of London Guard, the Public Duties battalions occasionally also provide the Windsor Castle Guard, which is otherwise provided by the battalion based at Windsor. From 1783 to 1973, the Guards provided a nightly detachment called the Bank Picquet for guard duty at the Bank of England.\n\nPublic duties are also carried out in Edinburgh, although not as frequently as in London. Prior to 2002, sentries were permanently stationed at the entrance to Edinburgh Castle, but these were withdrawn due to cost-cutting measures. Today, sentries are posted during the evenings between 6 pm and 9 am, and throughout the week that HM The Queen spends in Edinburgh at both the castle and the Palace of Holyroodhouse. Sentries are also posted at the castle during the month of the Edinburgh Military Tattoo prior to each performance, with the regiment forming a guard of honour at the end of each performance.\n\nUnlike in London, there is no permanently based foot guards battalion stationed in Edinburgh, so public duties are performed by one of the resident line infantry/rifles battalions. However, as part of the Army 2020 plan, the Balaklava Company of the Royal Regiment of Scotland will be reduced to a single incremental company to be based permanently in Scotland for public duties.\n\nPublic duties are performed in Ottawa, the capital of Canada. The primary ceremonial duties involve mounting guard at the Canadian Parliament and at Rideau Hall, the official residence of the Governor General. These are performed primarily by the two Canadian regiments of foot guards (the Governor General's Foot Guards/Ottawa, and the Canadian Grenadier Guards/Montreal), detachments of which are formed into the Ceremonial Guard. However, as in London, it is possible that any Canadian regiment could serve in this capacity on authority of the Chief of Defence Staff. The guard at Parliament Hill and Rideau Hall are mounted daily from early June until late August, with the first parade usually on the Friday before Canada Day. The Governor General's Foot Guards, a Canadian Primary Reserve Unit, have often been called upon to perform additional public duties in Ottawa since their inception in 1872. Recently, the Ceremonial Guard has also been tasked to mount sentries on the Cenotaph, at Elgin and Wellington St.\n\nProbably the best-known U.S. military unit to regularly engage in public duties is the 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment (\"The Old Guard\") of the U.S. Army. Since April 6, 1948, the regiment is tasked with perpetually guarding the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington National Cemetery. The regiment also regularly takes part in White House ceremonies, including at state visits.\n\nThe other U.S. military services have their own ceremonial units.\n"}
{"id": "1168433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168433", "title": "Public editor", "text": "Public editor\n\nThe job of the public editor is to supervise the implementation of proper journalism ethics at a newspaper, and to identify and examine critical errors or omissions, and to act as a liaison to the public. They do this primarily through a regular feature on a newspaper's editorial page. Because public editors are generally employees of the very newspaper they're criticizing, it may appear as though there is a possibility for bias. However, a newspaper with a high standard of ethics would not fire a public editor for a criticism of the paper; the act would contradict the purpose of the position and would itself be a very likely cause for public concern.\n\nMany major newspapers in the U.S. use the public editor column as the voice for their ombudsman, though this is not always so. Public editor columns cover a broader scope of issues and do not have an accreditation process, while in order to qualify as an ombudsman of any standing one must be a member of the Organisation of News Ombudsmen.\n\nThe first newspaper to appoint an ombudsman was Tokyo's \"Asahi Shimbun\" in 1922; the first American newspapers to appoint a public editor were the \"Louisville Courier-Journal\" and \"Louisville Times\" in 1967.\n\nAt \"The New York Times\", the position was created in response to the Jayson Blair scandal. The \"Times\"' first public editor was Daniel Okrent, who held the position from December 2003 through May 2005. Okrent's successor was Byron Calame, who was followed by Clark Hoyt, who held the position for three years. In August 2010, Arthur S. Brisbane assumed the post and held it until 2012, when Margaret M. Sullivan took the position. in April, 2016, Sullivan left the position to become a media columnist at the \"Washington Post\"; her last column for the \"Times\" was dated April 16. She was replaced by Elizabeth Spayd in July 2016.\nOn May 31, 2017, the \"Times\" announced that it was eliminating the public editor position.\n"}
{"id": "40950159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40950159", "title": "Public philosophy", "text": "Public philosophy\n\nPublic philosophy is a label used for at least two separate philosophical projects. One project often called \"public philosophy\" is to address issues of public importance through philosophy, especially in the areas of public policy, morality and social issues. In this conception, public philosophy is a matter of content, not style. It must concern certain philosophical issues, but may be undertaken in any venue. The second project often called public philosophy is to engage in philosophy in public venues. This view is exemplified by the \"Essays in Philosophy\" special issue on public philosophy (Vol 15, issue 1, 2014), which defined public philosophy as \"doing philosophy with general audiences in a non-academic setting\". Public philosophy, in this conception, is a matter of style not content. It must be undertaken in a public venue but might deal with any philosophical issue. \n\nSome public philosophers are academic professionals, but others may work outside of the usual academic contexts of teaching and writing for peer-reviewed journals.\n\nAccording to one of the founders of the Public Philosophy Network, Sharon Meagher, “'public philosophy' is not simply a matter of doing philosophy in public. A truly public philosophy is one that demands that the\nphilosopher both become a student of community knowledge and reflect on his or her public engagement, recognizing that philosophy can benefit at as much from public contact as can the public benefit from contact with philosophy. The publicly engaged philosopher does not assume that he or she knows the questions in advance, but draws on his or her experiences in the community to\ndevelop and frame questions. Further, publicly engaged philosophy demands accountability on the part of the philosopher to his or her publics—understanding that philosophers are themselves members of those publics.\"\n\nPhilosophers who hold the alternative view, that public philosophy is simply philosophy undertaken in public venues, are engaged in two projects. One of these is to educate the public and the other to engage with the public collaboratively to identify and address public problems. The second approach is often inspired by John Dewey's work on democracy and the need to reconstruct philosophy. The two approaches are not exclusive. For instance, John Pace Dewey, philosopher Michael J. Sandel describes public philosophy as having two aspects. The first is to \"find in the political and legal controversies of our day an occasion for philosophy\". The second is \"to bring moral and political philosophy to bear on contemporary public discourse.\" James Tully says, \"The role of a public philosophy is to address public affairs\", but this \"can be done in many different ways.\" Tully's approach emphasizes \"practice\" through the contestable concepts of citizenship, civic freedom, and nonviolence. Public philosophy, in some conceptions, is a matter of content rather than style. Public philosophy, in this sense, need not be undertaken in a public venue but must deal with a particular subset of philosophical problems.\n\nThe American Philosophical Association created a Committee on Public Philosophy in 2007. Also the Public Philosophy Network has been holding conferences once every two years on advancing public philosophy. A variety of individuals have been identified, either by themselves or others, as public philosophers. These include academics such as Cornel West, Jürgen Habermas, Martha Nussbaum, Richard Rorty, and James Tully, and non-academics such as social activist Jane Addams and novelist Ayn Rand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "296083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296083", "title": "Public reason", "text": "Public reason\n\nPublic reason refers to a common mode of deliberation that individuals may use for issues of public concern. The concept implicitly excludes certain assumptions or motivations that are considered improper as a basis for public decision making, even as a person may apply them in personal decisions that do not have a significant impact on the public. \n\nThe phrase \"public use of one's reason\" (\"Vernunft in allen Stükken öffentlichen Gebrauch\") was used by Immanuel Kant in his 1784 editorial piece responding to the question \"What is Enlightenment?,\" where he distinguished it from private usage of reason, by which he meant reasoning offered from a specific civic office or post. It was developed by American philosopher John Rawls to refer to the common reason of all citizens in a pluralist society. Public reason giving, in the Rawlsian sense, involves justifying a particular position by way of reasons that people of different moral or political backgrounds could accept. Although in his later writings he added what is known as the proviso, meaning that non-public reasons could be given assuming that public reasons would be provided in due course. In order to accomplish this, however, one must overcome what he refers to as the burdens of judgment, which can produce disagreement among reasonable citizens. These burdens include conflicting evidence, giving differing weights to considerations, conceptual indeterminacy, differing experiences and value conflicts. Private reason, by contrast, is the exercise of an individual's reason to the constrained norms and interests of some sub-set of the public as a whole (such as a business, a political party, the military or the family).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2826368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826368", "title": "Red flag (idiom)", "text": "Red flag (idiom)\n\nThe term red flag could mean either a literal flag used for signaling or, as a metaphor, a sign of some particular problem requiring attention.\n\nThe earliest citation for \"red flag\" in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is from 1602 and shows that at that time the flag was used by military forces to indicate that they were preparing for battle.\n\nThe earliest citation of \"red flag\" in the sense of a warning is dated 1777 and refers to a flag warning of flood.\n\nThe term and the expression \"to raise the red flag\" come from various usages of real flags throughout history. The semaphore red flag (or red light) on railways means an immediate stop, while a red flag is frequently flown by armed forces to warn the public of live fire exercises in progress, and is sometimes flown by ships carrying munitions (in this context it is actually the flag for the letter B in the International maritime signal flag alphabet, a red swallow-tailed flag). In many countries a red flag is flown to signify that an outdoor shooting range is in use. The United States Air Force refers to its largest annual exercise as red flag operation. Red flags are used for various signals in team sailing races (see Racing Rules of Sailing). A red flag warning is a signal of high wildfire danger and a red flag on the beach warns of dangerous water conditions (double red flags indicate beach closure). Red flags of various designs indicate dangerous wind and wave conditions for mariners. In auto racing, a red flag indicates a stop to the race due to dangerous conditions.\n\nA signal of danger or a problem can be referred to as a red flag, a usage that originated in the 18th century. The term \"red flag\" is used, e.g., during screening of communications, and refers to specific words or phrases encountered that might indicate relevance to the case. For example, email spam filters make use of such \"red flags\".\n\n"}
{"id": "615394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615394", "title": "Robert D. Putnam", "text": "Robert D. Putnam\n\nRobert David Putnam (born 1941) is an American political scientist. He is the Peter and Isabel Malkin Professor of Public Policy at the Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government. Putnam developed the influential two-level game theory that assumes international agreements will only be successfully brokered if they also result in domestic benefits. His most famous (and controversial) work, \"Bowling Alone\", argues that the United States has undergone an unprecedented collapse in civic, social, associational, and political life (social capital) since the 1960s, with serious negative consequences. In 2010, he co-published an article in which he noted that the trend had moved the other way; he continued to advocate a push towards more social capital but he felt his famous thesis (\"Americans are now bowling alone\") was no longer true. In March 2015, he published a book called \"Our Kids: The American Dream in Crisis\" that looked at issues of inequality of opportunity in the US.\n\nRobert David Putnam was born on January 9, 1941, in Rochester, New York, and grew up in Port Clinton, Ohio, where he participated in a competitive bowling league as a teenager. Putnam graduated from Swarthmore College in 1963 where he was a member of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. An outstanding student, he won a Fulbright Fellowship to study at Balliol College, Oxford, and went on to earn master's and doctorate degrees from Yale University, the latter in 1970. He taught at the University of Michigan until joining the faculty at Harvard in 1979, where he has held a variety of positions, including Dean of the Kennedy School, and is currently the Malkin Professor of Public Policy. Putnam was raised as a religiously observant Methodist. In 1963, Putnam married his wife Rosemary, a special education teacher and French horn player. Around the time of his marriage, he converted to Judaism, his wife's religion.\n\nHis first work in the area of social capital was \"Making Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy\", a comparative study of regional governments in Italy which drew great scholarly attention for its argument that the success of democracies depends in large part on the horizontal bonds that make up social capital. Putnam writes that northern Italy's history of community, guilds, clubs, and choral societies led to greater civic involvement and greater economic prosperity. Meanwhile, the agrarian society of Southern Italy is less prosperous economically and democratically because of less social capital. Social capital, which Putnam defines as \"networks and norms of civic engagement\", allows members of a community to trust one another. When community members trust one another, trade, money-lending, and democracy flourish.\n\nIn 1995 he published \"Bowling Alone: America's Declining Social Capital\" in the \"Journal of Democracy\". The article was widely read and garnered much attention for Putnam, including an invitation to meet with then-President Bill Clinton and a spot in the pages of \"People\". Some critics argued that Putnam was ignoring new organizations and forms of social capital; others argued that many of the included organizations were responsible for the suppression of civil rights movements and the reinforcement of anti-egalitarian social norms. Over the last decade and a half, the United States had seen an increase in bowlers but a decrease in bowling leagues.\n\nIn 2000, he published \"Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community\", a book-length expansion of the original argument, adding new evidence and answering many of his critics. Though he measured the decline of social capital with data of many varieties, his most striking point was that many traditional civic, social and fraternal organizations – typified by bowling leagues – had undergone a massive decline in membership while the number of people bowling had increased dramatically.\n\nPutnam makes a distinction between two kinds of social capital: bonding capital and bridging capital. Bonding occurs when you are socializing with people who are like you: same age, same race, same religion, and so on. But in order to create peaceful societies in a diverse multi-ethnic country, one needs to have a second kind of social capital: bridging. Bridging is what you do when you make friends with people who are not like you, like supporters of another football team. Putnam argues that those two kinds of social capital, bonding and bridging, do strengthen each other. Consequently, with the decline of the bonding capital mentioned above inevitably comes the decline of the bridging capital leading to greater ethnic tensions.\n\nIn 2016, Putnam explained his inspiration for the book, by saying,\nCritics such as the sociologist Claude Fischer argue that (a) Putnam concentrates on organizational forms of social capital, and pays much less attention to networks of interpersonal social capital; (b) Putnam neglects the emergence of new forms of supportive organizations on and off the Internet; and (c) the 1960s are a misleading baseline because the era had an unusually high number of traditional organizations.\n\nSince the publication of \"Bowling Alone\", Putnam has worked on efforts to revive American social capital, notably through the Saguaro Seminar, a series of meetings among academics, civil society leaders, commentators, and politicians to discuss strategies to re-connect Americans with their communities. These resulted in the publication of the book and website, \"Better Together,\" which provides case studies of vibrant and new forms of social capital building in the United States\n\nPutnam theorizes a relation in the negatives trends in society. He envisions a uniting factor named social capital; originally coined by social theorist Alexis deToqueville as a strength within America allowing democracy to thrive due to the closeness of society, \"trends in civic engagement of a wider sort\". Putnam observes a declining trend in social capital since the 1960s. The decreasing in social capital is blamed for rising rates in unhappiness as well as political apathy. Low social capital, a feeling of alienation within society is associated with additional consequences such as:\n\n\nIn recent years, Putnam has been engaged in a comprehensive study of the relationship between trust within communities and their ethnic diversity. His conclusion based on over 40 cases and 30,000 people within the United States is that in the short term, other things being equal, \"more\" diversity in a community is associated with \"less\" trust both among and within ethnic groups. Putnam describes people of all races, sex, socioeconomic statuses, and ages as \"hunkering down\", avoiding engagement with their local community as diversity increases. Although limited to American data, his findings run counter the contact hypothesis which proposes that distrust declines as members of different ethnic groups interact, and conflict theory which suggests that while distrust \"among\" ethnic groups rises with diversity, distrust \"within\" ethnic groups should decrease. Putnam found that even when controlling for income inequality and crime rates, two factors which conflict theory states should be prime causal factors in declining inter-ethnic group trust, more diversity is still associated with less communal trust. Further, he found that low communal trust is associated with the same consequences as low social capital. Putnam says, however, that \"in the long run immigration and diversity are likely to have important cultural, economic, fiscal, and developmental benefits.\"\n\nPutnam published his data set from this study in 2001 and subsequently published the full paper in 2007.\n\nPutnam has been criticized for the lag between his initial study and his publication of his article. In 2006, Putnam was quoted in the \"Financial Times\" as saying he had delayed publishing the article until he could \"develop proposals to compensate for the negative effects of diversity\" (quote from John Lloyd of Financial Times). In 2007, writing in \"City Journal\", John Leo questioned whether this suppression of publication was ethical behavior for a scholar, noting that \"Academics aren't supposed to withhold negative data until they can suggest antidotes to their findings.\" On the other hand, Putnam did release the data in 2001 and publicized this fact.\n\nPutnam denied allegations he was arguing against diversity in society and contended that his paper had been \"twisted\" to make a case against race-conscious admissions to universities. He asserted that his \"extensive research and experience confirm the substantial benefits of diversity, including racial and ethnic diversity, to our society.\"\n\nIn 2007 he briefly met Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi to discuss the role of civil society in the Libyan political context.\n\nHe has been a member of Phi Beta Kappa since 1963, the International Institute of Strategic Studies since 1986, the American Philosophical Society since 2005 and the National Academy of Sciences since 2001. He has been a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences from 1980 and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy from 2001 and was a Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration, 1989–2006 and Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, 1974–1975 and 1988–1989. Other fellowships included the Guggenheim 1988–1989; the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 1977 and 1979; Fulbright 1964–1965 and 1977; SSRC-ACLS 1966–1968; Ford Foundation, 1970; German Marshall Fund, 1979; SSRC-Fulbright, 1982; SSRC-Foreign Policy Studies, 1988–1989 and was made a Harold Lasswell Fellow by the American Academy of Political and Social Science. Robert Putnam was a fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations 1977–1978 and a member since 1981. He was a member of the Trilateral Commission from 1990 to 1998. He was the President of the American Political Science Association (2001–2002). He had been Vice-President 1997–1998.\n\nIn 2004 the President of the Italian Republic made him a Commander of the Order of the Star of Italian Solidarity. He was awarded the Johan Skytte Prize in Political Science in 2006 and a Wilbur Lucius Cross Medal by the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 2003, he was a Marshall Lecturer at the University of Cambridge in 1999 and was honored with the Ithiel de Sola Pool Award and Lectureship of the American Political Science Association.\n\nHe has received honorary degrees from Stockholm University (in 1993), Ohio State University (2000), University of Antwerp (also 2000), University of Edinburgh (2003) LUISS Guido Carli University (2011).\n\nIn 2013, he was awarded the National Humanities Medal by President Barack Obama for \"deepening our understanding of community in America.\"\n\nIn 2015, he was awarded the University of Bologna, ISA Medal for Science for research activities characterized by excellence and scientific value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4396041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4396041", "title": "Rural Workers' Organisations Convention, 1975", "text": "Rural Workers' Organisations Convention, 1975\n\nRural Workers' Organisations Convention, 1975 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1975:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to organisations of rural workers and their role in economic and social development, ...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 40 states.\n"}
{"id": "227143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227143", "title": "Samuel Plimsoll", "text": "Samuel Plimsoll\n\nSamuel Plimsoll (10 February 1824 – 3 June 1898) was an English politician and social reformer, now best remembered for having devised the Plimsoll line (a line on a ship's hull indicating the maximum safe draft, and therefore the minimum freeboard for the vessel in various operating conditions).\n\nSamuel Plimsoll was born in Bristol and soon moved to Whiteley Wood Hall, Sheffield, also spending part of his childhood in Penrith, Cumberland. Leaving school at an early age, he became a clerk at Rawson's Brewery, and rose to be manager.\n\nIn 1853, he attempted to become a coal merchant in London. \nHe failed and was reduced to destitution. \nHe himself told how for a time he lived in a common lodging for seven shillings and two pence a week.\n\nThrough this experience, he learnt to sympathise with the struggles of the poor, and when his good fortune returned, he resolved to devote his time to improving their condition.\n\nHis efforts were directed especially against what were known as \"coffin ships\": unseaworthy and overloaded vessels, often heavily insured, in which unscrupulous owners risked the lives of their crews.\n\nIn 1867, Plimsoll was elected as the Liberal Member of Parliament for Derby, and endeavoured in vain to pass a bill dealing with the subject of a safe load line on ships. The main problem was the number of powerful ship-owning MPs in Parliament.\n\nIn 1872, he published a work entitled \"Our Seamen\", which became well known throughout the country. Accordingly, on Plimsoll's motion in 1873, a Royal Commission was appointed, and in 1875 a government bill was introduced, which Plimsoll, though regarding it as inadequate, resolved to accept.\n\nOn 22 July, the Prime Minister, Benjamin Disraeli, announced that the bill would be dropped. Plimsoll lost his self-control, applied the term \"villains\" to members of the House, and shook his fist in the Speaker's face.\n\nDisraeli moved that he be reprimanded, but on the suggestion of Lord Hartington agreed to adjourn the matter for a week to allow Plimsoll time for thought.\n\nEventually Plimsoll made an apology. Many people, however, shared his view that the bill had been stifled by the pressure of the shipowners, and popular feeling forced the government to pass a bill which in the following year was amended into the Merchant Shipping Act.\n\nThis gave stringent powers of inspection to the Board of Trade, and the mark that indicates the safe limit to which a ship may be loaded became generally known as Plimsoll's mark or line.\n\nPlimsoll was re-elected for Derby at the general election of 1880 by a great majority, but gave up his seat to William Vernon Harcourt, believing that the latter, as Home Secretary, could advance sailors' interests more effectively than any private member.\n\nOffered a seat by 30 constituencies, Plimsoll was an unsuccessful candidate in Sheffield Central in 1885. He did not re-enter the house, and later became estranged from the Liberal leaders by what he regarded as their breach of faith in neglecting the question of shipping reform.\n\nHe was for some years the honorary president of the National Sailors' and Firemen's Union, and drew attention to the horrors of the cattle-ships, where animals were transported under appalling and over-crowded conditions.\n\nLater, he visited the United States to try to secure the adoption of a less bitter tone towards England in the historical textbooks used in American schools. \nHe died in Folkestone on 3 June 1898, and is buried in St Martin's churchyard, Cheriton, Kent.\n\nPlimsoll married his first wife, Eliza Ann, daughter of Hugh Railton of Chapeltown, near Sheffield, in 1858. In Census 1871 they were enumerated in Hastings where Eliza Ann is recorded as being blind in her right eye and deaf in her left ear. She died in Australia in 1882. There were no children by this marriage. He married his second wife, Harriet Frankish, daughter of Mr. Joseph Armitage Wade, J.P., of Hull and Hornsea, in 1885. By this marriage there were six children, of whom a son, Samuel Richard Cobden Plimsoll, and two daughters survived him.\n\nIn 1873, the Samuel Plimsoll, an iron hulled full-rigged merchant sailing ship, was launched at the shipyard of Walter Hood & Co. in Aberdeen, Scotland for the Aberdeen White Star Line (G. Thompson & Co.). She was assigned the official British Reg. No. 65097 and the signal MKDH. In 1899, she caught fire in the Thames River and had to be scuttled, but was refloated and repaired in 1900. In 1902, she was severely dismasted and damaged on voyage to Port Chalmers, Australia. Towed to Sydney and subsequently to Fremantle, she was reduced to hulk status the following year.\n\nIn the 1920s, Plimsoll shoes were named for their similarity in appearance to the Plimsoll line on boats.\n\nIn Whitehall Garden, a Victoria Embankment garden, there is a monument to Samuel Plimsoll in front of the railings.\n\nBritish writer Nicolette Jones published \"The Plimsoll Sensation\", a highly acclaimed biography – getting the idea for it from living in 1995 in Plimsoll Road in Finsbury Park, north London, but knowing hardly anything about whom it was named after.\n\nSamuel Plimsoll appears in the third series of the BBC historical television drama \"The Onedin Line\", portrayed by actor David Garfield.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1737582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737582", "title": "School violence", "text": "School violence\n\nSchool violence encompasses physical violence, including student-on-student fighting and corporal punishment; psychological violence, including verbal abuse; sexual violence, including rape and sexual harassment; many forms of bullying, including cyberbullying; and carrying weapons in school. It is widely held to have become a serious problem in recent decades in many countries, especially where weapons such as guns or knives are involved. It includes violence between school students as well as physical attacks by students on school staff.\n\nA distinction is made between internalizing and externalizing behavior. Internalizing behaviors reflect withdrawal, inhibition, anxiety, and/or depression. Internalizing behavior has been found in some cases of youth violence although in some youth, depression is associated with substance abuse. Because they rarely act out, students with internalizing problems are often overlooked by school personnel. Externalizing behaviors refer to delinquent activities, aggression, and hyperactivity. Unlike internalizing behaviors, externalizing behaviors include, or are directly linked to, violent episodes. Violent behaviors such as punching and kicking are often learned from observing others. Just as externalizing behaviors are observed outside of school, such behaviors also observed in schools.\n\nA number of other individual factors are associated with higher levels of aggressiveness. Compared to children whose antisocial conduct begins in adolescence, early starters have a worse prognosis in terms of future aggression and other antisocial activities. Lower IQ is related to higher levels of aggression. Other findings indicate that in boys early problematic motor skills, attentional difficulties, and reading problems predict later persistent antisocial conduct.\n\nThe home environment is thought to contribute to school violence. The Constitutional Rights Foundation suggests long-term exposure to gun violence, parental alcoholism, domestic violence, physical abuse of the child, and child sexual abuse teaches children that criminal and violent activities are acceptable. Harsh parental discipline is associated with higher levels of aggressiveness in youth. There is some evidence indicating that exposure to television violence and, to a lesser extent, violent video games is related to increased aggressiveness in children, which, in turn, may carry over into school.\n\nStraus adduced evidence for the view that exposure to parental corporal punishment increases the risk of aggressive conduct in children and adolescents. Straus's findings have been contested by Larzelere and Baumrind. A meta-analysis of the vast literature on corporal punishment, however, indicates that corporal punishment is related to poorer outcomes in children and youth. The methodologically soundest studies indicate \"positive, moderately sized associations between parental corporal punishment and children’s aggression.\" Gershoff found that the trajectory of mean effect sizes (the size of the effect of corporal punishment on children's problem behavior) was curvilinear with the largest mean effect size in middle school (\"M\" = 0.55; on average the mean of corporal punishment group was more than half a standard deviation higher than the mean of the non-punishment group) and slightly smaller effect sizes in grade school (\"M\" = 0.43) and high school (\"M\" = 0.45).\n\nGerald Patterson's social interactional model, which involves the mother's application and the child's counterapplication of \"coercive\" behaviors, also explains the development of aggressive conduct in the child. In this context, coercive behaviors include behaviors that are ordinarily punishing (e.g., whining, yelling, hitting, etc.). Abusive home environments can inhibit the growth of social cognitive skills needed, for example, to understand the intentions of others. Short-term longitudinal evidence is consistent with the view that a lack of social cognitive skills mediates the link between harsh parental discipline and aggressive conduct in kindergarten. Longer-term, follow-up research with the same children suggests that partial mediating effects last until third and fourth grade. Hirschi's (1969) control theory advances the view that children with weak affective ties to parents and school are at increased risk of engaging in delinquent and violent behavior in and out of school. Hirschi's cross-sectional data from northern California high-school students are largely consistent with this view. Findings from case-control and longitudinal studies are also consistent with this view.\n\nNeighbourhoods and communities provide the context for school violence. Communities with high rates of crime and drug use teach youth the violent behaviors that are carried into schools. Children in violent neighborhoods tend to perceive that their communities are risky, and that these feelings of vulnerability carry over to the school environment. Dilapidated housing in the neighbourhood of the school has been found to be associated with school violence. Teacher assault was more likely to occur in schools located in high-crime neighbourhoods. Exposure to deviant peers is a risk factor for high levels of aggressivity. Research has shown that poverty and high population densities are associated with higher rates of school violence. Well controlled longitudinal research indicates that children's exposure to community violence during the early elementary school years increases the risk of aggression later in elementary school, as reported by teachers and classmates. Other, well controlled longitudinal research that utilized propensity score matching indicates that exposure to gun violence in early adolescence is related to the initiation of serious physical violence in later adolescence. Neighbourhood gangs are thought to contribute to dangerous school environments. Gangs use the social environment of the school to recruit members and interact with opposing groups, with gang violence carrying over from neighbourhoods into some schools. Alternatively, many children who grow up in violent neighborhoods learn to deliberately find and make \"street-oriented\" friends as an instrumental tactic used to avoid being victimized. Without the threat of violence, children more commonly develop friendships based on homophily, or shared traits.\n\nRecent research has linked the school environment to school violence. Teacher assaults are associated with a higher percentage male faculty, a higher proportion of male students, and a higher proportion of students receiving free or reduced cost lunch (an indicator of poverty). In general, a large male population, higher grade levels, a history of high levels of disciplinary problems in the school, high student to teacher ratios, and an urban location are related to violence in schools. In students, academic performance is inversely related to antisocial conduct. The research by Hirschi and others, cited above in the section on the home environment, is also consistent with the view that lack of attachment to school is associated with increased risk of antisocial conduct.\n\nThe goal of prevention and intervention strategies is to stop school violence from occurring. According to the CDC, there are at least four levels at which violence-prevention programs can act: at the level of society in general, the school community, the family, and the individual.\n\n\n\nResearch on violence affecting children in schools is challenging for a variety of reasons.\n\nWhen trying to measure the scope of violence in schools and to find out about the types of violence experienced by students, some key issues include: from what categories of the school community to collect the data; what data should be collected from each categories; and using which methods. For example, should there be studies or surveys where researchers ask students directly about violence in school, through self-reports about the violence they experienced as targets or perpetrators? Or should they be asked about incidents of violence that they have witnessed as bystanders? Should any of these questions be asked via self-administered questionnaires or questionnaires administered by researchers in schools? Does it make more sense to collect this data outside of schools, for example, through household surveys? Or through online surveys where students have access to the internet? Or is it better to rely on mechanisms for reporting incidents of violence in educational institutions when they are available, either in the schools themselves or outside schools (governmental hotlines, internet-based reporting systems, police and justice sectors, etc.)? What questions can be asked of children, using terminology that is easy to understand, age-appropriate and culturally sensitive?\n\nIn most countries there are strict rules related to research involving children, as they are under the age of consent. Therefore, requesting informed consent from the children in a study involves their parents and guardians. Asking children about violence, and particularly violence they have experienced themselves, can be traumatic. Finally, researching issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity/orientation in education and in relation to children has additional challenges. In some contexts it is not legal to discuss these issues either in schools or even outside of schools. Where it is legal, it may be considered as a very sensitive topic to be discussed with children and young people. Asking children and young people questions related to their sexual orientation and gender identity in the school setting is ethically questionable, as it could embarrass them and expose them to stigma and discrimination, unless questions are asked in strict confidence and anonymity is granted by independent researchers external to schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "2067861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2067861", "title": "Sir Thomas Buxton, 3rd Baronet", "text": "Sir Thomas Buxton, 3rd Baronet\n\nSir Thomas Fowell Buxton, 3rd Baronet (26 January 1837 – 28 October 1915), commonly referred to as \"Sir Fowell Buxton\", was the Governor of South Australia from 29 October 1895 until 29 March 1899. He was the grandson of Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, a British MP and social reformer, and the son of Sir Edward North Buxton, also an MP.\n\nHe attended Harrow School and Trinity College, Cambridge. He married Lady Victoria Noel on 12 June 1862 and they had a total of 13 children, ten surviving infancy. She was crippled by a spinal condition in 1869.\n\nHe was elected as Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for King's Lynn at the 1865 general election, but was defeated at the 1868 election. After his defeat, he stood again for Parliament unsuccessfully on several other occasions: in Westminster at the 1874 general election, in Western Essex at the 1880 general election and at the by-elections in Northern Norfolk in 1876 and 1879. He was appointed High Sheriff of Norfolk in 1876.\n\nWhen Buxton was appointed governor, the Premier of South Australia, Charles Kingston was angry that the South Australian government had not been involved in the decision about who should be the new governor, so made life as hard as possible for Buxton and his family. The governor's allowance was reduced and customs duty was charged on their household items (including his wife's invalid carriage). Buxton took up the job anyway, and later was described as the most genial, sociable and common-sense governor, due to his gentle and unassuming friendliness. He visited gaols and hospitals, and showed genuine interest in Aboriginal culture during his time as governor. He eventually returned to England due to the ill health of his wife.\n\nTheir second son, Noel Buxton acted as aide-de-camp to his father as governor, and later was a human rights campaigner and British Member of Parliament.\n\nA memorial to Sir Thomas and his wife Victoria was erected in St Thomas' Church in Upshire in Essex in 1917, designed by Sir Robert Lorimer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5456701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5456701", "title": "Technoculture", "text": "Technoculture\n\nTechnoculture is a neologism that is not in standard dictionaries but that has some popularity in academia, popularized by editors Constance Penley and Andrew Ross in a book of essays bearing that title. It refers to the interactions between, and politics of, technology and culture.\n\n\"Technoculture\" is used by a number of universities to describe subject areas or courses of study. UC Davis, for instance, has a program of technocultural studies. In 2012, the major merged with Film Studies to form Cinema and Techno-Cultural Studies (CaTS), but in 2013 is being reviewed to become Cinema and Technoculture (see below); the University of Western Ontario offers a degree in Media, Information and Technoculture (which they refer to as MIT, offering an \"MIT BA\"). UC Riverside is in the process of creating a program in technocultural studies beginning with the creation of a graduate certificate program in \"Science Fiction and Technoculture Studies.\"\n\nAccording to its description, the Georgetown University course English/CCT 691 titled \"Technoculture from Frankenstein to Cyberpunk\", covers the \"social reception and representation of technology in literature and popular culture from the Romantic era to the present\" and includes \"all media, including film, TV, and recent video animation and Web 'zines.\" The course focuses \"mainly on American culture and the way in which machines, computers, and the body have been imagined.\"\n\nThe UC Davis Technocultural Studies department focuses on \"transdisciplinary approaches to artistic, cultural and scholarly production in contemporary media and digital arts, community media, and mutual concerns of the arts with the scientific and technological disciplines. In contrast to programs which see technology as the primary driving force, we place questions of poetics, aesthetics, history, politics and the environment at the core of our mission. In other words, we emphasize the 'culture' in Technoculture.\"\n\nThe Technocultural Studies major program is an interdisciplinary integration of current research in cultural history and theory with innovative hands-on production in digital media and \"low-tech\". It focuses on the fine and performing arts, media arts, community media, literature and cultural studies as they relate to technology and science. Backed by critical perspectives and the latest forms of research and production skills, students enjoy the mobility to explore individual research and expression, project-based collaboration and community engagement.\n\nTechnocultural Studies is a fairly new major at UC Davis and is considered a division of Humanities, Arts and Cultural Studies.\n\n\n\"'Technoculture: An Online Journal of Technology in Society\" () is an independent, interdisciplinary, annual peer-reviewed journal that publishes critical and creative works that explore the ways in which technology impacts society. It uses a broad definition of technology. Founded by Keith Dorwick and Kevin Moberly, it is now edited by Keith Dorwick. \"Technoculture\" is a member of the Council of Editors of Learned Journals and is indexed by EBSCOhost and the Modern Language Association.\n\nMarshall McLuhan is most known for his concepts of a \"global village\". In his book \"Understanding Media\" he talks about how media affects society and culture. He also develops a theory about technology being an extension of the body. According to McLuhan, the alphabet is what gave rise to the idea that sight is more important than hearing because in order to communicate one had to be able to see and understand the alphabet.\n\nIn her book \"Technoculture: The Key Concepts\", Debra Benita Shaw \"outlines the place of science and technology in today's culture\" and \"explores the power of scientific ideas, their impact on how we understand the natural world and how successive technological developments have influenced our attitudes to work, art, space, language and the human body.\"\n\nClay Shirky writes, teaches, and consults on the social and economic effects of the internet, and especially on places where our social and technological networks overlap. He is on the faculty of NYU's Interactive Telecommunications Program, and has consulted for Nokia, Procter and Gamble, News Corp., the BBC, the United States Navy and Lego. He is also a regular speaker at technology conferences.\n\nIn his book \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" Walter Benjamin attempts to analyze the changed experience of art in modern society. He believes that a reproduction of art lacks presence in time and space and therefore has no aura. Original works of art do have an aura. An aura includes authority, its place in space and time (when it was made), how the piece's physical condition suffered and how it's changed owners over time. An original work of art derives its authenticity from history and what has happened to it over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "17163802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17163802", "title": "Technology dynamics", "text": "Technology dynamics\n\nTechnology dynamics is broad and relatively new scientific field that has been developed in the framework of the postwar science and technology studies field. It studies the process of technological change. Under the field of Technology Dynamics the process of technological change is explained by taking into account influences from \"internal factors\" as well as from \"external factors\". Internal factors relate technological change to unsolved technical problems and the established modes of solving technological problems and external factors relate it to various (changing) characteristics of the social environment, in which a particular technology is embedded.\n\nFor the last three decades, it has been argued that technology development is neither an autonomous process, determined by the \"inherent progress\" of human history, nor a process completely determined by external conditions like the prices of the resources that are needed to operate (develop) a technology, as it is theorized in neoclassical economic thinking. In mainstream neoclassical economic thinking, technology is seen as an exogenous factor: at the moment a technology is required, the most appropriate version can be taken down from the shelf based on costs of labor, capital and eventually raw materials.\n\nConversely, modern technology dynamics studies generally advocate that technologies are not \"self-evident\" or market-demanded, but are the upshot of a particular path of technology development and are shaped by social, economic and political factors. in this sense, technology dynamics aims at overcoming distinct \"internal\" and \"external\" points of views by presenting co-evolutionary approach regarding technology development.\n\nIn general, technology dynamics studies, besides giving a \"thick description\" of technology development, uses constructivist viewpoints emphasizing that technology is the outcome of particular social context. Accordingly, Technology Dynamics emphasizes the significance and possibility of regaining social control of technology, and also provides mechanisms needed to adapt to and steer the development of certain technologies. In that respect, it uses insights from retrospective studies to formulate hypotheses of a prospective nature on technology development of emerging technologies, besides formulating prescriptive policy recommendations.\n\nAn important feature of relevant theories of technological change therein is that they underline the quasi-evolutionary character of technological change: change based on technological variation and social selection in which technological knowledge, systems and institutions develop in interaction with each other. Processes of 'path dependence' are crucial in explaining technological change.\n\nFollowing these lines, there have been different approaches and concepts used under the field of technology dynamics.\n\n\nBased on the analysis of the various perspectives, one can aim at developing interventions in the dynamics of a technology. Some approaches have been developed targeting on interventions in technological change:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10518546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518546", "title": "Technology life cycle", "text": "Technology life cycle\n\nThe technology life-cycle (TLC) describes the commercial gain of a product through the expense of research and development phase, and the financial return during its \"vital life\". Some technologies, such as steel, paper or cement manufacturing, have a long lifespan (with minor variations in technology incorporated with time) while in other cases, such as electronic or pharmaceutical products, the lifespan may be quite short.\n\nThe TLC associated with a product or technological service is different from product life-cycle (PLC) dealt with in product life-cycle management. The latter is concerned with the life of a product in the marketplace with respect to timing of introduction, marketing measures, and business costs. The \"technology\" underlying the product (for example, that of a uniquely flavoured tea) may be quite marginal but the process of creating and managing its life as a branded product will be very different. \n\nThe technology life cycle is concerned with the time and cost of developing the technology, the timeline of recovering cost, and modes of making the technology yield a profit proportionate to the costs and risks involved. The TLC may, further, be protected during its cycle with patents and trademarks seeking to lengthen the cycle and to maximize the profit from it.\n\nThe \"product\" of the technology may be a commodity such as polyethylene plastic or a sophisticated product like the integrated circuits used in a smartphone.\n\nThe development of a \"competitive product\" or process can have a major effect on the lifespan of the technology, making it shorter. Equally, the loss of intellectual property rights through litigation or loss of its secret elements (if any) through leakages also work to reduce a technology's lifespan. Thus, it is apparent that the \"management\" of the TLC is an important aspect of technology development.\n\nMost new technologies follow a similar technology maturity lifecycle describing the technological maturity of a product. This is not similar to a product life cycle, but applies to an entire technology, or a generation of a technology.\n\nTechnology adoption is the most common phenomenon driving the evolution of industries along the industry lifecycle. After expanding new uses of resources they end with exhausting the efficiency of those processes, producing gains that are first easier and larger over time then exhaustingly more difficult, as the technology matures.\n\nThe TLC may be seen as composed of four phases:\n\nThe shape of the technology lifecycle is often referred to as S-curve.\n\nThere is usually technology hype at the introduction of any new technology, but only after some time has passed can it be judged as mere hype or justified true acclaim.\nBecause of the logistic curve nature of technology adoption, it is difficult to see in the early stages whether the hype is excessive.\n\nThe two errors commonly committed in the early stages of a technology's development are:\nSimilarly, in the later stages, the opposite mistakes can be made relating to the possibilities of technology maturity and market saturation.\n\nThe technology adoption life cycle typically occurs in an S curve, as modelled in diffusion of innovations theory. This is because customers respond to new products in different ways. Diffusion of innovations theory, pioneered by Everett Rogers, posits that people have different levels of readiness for adopting new innovations and that the characteristics of a product affect overall adoption. Rogers classified individuals into five groups: innovators, early adopters, early majority, late majority, and laggards. In terms of the S curve, innovators occupy 2.5%, early adopters 13.5%, early majority 34%, late majority 34%, and laggards 16%.\n\nThe four stages of technology life cycle are as follows:\n\nLarge corporations develop technology for their own benefit and not with the objective of licensing. The tendency to license out technology only appears when there is a threat to the life of the TLC (business gain) as discussed later.\n\nThere are always smaller firms (SMEs) who are inadequately situated to finance the development of innovative R&D in the post-research and early technology phases. By sharing incipient technology under certain conditions, substantial risk financing can come from third parties. This is a form of quasi-licensing which takes different formats. Even large corporates may not wish to bear all costs of development in areas of significant and high risk (e.g. aircraft development) and may seek means of spreading it to the stage that proof-of-concept is obtained.\n\nIn the case of small and medium firms, entities such as venture capitalists or business angels, can enter the scene and help to materialize technologies. Venture capitalists accept both the costs and uncertainties of R&D, and that of market acceptance, in reward for high returns when the technology proves itself. Apart from finance, they may provide networking, management and marketing support. Venture capital connotes financial as well as human capital.\n\nLarger firms may opt for Joint R&D or work in a consortium for the early phase of development. Such vehicles are called strategic alliances – strategic partnerships.\nWith both venture capital funding and strategic (research) alliances, when business gains begin to neutralize development costs (the TLC crosses the X-axis), the ownership of the technology starts to undergo change.\n\nIn the case of smaller firms, venture capitalists help clients enter the stock market for obtaining substantially larger funds for development, maturation of technology, product promotion and to meet marketing costs. A major route is through initial public offering (IPO) which invites risk funding by the public for potential high gain. At the same time, the IPOs enable venture capitalists to attempt to recover expenditures already incurred by them through part sale of the stock pre-allotted to them (subsequent to the listing of the stock on the stock exchange). When the IPO is fully subscribed, the assisted enterprise becomes a corporation and can more easily obtain bank loans, etc. if needed.\n\nStrategic alliance partners, allied on research, pursue separate paths of development with the incipient technology of common origin but pool their accomplishments through instruments such as 'cross-licensing'. Generally, contractual provisions among the members of the consortium allow a member to exercise the option of independent pursuit after joint consultation; in which case the optee owns all subsequent development.\n\nThe ascent stage of the technology usually refers to some point above Point A in the TLC diagram but actually it commences when the R&D portion of the TLC curve inflects (only that the cashflow is negative and unremunerative to Point A). The ascent is the strongest phase of the TLC because it is here that the technology is superior to alternatives and can command premium profit or gain. The slope and duration of the ascent depends on competing technologies entering the domain, although they may not be \"as successful\" in that period. Strongly patented technology extends the duration period.\n\nThe TLC begins to flatten out (the region shown as M) when equivalent or challenging technologies come into the competitive space and begin to eat away marketshare.\n\nTill this stage is reached, the technology-owning firm would tend to exclusively enjoy its profitability, preferring \"not\" to license it. If an overseas opportunity does present itself, the firm would prefer to set up a controlled subsidiary rather than license a third party.\n\nThe maturity phase of the technology is a period of stable and remunerative income but its competitive viability can persist over the larger timeframe marked by its 'vital life'. However, there may be a tendency to license out the technology to third parties during this stage to lower risk of decline in profitability (or competitivity) and to expand financial opportunity.\n\nThe exercise of this option is, generally, inferior to seeking participatory exploitation; in other words, engagement in joint venture, typically in regions where the technology would be in the \"ascent phase\",as say, a developing country. In addition to providing financial opportunity it allows the technology-owner a degree of control over its use. Gain flows from the two streams of investment-based and royalty incomes. Further, the vital life of the technology is enhanced in such strategy.\n\nAfter reaching a point such as D in the above diagram, the earnings from the technology begin to decline rather rapidly. To prolong the life cycle, owners of technology might try to license it out at some point L when it can still be attractive to firms in other markets. This, then, traces the lengthening path, LL'. Further, since the decline is the result of competing rising technologies in this space, licenses may be attracted to the general lower cost of the older technology (than what prevailed during its vital life).\n\nLicenses obtained in this phase are 'straight licenses'. They are free of direct control from the owner of the technology (as would otherwise apply, say, in the case of a joint-venture). Further, there may be fewer restrictions placed on the licensee in the employment of the technology.\n\nThe utility, viability, and thus the cost of straight-licenses depends on the estimated 'balance life' of the technology. For instance, should the key patent on the technology have expired, or would expire in a short while, the residual viability of the technology may be limited, although balance life may be governed by other criteria such as knowhow which could have a longer life if properly protected.\n\n\"It is important to note that the license has no way of knowing the stage at which the prime, and competing technologies, are on their TLCs\". It would, of course, be evident to competing licensor firms, and to the originator, from the growth, saturation or decline of the profitability of their operations.\n\nThe license may, however, be able to approximate the stage by vigorously negotiating with the licensor and competitors to determine costs and licensing terms. A lower cost, or easier terms, \"may\" imply a declining technology.\n\nIn any case, access to technology in the decline phase is a large risk that the licensee accepts. (In a joint-venture this risk is substantially reduced by licensor sharing it). Sometimes, financial guarantees from the licensor may work to reduce such risk and can be negotiated.\n\nThere are instances when, even though the technology declines to becoming a technique, it may still contain important knowledge or experience which the licensee firm cannot learn of without help from the originator. This is often the form that \"technical service\" and \"technical assistance\" contracts take (encountered often in developing country contracts). Alternatively, consulting agencies may fill this role.\n\nAccording to the Encyclopedia of Earth, \"In the simplest formulation, innovation can be thought of as being composed of research, development, demonstration, and deployment.\"\n\n\"Technology development cycle\" describes the process of a new technology through the stages of technological maturity:\n\n"}
{"id": "8268725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8268725", "title": "The Education of Shelby Knox", "text": "The Education of Shelby Knox\n\nThe Education of Shelby Knox is 2005 documentary film that tells the coming-of-age story of public speaker and feminist Shelby Knox, a teenager who joins a campaign for comprehensive sex education in the high schools of Lubbock, Texas. TEOSK was an official selection of the Sundance Film Festival in 2005 and aired on PBS’ \"P.O.V.\" series that same year. It was directed and produced by Marion Lipschutz and Rose Rosenblatt.\n\nLubbock has some of the highest teen pregnancy and STD rates in the nation, the \"solution\" to which is a strict abstinence-only sex education curriculum in the public schools and a conservative preacher who urges kids to pledge abstinence until marriage.\n\nShelby Knox is a deeply religious Southern Baptist teenager who joins the Lubbock Youth Commission, a group of high school students representing a youth voice in city government. When the teens confront Lubbock's sexual health crisis and campaign for comprehensive sex education, Knox throws herself into the battle with missionary fervor, struggling to reconcile her newfound political beliefs with her conservative religious views. When the campaign broadens to include a fight for a gay-straight alliance, Knox must confront her family and pastor in this coming-of-age story.\n\n\"The Education of Shelby Knox\" has received a number of awards:\n\nThe Dixie Chicks' 2006 album \"Taking the Long Way\" features a track titled \"Lubbock or Leave It\", which is based on \"The Education of Shelby Knox\". When the song came out, the group's member Emily Robison told the press: \"We'd seen a documentary called \"The Education of Shelby Knox\", which was about a girl ... trying to get Lubbock to teach sex education in the schools. Lubbock has one of the highest rates of teen pregnancy and STDs in the U.S., so it really showed what happens when you keep that information away from people.\" Lead singer Natalie Maines, who is from Lubbock, subsequently spoke (during a 2006 episode of \"VH1 Storytellers\") about watching the film and drawing from her own experiences of living there to write the song.\n\nShelby calls herself a feminist revolutionary. She currently works for change.org, as the director of Organizing Women’s rights. In addition, Shelby is on the advisory board of SPARK, leadership council for ITVS Women, and Girls Lead Initiative. She also is a writer on The Ms. Education of Shelby Knox blog, where she conveys her current opinions on hot topics. Shelby Knox is also on Twitter.\n\nIn the 2013 documentary \"How to Lose Your Virginity\", scenes from \"The Education of Shelby Knox\" are featured alongside interviews with Shelby Knox.\n\nAs of June 2011, Shelby Knox is living in New York City and serving as the Director of Organizing, Women's Rights for Change.org.\n\n"}
{"id": "4439177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4439177", "title": "Violent disorder", "text": "Violent disorder\n\nViolent disorder is a statutory offence in England and Wales. It is created by section 2(1) of the Public Order Act 1986. Sections 2(1) to (4) of that Act provide:\n\n\"3 or more persons\"\n\nSee the following cases:\n\n\"Violence\"\n\nThis word is defined by section 8.\n\nFor the mens rea, see section 6(2).\n\nAs to particularisation, see R v Mahroof, 88 Cr App R 317, CA.\n\nSee sections 7(3) and (4).\n\nBefore 1 January 2006 this offence was classified as an arrestable offence by virtue of section 24(1)(b) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. See now sections 24 and 24A of that Act, as substituted by the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005.\n\nViolent disorder is triable either way. A person guilty of violent disorder is liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to a fine, or to both, or, on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or to both.\n\nThe following cases are relevant:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57537760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57537760", "title": "William Phelps Ornithological Collection", "text": "William Phelps Ornithological Collection\n\nThe William Phelps Ornithological Collection, also known as the Phelps Ornithological Museum, is a museum of natural sciences dedicated to the study, exhibition and preservation of the birds of Venezuela and the rest of Latin America. The collection is located east of Caracas and in the geographic center of Greater Caracas, in the heart of the Sabana Grande district. The William Phelps ornithological collection is the most important in Latin America and it is also the most important private collection in the world in its research area. \n\nIn this private museum one will find important Phelps family study books, as well as 8000 scientific volumes in the library, more than 83,000 anatomical specimens, more than 80,000 skins, etc. For the year 1990, it was said that the William Phelps Ornithological Collection contained more than 76,300 skins and a small number of anatomical specimens, in the Gran Sabana Building of Sabana Grande. The Phelps library in 1990 already had 6,000 books, 800 journals and 5,500 reprints, mostly from natural sciences.\n\nThe ornithological collection was born in 1938, although it did not have its own headquarters on the Boulevard of Sabana Grande until 1949. At the beginning of 2018, it celebrated its 80th anniversary in Caracas, Venezuela. With the passing of time, the collection has been growing and still has great international scientific relevance. In 2005, an investigation was carried out on \"plumage differences in four subspecies of golden warbler Basileuterus culicivorus in Venezuela\". \n\nThe Phelps Foundation has been recognized worldwide for its scientific research. Since 1937, this foundation has dedicated to the study of the distribution of birds in Venezuela as well as to the dissemination of ornithology in Venezuela. Since 1949, it has expanded globally in its mission to discover, interpret and disseminate information about ornithology through a program of scientific research, education and dissemination in the natural sciences. The Foundation has had an important global trajectory for which it is recognized and is a regional compulsory study resource on tropical birds for experts who want to know more about this area. This museum has historically been connected to the American Museum of Natural History, thanks to the work of Billy Phelps. The ornithological collection has also been expanded thanks to the research carried out with Armando Dugand from Bogotá, Colombia. Most of the funds to carry out these investigations were collected by the Phelps Foundation.\n\nIn March and April 1977, the Phelps Ornithological Collection, with the collaboration of the Venezuelan-Brazilian Border Commission, Demarcador de Limites, carried out a collection of birds at Cerro Urutaní (62 ° 05'W, 3 ° 40'N), which is a low altitude tepui on the Venezuelan-Brazilian border in the Sierra Pacaraima. A total of 511 specimens of birds were collected between 1150 and 1280 meters high s.n.m., representing 78 different species. Gilberto Pérez Chinchilla, Manuel Castro and Dickerman prepared the copies of the collection. A full report on these birds was published in the international press and was published in the Bulletin of the \"American Museum of Natural History\", New York. It was necessary to work in conjunction with the Boundary Directorate of Venezuela.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2961179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2961179", "title": "Women of color", "text": "Women of color\n\nWomen of color (singular: woman of color, sometimes abbreviated as WOC) is a phrase used to describe female persons of color. The political term \"women of color\" surfaced in the violence against women movement. In the late seventies it unified all women experiencing multiple layers of marginalization with race or ethnicity as a common issue.\n\nAlthough similar to the term \"person of color,\" the history of the term women of color has political roots, as explained by the women's rights leader Loretta Ross. During the 1977 National Women's Conference, a group of African American women created the Black Women's Agenda to work with the conference. They aimed to substitute the proposed \"Minority Women's Plank\", which was included in the documentation for the conference. When other minority women wanted to be included in the agenda, negotiations to rename the group led to the creation of the term \"women of color\", encompassing all minority women. Although it seems to have a biological connotations, the term \"women of color\" is a unifying term that also addresses the political and social issues.\n\nMichelle Obama was the United States' First Lady from 2009 to 2017. While in school at Princeton, she ran a literacy program for local neighborhood children. She also wrote her senior sociology thesis on \"Princeton-Educated Blacks and the Black Community\". Obama also protested the institution's lack of minority students and professors when she attended Harvard Law School. On graduating, she practiced law at the Chicago offices of the law firm, Sidley Austin, and then worked as the vice president of Community Relations for the University of Chicago Hospitals, before becoming First Lady.\n\nThe first wave of the feminist movement, primarily between 1960 and 1980, did not deal with the issues faced by women of color. This wave used the term \"universal woman\", attempting to speak for the overall oppression faced by all women. Many involved in the first wave of feminism spoke from the white middle-class female perspective and concluded that gender was the main site of their oppression. Nevertheless, feminism slowly began to address cultural inequalities, especially after the influence of the civil rights movement. As a result, noting their range of economic, social, and political differences, women of color sought to address the unique experiences of non-white women, generally excluded from the term \"feminism\". In the 1980s Africana womanism was created to practice Afrocentricism as in America, much was based on a Eurocentric standpoint. Despite the Eurocentrism of feminism during this time period, many women of color still became prominent feminist icons. The \"mujerismo\" movement also came about during this time to confront the issues that Latina women were facing. The term is derived from the Spanish word \"mujer\", or \"woman\"'; it was a name for oppressed colored women who found their issues were not being addressed within the white feminist movement.\n\nThe struggles of women of color needed to be better publicized and addressed, encouraging black women to let their voices be heard. Intersectionality—the effects of experiences based primarily on age, sex, race, gender, sexuality, and disability—is an important consideration in connection with the contributions of women of color to the feminist movement. It is also important to focus on issues specific to women of color in view of the particular problems they have faced. Women of color not only had to deal with the problems of being a woman, but also because they were marginalized as people of color. For example, a high percentage of women of color were of lower socio-economic status as a result of economic discrimination. This is often ignored by the mainstream feminist movement. The feminist writer Maylei Blackwell discusses this historical silencing of \"other\" aspects of feminism in her book \"¡Chicana Power!: Contested Histories of Feminism in the Chicano Movement\", expressing the need for what she calls retrofitted memory.Retrofitted memory is a form of countermemory against privileged readings of history that allows marginalized perspectives to be recognized.\n\nIn the United States, women of color have frequently been misrepresented by the media for over 50 years or more. In 1968, the Kerner Commission released a report of its investigation into the 1967 race riots. It was highly critical of the way race was being treated in the media. Starting in 1971, the Federal Communications Commission required broadcasting stations to implement EEO programs, specifically focused on helping racial minorities and women. The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights found that six years after starting these programs, minorities and women still remained discriminated against by the media. In order to create a positive impression, they were treated as window-dressing or misleading examples.\n\nThe manner in which media represents women of color has been an issue throughout most of television and film history, especially by their white-washing women on television and film. Time and time again, roles that should have been given to women of color have been given to white actors and actresses. In films such as \"Aloha\" and \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\", directors have replaced traditional Asian roles with actors/actresses of non-Asian descent. \"Yellow Facing\" has even been present in plays and musicals such as \"Lovely Ladies, Kind Gentlemen\". In this example, \"the role of a Japanese man, Sakini, was given to a white actor named Kenneth Nelson, a decision that aligned with all the previous white actors who had played the role, including Marlon Brando\". According to the theater researcher Esther Kim Lee, \"popular representation of Asians in mainstream theater are actually stereotypical and overtly mocking of Asian culture, furthermore, most Asian roles were given to white actors\". Not only have these issues led to public outcry and protests but harmful representations of Asian women are frequent, with the result that future opportunities for them may well be tarnished in the process. According to the media researcher Lori Kido Lopez, many Asian American actors and actresses have been told by producers and directors that they were not 'real' as 'orientals' or Asians. \"As a result of decades of Asian representation being commandeered by white actors in yellowface, the idea of \"Asianness\" had been reduced to an image of prosthetic eyepieces and heavy accents—so much so that it was not even considered realistic for an actual Asian actor to play such a role\". Although white-washing is a topic that has been pushed aside over the years, it is one that severely impacts opportunities for many women of color and hinders the diversification of races in media.\n\nBecause of these many pre-existing stereotypes of Asian women from the early days of Hollywood, Western culture often associate them with concepts such as the dragon lady, the femme fatale or a devious seducer. According to Sharad Rajgopal of Westfield State University, \"Eastern cultures have been represented in Western mainstream cinema as dangerous, devious and evil; all characteristics that represent the mythical Asian Dragon\". Although the image of the dragon lady was more popular in early cinema and television, many still maintain its belief today. According to Sharad Rajgopal, \"The femme fatale is also present among Asian women, for example, in the 1931 film \"Daughter of the Dragon\" Anna May Wong is portrayed as a dangerous threat not because of her strength, but because of her \"mythical\" beauty and seduction\". This image of the femme fatale can be seen in contemporary films too, such as Lucy Liu's role in Quentin Tarentino's \"Kill Bill\" series. The constant association of Asian women with dangerousness due to their exotic and seducing looks is harmful for Asian women everywhere. Adding to the stereotype of seduction, \"Asians have also appeared in scenes carrying strong sexual overtones, or involving sexual acts, such as the film \"Call Girl II: Modern Call Girls\"\". With the multiple stereotypical portrayals of Asian women being seen through film and television everywhere, they may continue to face issues that are difficult to resolve as a result of the harmful, pre-existing images of themselves set forth by media.\n\nIt is normal for programmers to focus on representing their consumers, and because the majority of those who watch television are white, most of the media is white-washed. In its history, when Fox wished to appeal to young audiences, it aired shows about young people. Ladies Night on television was intended to draw a female audience. Economists refer to these patterns as \"externalities\". They are caused by rational profit-seeking behavior of media organizations facing competition for the positive attention of white-dominated mass audiences. When advertisers want to show things such as vacations, cute couples, luxurious or family scenes, most of the time they automatically think white. In the words of African American specialist Theodore Ransaw: \"According to the world of TV advertising, Whites are the ones who occupy the realm of ideal humanity, of human warmth and connection\". Because of this, the media tend to broadcast women with Eurocentric, thin features. Women of color are underrepresented, but when they are included, they are often depicted in racially biased ways. Analyses have showed that people of color have historically been portrayed as athletes, or in lower-class occupations such as fast-food workers and in minor, non-speaking roles. Black and Latina women are often portrayed as either slaves/maids, or poor, working-class figures with too many children. Women of color are lightened by different companies, stripped of their heritage and pride, or photoshopped to appear slimmer and more suitable for television. Women of color also face dehumanization by the media. The white women are usually portrayed as angelic and innocent. When a woman of color gets cast on a TV show, she is often portrayed as being very sexual. These women also face lower body satisfaction, because they either need to be slim or curvy. Women of color are forced to try to live up to a standard that is set by white women, which in most cases is unreachable.\n\nMinorities are typically underrepresented on television despite making up approximately 40% of the United States population as of 2014. The first woman of color leading a television show was Teresa Graves who starred in \"Get Christie Love!\", a 1974 series on ABC. She was the first African American woman to star in an hour-long drama. There would not be a woman of color leading a television show until 2012, when Kerry Washington starred in Shonda Rimes' \"Scandal\" on ABC. Due to Washington's work, for \"the second season of Scandal, Washington was nominated for an Emmy at the 65th Primetime Emmy Awards and 66th Primetime Emmy Awards, becoming the first African-American woman to be nominated in the category of Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series in 18 years.\"\n\nAfrican American women typically have been negatively stereotyped in television. In his 2010 \"Journal of African American Studies\" article \"But She's Not Black!\" author Philip Kretsedemas examined stereotypes of American women in television and noted the three most common: the mammy stereotype, the jezebel stereotype, and the sapphire stereotype, also known as the angry black woman stereotype. The mammy stereotype creates a view of an African American woman as a caregiver, who is loyal and often sassy. The jezebel stereotype portrays African American women as seductive, alluring, aggressive, and overtly sexualized. The sapphire stereotype displays African American women as sassy, rude, loud, and angry, but also comical and status-climbing.\n\nAsian and Asian American Women are typically given specific stereotypes in television as well. Two common stereotypes of Asian and Asian American women are described by Hemant Shah in his 2003 article \"'Asian culture' and Asian American identities in the television and film industries of the United States\" as the Dragon Lady stereotype and the Lotus Blossom stereotype. The Dragon Lady stereotype portrays Asian and Asian American women as sneaky, evil, and malicious, but also promiscuous and alluring—working to seduce men and manipulate them. Another common stereotype is the Lotus Blossom stereotype. This stereotype, also known as the \"China Doll\", portrays Asian and Asian American women as loyal and good women, but also submissive and hypersexualized.\n\nLatinas, or women with roots in Latin America, are also viewed through stereotypes in television. In her article \"Three Faces of Eva: Perpetuation of The Hot-Latina Stereotype in Desperate Housewives\", within the \"Howard Journal of Communications\", Debra Hoskins discusses these common portrayals of Latinas. She finds that within Anglo and Hispanic television and film, there are three notable stereotypes of Latinas. The first listed stereotype is the Cantina Girl, characterized by a Latina having \"great sexual allure\", and being represented as a sexual object. The next stereotype described is the \"Faithful, self-sacrificing senorita\". This stereotype includes a Latina starting off as a good character, but then turning evil later on in the show/film. She then makes a sacrifice, often death, to save a man and show that she realized she was wrong. Lastly, there is the Vamp stereotype, which portrays Latinas as women who use both intellect and sexual desire to manipulate a man and get what they want.\n\nArab and Arab American women are likewise portrayed in television and film in a stereotypical way. Jennifer Bing-Canar and Mary Zerkel explore these portrayals in their article, \"Reading the Media and Myself: Experiences in Critical Media Literacy with Young Arab-American Women\". In this article, it is noted that Arab women are typically seen as either promiscuous, belly-dancing, hypersexualized women, or as persecuted women wearing the hijab. In both of these portrayals, women are objectified or oppressed by men. There is also a less frequent stereotype that portrays Arab women as terrorists, although this is more commonly seen in Arab men.\n\nNative American women are not often included in film and television, but when they are, they usually fall under certain stereotypes. In the article \"The YouTube Indian: Portrayals of Native Americans on a viral video site\", Maria Kopacz and Bessie Lee Lawton examined these depictions. One of these portrayals is the negative stereotype of the Squaw. The Squaw stereotype depicts Native American women as promiscuous and abused servants, who are inferior to whites. The other stereotype used to represent Native American women is the Indian Princess. This includes a chief's daughter who is beautiful, but also rebellious, as she sacrifices her culture to adopt American culture and to live happily in relation with a white man. According to Kopacz and Lawton, one good example of the Indian Princess stereotype is the main character and storyline in Disney's movie, \"Pocahontas\".\n\nWomen of color are often isolated when it comes to economic, social, and political status. They are less likely to have their needs ads problems taken care of, than women who are racially privileged. Although there are plenty of rape centers available to women, women of color still experience discrimination. For example, counselors for rape victims often report that a high portion of their resources must be spent on handling problems other than rape.\n\nDomestic violence is a recurring problem that greatly affects women of color around the world. Examples for women of color include physical violence, emotional abuse, victimization, economic abuse, intimidation, oppression, and threats. The violence against women of color directly correlates to high rates of poverty, poor education, limited job resources, language barriers, fear of deportation, and lack of knowledge in finding support. Many women of color accept a lifetime of abuse because they have a robust, personal, and familial identification with a certain community. They are submissive to religious beliefs, they have fear of alienation and estrangement from their daily lives, or they are skeptical of the helpfulness of intervention services. As of today, women of color are the most violently targeted community of persons in the world.\n\nAccording to Thompson Lee, \"African American females are more likely to be victimized, raped, or assaulted by an intimate partner in their lifetimes\". Black women experience higher rates of intimate partner homicide when compared to the statistical analysis of violence against white women. The modern racism in the world is a direct cause of violence against African American women; a black woman would be less likely to report her situation or to seek help because of blatant discrimination. Black stereotypes often amplify the female convolutions in regard to violence. \"Myths that African American women are dominant figures that require control or are exceptionally strong under stress increase their vulnerability and discourage most from speaking out about abuse.\" Nonetheless, Black women are often more likely to obtain help from authority than black men.\n\nAsian and Pacific Islander women also experience many forms of domestic violence. \"41-60 percent of Asian and Pacific Islander women have reported experiencing domestic violence during their lifetimes in a survey conducted by the Asian and Pacific Islander Institute.\" The labels placed in Asian and Pacific Islander communities such as emotional control, authoritative respect, submissiveness, and other highly valued traits contribute to this group's reluctance to express or share their abuses.\n\nIn a survey put out by the National Violence Against Women organization, about 24 percent of Hispanic and Latina women are abused domestically by an intimate partner during their lifetimes. In regard to immigration, \"48 percent of Latinas reported that their partner's violence increased since immigrating to the United States\". Latina and Hispanic culture significantly influences the actions women take when dealing with violence. \"In the Latino culture, women are often designated to the roles of wife and mother. It is socially unacceptable to be divorced, to marry several times, or to remain single and have children out of wedlock. For these reasons, it may take some time for battered women to consider leaving their partners\". Similarly, religious beliefs and inaccessibility to resourceful information prevent many Hispanic and Latina women from seeking assistance. Latina and Hispanic women are often \"concentrated in low-paying, semiskilled occupations in contrast to the overall workforce. Their limited finances and proficiencies create barriers for women trying to escape abuse and obtain legal assistance\".\n\nThe Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) was implemented to protect women against men's violence. Communities of color that are referred to as the \"tribal land\" were disproportionately impacted by the criminal justice system. However, cases of violence against indigenous women living on tribal land in the U.S. was often ignored or unnoticed because the closest federal police station would be far away and there were not enough resources to send officers. As a result, men who were U.S. citizens would specifically target women and girls on tribal land because those men knew it would be almost impossible for them to be prosecuted. In these situations, VAWA failed to protect women living on tribal land. However, in 2013 a renewal was passed that addressed these issues, although many say that there needs to be further legislation.\n\nIn \"Patriarchy, the System\", Allan G. Johnson defines the term \"patriarchy\" as a set of symbols and ideas that make up a culture embodied by everything from the content of everyday conversation to literature and film. Johnson continues by discussing how the patriarchy regulates the way social life is expected to be and what it is about: it is male-centered, male-identified and male-dominated. Women of color are the majority of those who are oppressed by this system. Johnson notes that we all participate in the system and will always be a part of it. We can only control how we participate in the patriarchy. The common picture of someone with power is a white, heterosexual male. The structure of the patriarchy exists in the unequal distributions of power, opportunities, resources, and rewards. This is what makes male dominance possible. When we assess the social norms around us, the involvement of the patriarchy becomes clear. Johnson gives excellent examples: the standards of feminine beauty and masculine toughness, the media portrayal of feminine vulnerability and masculine protectiveness, acceptance of older men involved with younger women and elderly women alone, a career as primary for a husband, childcare being a priority for women and secondary for men, defining men and women as opposites, the acceptance of male aggression as natural but not for women, and the devaluing of femininity and being female. Although all women are affected, women of color suffer more than anyone else within this system.\n\nAccording to numerous studies, women of color encounter different experiences in business and the work force than Caucasian women. A study by Boyd suggests that when looking for jobs, women of color have less chance of acquiring a job than other groups. Furthermore, finding a job is even more difficult for women of color when there are fewer jobs available or when the economy is not doing well. For example, during The Great Depression, a time of immense economic struggle in the United States, vast numbers of black women were dismissed from their jobs at proportionally higher rate than white women. This in turn affected the families and livelihoods of the women of color as income become harder to obtain. The lack of availability of jobs and discrimination against these women forced them into unemployment in greater numbers than men of color. But, when the resources and opportunities are present, women of color have found solace in building their own businesses and becoming entrepreneurs.\n\nHowever, Loscocco and Robinson claim that when women of color open their small businesses, their chances of success are much slimmer than for men. People usually open their own businesses after losing their jobs or as a result of annoyance with their prior professional positions in which they could have encountered discrimination, sexual harassment, and other disturbances. There has been an increase in the number of women pursuing self-employment within businesses of their own in recent decades. But, although having similar motives and displaying comparable skill sets as men, women have had less success within their businesses. Women are also subjected to opening a business within a limited number of fields and cannot usually venture into areas deemed as more masculine such as construction or carpentry, where they face the risk of failure. In their study of women's business ventures, Loscocco and Robinson note that \"while gender segregation explains a large part of women's disadvantage, as expected, we find that U.S. women fare less well even when they operate businesses in the same industry categories and subcategories as men.\" Accordingly, women of color have had an even higher incidence of failure within their businesses. Mora and Davila find that \"minority- and female-owned new firms thus had a higher risk of closing down within one year than those owned by non-Hispanic white men; being a female entrepreneur of color exacerbated this risk.\" Women of color confront even more challenges because they face both gender and race discrimination. Bell finds that \"racism and sexism are forces that serve to heighten black women's psychological anxiety. Due to the contemporary socio-psychological forces and the historical legacy of slavery, it is extremely complicated for black women to separate the subtleties of sexism and racism.\" Women of color are thus confronted with the difficulties that their gender and races bring them and are often questioned of their abilities because of those attributes.\n\nConsequently, the intersectionality of the identities of women of color plays a grand role in their presence in business and the workforce. In her study, Adia Harvey observes that \"the intersection of race, gender, and class often leaves minority women with limited occupational opportunities (Ammott and Matthei 1997; Browne 1999; Browne and Misra 2003; England 1992; Higginbotham and Romero 1997). Minority women, particularly African American women, are disproportionately concentrated in the service industry as cooks, janitors, and cashiers (Hesse-Biber and Carter 2000). Institutional discrimination, widespread acceptance of stereotypes, glass ceilings, and poverty are all structural causes that lead to the occupational segregation of working-class black women (Browne and Kennelly 1999; Browne 1999). The dual influence of race and gender means that African American women generally trail black men, white women, and white men in earnings, prestige, and power in the workplace. Many studies draw attention to the institutionalized racial- and gender-based barriers in the labor force that shape black women's occupational patterns and experiences. Browne and Kennelly (1999) argue that stereotypes of black women as irresponsible single mothers can cloud employers' treatment of black women workers. Similarly, St. Jean and Feagin (1998) assert that while some employers view black women as less threatening than black men, this does not translate into a perception that black women are competent, professional, adept workers. Instead, they must prove their capabilities repeatedly and are routinely subjected to racist and sexist hostilities, lack of mentoring opportunities, and discriminatory treatment in the workplace. Still other researchers argue that black women workers are likely to experience feelings of marginalization, dissonance, and alienation in predominantly white male workplaces (Alfred 1999; Bell and Nokomo 2001; Bonner 2004).\"\n"}
{"id": "8252674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8252674", "title": "Work–family conflict", "text": "Work–family conflict\n\nWork-family conflict occurs when an individual experiences incompatible demands between work and family roles, causing participation in both roles to become more difficult. This imbalance creates conflict at the work-life interface. It is important for organizations and individuals to understand the implications linked to work-family conflict. In certain cases, work-family conflict has been associated with increased occupational burnout, job stress, decreased health, and issues pertaining to organizational commitment and job performance. \n\nWork-family conflict was first studied in the late 19 century. During this time period, work and income moved from inside the home (agricultural work) to outside the home (factories). Industrialization challenged the current relationship between working and family.\n\nBoundary theory and border theory are the foundations used to study work-family conflict. Boundary theory divides social life into two interdependent sections, work and family. Individuals have different roles and responsibilities in each section. Since the sections are interdependent, two roles cannot take place at the same time. Individuals have to participate in role transformation between expectations of the workplace and expected roles within the family structure.\n\nBorder theory expands this by considering the influences each section has on the other. Border theory attempts to pin down ways to manage conflict and achieve balance between conflicting identities. Individuals may choose to treat these segments separately, moving back and forth between work and family roles (displaying boundary theory) or can decide to integrate the segments with hopes of finding balance.\n\nConflict between work and family is bi-directional. There is a distinction between what is termed work-to-family conflict and what is termed family-to-work conflict.\n\nWork-to-family conflict occurs when experiences and commitments at work interfere with family life, such as extensive, irregular, or inflexible work hours, work overload and other forms of job stress, interpersonal conflict at work, extensive travel, career transitions, or an unsupportive supervisor or organization. For example, an unexpected meeting late in the day may prevent a parent from picking up his or her child from school.\n\nFamily-to-work conflict occurs when experiences and commitments in the family interfere with work life, such as the presence of young children, primary responsibility for children, elder care responsibilities, interpersonal conflict within the family unit, or unsupportive family members.For example, a parent may need to take time off from work in order to take care of a sick child, or to witness a tournament or performance of a child. Family-to-work conflict is perceived to result in lower work productivity of employees.\n\nWithin work-to-family conflict and family-to-work conflict, three subtypes of conflict have been identified: time-based, strain-based, and behavior-based. \"Time-based\" conflict entails competing time requirements across work and family roles, \"strain-based\" conflict entails pressures in one role impairing performance in the second role, and \"behavior-based\" conflict entails an incompatibility of behaviors necessary for the two roles. \n\nAlthough work interface with family (WIF) and family interface with work (FIW) are strongly correlated, more attention has been directed toward WIF. Research, largely attributed to the idea Ariel Russel Hochschild termed the \"ideal worker\", depicts the inelastic nature of work roles and responsibilities. The expectations employers hold of an \"ideal worker\" already rest on unrealistic assumptions about how the family should operate. Many employers expect that employees with families have someone tending to everything at home, leaving the worker unencumbered. Despite the fact that a majority of families in the U.S are dual earning, the image of the \"ideal worker\" persists, presenting work-family conflict.\n\nWorkaholism correlates with experiences of work-to-family conflict, since one's priority of work may interfere with family commitments. In its simplest form, workaholism is said to be a substantial investment in one’s work. One who is said to be involved in the act of workaholism can be labeled as a workaholic. Workaholism is said to be multifaceted and multi-directional.The flexibility and satisfaction within one’s job has an impact on an employee’s happiness and satisfaction in the home and vice versa. An overabundance of work has been said to take priority over everyone and everything else in the lives of those infatuated with work. Excessive work prevents one from forming and maintaining intimate relationships and close friendships. Workaholics are known to spend a vast amount of time in work related activities, which then results in the sacrifice of crucial family, social, and recreational activities. Marital problems, trouble with maintaining close relationships, and isolation from friends and family are the common issues related to workaholism and those involved.\n\nIn most recent years, employers have become more aware of the strain and stress that work can place on an employee. Companies have since started seeing their employees not only as workers, but also as people with personal and home lives.Implementation of family-responsive human resource practices and policies that promote work-family balance have become a reality as a way to reduce stress in both environments.\n\nWith the struggles of work-family conflict, options are necessary to provide a solution for these problems. Loehr and Schwartz compare the extreme demands experienced by an individual in the workplace to that of a professional athlete. In both scenarios energy expenditure (stress) is experienced. Without recovery (oscillation) both cannot perform to their greatest ability, eventually leading to chronic stress, burnout, and fatigue. Persist stress without oscillation and the result will be permanent damage.\n\nCreating an environment that values oscillation, for instance encouraging 15-minute walk breaks throughout the workday or offering corporate gym memberships, can improve employee cognition, energy, focus, and emotional intelligence. Companies, along with their bottom line and employees, win when mental and physical health are treated as equally important to cognitive capabilities. In order to gain competitive advantage, organizations are attempting to be portrayed as work-life balance supportive employers. Companies that value employee work-life balance are able to attract and retain satisfied employees, improve worker performance, and boost employee morale and organization identification.\n\nWork-family conflict can be diminished by establishing family-friendly policies in the workplace. Some of these policies include maternity, paternity, parental, sick leaves, and health care insurance. Organizations may provide child care options either as an on-site child care center at the business, references to close child care centers, or supplemented child care incomes for the families placing their children in a child care center.\n\nWith advances in technology, individuals who work outside the home and have intense schedules are finding ways to keep in touch with their families when they cannot physically be with them. \"Technology has provided a bit of an upper hand, allowing them unprecedented control and creativity in maneuvering the tenuous balance between work and family\" (Temple, 2009). Organizations are now able to implement telecommuting policies which allow employees to work from home and provide more flexibility and control over their schedules.\n\nThe role of gender is a large factor in work-family conflict because one's gender may determine their role in the home or work place. Female representation in the workplace is a direct result of power operating covertly through ideological controls. This is illustrated by the basic assumption of an \"ideal worker.\" Many organizations view the ideal worker as one who is \"committed to their work above all else\". Ideal workers are those that complete tasks beyond their formal and assigned behaviors, seen as a positive and valuable attribute to the organization. Individuals having to divide their time (and their commitments) between family and work are perceived as less dedicated to the organization. A manager's perception of a subordinate's role and commitment to the organization is positively associated with the individual's promotability.\n\nManager expectations of an ideal worker are often placed on female workers. Since female workers are both part of the workforce and have significant responsibilities at home, they experience a greater bearing of work-life conflict. Female employees, who managers perceive to be juggling work and family commitments, were presumed to be less committed to the organization, therefore not worthy of advancement. Women in the workforce may be \"inaccurately perceived to have less commitment to their organizations than their counterparts. Their advancement in organizations may be unfairly obstructed\". Males are perceived to be extremely dedicated to their organization because they experience lower levels of work-family conflict.\n\nA male individual may be unmarried and have no thought as to what \"typical\" family responsibilities entail because they simply have not had the experience. The male may be married, but his wife, due to the demands of the husband's position, has remained at home, tending solely to the house and children and experiencing the \"typical\" family responsibilities. Since the wife is the one who stays home and tends to the children, the husband is more present in the workforce, representing the higher percentage of males at the top of the organization hierarchy. Ironically, these are the individuals creating and reforming workplace policies.\n\nThe motherhood penalty is a term sociologists use when arguing that in the workplace working mothers encounter systematic disadvantages in pay, perceived competence, and benefits relative to childless women. In their place of work, women may suffer a per-child wage penalty, leading to a pay gap between mothers and non-mothers that is larger than the gap between men and women. Not only do working mothers have the burden of balancing work and home life, but they also have to prove they are as dedicated as other employees. Mothers tend to suffer less favorable job-site evaluations compared to non-mothers, stating that mothers are much less committed to their jobs, less authoritative, and less dependable than non-mothers. Hence, mothers may experience discrimination is terms of pay, hiring, and day-to-day job experience.\n\nThe way in which companies have shaped the \"ideal worker\" does not compliment the family lifestyle, nor does it accommodate it. Long hours and near complete devotion to the profession make it difficult for working mothers to participate in, or get ahead in the workplace while maintaining a home and family .\n"}
{"id": "25074978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25074978", "title": "World Kindness Day", "text": "World Kindness Day\n\nWorld Kindness Day is an international observance on 13 November. It was introduced in 1998 by the World Kindness Movement, a coalition of nations' kindness NGOs. It is observed in many countries, including Canada, Japan, Australia, Nigeria and United Arab Emirates. In 2009, Singapore observed the day for the first time. Italy and India also observed the day. In the UK, it is fronted by David Jamilly, who co-founded Kindness Day UK. In 2010 at the request of Michael Lloyd-White, the NSW Federation Parents and Citizens Association wrote to the Minister of The NSW Department of Education to place World Kindness Day on the NSW School Calendar. In 2012 At the request of the Chairman of World Kindness Australia, World Kindness Day was placed on the Federal School Calendar and the then Minister of School Education, Early Childhood, and Youth. The Hon Peter Garrett provided a Declaration of Support for World Kindness Australia and placed World Kindness Day on the National School Calendar for over 9000 schools. Schools across the globe are now celebrating World Kindness Day and work with local NGOs such as the Be Kind People Project and Life Vest Inside In the USA. In 2012 in Australia, Marie Bashir, Governor of NSW, hosted an event for the first time at Government House to celebrate World Kindness Day and accepted a Cool To Be Kind Award from year 3&4 students. Australian Councils representing over 1.3 million residents have also signed Declarations of Support for World Kindness Australia placing World Kindness Day on the Council Calendar of Events. Events include THE BIG HUG, handing out Kindness Cards, Global Flashmob, which was coordinated by Orly Wahba from USA which was held in 15 countries and 33 cities with its images of the event making the big screens in New York City. Canada celebrates with The Kindness Concert and in Singapore in 2009, 45,000 yellow flowers were given away. In 2017 World Kindness day was also celebrated in Slovenia, organised by volunteering organisation Humanitarcek as part of their project Randomised Kindess.\n\nWorld Kindness Day is to highlight good deeds in the community focusing on the positive power and the common thread of kindness which binds us. Kindness is a fundamental part of the human condition which bridges the divides of race religion, politics, gender and zip codes. Kindness Cards are also an ongoing activity which can either be passed on to recognize an act of kindness and or ask that an act of kindness be done. Approaches are being made to the United Nations by the peak global body, the World Kindness Movement, to have World Kindness Day officially recognized and its members unanimously sign a Declaration of Support for World Kindness.\n\nAccording to Gulf News, \"it is a day that encourages individuals to overlook boundaries, race and religion.\"\n\n {div col end}\n"}
