{"id": "53206947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53206947", "title": "Academic freedom in the Middle East", "text": "Academic freedom in the Middle East\n\nAcademic freedom in the Middle East is a contested and debated issue, which has caught regional and international attention. In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, in general, the authoritarian regimes have all showed a certain degree of opposition to every sort of freedom, academic one not excluded, regardless of the type of regime basis they had. Freedom for academicians to inquiry, research, teach and communicate ideas or report facts without being threatened or persecuted or with the possibility of losing their position, being censored or repressed is threatened. What contributes to academic freedom violations is also that they are essential elements for the regimes to maintain their power and in addition to this issue, interstate and civil wars as well as internal disorders and external intervention can damage educational structures and institutions. Additionally, as far as the regime is concerned, a security or national threat can be a pretest for suffocate or suspend academic research and debate. Restrictions on academic freedom also regards the topics of research, which are under significant constraints, although these might be highly interesting and worth researching.\n\nThere are many organizations that deal with monitoring violations of academic freedom and report academicians' voices, through publishing letters directed to public figures and also directed to the international community.\n\nScholars at Risk is an international network based in the United States, specifically at the University of Chicago. The aim of this organization is to support scholars and defend academic freedom and human rights all over the world. One of the projects of this network is the Academic Freedom Monitor.\n\nThe online website Academic Freedom Monitor deals with reporting violations related to academic freedom. It is based on robust sources of information, which come from independent actors and are, then, verified. According to the Academic Freedom Monitor, which reports cases since 2010 until now, there are different categories of violation regarding the issue.\nRegarding the Middle East and Northern Africa, the AFM registers cases in: Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Israel, Kuwait, Yemen, Iraq, Palestine (OPT), Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Egypt, Morocco, Libya and Tunisia.\n\nAcademic Freedom Monitor identifies different types of violations as following:\n\nThe Middle East Studies Association (MESA) is an association which brings together scholars and informed people with an interested in the MENA region. This association is the promoter of the \"International Journal of Middle East Studies\" and has the aim to promote cooperation, communication and boost the learning regarding the Middle East. One of the fields it is dealing with regards academic freedom. This association has created a Committee on Academic Freedom (CAF), which aims to remove any obstacle regarding the exchange of knowledge and any restrictions on academicians coming also from governments.\n\nAcademic freedom in Turkey has been through a series of changes and fluctuations. It is often irregular, inadequate and closely tied to the politics in the country. Several reform initiatives have been taken throughout Turkey's history which aim at restructuring governance of higher education and thus affecting academic freedom. The first reform initiative was in 1933, as Malche was invited by Atatürk to restructure Istanbul University (Istanbul Darülfünun). One of the reforms that made it to the law 2252 was according universities with more freedom. In 1946, the Law Number 4936 accorded universities with unprecedented rights, as academicians were seen as guardians of democracy second to the military. \nThe Democratic Party in 1953 passed laws that would undermine the universities' control over their budget, retirement of academicians and their employment rights. Those attacks on academic freedom were aimed at confining professors from being involved in partisan politics resulting in several cases of suspensions of academicians and denial of promotions. The 1960 coup was seen as a promise for reversal of the DP's encroachment over university autonomy, as it recruited academicians in government offices, selected to write the constitution and other vital roles. However, the 1960 coup junta surprisingly dismissed 147 academicians who were not in agreement with some members of the junta. \nIn 1973, higher education was restructured with the increased sovereignty of the Interuniversity Council (ÜAK), while at the same time universities were given complete autonomy.\n\nThe current Higher Education Law was implemented in 1981 following the 1980 coup. The law maintains that, “universities are judicial structures which are managed and supervised by the organs selected among them. University organs, academics and teaching assistants cannot be removed from their posts for no reason by authorities outside the university” (YÖK 2007). Yet academic freedom became too dependent on The Council of Higher Education (YÖK) as the reform moved towards creating a more centralized system around the YÖK in matters regarding budgetary control, staff employment and student selection. The law defines the name, number and discipline of each faculty or vocational school. While universities can establish departments, their approval is subject to the Council.\n\nEgypt is one of the countries where academic freedom is not a right freely enjoyed. Since the start of the 1990s, academics in Egypt have faced several forms of repression and endured many violations such as judicial convictions, public condemnation, and physical violence from both private individuals and groups, mainly the Islamists, and government officials. On one hand, there are Egyptian state authorities using police, political appointees, and regulations and laws to control university life. On the other hand, Islamist militants are resorting to physical violence and public attacks to have a say in the content of higher education.\nAll aspects of university life including the classroom, student activities, research, campus demonstrations were affected by government and private repression. The professors and students find themselves censored and enable to cross the “red lines” of politics, religion, and sex.\nFaculty appointments and promotions are controlled by the state. Student activities are limited once outside the classroom, and campus protests are often violently responded to. All these factors contribute to the deterioration of the academic freedom situation in Egypt and to the general decline of the educational environment.\n\nWhile Article 21 of the 2014 Egyptian constitution, issued under Abdel Fattah el-Sisi’s rule, ensures that “the state guarantees the independence of universities, scientific and linguistic academies” and that “it commits to providing university education in accordance with global quality criteria, and to developing free university education in state universities and institutes as per the law\", the Egyptian state still violates its constitutional provisions through various repressive ways in an attempt to curb academic freedom. Article 23 of the constitution claims that “the state grants the freedom of scientific research and encourages its institutions.”</ref>\nHowever, freedom of scientific research has often been interfered with and even hindered on various occasions by state authorities. Universities under Sisi’s rule have been described as “experiencing the lowest levels of academic freedom the country has ever known.\" In fact, many observers maintained that the violations against Egyptian academics under El-Sisi’s rule exceed those witnessed during Mubarak’s time. In academic year 2014, 761 student arrests and 281 student expulsions took place. Moreover, the state sentenced to death a university professor for writing critical articles about the regime and accused him of “conspiring to undermine Egypt’s national security”, and arrested many others who dared to criticize the regime.\nThe state also monitors what ideas come in and not just the research that comes out. Several universities are canceling their study abroad programs or breaking off their cooperations with foreign universities. For example, Cairo’s Ain Shams University canceled its study abroad program to Turkey and Damanhour University stopped its cooperation with foreign institutions. Furthermore, El-Sisi issued a decree banning any academic travel outside Egypt that does not have a prior State Security authorization. This way, the state would be able to control which conferences can be attended and what sources can be used. Even though this decree and many other violations are, according to the articles mentioned above, unconstitutional, they are still enforced.\n\nThere are various cases of academic freedom violations in Egypt. The following are just few of them. Professor Kholoud Saber had her scholarship abroad terminated by Cairo University. She was doing a doctoral research on a scholarship at the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium, that started on October 2015, when she was ordered to return to Egypt following a recommendation of the Ministry of Higher education in December 2015. Fanny Ohier, a French Master’s student, was arrested and later deported from Egypt. She was working on the April 6 Youth Movement, a group banned by the government as it was accused of state defamation and espionage. She was not given any reason for her arrest by the Egyptian officials but she, reportedly, overheard police officers claiming “she had improper friends.”\nOn another instance, scholar and journalist Ismail Alexandrani was detained, on November 2015, upon his return Egypt from a workshop in Germany. The Egyptian embassy in Berlin had apparently advised the scholar, who happens to be “a vocal critic of human rights violations in Egypt and counterterrorism policy in the Sinai Peninsula,” not to turn up to the workshop titled “Deconstructing Islamist Egypt\" Upon Mr. Alexandrani’s arrival to Egypt, his passport was confiscated and he was questioned for over 19 hours before getting arrested “on charges of ‘joining and supporting a terrorist organization’ and ‘spreading false news liable to disturb public security and harm public interest.\"\n\nOne of the most widely covered stories in relation to the situation of academic freedom in Egypt was the case of the Italian PhD candidate Giulio Regeni, a researcher at the University of Cambridge in the UK. Giulio Regeni was first found dead, in the outskirts of Cairo, a week after he was declared missing on January 25, 2016, which coincided with the fifth anniversary of the Egyptian uprising, and his body demonstrated clear signs of torture and severe beating. The PhD candidate was investigating the Egyptian labor movements at the American University of Cairo at the time of his murder. While government officials maintained that Regeni was kidnapped and murdered by a gang, international and Egyptian human rights activists claim that he was actually targeted for his research by the Egyptian government.\nThe murder of Giulio Regeni remains unsolved. \nThe case of the researcher, and the continuing imprisonment of hundreds of scholars and thousands of students and the various restrictions on academic freedom signal that there is an actual “not improvement but, rather, a further tightening of control, and loss of autonomy and freedom in Egyptian higher education, as well as a shrinkiHing space for critical inquiry and discourse in Egypt generally.\"\n\nIn the 1990s, Israeli academia was characterized by open-mindedness and pluralist vision of debated issues such as revisionist history on 1948 war that was finding its way into the academic society. However, with the Second Intifada and its aftermath, these characteristics gradually vanished also due to the disappearance of Israeli left parties, which in fact used to host a great part of Israeli academia and when leftish positions started to change, this influenced the academic environment as well.\n\nIn what it is considered by many international actors a situation of military occupation with its consequent policies of collective punishments and denial of entrance, such as checkpoints and the construction of the wall between Israel and West Bank, in the Occupied Palestinian Territories access to education for Palestinians has thus been affected. In fact, straight after the beginning of the first Intifada, the ability for the students of West Bank Universities to study and carry on theirs studies have been limited, while later on, in 2006, a travel ban to get into Israel was issued for Palestinian students belonging to Israeli universities. These procedure go along with a series of entry and residence denials for researchers and students, both foreign passport holders and Palestinian-born, which have threatened the ability of carrying on a proper educational and research level in Palestinian universities.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported various violations perpetrated by Israeli authorities on students, in the academic and educational environment. In 2007, 670 students from Gaza were prevented from achieving higher education in countries such as Egypt, Jordan, Germany, Britain and United States, by being denied the exit permits. In total, the number of Gazans who have been denied to exit Gaza has reached 6400 people and this due to Hamas’ takeover of the territory and Israel controlling Gaza’s border. Those students that left for their studies remained once again trapped when they returned home for the summer. Even when they obtained exit permits, students have been stopped at the passenger crossing in Erez, with the justification of “security concerns”.\n\nIn June 2008, the organization again stated how discrimination by Israeli authorities prevented many Palestinian students from the Gaza Strip to travel abroad or to the West Bank to get a better education. Regarding the chances to travel abroad, in 2008, grants allocated for the Palestinians chosen to study in the United States were redirected because there was no way those students would be allowed by Israel to leave Gaza. For the inability to get visa, the grants destined to Gaza students were transferred to students in the West Bank. The organization has highlighted the necessity and the right for those students to access higher education abroad, since in the Gaza Strip the opportunity are quite limited. For instance, there is not a wide range of degrees, both undergraduate and master’s, in the four available universities. Moreover, there is a total absence of doctoral degrees, and lecturers and teachers from outside are hardly allowed by the Israeli government to enter and teach in Gaza.\n\nThis blockade is said to be a clear violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention, because Israel’s obligation to guarantee the rights of the people under occupation, among which freedom of movement and right to education display, is inconsistent or not committed at all. However, according to international law, Gaza is not occupied since Israel no longer has any military presence in Gaza and Gaza has its own, independent government.\n\nOther types of restrictions regarding academic freedom affects also Israeli scholars, such as Ilan Pappe, an Israeli Jew, who has been forced to resign for the University of Haifa in 2007 for his academic work and political positions, such as academic boycott of Israel. The scholar started researching on the history of the creation of the state of Israel and elaborated a revisionist historical perspective regarding 1948 war. He received along with his family death threats.\n\nIn an interview with Ma’an News, in February 2014, he was asked about academic freedom in Israel and especially regarding his personal experience. This is what he stated:\n\n“Freedom of academic expression in Israel is a bit like the idea of a Israel being a Jewish democracy. You take a universal concept -- everyone has the right to their opinion and everyone has the right to be part of a democracy -- only with one condition: that the universality does not include critique on Zionism and that the democracy would always ensure Jewish majority whatever the demographic and geographical realities are.”\n\nDuring the years that followed the 1979 Iranian revolution, hundreds of academicians and students were killed as a consequence of a highly violent campaign that aimed to repress academic freedom, silence dissent, and enforce uniformity of thought. The freedoms of speech, association, and peaceful assembly of thousands of students and faculty members were breached through various methods of brutality, torture and detention. The reasons behind the arrests and torture ranged from “participating in illegal gatherings”, “propaganda against the system”, to “insulting the supreme leader or government officials.” Other tens of thousands of students and faculty members were forced out of their education and careers and into exile. These assaults on academic freedom continued all throughout the 1980s and became a salient feature of the newly established republic. Paradoxically, it was in universities where the initial revolutionary ‘texts’, aimed to oust the Shah, were produced and circulated. Indeed, universities came to represent the de facto ‘spaces’ where open-ended critical discourse was taking place. Nevertheless, they became the primary target of attack after the fall of the monarchy and the rise of Ayatollah Khomeini to power.\n\nA merciless campaign of repression has been waged by the Iranian authorities against academic freedom during the last three decades. Academics and students were routinely detained, harassed and expelled from universities because of their beliefs, political affiliations and peaceful activism. The use of coercion and repressive methods was stepped up after the election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005. The latter attempted to ‘Islamize’ the educational curriculum through purging it from secular and ‘Western’ influences. Furthermore, a large number of students and academics were barred from universities, following a policy of “starring” that punished those who do not conform to the state's political and social views. The government of President Ahmadinejad also introduced a quota system to limit the number of women in universities and measures to prevent them from enrolling in a list of courses considered more appropriate for men. A firm iron grip was retained over academic institutions by the Iranian authorities to the degree of allowing intelligence bodies and state security to supervise disciplinary proceedings in universities.\n\nThe next president who assumed office in 2013, Hassan Rouhani—considered by many as a ‘reformist’-, made some steps to permit the return of several banned academics and students to campuses. Nonetheless, the situation of academic freedom remained critical with hundreds of students still imprisoned and others newly arrested since the election of President Rouhani. By the end of the academic year under the administration of the latter, various restrictions breaching academic freedom and introduced during the time of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad remained in place.\n\nSeveral international instruments, to which Iran is party and accepted, such as the International Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education clearly guarantee the right to education to all people without discrimination. In addition to that, the rights of individuals to freedoms of association, expression, opinion, and assembly and the prohibition of discrimination based on sex, race, religion, ethnicity or political opinion, are further protected by the International Covenant on Civil and political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD).\n\nHowever, students and academics in Iran still face pervasive and routine infringements of their rights based on gender, religion, ethnicity and opinions. In the period stretching from March 2009 to February 2012, 396 cases of students were reportedly banned from their university programs because of their peaceful activism. At least 634 other students were detained by the intelligence and security network. Student activists were suspended, threatened, arrested and prosecuted on a regular basis due to their peaceful criticism of the regime. Iranian officials have also resorted to shutting down hundreds of student publications, gatherings, and independent organizations. Moreover, the intelligence and paramilitary agencies are strongly present in university campuses and sometimes violently confront students through attacking peaceful gatherings or dormitories, which often leads to grave injuries and even the death of many students. Furthermore, the minorities living in the republic of Iran are confronted with systematic discrimination and deprivation in universities. One example illustrating this case is that of the Baha’i community who are prevented from pursuing higher education because of their different religious beliefs. Iranian authorities also specifically punish student activists advocating for ethnic minority rights in harsher ways. The punishments range from violent arrests to heavy sentences including the death sentence. Women are also subject to discrimination at the educational level. The establishment of a quota system to limit female participation in universities is curbing women’s rights. Further restrictions on women’s educational choices are enforced. The issue of gender segregation, which does not always guarantee quality education for women, persists. Academics and teaching personnel are also subject to discrimination with their rights constantly violated. More than a hundred academics were dismissed from universities, because of their dissent against the government and their political views, since the 2009 election. In addition to that, several university professors have been imprisoned for merely expressing peaceful dissent.\n\nA Canadian-Iranian professor of anthropology from Concordia University in Montreal, Homa Hoodfar, was detained in Iran on the 6th of June, 2016. She was interrogated for three months before being locked in a small cell in Evin Prison by the Iranian intelligence service. Evin prison in Iran is referred to as ‘Evin University’ due to the large number of intellectuals detained there. Professor Hoodfar spent 112 days in prison for meddling in affairs of “feminism and security matters.” She was released in September 2016 on “humanitarian grounds” after Canada’s cooperation with officials from Oman, Switzerland and Italy to ensure her release. Canada worked with the latter countries because it cut its direct diplomatic ties with Iran in 2012.\n\nProfessor Hoodfar later reported that even though she was not physically abused, the interrogations were severely psychologically distressing. The questioning would last from 9am to 7pm in a basement, where professor Hoodfar would either be facing a wall or a mirror preventing her from seeing her interrogators. As examples of psychological abuse, the professor revealed that one day, during questioning, Iranian officials played a song from her husband’s funeral that took place two years before, after they had found a clip of it on her iPad. In another instance, they displayed a picture of “her mother standing at her father’s graveside.”\n\n"}
{"id": "15056593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15056593", "title": "Acting workshop", "text": "Acting workshop\n\nAn acting workshop is a meeting of actors or others of one specific trade to learn how to hone their skills and to network with other actors, acting coaches, and casting directors. Many actors will critique, mentor, and coach their peers and offer tips on how to improve their preparation for roles, auditions, and enhance their performing abilities. Acting workshops are often staffed by professionals, which can include acting coaches, directors, or actors. Casting directors sometimes also act as coaches. It is usually recommended that serious actors attend acting workshops to help increase their skill.\n\nThere are other types of workshops for similar kinds of performance trades. Voice actors learn how to enhance their skill of voicing a character, writers learn to how to give characters personality, and comedians can learn how to increase their comedic skill. \nSpecialist independent workshops exist to provide the facilities required for training and providing skills courses. A good example of this is Dewar Studios in Great Titchfield Street in Central London.\n\n"}
{"id": "12753408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12753408", "title": "Adventure park", "text": "Adventure park\n\nAn adventure park is a place which can contain a wide variety of elements, such as rope climbing exercises, obstacle courses and zip-lines. They are usually intended for recreation.\n\n\"Recreational-oriented\" adventure parks are usually designed for a larger volume of visitors. They do not follow a specific educational concept, but see the individual, physical and mental challenge as a predominantly recreational activity. Neither climbing techniques nor special/specific physical fitness experience are necessary. Typical slogans are: \"Have Fun, Test your Courage, Overcome your Own Fears, Be Outside, Be in the Nature, Do some Physical Activities, etc.\"\n\nIt is unclear where and when the first ropes course was created. A ropes course was built in 1875 in France and functioned mainly as a physical challenge activity for the participants. During the Second World War, ropes courses were used as obstacle courses for improving the physical fitness of the British military.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, ropes courses became a central component of outdoor seminars in the United States.\n\nIn recent years, specifically recreation-oriented Adventure Parks were developed. The market has boomed especially in Europe & Asian countries.\n\nAs already mentioned, a ropes course is often a challenging outdoor personal development and team-building activity with a relatively low number of participants. Some parks offer both - a recreational section and a team building section.\n\nA canopy tour is a specific type of ziplining where a person is harnessed to a steel cable and propelled by gravity from platform to platform high up in the trees of a thick forest canopy. Although these date back far into history for civil and even scientific uses, they are now used for recreation and have created a new activity for the tourism industry.\n\nThe category Adventure Parks can be broken down into a huge variety of specific types. They differ according to the following main criteria:\n\nForest Adventure Parks are very popular. They take advantage of the beauty of a forest, of the trees (no investment in poles) and offer an outdoor activity surrounded by nature. They offer not only an adventure “at height” in a forest, but also the benefit for customers of experiencing the spectacular natural beauty of trees, hills, cliffs and/or rivers. In forest parks, there is a particular focus on tree-friendly installation. In most cases, the platforms are held to the trees through the principle of friction. When the exercise elements are mounted, the trees are protected by coats of wood or rubber to prevent rubbing from the ropes.\n\nDepending on how they are used and where they are located, parks on poles are an excellent alternative. They offer complete freedom in terms of park design and location but, at the same time, require higher investment (in the poles). The heat of the summer can be a challenge. A mix of poles/trees at the edge of a forest has the potential to work well.\nIndoor parks have the great advantage of being an “all year round” operation but with the corresponding weakness of that strength at times when fine weather encourages outdoor activities. These trails are often built on a modular metallic structure. New parks on wood poles have shown that an indoor park can also provide a good experience.\n\nAdventure Parks can be found in a multitude of places/locations. Examples of trends:\n\nLarge Adventure Parks usually have several trails of increasing difficulty levels and can reach up to 10 trails. With 10 to 20 acrobatic elements per trail, the park can easily reach up to 200 elements (it is usually between 40 and 200 elements).\n\nThe majority of trails are for everyone from the age of 7 years old (sometimes 10). The difficulty level starts at a low level or “green trail” and progresses to a very challenging level or “black trail”. Specific trails for kids from 4 years are very popular with families and provide a boost to the business (up to 20-30% more clients). Sometimes there are specific trails for the disabled.\n\nMost kids love Adventure Parks. In a park they can act independently, try and fail and try again, and overcome their own fears without any risk (a continuous belay system is strongly recommended). Thanks the variety of levels, each time they can push their own boundaries and reach their own challenges. This is a perfect outdoor activity (with individual, physical and mental challenges) to learn through play.\n\nThe acrobatic elements are artificial obstacles (exercises) made from ropes, nets and wood in various forms, and which are installed at different heights in trees. The clever arrangement of such obstacles encourages many basic forms of movement such as climbing, hand over hand, balancing, holding, slipping and sliding. A good mix of elements and zip-lines increases the diversity and interest of parks – People love zip-lines.\n\nThere are two approaches to how to structure a park: (1) the so-called French approach where you move from one trail to the next one, like setting out on a trip and coming back to the start or (2) more the Swiss approach with one common starting point (often a platform) where the visitors can choose anytime which trail they want to go. The latter approach has the great advantage to be self-distributing and therefore allowing higher throughput by peak.\nThere are 2 schools concerning the height of the lifeline:\n\nConcerning the safety, traditionally a self-safety system is used where participants take responsibility for themselves. Before starting, the participants receive special training in how to use the safety equipment and then run the various trails independently. The emergence of new technologies has drastically increased the level of safety and opened new business opportunities.\n\nThe safety equipment for each participant basically consists of a harness, a lanyard and a belay system (another option would simply be a net under the trails – relatively expensive and with limited application). Sometimes helmets are also used.\n\nThere are distinctions between the following main four belay systems:\n\nThe traditional self-belay system basically consists of two carabiners operated by the participants. The participants successively unlock/lock the connection of the carabiners on each platform (zone of risk). Mishandling and removal of both carabiners at the same time will cause complete unlocking. This situation could mean a life-threatening risk and there have been instances of serious accidents and even terminal injuries.\n\nThe permanent belay systems significantly reduce the risk of accident. The two carabiners have a \"communicating system” which avoids simultaneous opening of the carabiners and the complete unlocking from the cable. A permanent system with integrated rollers can even be found.\n\nThe continuous belay systems on rail offer a high level of safety but has limited application – it is mainly on poles with a heavy structure, for relatively short elements and it is expensive (and more common in the USA than in Europe).\n\nWith a continuous belay system on cable, visitors are continuously connected to the lifeline (cable) from the start to the finish without any possibility of becoming unlocked - which provides the highest safety level. At the start of the trail, the visitors simply connect the lifeline into the belay device (hook or trolley) and they can run the whole trail – in term of safety, no specific further action is required. \nFor the continuous belay system with integrated trolley, the belay device simply rolls along the whole lifeline and greatly eases the passage on zip-lines (no handling required). This last technology is the only system allowing the lifeline to be “out of reach” which has numerous advantages (higher throughput, more impressive elements, more convenience, lower risk of injury)\n\nRecreational-oriented Adventure Parks are usually designed for a larger volume of visitors: In Europe 10,000 to 60,000 or even more participants per season are common (usually April to October) and often with a high variation pattern (high attendance on weekends and during vacations).\n\nThe key challenges are manifold: attractive value proposition, pool of potential clients, safety level & risk management, needs of training & supervision and flexible operation.\n\nIn order to ensure a profitable and sustainable operation, meeting the last three challenges is essential. The new technologies in safety systems bring Adventure Parks into a new era by dramatically reducing the risk of accident (permanent and continuous systems) and reducing the needs of training and supervision (continuous systems).\n\nThe EN 15567-1 and -2 standards regulate the construction and operation of high ropes Courses / Adventure Parks. The various associations as ERCA and IAPA in Europe or ACCT and PRCA in the USA are acting towards professionalization of the industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "11995381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11995381", "title": "American College Personnel Association", "text": "American College Personnel Association\n\nAmerican College Personnel Association - College Student Educators International is a major student affairs association headquartered in Washington, D.C. at the National Center for Higher Education.\n\nFounded in 1924 by May L. Cheney, ACPA has 7,500 members representing 1,200 private and public institutions from across the U.S. and around the world. Members include organizations and companies that are engaged in the campus marketplace. Members also include graduate and undergraduate students enrolled in student affairs/higher education administration programs, faculty, and student affairs professionals, from entry level to senior student affairs officers.\n\nNearly 50% of ACPA's members attend the convention. Highlights of the convention include pre-convention workshops, over 300 educational sessions, interviewing at the , volunteering and networking opportunities. During the convention, job applicants and employers participate in one of the largest and most comprehensive placement service in student affairs. The 2013 convention will be in Las Vegas (2013), chaired by Karen Warren-Coleman (University of Chicago).\n\nThe 2012 Louisville Convention was chaired by Steve Sutton (University of California at Berkeley). Past convention chairs include Patricia Perillo (Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University) for 2011, Robin Diana (Hartwick College) for 2010, Jonathan Poullard (University of California at Berkeley) for 2009, and Sue Saunders (University of Connecticut) for 2008.\n\n1924 - May L. Cheney, who organized a teacher placement office at the University of California, Berkeley helped form the National Association of Appointment Secretaries (NAAS). In 1924, NAAS met for the first time and came as guests of the National Association of Deans of Women (NADW) to a convention sponsored by the Department Superintendence of the National Education Association.\n\n1929 - Forty-six NAAS members registered for the Sixth Annual Convention. NAAS became the National Association of Personnel and Placement Officers (NAPPO).\n\n1930s - The name American College Personnel Association (ACPA) was adopted in 1931. Association communication consisted of one mailed newsletter, the Personnel-O-Gram (P-O-G). In 1937, the Student Point of View statement was developed by leaders of the American Council on Education (ACE) and ACPA.\n\n1940s - The Journal for Educational and Psychological Measurement (EPM) became the next form of the association's newsletter communication in 1943. In 1947, ACPA's President Daniel D. Feder's recommendation for formal unification efforts led to the formation of the American Personnel and Guidance Association (APGA). No conferences were held from 1943 through 1945 during World War Two.\n\n1950s - The Personnel and Guidance Journal replaced EPM as ACPA's official journal in 1952. ACPA members approved the plan to form APGA. Membership reached 1,000 in 1952 and continued to increase through the next two decades. In 1959, Charles Lewis, the P-O-G associate editor was named the first editor of the Journal of College Student Personnel, ACPA's new official journal.\n\n1970s - ACPA collaborated with other national organizations on many national conventions. In 1973, ACPA and NAWDC (formerly NADW) coordinated a national convention. The Standing Committee for Women was established in 1973. In 1974, NAWDAC (name change for NAWDC), NASPA and ACPA coordinated a national convention. In 1976, membership totaled 9,384 at a record high. The Standing Committee for Multicultural Affairs was founded in 1978. In 1979, ACPA became one of the first members of the Council for the Advancement of Standards in Higher Education (CAS).\n\n1980s - ACPA flourished under the presidential leadership of outstanding student affairs practitioners and faculty members such as Susan Komives, Margaret \"Peggy\" Barr and Dennis Roberts. In 1983, ACPA was incorporated under the District of Columbia Non-Profit Act. In 1987, ACPA and NASPA held a joint meeting in Chicago to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of The Student Personnel Point of View statement. In 1988, ACPA's premier journal was renamed THE JOURNAL COLLEGE STUDENT DEVELOPMENT (JCSD).\n\n1990s - In 1991, after 40 years, ACPA leaders and members voted to disaffiliate from APGA, which was known as the American Association for Counseling and Development (AACD), and was later renamed the American Counseling Association (ACA). In September 1992, the separation became effective, and ACPA moved into a new office space at the National Center for Higher Education in Washington, D.C. Presidents Leila V. Moore (1991–92), Terry E. Williams (1992–93), Charles C. Schroeder (1986–87), Barbara Anderson (1994–95) and Harold E. Cheatham (1995–96) were all involved in this tremendous undertaking.\n\nEarly 2000 - In 2003, Carmen Neuberger retired as Executive Director. Gregory Roberts, ACPA President from 1999–2000, was selected as the new Executive Director.\n\n2010 - The ACPA/NASPA Professional Competency Areas document was published by the Joint Task Force on Professional Competencies and Standards.\n\n2011 - After more than two years of work by the Consolidation Steering Team from ACPA and NASPA leaders, a voting process took place in March. Eighty-percent of ACPA members voted affirmed consolidation while eligible NASPA members who voted fell short of the required 2/3 majority. In the July/August 2011 issue of the Journal of Higher Education, ACPA's premier publication, THE JOURNAL OF COLLEGE STUDENT DEVELOPMENT (JCSD) is ranked fourth among 50 Tier One journals in higher education. In a study by Nathaniel Bray and Claire Major, 106 out of 144 respondents reported that they read JCSD, and more than half of them cited JCSD in their work. This report continues JCSD's streak as the highest ranked journal in student affairs.\n\n2012 - ACPA appointed the Credentialing Implementation Team, launched the Institutional Councils Program and published its on-going Global Initiatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3719215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719215", "title": "Animated narrative vignette", "text": "Animated narrative vignette\n\nAn animated narrative vignette (ANV) is an instructional technology used to motivate and facilitate role-playing, problem solving, and discussion. Teachers develop the ANVs to present in class or in online training. Students might also create them in experiential learning exercises. They provide computer animation representations of teachable situations that encourage critical thinking and may also provide an instrument for assessing attitudes and behaviors. Vignettes have been used to teach mathematics and science, management skills, problem solving, and character education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3691832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691832", "title": "Bachelor of Business", "text": "Bachelor of Business\n\nA Bachelor of Business (BBus, BBus (Major)) is a three-year undergraduate business degree offered by traditional and newer universities from the post-Dawkins era in Australia, New Zealand and Ireland. It is similar in format and structure to a Bachelor of Commerce (BCom).\n\nIn Australia, it was traditionally awarded by former non-university tertiary institutions which include institutes of technologies, such as Queensland University of Technology, RMIT University and the University of Technology, Sydney. Some former Institute of Technologies and Colleges such as Ballarat College of Advanced Education (University of Ballarat), Swinburne Institute of Technology (Swinburne University) the South Australia Institute of Technology (University of South Australia) and the Western Australia Institute of Technology (Curtin University of Technology) have renamed their Bachelor of Business programs to Bachelor of Commerce after achieving university status.\n\nMany universities such as Monash University and the University of Queensland are offering Bachelor of Business degrees as a way to further specialise students study needs while other universities such as University of New England, University of Tasmania, James Cook University, Griffith University and La Trobe University have replaced many of their traditional general Commerce programs with Business programs. Within Australia, Bachelor of Business degrees are as common as Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Economics degrees.\n\nIn Ireland this award can also be offered as an honours degree B Business (Hons) with a further one year study than the ordinary level Bachelor degree.\n\nExamples of such include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12102187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12102187", "title": "Beca (garment)", "text": "Beca (garment)\n\nThe beca is worn on the breast and shoulder, over the doublet. The colors of the beca and the coat of arms embroidered on it identify the university and school or faculty that the tuno belongs to. The beca is given to the tuno by his companions when they consider that he has enough experience, and is fit to represent his University Tuna and, by extension, his/her university.\n\n"}
{"id": "41045027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41045027", "title": "Classwide Peer Tutoring", "text": "Classwide Peer Tutoring\n\nClasswide Peer Tutoring (CWPT) is a variation of peer-mediated instruction that has been used in elementary, middle school, and high school classrooms. In CWPT students form pairs and take turns in the roles of tutor and student. Students earn points for their teams by participating in the tutoring and the winning team is recognized. Researchers have investigated CWPT's effectiveness in several different academic areas.\n\nClasswide Peer Tutoring (CWPT) is a form of peer-mediated instruction where the teacher creates pairs of students that alternately fill the roles of tutor and student. The tutor asks questions, records points, and provides feedback on whether the student's response matches the correct response designated by the teacher. The student responds orally and/or in writing to the questions and practices the correct answer three times if he or she makes an error. The teacher supervises the tutoring and awards points for good tutoring. A classroom's student pairs are divided into two teams, and they earn points for their respective teams by answering questions correctly, correcting their incorrect answers, and tutoring appropriately. At the end of a week, the team that has earned the most points is recognized as the winning team. CWPT has been used to help students learn spelling, math facts, basic word reading, reading fluency, vocabulary, and facts related to an area of study. There appear to be more published studies of CWPT with positive outcomes in the area of spelling than in other areas. The CWPT technique has been used with several different age levels: pre-school, elementary, middle school, and high school. CWPT was initially developed and researched in the early 1980s at the Juniper Gardens Children's Project at the University of Kansas.\n\nThe developers of CWPT suggest that this technique provides students more opportunities to practice content or skills, encourages them to engage in active learning, and lets them receive immediate feedback. CWPT is also thought to provide students with practice using social skills.\n\nCWPT has been effective for teaching spelling to both students in general education and students with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), mild intellectual disabilities, and learning disabilities. CWPT has helped improve the sight word retention and reading fluency of students with average school achievement, low school achievement, and learning disabilities. CWPT has also been shown to improve math fact fluency among students with and without disabilities, and it has increased the math achievement scores of middle school students with ADHD. There is also evidence that CWPT helps students of different ages learn facts, such as health and safety information, history material, and social studies concepts. CWPT has also been documented as having positive effects on the social skills and number of social interactions of students with mild disabilities and high functioning autism. There is also research demonstrating CWPT's effectiveness for teaching students of different ages and ability levels physical skills such as catching, striking a ball with a paddle, and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation skills.\n\nThe United States Department of Education's What Works Clearinghouse has evaluated CWPT for effectiveness in the areas of General Reading Achievement and English Language Learning (ELL). These evaluations resulted in a \"potentially positive\" effectiveness rating in the area of General Reading Achievement for elementary school students, and no rating for ELL due to the fact that no existing studies met What Works Clearinghouse criteria for evaluation. What Works Clearinghouse does not currently provide reports for CWPT's effectiveness in any other areas.\n\nPromising Practices Network considers CWPT a \"Proven Program\". The website states that CWPT meets full criteria for a \"Proven Program\" by having research outcomes that fall in the category of the website's target areas, having at least one outcome that is changed by at least 20% or .25 standard deviations, having at least one outcome with a statistically significant and meaningful effect size, having studies that use comparison groups, having studies with sample sizes of 30 or more, and by having research findings publicly available.\n\nA few studies have shown CWPT to have few advantages over more traditional methods of classroom instruction with middle or high school students, such as teacher-centered instruction or independent practice. Researchers have also found that while CWPT may increase the positive social interactions of students with ADHD during the tutoring, it does not necessarily affect their social behavior in other settings.\n"}
{"id": "4548948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4548948", "title": "Computer-supported collaborative learning", "text": "Computer-supported collaborative learning\n\nComputer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) is a pedagogical approach where in learning takes place via social interaction using a computer or through the Internet. This kind of learning is characterized by the sharing and construction of knowledge among participants using technology as their primary means of communication or as a common resource. CSCL can be implemented in online and classroom learning environments and can take place synchronously or asynchronously.\n\nThe study of computer-supported collaborative learning draws on a number of academic disciplines, including instructional technology, educational psychology, sociology, cognitive psychology, and social psychology. It is related to collaborative learning and computer supported cooperative work (CSCW).\n\nInteractive computing technology was primarily conceived by academics, but the use of technology in education has historically been defined by contemporary research trends. The earliest instances of software in instruction drilled students using the behaviorist method that was popular throughout the mid-twentieth century. In the 1970s as cognitivism gained traction with educators, designers began to envision learning technology that employed artificial intelligence models that could adapt to individual learners. Computer-supported collaborative learning emerged as a strategy rich with research implications for the growing philosophies of constructivism and social cognitivism.\n\nThough studies in collaborative learning and technology took place throughout the 1980s and 90s, the earliest public workshop directly addressing CSCL was \"Joint Problem Solving and Microcomputers\" which took place in San Diego in 1983. Six years later in 1989, the term \"computer-supported collaborative learning\" was used in a NATO-sponsored workshop in Maratea, Italy. A biannual CSCL conference series began in 1995. At the 2002 and 2003 CSCL conferences, the International Society of the Learning Sciences (ISLS) was established to run the CSCL and ICLS conference series and the \"International Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning\" (\"ijCSCL\") and JLS journals.\n\nThe \"ijCSCL\" was established by the CSCL research community and ISLS. It began quarterly publication by Springer in 2006. It is peer reviewed and published both online and in print. Since 2009, it has been rated by ISI as being in the top 10% of educational research journals based on its impact factor.\n\nThe rapid development of social media technologies and the increasing need of individuals to understand and use those technologies has brought researchers from many disciplines to the field of CSCL. CSCL is used today in traditional and online schools and knowledge-building communities such as Wikipedia.\n\nThe field of CSCL draws heavily from a number of learning theories that emphasize that knowledge is the result of learners interacting with each other, sharing knowledge, and building knowledge as a group. Since the field focuses on collaborative activity and collaborative learning, it inherently takes much from constructivist and social cognitivist learning theories.\n\nThe roots of collaborative epistemology as related to CSCL can be found in Vygotsky's social learning theory. Of particular importance to CSCL is the theory's notion of internalization, or the idea that knowledge is developed by one's interaction with one's surrounding culture and society. The second key element is what Vygotsky called the Zone of proximal development. This refers to a range of tasks that can be too difficult for a learner to master by themselves but is made possible with the assistance of a more skilled individual or teacher. These ideas feed into a notion central to CSCL: knowledge building is achieved through interaction with others.\n\nCooperative learning, though different in some ways from collaborative learning, also contributes to the success of teams in CSCL environments. The distinction can be stated as: cooperative learning focuses on the effects of group interaction on individual learning whereas collaborative learning is more concerned with the cognitive processes at the group unit of analysis such as shared meaning making and the joint problem space. The five elements for effective cooperative groups identified by the work of Johnson and Johnson are positive interdependence, individual accountability, promotive interaction, social skills, and group processing. Because of the inherent relationship between cooperation and collaboration, understanding what encourages successful cooperation is essential to CSCL research.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Marlene Scardamalia and Carl Bereiter wrote seminal articles leading to the development of key CSCL concepts: knowledge-building communities and knowledge-building discourse, intentional learning, and expert processes. Their work led to an early collaboration-enabling technology known as the Computer Supported Intentional Learning Environment (CSILE). Characteristically for CSCL, their theories were integrated with the design, deployment, and study of the CSCL technology. CSILE later became Knowledge Forum, which is the most widely used CSCL technology worldwide to date.\n\nOther learning theories that provide a foundation for CSCL include distributed cognition, problem-based learning, group cognition, cognitive apprenticeship, and situated learning. Each of these learning theories focuses on the social aspect of learning and knowledge building, and recognizes that learning and knowledge building involve inter-personal activities including conversation, argument, and negotiation.\n\nOnly in the last 15 to 20 years have researchers begun to explore the extent to which computer technology could enhance the collaborative learning process. While researchers, in general, have relied on learning theories developed without consideration of computer-support, some have suggested that the field needs to have a theory tailored and refined for the unique challenges that confront those trying to understand the complex interplay of technology and collaborative learning.\n\nCollaboration theory, suggested as a system of analysis for CSCL by Gerry Stahl in 2002-2006, postulates that knowledge is constructed in social interactions such as discourse. The theory suggests that learning is not a matter of accepting fixed facts, but is the dynamic, on-going, and evolving result of complex interactions primarily taking place within communities of people. It also emphasizes that collaborative learning is a process of constructing meaning and that meaning creation most often takes place and can be observed at the group unit of analysis. The goal of collaboration theory is to develop an understanding of how meaning is collaboratively constructed, preserved, and re-learned through the media of language and artifacts in group interaction. There are four crucial themes in collaboration theory: collaborative knowledge building (which is seen as a more concrete term than \"learning\"); group and personal perspectives intertwining to create group understanding; mediation by artifacts (or the use of resources which learners can share or imprint meaning on); and interaction analysis using captured examples that can be analyzed as proof that the knowledge building occurred.\n\nCollaboration theory proposes that technology in support of CSCL should provide new types of media that foster the building of collaborative knowing; facilitate the comparison of knowledge built by different types and sizes of groups; and help collaborative groups with the act of negotiating the knowledge they are building. Further, these technologies and designs should strive to remove the teacher as the bottleneck in the communication process. In other words, the teacher should not have to act as the conduit for communication between students or as the avenue by which information is dispensed. Finally, collaboration theory-influenced technologies will strive to increase the quantity and quality of learning moments via computer-simulated situations.\n\nStahl extended his proposals about collaboration theory during the next decade with his research on group cognition . In his book on \"Group Cognition\", he provided a number of case studies of prototypes of collaboration technology, as well as a sample in-depth interaction analysis and several essays on theoretical issues related to re-conceptualizing cognition at the small-group unit of analysis. He then launched the Virtual Math Teams project at the Math Forum, which conducted more than 10 years of studies of students exploring mathematical topics collaboratively online. \"Studying VMT\" documented many issues of design, analysis and theory related to this project. The VMT later focused on supporting dynamic geometry by integrating a multi-user version of GeoGebra. All aspects of this phase of the VMT project were described in \"Translating Euclid.\" Finally, \"Constructing Dynamic Triangles Together\" provided a detailed analysis of how a group of four girls learned about dynamic geometry by enacting a series of group practices during an eight-session longitudinal case study. The VMT project generated and analyzed data at the small-group unit of analysis, to substantiate and refine the theory of group cognition and to offer a model of design-based CSCL research.\n\nCurrently, CSCL is used in instructional plans in classrooms both traditional and online from primary school to post-graduate institutions. Like any other instructional activity, it has its own prescribed practices and strategies which educators are encouraged to employ in order to use it effectively. Because its use is so widespread, there are innumerable scenarios in the use of CSCL, but there are several common strategies that provide a foundation for group cognition.\n\nOne of the most common approaches to CSCL is collaborative writing. Though the final product can be anything from a research paper, a Wikipedia entry, or a short story, the process of planning and writing together encourages students to express their ideas and develop a group understanding of the subject matter. Tools like blogs, interactive whiteboards, and custom spaces that combine free writing with communication tools can be used to share work, form ideas, and write synchronously.\n\nTechnology-mediated discourse refers to debates, discussions, and other social learning techniques involving the examination of a theme using technology. For example, wikis are a way to encourage discussion among learners, but other common tools include mind maps, survey systems, and simple message boards. Like collaborative writing, technology-mediated discourse allows participants that may be separated by time and distance to engage in conversations and build knowledge together.\n\nGroup exploration refers to the shared discovery of a place, activity, environment or topic among two or more people. Students do their exploring in an online environment, use technology to better understand a physical area, or reflect on their experiences together through the Internet. Virtual worlds like Second Life and Whyville as well as synchronous communication tools like Skype may be used for this kind of learning.\n\nProblem-based learning is a popular instructional activity that lends itself well to CSCL because of the social implications of problem solving. Complex problems call for rich group interplay that encourages collaboration and creates movement toward a clear goal.\n\nProject-based learning is similar to problem-based learning in that it creates impetus to establish team roles and set goals. The need for collaboration is also essential for any project and encourages team members to build experience and knowledge together. Although there are many advantages to using software that has been specifically developed to support collaborative learning or project-based learning in a particular domain, any file sharing or communication tools can be used to facilitate CSCL in problem- or project-based environments.\n\nWhen Web 2.0 applications (wikies, blogs, RSS feed, collaborative writing, video sharing, social networks, etc.) are used for computer-supported collaborative learning specific strategies should be used for their implementation, especially regarding (1) adoption by teachers and students; (2) usability and quality in use issues; (3) technology maintenance; (4) pedagogy and instructional design; (5) social interaction between students; (6) privacy issues; and (7) information/system security.\n\nThough the focus in CSCL is on individuals collaborating with their peers, teachers still have a vital role in facilitating learning. Most obviously, the instructor must introduce the CSCL activity in a thoughtful way that contributes to an overarching design plan for the course. The design should clearly define the learning outcomes and assessments for the activity. In order to assure that learners are aware of these objectives and that they are eventually met, proper administration of both resources and expectations is necessary to avoid learner overload. Once the activity has begun, the teacher is charged with kick-starting and monitoring discussion to facilitate learning. He or she must also be able to mitigate technical issues for the class. Lastly, the instructor must engage in assessment, in whatever form the design calls for, in order to ensure objectives have been met for all students.\n\nWithout the proper structure, any CSCL strategy can lose its effectiveness. It is the responsibility of the teacher to make students aware of what their goals are, how they should be interacting, potential technological concerns, and the time-frame for the exercise. This framework should enhance the experience for learners by supporting collaboration and creating opportunities for the construction of knowledge. Another important consideration of educators who implement online learning environments is affordance. Students who are already comfortable with online communication often choose to interact casually. Mediators should pay special attention to make students aware of their expectations for formality online. While students sometime have frames of reference for online communication, they often do not have all of the skills necessary to solve problems by themselves. Ideally, teachers provide what is called \"scaffolding\", a platform of knowledge that they can build on. A unique benefit of CSCL is that, given proper teacher facilitation, students can use technology to build learning foundations with their peers. This allows instructors to gauge the difficulty of the tasks presented and make informed decisions about the extent of the scaffolding needed.\n\nAccording to Salomon (1995), the possibility of intellectual partnerships with both peers and advanced information technology has changed the criteria for what is counted to be the effects of technology. Instead of only concentrating on the amount and quality of learning outcomes, we need to distinguish between two kinds of effects: that is, \"effects with a tool and/or collaborating peers, and effects of these.\" He used the term called \"effects with\" which is to describe the changes that take place while one is engaged in intellectual partnership with peers or with a computer tool. For example, the changed quality of problem solving in a team. And he means the word \"effects of\" more lasting changes that take place when computer-enhanced collaboration teaches students to ask more exact and explicit questions even when not using that system.\n\nIt has a number of implications for instructional designers, developers, and teachers.\n\nThough CSCL holds promise for enhancing education, it is not without barriers or challenges to successful implementation. Obviously, students or participants need sufficient access to computer technology. Though access to computers has improved in the last 15 to 20 years, teacher attitudes about technology and sufficient access to Internet-connected computers continue to be barriers to more widespread usage of CSCL pedagogy.\n\nFurthermore, instructors find that the time needed to monitor student discourse and review, comment on, and grade student products can be more demanding than what is necessary for traditional face-to-face classrooms. The teacher or professor also has an instructional decision to make regarding the complexity of the problem presented. To warrant collaborative work, the problem must be of sufficient complexity, otherwise teamwork is unnecessary. Also, there is risk in assuming that students instinctively know how to work collaboratively. Though the task may be collaborative by nature, students may still need training on how to work in a truly cooperative process.\n\nOthers have noted a concern with the concept of scripting as it pertains to CSCL. There is an issue with possibly over-scripting the CSCL experience and in so doing, creating \"fake collaboration\". Such over-scripted collaboration may fail to trigger the social, cognitive, and emotional mechanisms that are necessary to true collaborative learning.\n\nThere is also the concern that the mere availability of the technology tools can create problems. Instructors may be tempted to apply technology to a learning activity that can very adequately be handled without the intervention or support of computers. In the process of students and teachers learning how to use the \"user-friendly\" technology, they never get to the act of collaboration. As a result, computers become an obstacle to collaboration rather than a supporter of it.\n\nThe advent of computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) as an instructional strategy for second language acquisition can be traced back to the 1990s. During that time, the internet was growing rapidly, which was one of the key factors that facilitated the process. At the time, the first wikis (such as WikiWikiWeb) were still undergoing early development, but the use of other tools such as electronic discussion groups allowed for equal participation amongst peers, particularly benefiting those who would normally not participate otherwise during face-to-face interactions.\n\nDuring the establishment of wikis in the 2000s, global research began to emerge regarding their effectiveness in promoting second language acquisition. Some of this research focused on more specific areas such as systemic-functional linguistics, humanistic education, experiental learning, and psycholinguistics. For example, in 2009 Yu-Ching Chen performed a study to determine the overall effectiveness of wikis in an English as a second language class in Taiwan. Another example is a 2009 study by Greg Kessler in which pre-service, non-native English speaker teachers in a Mexican university were given the task to collaborate on a wiki, which served as the final product for one of their courses. In this study, emphasis was placed on the level of grammatical accuracy achieved by the students throughout the course of the task.\n\nDue to the continual development of technology, other educational tools aside from wikis are being implemented and studied to determine their potential in scaffolding second language acquisition. According to Mark Warschauer (2010), among these are blogs, automated writing evaluation systems, and open-source netbooks. \"Ex situ\" of the classroom, the development of other recent online tools such as Livemocha (2007) have facilitated language acquisition via member-to-member interactions, demonstrating firsthand the impact the advancement of technology has made towards meeting the varying needs of language learners.\n\nStudies in the field of computer-assisted language learning (CALL) have shown that computers provide material and valuable feedback for language learners and that computers can be a positive tool for both individual and collaborative language learning. CALL programs offer the potential for interactions between the language learners and the computer. Additionally, students' autonomous language learning and self-assessment can be made widely available through the web. In CSCL, the computer is not only seen as a potential language tutor by providing assessment for students' responses, but also as a tool to give language learners the opportunity to learn from the computer and also via collaboration with other language learners. Juan focuses on new models and systems that perform efficient evaluation of student activity in online-based education. Their findings indicate that CSCL environments organized by teachers are useful for students to develop their language skills. Additionally, CSCL increases students' confidence and encourages them to maintain active learning, reducing the passive reliance on teachers' feedback. Using CSCL as a tool in the second language learning classroom has also shown to reduce learner anxiety.\n\nVarious case studies and projects had been conducted in order to measure the effectiveness and perception of CSCL in a language learning classroom. After a collaborative internet-based project, language learners indicated that their confidence in using the language had increased and that they felt more motivated to learn and use the target language. After analyzing student questionnaires, discussion board entries, final project reports, and student journals, Dooly suggests that during computer supported collaborative language learning, students have an increased awareness of different aspects of the target language and pay increased attention to their own language learning process. Since the participants of her project were language teacher trainees, she adds that they felt prepared and willing to incorporate online interaction in their own teaching in the future.\n\nCulture may be thought of as composed of \"beliefs, norms, assumptions, knowledge, values, or sets of practice that are shared and form a system\". Learning communities focused in whole or part on second language acquisition may often be distinctly multicultural in composition, and as the cultural background of individual learners affects their collaborative norms and practices, this can significantly impact their ability to learn in a CSCL environment.\n\nCSCL environments are generally valued for the potential to promote collaboration in cross-cultural learning communities. Based on social constructivist views of learning, many CSCL environments fundamentally emphasize learning as the co-construction of knowledge through the computer-mediated interaction of multivoiced community members. Computer-mediation of the learning process has been found to afford consideration of alternative viewpoints in multicultural/multilingual learning communities. When compared to traditional face-to-face environments, computer-mediated learning environments have been shown to result in more equal levels of participation for ESL students in courses with native English speakers. Language barriers for non-native speakers tend to detract from equal participation in general, and this can be alleviated to some extent through the use of technologies which support asynchronous modes of written communication.\n\nOnline learning environments however tend to reflect the cultural, epistemological, and pedagogical goals and assumptions of their designers. In computer-supported collaborative learning environments, there is evidence that cultural background may impact learner motivation, attitude towards learning and e-learning, learning preference (style), computer usage, learning behavior and strategies, academic achievement, communication, participation, knowledge transfer, sharing and collaborative learning. Studies variously comparing Asian, American and Danish and Finnish learners have suggested that learners from different cultures exhibit different interaction patterns with their peers and teachers in online. A number of studies have shown that difference in Eastern and Western educational cultures, for instance, which are found in traditional environments are also present in online environments. Zhang has described Eastern education as more group-based, teacher-dominated, centrally organized, and examination-oriented than Western approaches. Students who have learned to learn in an Eastern context emphasizing teacher authority and standardized examinations may perform differently in a CSCL environment characterized by peer critique and co-construction of educational artifacts as the primary mode of assessment.\n\nA \"multiple cultural model\" of instructional design emphasizes variability and flexibility in the process of designing for multicultural inclusiveness, focusing on the development of learning environments reflecting the multicultural realities of society, include multiple ways of teaching and learning, and promote equity of outcomes. McLoughlin, C. & Oliver propose a social, constructivist approach to the design of culturally-sensitive CSCL environments which emphasizes flexibility with regard to specific learning tasks, tools, roles, responsibilities, communication strategies, social interactions, learning goals and modes of assessment [B5]. Constructivist instructional design approaches such as R2D2 which emphasize reflexive, recursive, participatory design of learning experiences may be employed in developing CSCL which authentically engages learners from diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds.\n\nDyslexia primarily involves difficulties with reading, spelling and sentence structure, transposition, memory, organization and time management, and lack of confidence. Dyslexia has in the past two decades become increasingly present in research and legislation. The United Kingdom passed the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 in which institutions were required to “reasonably adjust” instruction for students with disabilities, particularly physical and sensory disabilities; in 2002, the Special Education Needs and Disabilities Act adjusted the legislation to include learning disabilities.\nThe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) established that all students with disabilities must be included in all state and districtwide assessments of student progress. The ADA also guarantees equal accommodation for the disabled in, “employment, public accommodations, state and local government services, transportation, and telecommunications.”\nIn recent years, tools such as WebHelpDyslexia and other capabilities of web applications have increased the availability of tools to provide coping skills for students with dyslexia.\n\nIn 2006, Woodfine argued that dyslexia can impact the ability of a student to participate in synchronous e-learning environments, especially if activities being completed are text-based. During experimental qualitative research, Woodfine found that data suggested “learners with dyslexia might suffer from embarrassment, shame and even guilt about their ability to interact with other learners when in a synchronous environment.”\nIn a study by Fichten et al., it was found that assistive technology can be beneficial in aiding students with the progression of their reading and writing skills. Tools such as spell check or text-to-speech can be helpful to learners with dyslexia by allowing them to focus more on self-expression and less on errors.\n\nAlsobhi, et al., examined assistive technologies for dyslexic students and concluded that the most fundamental considerations to be had when serving students of this population are: “the learning styles that people with dyslexia exhibit, and how assistive technology can be adapted to align with these learning behaviors.”\nThe Dyslexia Adaptive E-Learning (DAEL) is a suggested a framework that proposes four dimensions that cover 26 attributes. The proposed framework asks educators to make decisions based on perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, and system adaptability:\n\nEducators that choose to use the CSCL environment must be aware of 508 compliance and its legal implications. “In the U.S., the criteria for designing Web pages accessibly are provided by two major sets: the W3C’s Web Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and the design standards issued under U.S. federal law, Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended in 1998.1 Features of accessible design include, among others, the provision of ALT tags for nontextual elements, such as images, animations and image map hot spots; meaningful link text; logical and persistent page organization, and the inclusion of skip navigation links.\"\nUnfortunately, not all educators are exposed to these guidelines, especially if their collegiate programs do not provide exposure to the use of computers, aspects of web design or technology in education. In some cases, it may be advantageous for the educator to collaborate with an instructional technologist or web designer to ensure 508 guidelines are addressed in the desired learning environment for the CSCL.\n\nThe World Wide Web began as information sharing on static webpages accessible on a computer through the use of a web browser. As more interactive capabilities were added, it evolved into Web 2.0, which allowed for user-generated content and participation (e.g. social networking). This opened up many new possibilities for computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) using the Internet. The internet is now entering a new phase, Web 3.0 or the Semantic Web, which is characterized by the greater interconnectivity of machine-readable data from many different sources. New intelligent technology applications will be able to manage, organize and create meaning from this data, which will have a significant impact on CSCL.\n\nThe interconnectivity of machine-readable data with semantic tags means that searches will be greatly enhanced. Search results will be more relevant, recommendations of resources will be made based on search terms and results will include multimedia content.\n\nNew Web 3.0 capabilities for learners include enhanced tools for managing learning, allowing them to self-regulate and co-regulate learning without the assistance of an instructor. Through the use of Web 3.0, groups and communities can be formed according to specific criteria without human input. These communities and groups can provide support to new learners and give experts an opportunity to share their knowledge.\n\nTeachers can benefit from these same capabilities to manage their teaching. In addition, the software for Web 3.0 collaboration will include using data from group communications, which then generates how much each individual has collaborated based on how often they communicate and how long their messages are.\n\nMaking data machine-readable is leading to the development of virtual assistants and intelligent agents. These are tools which can access data on a user's behalf and will be able to assist learners and collaborators in several ways. They can provide personalized and customized search results by accessing data on a variety of platforms, recommend resources based on user information and preferences, manage administrative tasks, communicate with other agents and databases, and help organize information and interactions with collaborators.\n\nVirtual learning communities are cyberspaces that allow for individual and collaborative learning to take place. While they exist today, with Web 3.0 they will gain enhanced features enabling more collaborative learning to take place. Some describe them as evolving out of existing learning management systems (LMSs), adding intelligent agents and virtual assistants that can enhance content searches and deal with administrative and communication tasks, or enabling different LMSs around the world to communicate with each other, creating an even larger community to share resources and locate potential collaborators. Virtual learning communities will also enable different types of peer-to-peer interaction and resource sharing to support co-construction of knowledge. These communities may also include some aspects of 3D gaming and VR.\n\nThrough the use of 3D gaming, users can simulate lives of others while providing their knowledge throughout the 3D environment as an avatar. These 3D environments also foster simulation and scenario building for places where users would otherwise not have access. The 3D environments facilitate online knowledge building communities. Non-immersive environments are environments in which not all five senses are used but still allows users to interact in virtual worlds. Virtual Reality (VR) headsets are sometimes used to give users a full immersion experience, into these 3D virtual worlds. This allows users to interact with each other in real time and simulate different learning situations with other users. These learning experiences and environments vary between fields and learning goals. Certain virtual reality headsets allow users to communicate with each other while being in different physical locations.\n\nMultimodal literacy is the way processes of literacy - reading, writing, talking, listening and viewing - are occurring within and around new communication media. (Kress & Jewitt, 2003; Pahl & Rowsell, 2005; Walsh, 2008) It refers to meaning-making that occurs through the reading, viewing, understanding, responding to and producing and interacting with multimedia and digital texts. (Walsh, 2010)\n\nOnline forums offer numerous advantages for both teacher and students for collaborative learning online. Discussion forums provide a wider platform to exchange information and ideas, to develop writing and reading skills, critical thinking skills. (Jill Margerison, 2013) A collaborative online forum can also help students learn about the unique challenges of online communication, especially the need for clarity and the dangers of sarcasm. (Susan Martens-Baker, 2009) For the teacher, they offer a flexible platform from which to educate in a participatory culture, where teachers and students can interact with each other and create new knowledge. (Jill Margerison, 2013)\n\nVideo games were designed as a learning tool engaged learners who advance through experimentation, critical thinking and practice in the virtual world. (Abrams, 2009) Video games in CSCL can promote positive interdependence, individual accountability, face-to-face promotive interaction, social skills, and group processing abilities in the ELA classroom. Through interactions in the virtual world, learners have the opportunities to establish their presence, identity and create meanings for their lives.\n\nDigital storytelling refers to integrating a variety of means, such as images, audio, video, graphics and diagram to personal narratives and crafts. Four skill competencies: reading, writing, speaking, and listening would be enhanced by producing digital products. (Brenner, 2014) Students have a greater sense of autonomy, agency through the digital storytelling in CSCL.\n\nOnline forums provide opportunities for young people to engage in the self-exposition as they practice digital literacies and hone the skill of movement across multiple literacies, languages and subject positions. Meanwhile, identity is a constellation of the multiple communities. It is also important to emphasize the potentially harmful cultural discourses that occur within young people's consumption. (Kim, 2015)\n\nThrough capitalizing on students’ gaming experiences by recognizing how they apply to the subject at hand, teachers can highlight the benefits of virtual learning environments and draw upon students’ gaming experiences to understand their application of virtual learning across curricula. Educators need to choose the appropriate game for the particular subject to endorse their instruction and promote collaboration among students.\n\nStudents who engage in collaborative learning for creating digital production show the characteristics of leadership. Moreover, students would gain the experience of collaboration and expand their skill of the multimodal literacy. In addition, digital composition provides a meaningful tool for teachers to assess. (Brenner, 2014)\n\nMultimodal literacy can facilitate English learners’ literacy learning. It has provided opportunities for English learners to expand the interpretation of texts. (Ajayi, 2009) Specifically, English language learners can increase their language ability through computer-collaborative learning. \nThe multimodality platforms provide students, especially ELLs with an anxiety-free zone to collaborate with their peers in a virtual world in order to make meanings together. Technology self-efficacy increases ELLs’ level of independence and reduces their level of anxiety. (Mellati, Zangoei & Khademi, 2015) ELLs will have more motivation and self-confident while participating in online group projects to make contributions and share knowledge with their peers. As a result of collaborative learning, ELLs would expand their vocabulary, gain advanced and more academic grammars.\n\nThe applications of CSCL in post-secondary education demonstrate positive impacts on students’ learning such as promoting learner interaction, motivation and understanding. As collaborative learning is grounded in social constructivism, the interaction and collaboration during learning is valued.\n\nThere's research findings that shows online students had higher scores than face-to-face students in professional competence acquisition test, showing the effectiveness of CSCL in promoting the development of professional skills\n\nKnowledge co-construction among geographically dispersed students in an online postgraduate program was explained in a study as students relied heavily on each other for their on-going participation in the online discussions and joint refinement of ideas introduced.\n\nThe design principles for using CSCL can be considered from different perspectives. For technical use, instructors need to provide tutorials and online training modules to students. For collaboration, students need time to plan and coordinate group work as well as instructors’ support and guidance on the discussions. Also, group size and composition should be taken into consideration for better quality of interaction. More instructional strategies are presented below.\n\nWikis is a tool for learners to co-construct knowledge online with the access to create and edit contents. There are three phases of using wikis for collaborative writing:\n\nPhase 1. Crisis of Authority\n\nUsers experience challenges due to unfamiliarity with the use of wiki and the unknown of other teammates’ boundaries of being commented or revised on their writings.\n\nPhase 2. Crisis of Relationship\n\nCollaborative learning emerges and group communication is improved.\n\nPhase 3. Resolution of Crisis\n\nMore frequent communication occurs and increased co-writing among team members.\n\nTo better design wiki-based project, the design principles design include:\n\n1. Provide learners with a practice article to edit at the beginning of a course for getting familiar with using wikis\n\n2. Informs learners of different communication tools to work collaboratively.\n\n3. Engage learners with repeated wiki article assignments.\n\n4. Provide timely feedback on students’ discussion, participation and interaction.\n\nThe characteristic of social interaction in CSCL can be demonstrated on the online learning community where learners can communicate with each other. One of the medium facilitating the online community to work is online learning management system that provides all people including learners, professors, and administrative staff to communicate.\n\nWhen using an online learning management system for collaborative learning, the instructor should provide technical training by presenting video tutorials, online training modules or online workshops\n\nMobile CSCL (mCSCL) is beneficial to students’ learning achievements, attitude and interactions. The suggested design principles for mCSCL include:\n\n1. An idea group size is around 3 to 4 people.\n\n2. A duration between 1 and 4 weeks demonstrate better effects\n\nProfessional teacher communities are positively related to student learning, teacher learning, teacher practice and school culture. Teacher collaboration is a significant element of these communities. Reflection‐oriented tasks (such as reflection on teaching performance in individual writing, peer feedback, and collective writing) stimulated participation, and in combination with task structure also interaction in these communities. Furthermore, structured tasks(such as crossword puzzles, the path to come to a solution is unambiguous and answers can be immediately checked) which required critical reflection on personal experiences and perspectives triggered task‐related communication and a deep level of information exchange.\n\nThe European Union Comenius fund sponsored FISTE project which is concerned with the educational use of information and communication technologies (ICTs), specifically with the development and dissemination of a new pedagogical strategy for distance learning through in-service teacher education in schools across Europe. This project uses the online Virtual Learning Environment platform BSCW as a Computer Supportive Communication Learning tool to facilitate the way the participants work together. This work has involved schools and teacher training providers, building culturally different work in in-service teacher education in the participating countries. The value of using CSCL supported technology for in-service teacher education in Europe lies in the concept of hinterland. Cross-national courses like the FISTE would be difficult to run without this technological approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "43239696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43239696", "title": "Discipline-based education research", "text": "Discipline-based education research\n\nDiscipline-based education research (DBER) is an interdisciplinary research enterprise that \"investigates learning and teaching in a discipline [normally from the STEM fields] from a perspective that reflects the discipline's priorities, worldview, knowledge, and practices.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9252", "title": "Education", "text": "Education\n\nEducation is the process of facilitating learning, or the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits. Educational methods include storytelling, discussion, teaching, training, and directed research. Education frequently takes place under the guidance of educators, but learners may also educate themselves. Education can take place in formal or informal settings and any experience that has a formative effect on the way one thinks, feels, or acts may be considered educational. The methodology of teaching is called pedagogy.\n\nFormal education is commonly divided formally into such stages as preschool or kindergarten, primary school, secondary school and then college, university, or apprenticeship.\n\nA right to education has been recognized by some governments and the United Nations. In most regions, education is compulsory up to a certain age.\n\nEtymologically, the word \"education\" is derived from the Latin \"ēducātiō\" (\"A breeding, a bringing up, a rearing\") from \"ēducō\" (\"I educate, I train\") which is related to the homonym \"ēdūcō\" (\"I lead forth, I take out; I raise up, I erect\") from \"ē-\" (\"from, out of\") and \"dūcō\" (\"I lead, I conduct\").\n\nEducation began in prehistory, as adults trained the young in the knowledge and skills deemed necessary in their society. In pre-literate societies, this was achieved orally and through imitation. Story-telling passed knowledge, values, and skills from one generation to the next. As cultures began to extend their knowledge beyond skills that could be readily learned through imitation, formal education developed. Schools existed in Egypt at the time of the Middle Kingdom.\n\nPlato founded the Academy in Athens, the first institution of higher learning in Europe. The city of Alexandria in Egypt, established in 330 BCE, became the successor to Athens as the intellectual cradle of Ancient Greece. There, the great Library of Alexandria was built in the 3rd century BCE. European civilizations suffered a collapse of literacy and organization following the fall of Rome in CE 476.\n\nIn China, Confucius (551–479 BCE), of the State of Lu, was the country's most influential ancient philosopher, whose educational outlook continues to influence the societies of China and neighbours like Korea, Japan, and Vietnam. Confucius gathered disciples and searched in vain for a ruler who would adopt his ideals for good governance, but his Analects were written down by followers and have continued to influence education in East Asia into the modern era.\n\nThe Aztecs also had a well-developed theory about education, which has an equivalent word in Nahuatl called \"tlacahuapahualiztli.\" It means \"the art of raising or educating a person\" or \"the art of strengthening or bringing up men.\" This was a broad conceptualization of education, which prescribed that it begins at home, supported by formal schooling, and reinforced by community living. Historians cite that formal education was mandatory for everyone regardless of social class and gender. There was also the word \"neixtlamachiliztli\", which is \"the act of giving wisdom to the face.\" These concepts underscore a complex set of educational practices, which was oriented towards communicating to the next generation the experience and intellectual heritage of the past for the purpose of individual development and his integration into the community.\n\nAfter the Fall of Rome, the Catholic Church became the sole preserver of literate scholarship in Western Europe. The church established cathedral schools in the Early Middle Ages as centres of advanced education. Some of these establishments ultimately evolved into medieval universities and forebears of many of Europe's modern universities. During the High Middle Ages, Chartres Cathedral operated the famous and influential Chartres Cathedral School. The medieval universities of Western Christendom were well-integrated across all of Western Europe, encouraged freedom of inquiry, and produced a great variety of fine scholars and natural philosophers, including Thomas Aquinas of the University of Naples, Robert Grosseteste of the University of Oxford, an early expositor of a systematic method of scientific experimentation, and Saint Albert the Great, a pioneer of biological field research. Founded in 1088, the University of Bologne is considered the first, and the oldest continually operating university.\n\nElsewhere during the Middle Ages, Islamic science and mathematics flourished under the Islamic caliphate which was established across the Middle East, extending from the Iberian Peninsula in the west to the Indus in the east and to the Almoravid Dynasty and Mali Empire in the south.\n\nThe Renaissance in Europe ushered in a new age of scientific and intellectual inquiry and appreciation of ancient Greek and Roman civilizations. Around 1450, Johannes Gutenberg developed a printing press, which allowed works of literature to spread more quickly. The European Age of Empires saw European ideas of education in philosophy, religion, arts and sciences spread out across the globe. Missionaries and scholars also brought back new ideas from other civilizations – as with the Jesuit China missions who played a significant role in the transmission of knowledge, science, and culture between China and Europe, translating works from Europe like Euclid's Elements for Chinese scholars and the thoughts of Confucius for European audiences. The Enlightenment saw the emergence of a more secular educational outlook in Europe.\n\nIn most countries today, full-time education, whether at school or otherwise, is compulsory for all children up to a certain age. Due to this the proliferation of compulsory education, combined with population growth, UNESCO has calculated that in the next 30 years more people will receive formal education than in all of human history thus far.\n\nFormal education occurs in a structured environment whose explicit purpose is teaching students. Usually, formal education takes place in a school environment with classrooms of multiple students learning together with a trained, certified teacher of the subject. Most school systems are designed around a set of values or ideals that govern all educational choices in that system. Such choices include curriculum, organizational models, design of the physical learning spaces (e.g. classrooms), student-teacher interactions, methods of assessment, class size, educational activities, and more.\n\nPreschools provide education from ages approximately three to seven, depending on the country when children enter primary education. These are also known as nursery schools and as kindergarten, except in the US, where kindergarten is a term often used to describe the earliest levels of primary education. Kindergarten \"provide[s] a child-centred, preschool curriculum for three- to seven-year-old children that aim[s] at unfolding the child's physical, intellectual, and moral nature with balanced emphasis on each of them.\"\n\nPrimary (or elementary) education consists of the first five to seven years of formal, structured education. In general, primary education consists of six to eight years of schooling starting at the age of five or six, although this varies between, and sometimes within, countries. Globally, around 89% of children aged six to twelve are enrolled in primary education, and this proportion is rising. Under the Education For All programs driven by UNESCO, most countries have committed to achieving universal enrollment in primary education by 2015, and in many countries, it is compulsory. The division between primary and secondary education is somewhat arbitrary, but it generally occurs at about eleven or twelve years of age. Some education systems have separate middle schools, with the transition to the final stage of secondary education taking place at around the age of fourteen. Schools that provide primary education, are mostly referred to as \"primary schools \"or \"elementary schools\". Primary schools are often subdivided into infant schools and junior school.\n\nIn India, for example, compulsory education spans over twelve years, with eight years of elementary education, five years of primary schooling and three years of upper primary schooling. Various states in the republic of India provide 12 years of compulsory school education based on a national curriculum framework designed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training.\n\nIn most contemporary educational systems of the world, secondary education comprises the formal education that occurs during adolescence. It is characterized by transition from the typically compulsory, comprehensive primary education for minors, to the optional, selective tertiary, \"postsecondary\", or \"higher\" education (e.g. university, vocational school) for adults. Depending on the system, schools for this period, or a part of it, may be called secondary or high schools, gymnasiums, lyceums, middle schools, colleges, or vocational schools. The exact meaning of any of these terms varies from one system to another. The exact boundary between primary and secondary education also varies from country to country and even within them but is generally around the seventh to the tenth year of schooling.\n\nSecondary education occurs mainly during the teenage years. In the United States, Canada, and Australia, primary and secondary education together are sometimes referred to as K-12 education, and in New Zealand Year 1–13 is used. The purpose of secondary education can be to give common knowledge, to prepare for higher education, or to train directly in a profession.\n\nSecondary education in the United States did not emerge until 1910, with the rise of large corporations and advancing technology in factories, which required skilled workers. In order to meet this new job demand, high schools were created, with a curriculum focused on practical job skills that would better prepare students for white collar or skilled blue collar work. This proved beneficial for both employers and employees, since the improved human capital lowered costs for the employer, while skilled employees received higher wages.\n\nSecondary education has a longer history in Europe, where grammar schools or academies date from as early as the 16th century, in the form of public schools, fee-paying schools, or charitable educational foundations, which themselves date even further back.\n\nCommunity colleges offer another option at this transitional stage of education. They provide nonresidential junior college courses to people living in a particular area.\n\nHigher education, also called tertiary, third stage, or postsecondary education, is the non-compulsory educational level that follows the completion of a school such as a high school or secondary school. Tertiary education is normally taken to include undergraduate and postgraduate education, as well as vocational education and training. Colleges and universities mainly provide tertiary education. Collectively, these are sometimes known as tertiary institutions. Individuals who complete tertiary education generally receive certificates, diplomas, or academic degrees.\n\nHigher education typically involves work towards a degree-level or foundation degree qualification. In most developed countries, a high proportion of the population (up to 50%) now enter higher education at some time in their lives. Higher education is therefore very important to national economies, both as a significant industry in its own right and as a source of trained and educated personnel for the rest of the economy.\n\nUniversity education includes teaching, research, and social services activities, and it includes both the undergraduate level (sometimes referred to as tertiary education) and the graduate (or postgraduate) level (sometimes referred to as graduate school). Some universities are composed of several colleges.\n\nOne type of university education is a liberal arts education, which can be defined as a \"college or university curriculum aimed at imparting broad general knowledge and developing general intellectual capacities, in contrast to a professional, vocational, or technical curriculum.\" Although what is known today as liberal arts education began in Europe, the term \"liberal arts college\" is more commonly associated with institutions in the United States such as Williams College or Barnard College.\n\nVocational education is a form of education focused on direct and practical training for a specific trade or craft. Vocational education may come in the form of an apprenticeship or internship as well as institutions teaching courses such as carpentry, agriculture, engineering, medicine, architecture and the arts.\n\nIn the past, those who were disabled were often not eligible for public education. Children with disabilities were repeatedly denied an education by physicians or special tutors. These early physicians (people like Itard, Seguin, Howe, Gallaudet) set the foundation for special education today. They focused on individualized instruction and functional skills. In its early years, special education was only provided to people with severe disabilities, but more recently it has been opened to anyone who has experienced difficulty learning.\n\nWhile considered \"alternative\" today, most alternative systems have existed since ancient times. After the public school system was widely developed beginning in the 19th century, some parents found reasons to be discontented with the new system. Alternative education developed in part as a reaction to perceived limitations and failings of traditional education. A broad range of educational approaches emerged, including alternative schools, self learning, homeschooling, and unschooling. Example alternative schools include Montessori schools, Waldorf schools (or Steiner schools), Friends schools, Sands School, Summerhill School, Walden's Path, The Peepal Grove School, Sudbury Valley School, Krishnamurti schools, and open classroom schools. Charter schools are another example of alternative education, which have in the recent years grown in numbers in the US and gained greater importance in its public education system.\n\nIn time, some ideas from these experiments and paradigm challenges may be adopted as the norm in education, just as Friedrich Fröbel's approach to early childhood education in 19th-century Germany has been incorporated into contemporary kindergarten classrooms. Other influential writers and thinkers have included the Swiss humanitarian Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi; the American transcendentalists Amos Bronson Alcott, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Henry David Thoreau; the founders of progressive education, John Dewey and Francis Parker; and educational pioneers such as Maria Montessori and Rudolf Steiner, and more recently John Caldwell Holt, Paul Goodman, Frederick Mayer, George Dennison, and Ivan Illich.\n\nIndigenous education refers to the inclusion of indigenous knowledge, models, methods, and content within formal and non-formal educational systems. Often in a post-colonial context, the growing recognition and use of indigenous education methods can be a response to the erosion and loss of indigenous knowledge and language through the processes of colonialism. Furthermore, it can enable indigenous communities to \"reclaim and revalue their languages and cultures, and in so doing, improve the educational success of indigenous students.\"\n\nInformal learning is one of three forms of learning defined by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Informal learning occurs in a variety of places, such as at home, work, and through daily interactions and shared relationships among members of society. For many learners, this includes language acquisition, cultural norms, and manners.\n\nIn informal learning, there is often a reference person, a peer or expert, to guide the learner. If learners have a personal interest in what they are informally being taught, learners tend to expand their existing knowledge and conceive new ideas about the topic being learned. For example, a museum is traditionally considered an informal learning environment, as there is room for free choice, a diverse and potentially non-standardized range of topics, flexible structures, socially rich interaction, and no externally imposed assessments.\n\nWhile informal learning often takes place outside educational establishments and does not follow a specified curriculum, it can also occur within educational settings and even during formal learning situations. Educators can structure their lessons to directly utilize their students informal learning skills within the education setting.\n\nIn the late 19th century, education through play began to be recognized as making an important contribution to child development. In the early 20th century, the concept was broadened to include young adults but the emphasis was on physical activities. L.P. Jacks, also an early proponent of lifelong learning, described education through recreation: \"A master in the art of living draws no sharp distinction between his work and his play, his labour and his leisure, his mind and his body, his education and his recreation. He hardly knows which is which. He simply pursues his vision of excellence through whatever he is doing and leaves others to determine whether he is working or playing. To himself, he always seems to be doing both. Enough for him that he does it well.\" Education through recreation is the opportunity to learn in a seamless fashion through all of life's activities. The concept has been revived by the University of Western Ontario to teach anatomy to medical students.\n\nAutodidacticism (also autodidactism) is a term used to describe self-directed learning. One may become an autodidact at nearly any point in one's life. Notable autodidacts include Abraham Lincoln (U.S. president), Srinivasa Ramanujan (mathematician), Michael Faraday (chemist and physicist), Charles Darwin (naturalist), Thomas Alva Edison (inventor), Tadao Ando (architect), George Bernard Shaw (playwright), Frank Zappa (composer, recording engineer, film director), and Leonardo da Vinci (engineer, scientist, mathematician).\n\nMany large university institutions are now starting to offer free or almost free full courses such as Harvard, MIT and Berkeley teaming up to form edX. Other universities offering open education are prestigious private universities such as Stanford, Princeton, Duke, Johns Hopkins, the University of Pennylvania, and Caltech, as well as notable public universities including Tsinghua, Peking, Edinburgh, University of Michigan, and University of Virginia.\n\nOpen education has been called the biggest change in the way people learn since the printing press. Despite favourable studies on effectiveness, many people may still desire to choose traditional campus education for social and cultural reasons.\n\nMany open universities are working to have the ability to offer students standardized testing and traditional degrees and credentials.\n\nThe conventional merit-system degree is currently not as common in open education as it is in campus universities, although some open universities do already offer conventional degrees such as the Open University in the United Kingdom. Presently, many of the major open education sources offer their own form of certificate. Due to the popularity of open education, these new kind of academic certificates are gaining more respect and equal \"academic value\" to traditional degrees.\n\nOut of 182 colleges surveyed in 2009 nearly half said tuition for online courses was higher than for campus-based ones.\n\nA recent meta-analysis found that online and blended educational approaches had better outcomes than methods that used solely face-to-face interaction.\n\nThe education sector or education system is a group of institutions (ministries of education, local educational authorities, teacher training institutions, schools, universities, etc.) whose primary purpose is to provide education to children and young people in educational settings. It involves a wide range of people (curriculum developers, inspectors, school principals, teachers, school nurses, students, etc.). These institutions can vary according to different contexts.\n\nSchools deliver education, with support from the rest of the education system through various elements such as education policies and guidelines – to which school policies can refer – curricula and learning materials, as well as pre- and in-service teacher training programmes. The school environment – both physical (infrastructures) and psychological (school climate) – is also guided by school policies that should ensure the well-being of students when they are in school. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has found that schools tend to perform best when principals have full authority and responsibility for ensuring that students are proficient in core subjects upon graduation. They must also seek feedback from students for quality-assurance and improvement. Governments should limit themselves to monitoring student proficiency.\n\nThe education sector is fully integrated into society, through interactions with a large number of stakeholders and other sectors. These include parents, local communities, religious leaders, NGOs, stakeholders involved in health, child protection, justice and law enforcement (police), media and political leadership.\n\nSeveral UN agencies have asserted that comprehensive sexuality education should be integrated into school curriculum.\n\nThe 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly in September 2015, calls for a new vision to address the environmental, social and economic concerns facing the world today. The Agenda includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including SDG 4 on education.\n\nSince 1909, the ratio of children in the developing world attending school has increased. Before then, a small minority of boys attended school. By the start of the 21st century, the majority of all children in most regions of the world attended school.\n\nUniversal Primary Education is one of the eight international Millennium Development Goals, towards which progress has been made in the past decade, though barriers still remain. Securing charitable funding from prospective donors is one particularly persistent problem. Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute have indicated that the main obstacles to funding for education include conflicting donor priorities, an immature aid architecture, and a lack of evidence and advocacy for the issue. Additionally, Transparency International has identified corruption in the education sector as a major stumbling block to achieving Universal Primary Education in Africa. Furthermore, demand in the developing world for improved educational access is not as high as foreigners have expected. Indigenous governments are reluctant to take on the ongoing costs involved. There is also economic pressure from some parents, who prefer their children to earn money in the short term rather than work towards the long-term benefits of education.\n\nA study conducted by the UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning indicates that stronger capacities in educational planning and management may have an important spill-over effect on the system as a whole. Sustainable capacity development requires complex interventions at the institutional, organizational and individual levels that could be based on some foundational principles:\n\nNearly every country now has Universal Primary Education.\n\nSimilarities – in systems or even in ideas – that schools share internationally have led to an increase in international student exchanges. The European Socrates-Erasmus Program facilitates exchanges across European universities. The Soros Foundation provides many opportunities for students from central Asia and eastern Europe. Programs such as the International Baccalaureate have contributed to the internationalization of education. The global campus online, led by American universities, allows free access to class materials and lecture files recorded during the actual classes.\n\nThe Programme for International Student Assessment and the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement objectively monitor and compare the proficiency of students from a wide range of different nations.\n\nTechnology plays an increasingly significant role in improving access to education for people living in impoverished areas and developing countries. Charities like One Laptop per Child are dedicated to providing infrastructures through which the disadvantaged may access educational materials.\n\nThe OLPC foundation, a group out of MIT Media Lab and supported by several major corporations, has a stated mission to develop a $100 laptop for delivering educational software. The laptops were widely available as of 2008. They are sold at cost or given away based on donations.\n\nIn Africa, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) has launched an \"e-school program\" to provide all 600,000 primary and high schools with computer equipment, learning materials and internet access within 10 years. An International Development Agency project called nabuur.com, started with the support of former American President Bill Clinton, uses the Internet to allow co-operation by individuals on issues of social development.\n\nIndia is developing technologies that will bypass land-based telephone and Internet infrastructure to deliver distance learning directly to its students. In 2004, the Indian Space Research Organisation launched EDUSAT, a communications satellite providing access to educational materials that can reach more of the country's population at a greatly reduced cost.\n\nResearch into LCPS (low-cost private schools) found that over 5 years to July 2013, debate around LCPSs to achieving Education for All (EFA) objectives was polarized and finding growing coverage in international policy. The polarization was due to disputes around whether the schools are affordable for the poor, reach disadvantaged groups, provide quality education, support or undermine equality, and are financially sustainable.\nThe report examined the main challenges encountered by development organizations which support LCPSs. Surveys suggest these types of schools are expanding across Africa and Asia. This success is attributed to excess demand. These surveys found concern for:\n\nThe report showed some cases of successful voucher and subsidy programs; evaluations of international support to the sector are not widespread. Addressing regulatory ineffectiveness is a key challenge. Emerging approaches stress the importance of understanding the political economy of the market for LCPS, specifically how relationships of power and accountability between users, government, and private providers can produce better education outcomes for the poor.\n\nEducational psychology is the study of how humans learn in educational settings, the effectiveness of educational interventions, the psychology of teaching, and the social psychology of schools as organizations. Although the terms \"educational psychology\" and \"school psychology\" are often used interchangeably, researchers and theorists are likely to be identified as , whereas practitioners in schools or school-related settings are identified as school psychologists. Educational psychology is concerned with the processes of educational attainment in the general population and in sub-populations such as gifted children and those with specific disabilities.\n\nEducational psychology can in part be understood through its relationship with other disciplines. It is informed primarily by psychology, bearing a relationship to that discipline analogous to the relationship between medicine and biology. Educational psychology, in turn, informs a wide range of specialties within educational studies, including instructional design, educational technology, curriculum development, organizational learning, special education and classroom management. Educational psychology both draws from and contributes to cognitive science and the learning sciences. In universities, departments of educational psychology are usually housed within faculties of education, possibly accounting for the lack of representation of educational psychology content in introductory psychology textbooks (Lucas, Blazek, & Raley, 2006).\n\nIntelligence is an important factor in how the individual responds to education. Those who have higher intelligence tend to perform better at school and go on to higher levels of education. This effect is also observable in the opposite direction, in that education increases measurable intelligence. Studies have shown that while educational attainment is important in predicting intelligence in later life, intelligence at 53 is more closely correlated to intelligence at 8 years old than to educational attainment.\n\nThere has been much interest in learning modalities and styles over the last two decades. The most commonly employed learning modalities are:\n\nOther commonly employed modalities include musical, interpersonal, verbal, logical, and intrapersonal.\n\nDunn and Dunn focused on identifying relevant stimuli that may influence learning and manipulating the school environment, at about the same time as Joseph Renzulli recommended varying teaching strategies. Howard Gardner identified a wide range of modalities in his Multiple Intelligences theories. The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator and Keirsey Temperament Sorter, based on the works of Jung, focus on understanding how people's personality affects the way they interact personally, and how this affects the way individuals respond to each other within the learning environment. The work of David Kolb and Anthony Gregorc's Type Delineator follows a similar but more simplified approach.\n\nSome theories propose that all individuals benefit from a variety of learning modalities, while others suggest that individuals may have preferred learning styles, learning more easily through visual or kinesthetic experiences. A consequence of the latter theory is that effective teaching should present a variety of teaching methods which cover all three learning modalities so that different students have equal opportunities to learn in a way that is effective for them. Guy Claxton has questioned the extent that learning styles such as Visual, Auditory and Kinesthetic(VAK) are helpful, particularly as they can have a tendency to label children and therefore restrict learning. Recent research has argued, \"there is no adequate evidence base to justify incorporating learning styles assessments into general educational practice.\"\n\nEducational neuroscience is an emerging scientific field that brings together researchers in cognitive neuroscience, developmental cognitive neuroscience, educational psychology, educational technology, education theory and other related disciplines to explore the interactions between biological processes and education. Researchers in educational neuroscience investigate the neural mechanisms of reading, numerical cognition, attention, and their attendant difficulties including dyslexia, dyscalculia, and ADHD as they relate to education. Several academic institutions around the world are beginning to devote resources to the establishment of educational neuroscience research.\n\nAs an academic field, philosophy of education is \"the philosophical study of education and its problems (...) its central subject matter is education, and its methods are those of philosophy\". \"The philosophy of education may be either the philosophy of the process of education or the philosophy of the discipline of education. That is, it may be part of the discipline in the sense of being concerned with the aims, forms, methods, or results of the process of educating or being educated; or it may be metadisciplinary in the sense of being concerned with the concepts, aims, and methods of the discipline.\" As such, it is both part of the field of education and a field of applied philosophy, drawing from fields of metaphysics, epistemology, axiology and the philosophical approaches (speculative, prescriptive or analytic) to address questions in and about pedagogy, education policy, and curriculum, as well as the process of learning, to name a few. For example, it might study what constitutes upbringing and education, the values and norms revealed through upbringing and educational practices, the limits and legitimization of education as an academic discipline, and the relation between education theory and practice.\n\nThere is no broad consensus as to what education's chief aim or aims are or should be. Some authors stress its value to the individual, emphasizing its potential for positively influencing students' personal development, promoting autonomy, forming a cultural identity or establishing a career or occupation. Other authors emphasize education's contributions to societal purposes, including good citizenship, shaping students into productive members of society, thereby promoting society's general economic development, and preserving cultural values.\n\nIn formal education, a curriculum is the set of courses and their content offered at a school or university. As an idea, curriculum stems from the Latin word for \"race course\", referring to the course of deeds and experiences through which children grow to become mature adults. A curriculum is prescriptive and is based on a more general syllabus which merely specifies what topics must be understood and to what level to achieve a particular grade or standard.\n\nAn academic discipline is a branch of knowledge which is formally taught, either at the university – or via some other such method. Each discipline usually has several sub-disciplines or branches, and distinguishing lines are often both arbitrary and ambiguous. Examples of broad areas of academic disciplines include the natural sciences, mathematics, computer science, social sciences, humanities and applied sciences.\n\nEducational institutions may incorporate fine arts as part of K-12 grade curricula or within majors at colleges and universities as electives. The various types of fine arts are music, dance, and theatre.\n\nThe Sudbury Valley School offers a model of education without a curricula.\n\nInstruction is the facilitation of another's learning. Instructors in primary and secondary institutions are often called teachers, and they direct the education of students and might draw on many subjects like reading, writing, mathematics, science and history. Instructors in post-secondary institutions might be called teachers, instructors, or professors, depending on the type of institution; and they primarily teach only their specific discipline. Studies from the United States suggest that the quality of teachers is the single most important factor affecting student performance, and that countries which score highly on international tests have multiple policies in place to ensure that the teachers they employ are as effective as possible. With the passing of NCLB in the United States (No Child Left Behind), teachers must be highly qualified. A popular way to gauge teaching performance is to use student evaluations of teachers (SETS), but these evaluations have been criticized for being counterproductive to learning and inaccurate due to student bias.\n\nCollege basketball coach John Wooden the Wizard of Westwood would teach through quick \"This not That\" technique. He would show (a) the correct way to perform an action, (b) the incorrect way the player performed it, and again (c) the correct way to perform an action. This helped him to be a responsive teacher and fix errors on the fly. Also, less communication from him meant more time that the player could practice.\n\nIt has been argued that high rates of education are essential for countries to be able to achieve high levels of economic growth. Empirical analyses tend to support the theoretical prediction that poor countries should grow faster than rich countries because they can adopt cutting edge technologies already tried and tested by rich countries. However, technology transfer requires knowledgeable managers and engineers who are able to operate new machines or production practices borrowed from the leader in order to close the gap through imitation. Therefore, a country's ability to learn from the leader is a function of its stock of \"human capital\". Recent study of the determinants of aggregate economic growth have stressed the importance of fundamental economic institutions and the role of cognitive skills.\n\nAt the level of the individual, there is a large literature, generally related to the work of Jacob Mincer, on how earnings are related to the schooling and other human capital. This work has motivated a large number of studies, but is also controversial. The chief controversies revolve around how to interpret the impact of schooling. Some students who have indicated a high potential for learning, by testing with a high intelligence quotient, may not achieve their full academic potential, due to financial difficulties.\n\nEconomists Samuel Bowles and Herbert Gintis argued in 1976 that there was a fundamental conflict in American schooling between the egalitarian goal of democratic participation and the inequalities implied by the continued profitability of capitalist production.\n\nMany countries are now drastically changing the way they educate their citizens. The world is changing at an ever quickening rate, which means that a lot of knowledge becomes obsolete and inaccurate more quickly. The emphasis is therefore shifting to teaching the skills of learning: to picking up new knowledge quickly and in as agile a way as possible. Finnish schools have even begun to move away from the regular subject-focused curricula, introducing instead developments like phenomenon-based learning, where students study concepts like climate change instead.\n\nEducation is also becoming a commodity no longer reserved for children. Adults need it too. Some governmental bodies, like the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra in Finland, have even proposed compulsory lifelong education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26280473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26280473", "title": "Education in the Isle of Man", "text": "Education in the Isle of Man\n\nEducation in the Isle of Man is compulsory for children aged between 5 and 16. As a Crown dependency the Isle of Man parliament and government have competence over all domestic matters, including education; however the structure and curriculum are broadly in line with that of UK schools and particularly the English national curriculum. Education is overseen by the Department of Education, Sport and Culture and regulated by the Isle of Man Education Act 2001. As of September 2017 there were 6,492 pupils in primary schools, and 5,218 pupils in secondary education.\n\nBefore 1675 there were no schools in the Isle of Man and any education was provided by the church. This changed with the arrival of Bishop Isaac Barrow, who established a school in every parish.\n\nThe education system in the Isle of Man is similar to the system used in England. Primary school consists of seven years, and secondary school of seven years. All five secondary schools in the Isle of Man have a sixth form centre.\n\n\nThe Department of Education operates 32 primary schools and 5 secondary schools. Among the primary schools, Bunscoill Ghaelgagh is the only school in the world where children are taught mainly in Manx. Independent schools include King William's College and its junior school, The Buchan School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30631120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30631120", "title": "Educational equity", "text": "Educational equity\n\nEducational equity, also referred to as equity in education, is a measure of achievement, fairness, and opportunity in education. The study of education equity is often linked with the study of excellence and equity.\n\nEducational equity depends on two main factors. The first is fairness, which implies that factors specific to one's personal conditions should not interfere with the potential of academic success. The second important factor is inclusion, which refers to a comprehensive standard that applies to everyone in a certain education system. These two factors are closely related and depend on each other for an educational system's success.\n\nThe growing importance of education equity is based on the premise that an individual’s level of education directly correlates to future quality of life. Therefore, an academic system that practices educational equity is a strong foundation of a society that is fair and thriving. However, inequity in education is challenging to avoid, and can be broken down into inequity due to socioeconomic standing, race, gender or disability. Educational equity is also based in the historical context of the location, people and structure. History shapes the outcome of individuals within the education system. \n\nOften, the terms \"equity\" and \"equality\" are interchanged when referring to educational equity. Although similar, there can be important distinctions between the two.\n\nEquity recognizes that some are at a larger disadvantage than others and aims at compensating for these peoples misfortunes and disabilities to ensure that everyone can attain the same type of healthy lifestyle. Examples of this are: “When libraries offer literacy programs, when schools offer courses in English as a second language, and when foundations target scholarships to students from poor families, they operationalize a belief in equity of access as fairness and as justice”. Equity recognizes this uneven playing field and aims to take extra measures by giving those who are in need more than others who are not. Equity aims at making sure that everyone's lifestyle is equal even if it may come at the cost of unequal distribution of access and goods. Social justice leaders in education strive to ensure equitable outcomes for their students.\n\nThe American Library Association defines equality as: “access to channels of communication and sources of information that is made available on even terms to all--a level playing field--is derived from the concept of fairness as uniform distribution, where everyone is entitled to the same level of access and can avail themselves if they so choose.” In this definition of equality no one person has an unfair advantage. Everyone is given equal opportunities and accessibility and are then free to do what they please with it. However, this is not to say that everyone is then inherently equal. Some people may choose to seize these open and equal opportunities while others let them pass by.\n\nIncome has always played an important role in shaping academic success. Those who come from a family of a higher socioeconomic status (SES) are privileged with more opportunities than those of lower SES. Those who come from a higher SES can afford things like better tutors, rigorous SAT/ACT prep classes, impressive summer programs, and so on. Parents generally feel more comfortable intervening on behalf of their children to acquire better grades or more qualified teachers (Levitsky). Parents of a higher SES are more willing to donate large sums of money to a certain institution to better improve their child's chances of acceptance, along with other extravagant measures. This creates an unfair advantage and distinct class barrier.\n\nThe extraordinarily high cost of the many prestigious high schools and universities in the United States makes an attempt at a \"level playing field\" for all students not so level. High-achieving low-income students do not have the means to attend selective schools that better prepare a student for later success. Because of this, low-income students do not even attempt to apply to the top-tier schools for which they are more than qualified. In addition, neighborhoods generally segregated by class leave lower-income students in lower-quality schools. For higher-quality schooling, students in low-income areas would have to take public transport which they can't pay for. Fewer than 30 percent of students in the bottom quarter of incomes even enroll in a four-year school and among that group, fewer than half graduate.\n\nAnother contributor to the inequality in the education system is tracking. Tracking sorts students into different classes or groups based on ability or future plans. The point of tracking is to create an environment in which the student's abilities match both the curriculum as well as the other student's in the class. This separation, however, creates an inequality within itself. Starting at an extremely young age, the sorting of students mimics a hierarchy similar to what may form later in life. Students are both viewed and treated differently depending on which track they take. The quality of teaching and curricula vary between tracks and as a result, those of the lower track are disadvantaged with inferior resources, teachers, etc. In many cases, tracking stunts students who may develop the ability to excel past their original placement.\n\nFrom a scientific point of view, the human species is a single species. Nevertheless, the term racial group is enshrined in legislation, and phrases such as race equality and race relations are in widespread official use. Racial equity in education means the assignment of students to public schools and within schools without regard to their race. This includes providing students with a full opportunity for participation in all educational programs regardless of their race.\n\nThe educational system and its response to racial concerns in education vary from country to country. Below are some examples of countries that have to deal with racial discrimination in education. \n\nThe struggle for equality of access to formal education and equality of excellent educational outcomes is part of the history of education in this country and is tied up with the economic, political, social history of the peoples who are part of it. From the beginning of this nation, there were many barriers to the schooling and education of girls and racial, national origin, and language groups not from the dominant culture. Approaches and resources for achieving equality and equity in the public schooling of girls and ethnic, racial, and language minority groups are still evolving.\n\n\nHigher education plays a vital role in preparing students for the employment market and active citizenship both nationally and internationally. By embedding race equality in teaching and learning, institutions can ensure that they acknowledge the experiences and values of all students, including minority ethnic and international students. Universities Scotland first published the Race Equality Toolkit: learning and teaching in 2006 in response to strong demand from the universities in Scotland for guidance on meeting their statutory obligations.\n\nGender equity in practicality refers to both male and female concerns, yet most of the gender bias is against women in the developing world. Gender discrimination in education has been very evident and underlying problem in many countries, especially in developing countries where cultural and societal stigma continue to hinder growth and prosperity for women. Global Campaign for Education (GCE) followed a survey called \"Gender Discrimination in Violation of Rights of Women and Girls\" states that one tenth of girls in primary school are 'unhappy' and this number increases to one fifth by the time they reach secondary schools. Some of the reasonings that girls provided include harassment, restorations to freedom, and an inherent lack of opportunities, compared to boys.\nUnited Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) understands Education as a \" fundamental human right and essential for the exercise of all other human rights. It promotes individual freedom and empowerment and yields important development benefits.\"\n\nUN Special Rapporteur Katarina Tomasevki developed the '4A' framework on the Right to Education. The '4A' framework encompasses availability, accessibility, acceptability and adaptability as fundamental to the institution of education. And yet girls in many underdeveloped countries are denied secondary education. \nFigure on the right shows the discrepancies in secondary education in the world. Countries such as Sudan, Somalia, Thailand and Afghanistan face the highest of inequity when it comes to gender bias.\n\nGender-based inequity in education is not just a phenomenon in developing countries. A \"New York Times\" article highlights how education systems, especially public school systems, tend to segregate. Boys and girls are often taught with different approaches, which programs children to think they are different and deserve different treatment. However, studies show that boys and girls learn differently, and therefore should be taught differently. Boys learn better when they keep moving, while girls learn better sitting in one place with silence. Therefore—in this reasoning—segregating the genders \"promotes\" gender equity in education, as both boys and girls have optimized learning.\n\nVSO is a leading independent international development organization that works towards eliminating poverty and one of the problems they tackle is gender inequity in education. VSO published a paper that categorizes the obstacles (or causes) into:\n\nEducation is universally acknowledged as an essential human right because it highly impacts the socio-economic and cultural aspects of a country. Equity in education increases the work force of the nation, therefore increasing national income, economic productivity, and [gross domestic product]. It reduces fertility and infant mortality, improves child health, increases life expectancy and increases standards of living. These are factors that allow economic stability and growth in the future. Above all, female education can increase output levels and allow countries to attain sustainable development. Equity in education of women also reduces the possibilities of trafficking and exploitation of women. UNESCO also refers gender equity as a major factor that allows for sustainable development. https://www.economist.com/blogs/freeexchange/2013/11/gender-inequality is an article published by \"The Economist\", which says:\n\n\"Looking at recently-published UN statistics on gender inequality in education, one observes that the overall picture has improved dramatically over the last decade, but progress has not been even (see chart). Although the developing world on average looks likely to hit the UN’s gender-inequality target, many parts of Africa are lagging behind. While progress is being made in sub-Saharan Africa in primary education, gender inequality is in fact widening among older children. The ratio of girls enrolled in primary school rose from 85 to 93 per 100 boys between 1999 and 2010, whereas it fell from 83 to 82 and from 67 to 63 at the secondary and tertiary levels.\"\n\n\nProviding opportunities for students to consider racial equality as well as matters of racism as part of their study will help them to develop confidence to engage with these concepts as part of future practice, thinking, and life skills. Race, social class, and gender as issues related to schooling have received major attention from educators and social scientists over the last two decades.\n\nThe local authorities in England gave a survey report Race equality in education in November 2005. This report is based on visits by Her Majesty.s Inspectors (HMIs) and additional inspectors to 12 LEAs and 50 schools in England between summer term 2003 to spring term 2005. This report illustrates good practice on race equality in education in a sample of schools and local education authorities (LEAs) surveyed between the summer of 2003 and the spring of 2005. The survey focused on schools and LEAs that were involved effectively in race equality in education. Four areas were examined by inspectors: improving standards and achievement amongst groups of pupils, with reference to the Race Relations (Amendment) Act 2000 (RRAA); the incorporation of race equality concepts into the curriculum in schools; the handling and reporting of race-related incidents in schools; the work of schools and LEAs in improving links with local minority ethnic communities.\n\nThe Association of Teachers and Lecturers (ATL) (ATL promotes and protects the interests of its members – teachers, lecturers, support staff and other education professionals) introduced a practical resource for the school workforce Race equality and education in the UK educational system. The publication sets out to examine the racial, religious or cultural terminology regularly used in today's society, in an attempt to combat prejudice based on colour, ethnicity, religion or culture.\n\nAt this decisive moment, the Commission on Equity and Excellence in Education issues this seminal report. It is not a restatement of public education's struggles, nor is it a mere list of recommendations. Rather, this is a declaration of an urgent national mission: to provide equity and excellence in education in American public schools once and for all. This collective wisdom is a historic blueprint for making the dream of equity, and a world-class education, for each and every American child a reality. Carol D. Lee described the rationale for a special theme issue, \"Reconceptualizing Race and Ethnicity in Educational Research.\" The rationale includes the historical and contemporary ways that cultural differences have been positioned in educational research and the need for more nuanced and complex analyses of ethnicity and race.\n\nA major task of South Africa’s new government in 1994 was to promote racial equity in the state education system. This paper evaluates progress towards this goal using three distinct concepts: equal treatment, equal educational opportunity, and educational adequacy. The authors find that the country has succeeded in establishing racial equity defined as equal treatment, primarily through race-blind policies for allocating state funds for schools. Progress measured by the other two criteria, however, has been constrained by the legacy of apartheid, including poor facilities and lack of human capacity in schools serving black students, and by policies such as school fees.\n\nEducation literature tends to treat race, social class, and gender as separate issues. A review of a sample of education literature from four academic journals, spanning ten years, sought to determine how much these status groups were integrated. The study found little integration. The study then provided a research example on cooperative learning to illustrate how attention to only one status group oversimplifies the analysis of student behavior in school. From findings of studies integrating race and class, and race and gender, the study argues that attending only to race, in this example, oversimplifies behavior analysis and may help perpetuate gender and class biases. To determine to what extent race, social class, and gender are integrated in the education literature, the study examined a sample of literature published over a ten-year period and 30 articles focused primarily on race, or on school issues related directly to race, such as desegregation.\n\nThe report is by the OECD Education Directorate with support from the Asia Society as a background report for the first Asia Society Global Cities Network Symposium, Hong Kong, May 10–12, 2012. Asia Society is grateful for OECD's leadership in international benchmarking and for our ongoing partnership. Asia Society organized the Global Cities Education Network, a network of urban school systems in North America and Asia to focus on challenges and opportunities for improvement common to them, and to virtually all city education systems. This report presents the key recommendations of the OECD publication Equity and Quality in Education: Supporting Disadvantaged Students and Schools (2012a), which maps out policy levers that can help build high quality and equitable education systems, with a particular focus on North American and Asia-Pacific countries.\n\nThe long-term social and economic consequences of having little education are more tangible now than ever before. Those without the skills to participate socially and economically in society generate higher costs of healthcare, income support, child welfare and social security.\n\nWhile both basic education and higher education have both been improved and expanded in the past 50 years, this has not translated to a more equal society in terms of academics. While the feminist movement has made great strides for women, other groups have not been as fortunate. Generally, social mobility has not increased, while economic inequality has. So, while more students are getting a basic education and even attending universities, a dramatic divide is present and many people are still being left behind.\n\nAs increased immigration causes problems in educational equity for some countries, poor social cohesion in other countries is also a major issue. In countries where continued migration causes an issue, the ever-changing social structure of different races makes it difficult to propose a long-term solution to educational equity. On the other hand, many countries with consistent levels of diversity experience long-standing issues of integrating minorities. Challenges for minorities and migrants are often exacerbated as these groups statistically struggle more in terms of both lower academic performance and lower socio-economic status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29568406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29568406", "title": "Flat Classroom Project", "text": "Flat Classroom Project\n\nFlat Classroom Project is an award winning global collaborative project for students in Grades 3 -12, inspired by Thomas Friedman's book, \"The World is Flat\", and leverages Web 2.0 tools to foster communication and interaction as well as collaboration and creation between students and teachers from classrooms around the world.\n\nCo-founded in 2006 by educators Vicki Davis (U.S.) and Julie Lindsay (Australia), the Flat Classroom® Project is a global collaborative project designed for students, typically in Grade 3 - 12, using Web 2.0 tools to support communication and collaboration between students and teachers from classrooms around the world. The project was inspired by topics included in Thomas Friedman's international bestselling book \"The World Is Flat: The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century\" and was featured in the 2007 update \"Release 3.0\" of that book. The original project served as a foundation which has been recreated and expanded. Currently the project runs three times a year.\n\nThe project has gained international recognition and awards from the International Society of Technology Educators(ISTE), Taking IT Global, World Innovation Summit for Education, and Edublog Awards and has fostered four similar projects based on the same holistic and constructivist educational approach, including the Digiteen, Eracism, NetGenEd, and A Week in the Life projects. \n\nThe first spin-off the NetGenEd Project, originally called the Horizon Project, examines the book \"Growing Up Digital\", by Don Tapscott, in conjunction with the New Media Consortium's annual \"Horizon Report\".\n\nAnother spin-off effort is the Flat Classroom™ Conference which brings together geographically distant students that may have participated in one of the affiliated projects for a face-to-face meeting. At the conference students share ideas and take part in theme-based workshops to take back to their home schools. Themes are designed to explore global social issues and inspire unity and action, while advancing continued student-to-student and educator-to-educator connections.\n\nThe goal of the Flat Classroom Project is to create global collaborative projects and maintain workspaces for students (at all school levels) and educators around the world. The aim is to provide bridging between students, educators, trainee teachers, and post-secondary education institutions.\n\nBy \"flattening\" the walls of the traditional classroom, participating classes essentially become one large virtual classroom, co-taught by participating teachers, via the Internet and a combination of synchronous and asynchronous communication tools. The project is designed to: \n\nThe core pedagogical approach includes the development of two primary products. The first product involves groups of students working collaboratively to compose a wiki web page, based on topic research, and using Wikipedia as a model. The second product involves individual students creating a multimedia artefact, again based on topic research, which should also include a portion requested from another student in a different part of the world. Student work is assessed with common criteria-based rubrics and reviewed by a panel of international judges. \n\nIt is designed as a multi-modal, inter-disciplinary learning experience that highlights digital citizenship. Additionally, participating students are encouraged to develop Personal Learning Environments and Networks, using a variety of Internet tools, while conducting their research.\n\nSince 2009, students and teachers from the following schools have participated in the Flat Classroom Project\nAcademy of Allied Health and Science, Neptune, New Jersey, USA\nAnglo-American School of Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria\nAlta Vista School, Los Gatos, CA, USA\nBawlf School, Bawlf, Alberta, Canada\nBeijing BISS International School, Beijing, China\nThe Bullis School, Potomac, Maryland, USA\nCarrabassett Valley, Carrabassett, Maine, USA\nChoithram International World School, Indore, India\nCitrus High School, Inverness, Florida, USA\nCampo Verde High School, Gilbert, Arizona, USA\nDon Mills Collegiate Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada\nGilbert High School, Gilbert, Arizona, USA\nGoodland High School, Goodland, Kansas, USA\nGranville College, South West Sydney Institute of Technical and Further Education, Australia\nGrup Scolar Agricol Holboca, Sos. Iasi-Ungheni, Romania\nHawkesdale P12 College, Hawkesdale, Victoria, Australia\nHighland High School (Gilbert, Arizona), USA\nHopkinton High School, Hopkinton, Massachusetts, USA\nThe Illawarra Grammar School, Wollongong, New South Wales, Australia\nInternational School of the Americas, San Antonio, Texas, USA\nInternational School of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany\nJordan Road School, Somers Point, New Jersey, USA\nKorea International School, South Korea\nManitou Springs High School, Manitou Springs, Colorado, USA\nMesquite High School (Gilbert, Arizona), USA\nMidpark High School, Middleburg Heights, Ohio, USA\nMount Carmel Area High School, Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania, USA\nNexus International School, Putrajaya, Malaysia\nNorth Rockland High School, Thiells, New York, USA\nOsama Bin Zaid School, Oman\nQatar Academy, Doha, State of Qatar\nRavenscroft School, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA\nRiver East Collegiate, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada\nRockford Lutheran School, Rockford, Illinois, USA\nRoyal Masonic School, Rickmansworth, Herts, England\nSanta Ana Valley High School, Santa Ana, California, USA\nSotogrande International School, Spain\nSpring Woods High School, Houston, Texas, USA\nSt. Alcuin Montessori School, Dallas, Texas, USA\nSt. Paul the Apostle, Los Angeles, California, USA\nTok School, Tok, Alaska, USA\nTrinity Lutheran School, Joppa, Maryland, USA\nUnion Intermediate High School, Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, USA\nWakefield School, The Plains, Virginia, USA\nWestdale Secondary School, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada\nWestside High School (Houston), Texas, USA\nWestwood Schools, Camilla, Georgia, USA\nWichern-Schule, Hamburg, Germany\nWindsor High School, Windsor, Vermont, USA\nWissahickon High School, Ambler, Pennsylvania, USA\n\nWith the success of the other projects it became apparent that many teachers of elementary students were wanting to also take part in the Flat Classroom experience. Beginning in October 2010 through to February 2011 eight international schools joined together to plan, work through and initiate the project.\n\nSchools Involved\n\n\nFive different categories were chosen for the students to investigate their lives and compare them to other students in the project. The categories chosen were Food and Celebrations, Clothing, Transportation, School Life and Housing. Within each of these categories teams were created with members from each school participating. A teacher mentor was in charge of each category to keep the teams focused. Synchronous and asynchornous methods were used to allow for authentic global collaboration among the students. At the end of the project each team combined their information together into one artifact representing their category sharing their lives from around the world. Teachers as well as students greatly benefited from the collaboration and helped to building relationships that are continuing on.\n\nThe pilot project was deemed a success and it has developed into a regular project under the Flat Classroom umbrella.\n\n"}
{"id": "5568297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5568297", "title": "GRE Literature in English Test", "text": "GRE Literature in English Test\n\nThe GRE Literature in English Test is a standardized test administered by the Educational Testing Service. It is intended to evaluate applicants seeking admission to a graduate program in English Studies. The test surveys a wide range of topics related to literature in English, but the focus is on works long \naccepted as part of the canon.\n\nScores are scaled and then reported as a number between 200 and 800; however, in recent versions of the test, the maximum and minimum reported scores have been 760 (corresponding to the 99 percentile) and 320 (1 percentile) respectively. The mean score for all test takers from July, 2009, to July, 2012, was 549 with a standard deviation of 99.\n\nThe test contains 230 questions, grouped in four broad categories. Since many students who apply to graduate programs in English do so during the first half of their fourth year, the scope of most questions is largely that of the first three years of a standard American undergraduate English curriculum. A sampling of test item content is given below:\n\n\nThis section tests the ability of examinees to perform recognition of date, author or work by style and/or content. The literary-historical scope of the test is as follows:\n\n\n\nIdentification and analysis of the characteristics and methods of various critical and theoretical approaches.\n\n"}
{"id": "167316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167316", "title": "Graduation", "text": "Graduation\n\nGraduation is getting a diploma or academic degree or the ceremony that is sometimes associated with it, in which students become graduates. Before the graduation, candidates are referred to as graduands. The date of graduation is often called graduation day. The graduation ceremony itself is also called commencement, convocation or invocation. Normally, the ceremony and name apply to high school and above (the next ascending levels being Associate's, Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctorate). In the United States of America, graduations for elementary school or even Kindergarten have been a development of recent years. When ceremonies are associated, they usually include a procession of the academic staff and candidates and a valediction. At the college and university level the faculty will usually wear academic dress at the formal ceremonies, as will the trustees and degree candidates.\n\n\"Graduation\" at the college and university level occurs when the presiding officer confers degrees upon candidates, either individually or en masse, even if graduates physically receive their diploma later at a smaller college or departmental ceremony. After degree completion, graduates can be referred to by their graduating year.\n\nIn some places, graduation parties to celebrate graduation from school, college or university are popular. In a recent 2014 nationwide survey in the United States, $985 was the average amount spent on graduation parties. When a student graduates without attending the ceremony, then it is called graduation \"in absentia\".\n\nThe procedures and traditions surrounding academic graduation ceremonies differ around the world. Whereas in the United Kingdom a graduation usually only occurs at university level, in the United States of America and many other countries graduations also occur at high schools where no higher education qualifications are conferred upon the graduates. In a graduation ceremony the students dress up in special graduation caps and clothing that are made just for this purpose.\n\nGraduation traditions are varied across universities observing different cultures. Most universities across Sweden are research-oriented and may present its students with bachelor's, master's, and doctor's degrees covering all academic streams. Universities across the country are based through the Higher Education Ordinance. A large number of candidates continue their education onto secondary and upper secondary education. Most of the national programs provide Swedish, English, Math and Science among majors.\n\nIn Zimbabwe, graduation ceremonies are often associated with the guest of honor who most of is the ceremonial head of the institution. At state universities the President of Zimbabwe officiates as chancellor and guest of honor. Every graduate of a state university in Zimbabwe can claim to have shaken the President's hand. The person most associated with graduation at those institutions is Zimbabwe's ex-President Robert Gabriel Mugabe. At other State Institutions of higher learning the vice Presidents or any other Senior Government officials may preside.\n\nCeremonies for graduating students date from the first universities in Europe in the 12th century. At that time Latin was the language of scholarship. A \"universitas\" was a guild of masters (MAs) with licence to teach. \"Degree\" and \"graduate\" come from gradus, meaning \"step\". The first step was admission to a bachelor's degree. The second step was the masters step, giving the graduate admission to the universitas and license to teach. The typical dress for graduation are gowns and hoods or hats adapted from the daily dress of university staff in the Middle Ages, which was in turn based on the attire worn by medieval clergy.\n\nThe tradition of wearing graduation hats in Sweden has been in place since the mid 18th century. The cap is typically a white sailor hat with a black or dark blue band around it, a crown motif, and a black peak at the front. The graduation hat tradition was initially brought into practice by students at Uppsala University. The headgear then became popular across several other European nations as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21663888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21663888", "title": "Harvard Project Physics", "text": "Harvard Project Physics\n\nHarvard Project Physics, also called Project Physics, was a national curriculum development project to create a secondary school physics education program in the United States during the Cold War era. \n\nThe project was active from 1962 to 1972, and produced the \"Project Physics\" series of texts, which were used in physics classrooms in the 1970s and 1980s. The project was centered at Harvard University, but drew from schools and educators from across the country. The directors of this project were: F. James Rutherford, project coordinator (and after completion of the project, professor of science education at New York University); Gerald Holton, professor of physics and of the history of science at Harvard University; and Fletcher G. Watson, professor of science education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education.\n\nProject Physics course work was broken into six main subject areas, organized into separate books each called a \"Project Physics Text and Handbook\" or \"Student Guide\":\n\n\nThe books presented the material from a historical perspective, with aspects of human interest wrapped into the text. The intent was to build a sophisticated conceptual understanding of physics, while not over-simplifying the curriculum. Frequent references to historical works where concepts were first discovered and debated highlighted the drive to make physics a fundamental search for understanding of the universe.\n\nThe course materials also included readers, tests, and other teaching aids. The course readers allowed students to further explore a topic, and lab exercises enabled students to verify that their understanding was confirmed by experimental outcomes. Special lab equipment, brief film loops, films, and a teacher's guide were also developed. The texts and all other aids are now available for free on the Project Physics Collection web site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25012873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25012873", "title": "History of virtual learning environments", "text": "History of virtual learning environments\n\nA virtual learning environment (VLE) is a system that creates an environment designed to facilitate teachers' management of educational courses for their students, especially a system using computer hardware and software, which involves distance learning. In North America, a virtual learning environment is often referred to as a \"learning management system\" (LMS).\n\nThe terminology for systems which integrate and manage computer-based learning has changed over the years. Terms which are useful in understanding and searching for earlier materials include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDevelops the \"Interactive Learning Network\" ILN 1.5, and installs it at several academic institutions including Cornell University, Yale Medical School and University of Pittsburgh. The ILN was the first e-learning system of its kind to leverage an install on top of a relational database MySqL.\n\n\n\n\nLater that year in October 2000, deploy the ArsDigita Community Education System (ACES) at MIT Sloan School. The system is called Sloanspace. The ArsDigita Community System as well as ACES in the next few years grow to OpenACS and .LRN\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35973649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35973649", "title": "Individual Education", "text": "Individual Education\n\nIndividual Education is a school system rooted in the individual psychology of Alfred Adler. Designed by Raymond Corsini, the Individual Education program includes a number of basic principles. The program consists of three components: Academic; Creative/Applied; Socialization. Corsini also outlined disciplinary procedures and a number of other principles to ensure the most productive possible school environment.\n\nThe following are the basic principles of the Individual Education School System:\n\n\nA primary goal of Individual Education is to make children self-sufficient, giving them the mean to become a productive member of society; to become mature and self-reliant. Individual Education is against the infantilization of the child. Instead, Individual Education maximizes the child's self-determination.\n\nIndividual Education is designed to develop in children feeling of respect of the self and of others. Traditional school systems make children feel inferior and make many of them feel unsuccessful. A system based on rewards and punishment, praise and disapproval, is considered morally bankrupt in the Individual Education system. Some children are not born into environments conducive to academics. Some children have strengths not visible in the traditional system. Any system that insults these children is wrong.\n\nEvery child has innate talents, and some strengths and weaknesses. Whatever resources the child has, Individual Education permits expression, whether academic or non-academic. If little Michaelangelo wants to paint, let him. If he therefore never learns how to solve square roots, so be it. If little Willy Gates doesn't want to leave his computer alone, let him. If he therefore never reads Shakespeare, so be it. As long as Michaelangelo can do basic math, and Willy can read well, that is enough. For others, a broader program will be necessary. The child will determine the program that best suits him/her. The curriculum will be there when he/she needs it. The teacher will encourage learning of all types of academe, but will not force it.\n\nThe concept of Social Interest (\"Gemeinschaftsgefuhl\" in Adlerian theory) is central to Individual Education. It means responding to the needs of others. It can be seen in school spirit, patriotism, love for family, or elsewhere. This is critical to a child becoming a productive and happy member of society. This goal is not achieved directly, but rather through the achievement of the first 3 Rs.\n\nThe curriculum in the academic component is similar to that in the traditional system. Language, mathematics, history/geography and science are developed along the mastery model—through a skills list through which children progress from the beginning of school to the end. Children are tested weekly on average but it is the children who request to be tested; teachers cannot demand that tests be written. Instead a Progress Chart shows how far along the child is (80% is considered mastery). The child doesn't have to learn what he/she has already learned—if the child can pass a test without attending class, the Progress Chart is marked identically to that of a child that attended hours of classroom study. A quick learner is offered the next level of curriculum and the opportunity to tutor others. No numerical or letter-based grading system is used.\n\nThese courses can be offered in 6-8 week blocks. 1-3 can be chosen out of 9-12 courses offered. Included are topics students want to learn but do not find in traditional curriculum. They usually involve some physical activities (e.g. soccer), some artistic ones (visual arts) and some applied (horticulture). Teachers offer courses in areas of their interest. Community resources are used where possible.\n\nTeachers socialize children through their positions as teachers and advisers. Children can choose their adviser, though the teacher can choose whether to accept that student. The adviser is an equal to the child in this environment (unlike during the academic program), and can only enforce the first school rule, related to dangerous behavior (see below). They meet as a group (the adviser with all children who have chosen him or her, or in the absence of a decision by the child, the child is assigned an adviser).Among other things, students learn about problem solving, health maintenance, interpersonal communications and purpose in life. The adviser supervises homeroom, which occurs at the beginning and end of the day and is unstructured. At least once a week and sometimes every day, the adviser holds a class meeting during which time the children discuss their various concerns. Rules regarding homeroom and class meetings can only be decided democratically. The teacher can suggest rules but the children decide by a vote.\n\nThe adviser is also the liaison between the child and other teachers with whom there may be difficulties, and can act as a mediator. The adviser also liaises with the child's parents but only on rare occasions and only with the child's consent. The child should always be in the room during such discussions if possible.\n\nThe socialization program includes \"playtime\" for younger children. Other teachers are also free to discuss social matters with children, as equals.\n\nIndividual Education schools have only three school rules:\n\nThere are no exceptions to these rules. Violation of one of these rules means the child is given a violation slip which they take to the office to have recorded.\n\nTeachers can establish idiosyncratic classrooms, but they cannot violate the three rules above. Because there are so few rules, teachers must ensure that they are strictly enforced.\n\nThese rules are largely based on the discipline concepts of Rudolf Dreikurs. Dreikurs' concept of logical consequences is particularly useful in understanding the Individual Education disciplinary procedure.\n\nThe GO signal is a gesture towards the door. A teacher may quietly say the child's name and make the gesture. The child must then leave the classroom immediately and silently without disruption to others. The child then has a few options: go to another class; go to the study hall; go to the library; seek to re-enter the classroom. The child can return to the classroom but may be given the STOP signal at that time, which means the child must go to another option. The STOP signal is a hand held face up in the direction of the child entering.\n\nTeachers should not keep track of the number of times they give out the GO and STOP signals. They have no meaning in terms of the child's progress in school, and should carry no social consequences. A teacher must not warn the child of an impending GO signal, nor intimidate the child by standing close to them or giving them negative looks. There is no use in intimidating the child, who will rebel against such an attempt.\n\nFor each violation there is a consequence. If the ultimate consequence of expulsion is applied, it should include a referral to other professional help.\n\nResearch articles have indicated the following findings:\n\nRaymond Corsini recognized in the late 1960s that adults were mistakenly blaming children for their poor behavior and grades in school when the problems were promoted by the school system in which the children operated. Corsini argued that the traditional system of education was fundamentally undemocratic. Children were \"sentenced\" to attend an institution where they had no choice of teacher or level of study, and minimal choice in terms of subjects, places or means of study. He set out to design a school system in which respect would be a central principle. Research by Paul Clark confirmed that Individual Education is an effective method of encouraging learning.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, there were a dozen individual education schools operating in North America and Europe, including Hawaii, Illinois, Colorado, British Columbia and the Netherlands. One school, the Blooming Grove Academy, operated in Bloomington, Illinois from 1986 until 2011.\nForest Park I.E. (K-5) and Hufford I.E.(6-8), both in Joliet, IL continue to operate using the Corsini system.\nThe original Individual Education School, Ho'Ala School in Wahiawa, Hawaii, continues to be in operation for kindergarten to grade 12. DaVinci Charter School closed down in February 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "38940628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38940628", "title": "Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence", "text": "Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence\n\nThe Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence (CIMEA) is the Italian centre in the National Academic Recognition Information Centre (NARIC) network. It was established in 1984 and since 1986 has operated through an agreement with Italy's Ministry of Education, Universities and Research.\n"}
{"id": "1165345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1165345", "title": "Intelligent design movement", "text": "Intelligent design movement\n\nThe intelligent design movement is a neo-creationist religious campaign for broad social, academic and political change to promote and support the pseudoscientific idea of intelligent design (ID), which asserts that \"certain features of the universe and of living things are best explained by an intelligent cause, not an undirected process such as natural selection.\" Its chief activities are a campaign to promote public awareness of this concept, the lobbying of policymakers to include its teaching in high school science classes, and legal action, either to defend such teaching or to remove barriers otherwise preventing it. The movement arose out of the creation science movement in the United States, and is driven by a small group of proponents.\n\nThe overall goal of the intelligent design movement is to overthrow materialism and atheism. Its proponents believe that society has suffered \"devastating\" cultural consequences from adopting materialism and that science is the cause of the decay into materialism because it seeks only natural explanations, and is therefore atheistic. They believe that the scientific theory of evolution implies that humans have no spiritual nature, no moral purpose, and no intrinsic meaning. They seek to \"reverse the stifling dominance of the materialist worldview\", represented by the theory of evolution, in favor of \"a science consonant with Christian and theistic convictions.\"\n\nTo achieve their goal of defeating a materialistic world view, advocates of intelligent design take a two-pronged approach. Alongside the promotion of intelligent design, proponents also seek to \"Teach the Controversy\"; discredit evolution by emphasizing perceived flaws in the theory of evolution, or disagreements within the scientific community and encourage teachers and students to explore non-scientific alternatives to evolution, or to critically analyze evolution and the controversy surrounding the teaching of evolution. But the world's largest general scientific society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, has stated that \"There is no significant controversy within the scientific community about the validity of evolution.\" and that \"Evolution is one of the most robust and widely accepted principles of modern science.\" The ruling in the 2005 Dover, Pennsylvania, trial, \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", where the claims of intelligent design proponents were considered by a United States federal court, stated that \"evolution, including common descent and natural selection, is 'overwhelmingly accepted' by the scientific community.\"\n\nThe Discovery Institute (DI) is a religious think tank that drives the intelligent design movement. The Institute's Center for Science and Culture (CSC) counts most of the leading intelligent design advocates among its membership, most notably its program advisor Phillip E. Johnson. Johnson is the architect of the movement's key strategies, the wedge strategy and the \"Teach the Controversy\" campaign. The Discovery Institute and leading proponents represent intelligent design as a revolutionary scientific theory. The overwhelming majority of the scientific community, as represented by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the National Academy of Sciences and nearly all scientific professional organizations, firmly reject these claims, and insist that intelligent design is not valid science, its proponents having failed to conduct an actual scientific research program. This has led the movement's critics to state that intelligent design is merely a public relations campaign and a political campaign.\n\nAccording to critics of the intelligent design movement, the movement's purpose is political rather than scientific or educational. They claim the movement's \"activities betray an aggressive, systematic agenda for promoting not only intelligent design creationism, but the religious worldview that undergirds it.\" Intelligent design is an attempt to recast religious dogma in an effort to reintroduce the teaching of biblical creationism to public school science classrooms; the intelligent design movement is an effort to reshape American society into a theocracy, primarily through education. As evidence, critics cite the Discovery Institute's political activities, its wedge strategy and statements made by leading intelligent design proponents. The scientific community's position, as represented by the National Academy of Sciences and the National Center for Science Education (NCSE), is that intelligent design is not science, but creationist pseudoscience. Richard Dawkins, a biologist and professor at Oxford University, compares the intelligent design movement's demand to \"teach the controversy\" with the demand to teach flat Earthism; acceptable in terms of history, but not in terms of science. \"If you give the idea that there are two schools of thought within science--one that says the earth is round and one that says the earth is flat--you are misleading children.\"\n\nAt the 1999 \"Reclaiming America for Christ Conference\" called by Reverend D. James Kennedy of Coral Ridge Ministries, Phillip E. Johnson gave a speech called \"How The Evolution Debate Can Be Won.\" In it he sums up the theological and epistemological underpinnings of intelligent design and its strategy for victory:\n\nThe intelligent design movement grew out of a creationist tradition which argues against evolutionary theory from a religious standpoint, usually that of evangelical or fundamentalistic Christianity. Although intelligent design advocates often claim that they are arguing only for the existence of a designer who may or may not be God, all the movement's leading advocates believe that this designer is God. They frequently accompany their arguments with a discussion of religious issues, especially when addressing religious audiences, but elsewhere downplay the religious aspects of their agenda.\n\nThe modern use of the words \"intelligent design,\" as a term intended to describe a field of inquiry, began after the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case of \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" (1987), ruled that creationism is unconstitutional in public school science curricula. A Discovery Institute report says that Charles Thaxton, editor of \"Of Pandas and People\", had picked the phrase up from a NASA scientist, and thought \"That's just what I need, it's a good engineering term.\" In drafts of the book over one hundred uses of the root word \"creation,\" such as \"creationism\" and \"creation science,\" were changed, almost without exception, to \"intelligent design,\" while \"creationists\" was changed to \"design proponents\" or, in one instance, \"cdesign proponentsists.\" In 1989, \"Of Pandas and People\" was published by the Foundation for Thought and Ethics (FTE), with the definition:\n\n\"Pandas\" was followed in 1991 by \"Darwin on Trial\", a neo-creationist polemic by Phillip E. Johnson, that is regarded as a central text of the movement. \"Darwin on Trial\" mentioned \"Pandas\" as \"'creationist' only in the sense that it juxtaposes a paradigm of 'intelligent design' with the dominant paradigm of (naturalistic) evolution,\" but his use of the term as a focus for his wedge strategy promoting \"theistic realism\" came later. The book was reviewed by evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould for \"Scientific American\" in July 1992, concluding that the book contains \"...no weighing of evidence, no careful reading of literature on all sides, no full citation of sources (the book does not even contain a bibliography) and occasional use of scientific literature only to score rhetorical points.\" Gould's review led to the formation in 1992 or 1993 of an 'Ad Hoc Origins Committee' of Johnson's supporters, which wrote a letter, circulated to thousands of university professors, defending the book. Among the 39 signatories were nine who later became members of the Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture (CRSC).\n\nDuring the early 1990s Johnson worked to develop a 'big tent' movement to unify a wide range of creationist viewpoints in opposition to evolution. In 1992, the first formal meeting devoted to intelligent design was held in Southern Methodist University. It included a debate between Johnson and Michael Ruse (a key witness in \"McLean v. Arkansas\" (1982)) and papers by William A. Dembski, Michael Behe and Stephen C. Meyer. In 1993, Johnson organized a follow-up meeting, including Dembski, Behe, Meyer, Dean H. Kenyon (co-author of \"Pandas\") and Walter Bradley (co-author with Thaxton and Kenyon of \"The Mystery of Life's Origin\" (1984)), as well as two graduate students, Paul A. Nelson and Jonathan Wells.\n\nOn December 6, 1993, an article by Meyer was published in \"The Wall Street Journal\", drawing national attention to the controversy over Dean H. Kenyon's teaching of creationism. This article also gained the attention of Discovery Institute co-founder Bruce Chapman. On discovering that Meyer was developing the idea of starting a scientific research center in conversations with conservative political scientist John G. West, Chapman invited them to create a unit within the Discovery Institute called the Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture (later renamed the Center for Science and Culture). This center was dedicated to overthrowing \"scientific materialism\" and \"fomenting nothing less than a scientific and cultural revolution.\"\nA 1995 conference, \"The Death of Materialism and the Renewal of Culture,\" served as a blueprint for the center. By 1996 they had nearly a million dollars in grants, the largest being from Howard Ahmanson, Jr., with smaller but still large contributions coming from the Stewardship Foundation established by C. Davis Weyerhaeuser and the Maclellan Foundation, and appointed their first class of research fellows.\n\nThe wedge strategy was formulated by Phillip E. Johnson to combat the \"evil\" of methodological naturalism. It first came to the general public's attention when a Discovery Institute internal memo now known as the \"Wedge Document\" (believed to have been written in 1998) was leaked to the public in 1999. However it is believed to have been update of an earlier document to be implemented between 1996 and 2001.\n\nThe document begins with \"The proposition that human beings are created in the image of God is one of the bedrock principles on which Western civilization was built.\" and then goes on to outline the movement's goal to exploit perceived discrepancies within evolutionary theory in order to discredit evolution and scientific materialism in general. Much of the strategy is directed toward the broader public, as opposed to the professional scientific community. The stated \"governing goals\" of the CSC's wedge strategy are:\n\nCritics of intelligent design movement argue that the Wedge Document and strategy demonstrate that the intelligent design movement is motivated purely by religion and political ideology and that the Discovery Institute as a matter of policy obfuscates its agenda. The Discovery Institute's official response was to characterize the criticism and concern as \"irrelevant,\" \"paranoid,\" and \"near-panic\" while portraying the Wedge Document as a \"fund-raising document.\"\n\nJohnson in his 1997 book \"Defeating Darwinism by Opening Minds\" confirmed some of the concerns voiced by the movement's gainsayers:\n\nThe Kansas evolution hearings were a series of hearings held in Topeka, Kansas, from May 5 to May 12, 2005, by the Kansas State Board of Education and its State Board Science Hearing Committee to change how evolution and the origin of life would be taught in the state's public high school science classes. The hearings were arranged by the conservative Board with the intent of introducing intelligent design into science classes via the \"Teach the Controversy\" method.\n\nThe hearings raised the issues of creation and evolution in public education and were attended by all the major participants in the intelligent design movement but were ultimately boycotted by the scientific community over concern of lending credibility to the claim, made by proponents of intelligent design, that evolution is purportedly the subject of wide dispute within the scientific and science education communities.\n\nThe Discovery Institute, hub of the intelligent design movement, played a central role in starting the hearings by promoting its Critical Analysis of Evolution lesson plan which the Kansas State Board of Education eventually adopted over objections of the State Board Science Hearing Committee, and campaigning on behalf of conservative Republican candidates for the Board.\n\nLocal science advocacy group Kansas Citizens for Science organized a boycott of the hearings by mainstream scientists, who accused it of being a kangaroo court and argued that their participation would lend an undeserved air of legitimacy to the hearings. Board member Kathy Martin declared at the beginning of the hearings \"Evolution has been proven false. ID (Intelligent Design) is science-based and strong in facts.\" At their conclusion she proclaimed that evolution is \"an unproven, often disproven\" theory.\n\n\"ID has theological implications. ID is not strictly Christian, but it is theistic,\" asserted Martin. The scientific community rejects teaching intelligent design as science; a leading example being the National Academy of Sciences, which issued a policy statement saying \"Creationism, intelligent design, and other claims of supernatural intervention in the origin of life or of species are not science because they are not testable by the methods of science.\"\n\nOn February 13, 2007, the Board voted 6 to 4 to reject the amended science standards enacted in 2005.\n\nIn the movement's sole major case, \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", it was represented by the Thomas More Law Center, which had been seeking a test-case on the issue for at least five years. However conflicting agendas resulted in the withdrawal of a number of Discovery Institute Fellows as expert witnesses, at the request of DI director Bruce Chapman, and mutual recriminations with the DI after the case was lost. The Alliance Defense Fund briefly represented the Foundation for Thought and Ethics in its unsuccessful motion to intervene in this case, and prepared \"amicus curiae\" briefs on behalf of the DI and FTE in it. It has also made \"amicus curiae\" submissions and offered to pay for litigation, in other (actual and potential) creationism-related cases. On a far smaller scale, Larry Caldwell and his wife operate under the name Quality Science Education for All, and have made a number of lawsuits in furtherance of the movement's anti-evolution agenda. In 2005 they brought at least three separate lawsuits to further the intelligent design movement's agenda. One was later abandoned, two were dismissed.\n\nIntelligent design advocates realize that their arguments have little chance of acceptance within the mainstream scientific community, so they direct them toward politicians, philosophers and the general public. What prima facie \"scientific\" material they have produced has been attacked by critics as containing factual misrepresentation and misleading, rhetorical and equivocal terminology. A number of documentaries that promote their assertion that intelligent design as an increasingly well-supported line of scientific inquiry have been made for the Discovery Institute. The bulk of the material produced by the intelligent design movement, however, is not intended to be scientific but rather to promote its social and political aims. Polls indicate that intelligent design's main appeal to citizens comes from its link to religious concepts.\n\nAn August 2005 poll from The Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life showed 64% of Americans favoring the teaching of creationism along with evolution in science classrooms, though only 38% favored teaching it instead of evolution, with the results varying deeply by education level and religiosity. The poll showed the educated were far less attached to intelligent design than the less educated. Evangelicals and fundamentalists showed high rates of affiliation with intelligent design while other religious persons and the secular were much lower.\n\nScientists responding to a poll overwhelmingly said intelligent design is about religion, not science. A 2002 sampling of 460 Ohio science professors had 91% say it's primarily religion, 93% say there is not \"any scientifically valid evidence or an alternate scientific theory that challenges the fundamental principles of the theory of evolution,\" and 97% say that they did not use intelligent design concepts in their own research.\n\nIn October and November 2001, the Discovery Institute advertised \"A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism\" in three national publications (\"The New York Review of Books\", \"The New Republic\" and \"The Weekly Standard\"), listing what they claimed were \"100 scientific dissenters\" who had signed a statement that \"We are skeptical of claims for the ability of random mutation and natural selection to account for the complexity of life. Careful examination of the evidence for Darwinian theory should be encouraged.\" Shortly afterwards the National Center for Science Education described the wording as misleading, noting that a minority of the signatories were biologists and some of the others were engineers, mathematicians and philosophers, and that some signatories did not fully support the Discovery Institute's claims. The list was further criticized in a February 2006 article in \"The New York Times\" which pointed out that only 25% of the signatories by then were biologists and that signatories' \"doubts about evolution grew out of their religious beliefs.\" In 2003, as a humorous parody of such listings the NCSE produced the pro-evolution Project Steve list of signatories, all with variations of the name Steve and most of whom are trained biologists. As of July 31, 2006, the Discovery Institute lists \"over 600 scientists,\" while Project Steve reported 749 signatories; as of May 30, 2014, 1,338 Steves have signed the statement, while 906 have signed \"A Scientific Dissent from Darwinism\" as of April 2014.\n\nThe movement's strategy as set forth by Phillip E. Johnson states the replacement of \"materialist science\" with \"theistic science\" as its primary goal; and, more generally, for intelligent design to become \"the dominant perspective in science\" and to \"permeate our religious, cultural, moral and political life.\" This agenda is now being actively pursued by the Center for Science and Culture, which plays the leading role in the promotion of intelligent design. Its fellows include most of the leading intelligent design advocates: William A. Dembski, Michael Behe, Jonathan Wells and Stephen C. Meyer.\n\nIntelligent design has been described by its proponents as a 'big tent' belief, one in which all theists united by having some kind of creationist belief (but of differing opinions as regards details) can support. If successfully promoted, it would reinstate creationism in the teaching of science, after which debates regarding details could resume. In his 2002 article in \"Christian Research Journal\", Discovery Institute fellow Paul A. Nelson credits Johnson for the 'big tent' approach and for reviving creationist debate since the \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" decision. According to Nelson, \"The promise of the big tent of ID is to provide a setting where Christians (and others) may disagree amicably, and fruitfully, about how best to understand the natural world, as well as Scripture.\"\n\nIn his presentation to the 1999 \"Reclaiming America for Christ Conference,\" \"How The Evolution Debate Can Be Won,\" Johnson affirmed this 'big tent' role for \"The Wedge\" (without using the term intelligent design):\n\nThe Discovery Institute consistently denies allegations that its intelligent design agenda has religious foundations, and downplays the religious source of much of its funding. In an interview of Stephen C. Meyer when \"World News Tonight\" asked about the Discovery Institute's many evangelical Christian donors the Institute's public relations representative stopped the interview saying \"I don't think we want to go down that path.\"\n\nPhillip E. Johnson, largely regarded as the leader of the movement, positions himself as a \"theistic realist\" against \"methodological naturalism\" and intelligent design as the method through which God created life. Johnson explicitly calls for intelligent design proponents to obfuscate their religious motivations so as to avoid having intelligent design recognized \"as just another way of packaging the Christian evangelical message.\" Hence intelligent design arguments are carefully formulated in secular terms and intentionally avoid positing the identity of the designer. Johnson has stated that cultivating ambiguity by employing secular language in arguments which are carefully crafted to avoid overtones of theistic creationism is a necessary first step for ultimately introducing the Christian concept of God as the designer. Johnson emphasizes \"the first thing that has to be done is to get the Bible out of the discussion\" and that \"after we have separated materialist prejudice from scientific fact\" only then can \"biblical issues\" be discussed. In the foreword to \"Creation, Evolution, & Modern Science\" (2000) Johnson writes \"The intelligent design movement starts with the recognition that 'In the beginning was the Word,' and 'In the beginning God created.' Establishing that point isn't enough, but it is absolutely essential to the rest of the gospel message.\"\n\nThe Center for Science and Culture, formerly known as the Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture, is a division of the Discovery Institute. The Center consists of a tightly knit core of people who have worked together for almost a decade to advance intelligent design as both a concept and a movement as necessary adjuncts of its wedge strategy policy. This cadre includes Phillip E. Johnson, Michael Behe, William A. Dembski and Stephen C. Meyer. They are united by a religious vision which, although it varies among the members in its particulars and is seldom acknowledged outside of the Christian press, is predicated on the shared conviction that America is in need of \"renewal\" which can be accomplished only by unseating \"Godless\" materialism and instituting religion as its cultural foundation.\n\nIn his keynote address at the \"Research and Progress in intelligent design\" (RAPID) conference held in 2002 at Biola University, William A. Dembski described intelligent design's \"dual role as a constructive scientific project and as a means for cultural renaissance.\" In a similar vein, the movement's hub, the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture had until 2002 been the \"\"Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture\".\" Explaining the name change, a spokesperson for the CSC insisted that the old name was simply too long. However, the change followed accusations that the center's real interest was not science but reforming culture along lines favored by conservative Christians.\n\nCritics of the movement cite the Wedge Document as confirmation of this criticism and assert that the movement's leaders, particularly Phillip E. Johnson, view the subject as a culture war: \"Darwinian evolution is not primarily important as a scientific theory but as a culturally dominant creation story. ... When there is radical disagreement in a commonwealth about the creation story, the stage is set for intense conflict, the kind of conflict that is known as a 'culture war.'\"\n\nRecently the Center for Science and Culture's has moderated its previous overtly theistic mission statements to appeal to a broader, a more secular audience. It hopes to accomplish this by using less overtly theistic messages and language. Despite this, the Center for Science and Culture still states as a goal a redefinition of science, and the philosophy on which it is based, particularly the exclusion of what it calls the \"unscientific principle of materialism,\" and in particular the acceptance of what it calls \"the scientific theory of intelligent design.\"\n\nPromotional materials from the Discovery Institute acknowledge that the Ahmanson family donated $1.5 million to the Center for Science and Culture, then known as the Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture, for a research and publicity program to \"unseat not just Darwinism but also Darwinism's cultural legacy.\" Mr. Ahmanson funds many causes important to the Christian religious right, including Christian Reconstructionism, whose goal is to place the US \"under the control of biblical law.\" Until 1995, Ahmanson sat on the board of the Christian Reconstructionist Chalcedon Foundation.\n\n\nThe intelligent design movement primarily campaigns on two fronts: a public relations campaign meant to influence the popular media and sway public opinion; and an aggressive lobbying campaign to cultivate support for the teaching of intelligent design amongst policymakers and the wider educational community. Both these activities are largely funded and directed by the Discovery Institute, from national to grassroots levels. The movement's first goal is to establish an acceptance of intelligent design at the expense of evolution in public school science; its long-term goal is no less than the \"renewal\" of American culture through the shaping of public policy to reflect conservative Christian values. As the Discovery Institute states, intelligent design is central to this agenda: \"Design theory promises to reverse the stifling dominance of the materialist worldview, and to replace it with a science consonant with Christian and theistic convictions.\"\n\nThe Discovery Institute has also relied on several polls to indicate the acceptance of intelligent design. A 2005 Harris poll identified ten percent of adults in the United States as taking what they called the intelligent design position, that \"human beings are so complex that they required a powerful force or intelligent being to help create them.\" (64% agreed with the creationist view that \"human beings were created directly by God\" and 22% believed that \"human beings evolved from earlier species.\" 49% accepted plant and animal evolution, while 45% did not.) Although some polls commissioned by the Discovery Institute show more support, these polls have been criticized as suffering from considerable flaws, such as having a low response rate (248 out of 16,000), being conducted on behalf of an organization with an expressed interest in the outcome of the poll, and containing leading questions.\n\nCritics of intelligent design and its movement contend that intelligent design is a specific form of creationism, neo-creationism, a viewpoint rejected by intelligent design advocates. It was bolstered by the 2005 ruling in United States federal court that a public school district requirement for science classes to teach that intelligent design is an alternative to evolution was a violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. In \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", United States District Judge John E. Jones III that intelligent design is not science and is essentially religious in nature.\n\nIn pursuing the goal of establishing intelligent design at the expense of evolution in public school science, intelligent design groups have threatened and isolated high school science teachers, school board members and parents who opposed their efforts. Responding to the well-organized curricular challenges of intelligent design proponents to local school boards have been disruptive and divisive in the communities where they've taken place. The campaigns run by intelligent design groups place teachers in the difficult position of arguing against their employers while the legal challenges to local school districts are costly and divert scarce funds away from education into court battles. Although these court battles have almost invariably resulted in the defeat of intelligent design proponents, they are draining and divisive to local schools. For example, as a result of \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" trial, the Dover Area School District was forced to pay $1,000,011 in legal fees and damages for pursuing a policy of \"teaching the controversy\" - presenting intelligent design as an allegedly scientific alternative to evolution.\nLeading members of the intelligent design movement are also associated with denialism, both Phillip E. Johnson and Jonathan Wells have signed an AIDS denialism petition.\n\nThe Discovery Institute, through its Center for Science and Culture, has formulated a number of campaigns to promote intelligent design, while discrediting evolutionary biology, which the Institute terms \"Darwinism.\"\n\nProminent Institute campaigns have been to \"Teach the Controversy\" and, more recently, to allow Critical Analysis of Evolution. Other prominent campaigns have claimed that intelligent design advocates (most notably Richard Sternberg) have been discriminated against, and thus that Academic Freedom bills are needed to protect academics' and teachers' ability to criticise evolution, and that there is a link from evolution to ideologies such as Nazism and eugenics. These three claims are all publicised in the pro-ID movie \"\" (2008). Other campaigns have included petitions, most notably \"A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism\".\n\nThe response of the scientific community has been to reiterate that the theory of evolution is overwhelmingly accepted as a matter of scientific consensus whereas intelligent design has been rejected by the overwhelming majority of the scientific community (see list of scientific societies explicitly rejecting intelligent design).\n\nThe main battlefield for this culture war has been US regional and state school boards. Courts have also become involved as those campaigns to include intelligent design or weaken the teaching of evolution in public school science curricula are challenged on First Amendment grounds. In \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", the plaintiffs successfully argued that intelligent design is a form of creationism, and that the school board policy thus violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nIntelligent design is an integral part of a political campaign by cultural conservatives, largely from evangelical religious convictions, that seek to redefine science to suit their own ideological agenda. Though numerically a minority of Americans. the politics of intelligent design is based less on numbers than on intensive mobilization of ideologically committed followers and savvy public relations campaigns. Political repercussions from the culturally conservative sponsorship of the issue has been divisive and costly to the effected communities, polarizing and dividing not only those directly charged with educating young people but entire local communities.\n\nWith a doctrine that calls itself science among non-scientists but is rejected by the vast majority of the real practitioners, an amicable coexistence and collaboration between intelligent design advocates and upholders of mainstream science education standards is rare. With mainstream scientific and educational organizations saying the theory of evolution is not \"in crisis\" or a subject doubted by scientists, nor intelligent design the emergent scientific paradigm or rival theory its proponents proclaim, \"teaching the controversy\" is suitable for classes on politics, history, culture, or theology they say, but not science. By attempting to force the issue into science classrooms, intelligent design proponents create a charged environment that forces participants and bystanders alike to declare their positions, which has resulted in intelligent design groups threatening and isolating high school science teachers, school board members and parents who opposed their efforts.\n\nIn a round table discussion entitled \"Science Wars: Should Schools Teach Intelligent Design?\" at the American Enterprise Institute on 21 October 2005 and televised on C-SPAN, the Discovery Institute's Mark Ryland and the Thomas More Law Center's Richard Thompson had a frank disagreement, in which Ryland claimed the Discovery Institute has always cautioned against the teaching of intelligent design, and Thompson responded that the Institute's leadership had not only advocated the teaching of intelligent design, but encouraged others to do so, and that the Dover Area School District had merely followed the Institute's calls for action. As evidence, Thompson cited the Discovery Institute's guidebook \"Intelligent Design in Public School Science Curricula\" written by the Institute's co-founder and first director, Stephen C. Meyer, and David K. DeWolf, a CSC Fellow, which stated in its closing paragraphs: \"Moreover, as the previous discussion demonstrates, school boards have the authority to permit, and even encourage, teaching about design theory as an alternative to Darwinian evolution -- and this includes the use of textbooks such as \"Of Pandas and People\" that present evidence for the theory of intelligent design.\"\n\nIn 1999, William A. Dembski was invited by Baylor University president Robert B. Sloan to form the Michael Polanyi Center, described by Dembski as \"the first Intelligent Design think tank at a research university.\" Its creation was controversial with Baylor faculty, and in 2000 it was merged with the Institute for Faith and Learning. Dembski, although remaining as a research professor until 2005, was given no courses to teach.\n\nTwo universities have offered courses in intelligent design: Oklahoma Baptist University, where ID advocate Michael Newton Keas taught 'Unified Studies: Introduction to Biology,' and Biola University, host of the Mere Creation conference. Additionally, numerous Christian evangelical institutions have faculty with interests in intelligent design. These include Oral Roberts University and Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. Patrick Henry College teaches creationism but also exposes its students to both Darwinian evolution and intelligent design.\n\nIn 2005, the American Association of University Professors issued a strongly worded statement asserting that the theory of evolution is nearly universally accepted in the community of scholars, and deploring requirements \"to make students aware of an 'intelligent-design hypothesis' to account for the origins of life.\" It said that such requirements are \"inimical to principles of academic freedom.\"\n\nMuch of the actual debate over intelligent design between intelligent design proponents and members of the scientific community has taken place on the Web, primarily blogs and message boards, instead of the scientific journals and symposia where traditionally much science is discussed and settled. In promoting intelligent design the actions of its proponents have been more like a political pressure group than like researchers entering an academic debate as described by movement critic Taner Edis. The movement lacks any verifiable scientific research program and concomitant debates in academic circles.\n\nThe Web continues to play a central role in the Discovery Institute's strategy of promotion of intelligent design and it adjunct campaigns. On September 6, 2006, on the Center's \"Evolution News & Views\" blog, Discovery Institute staffer Casey Luskin published a post entitled \"Putting Wikipedia On Notice About Their Biased Anti-ID Intelligent Design Entries.\" In the post, Luskin reprinted a letter from a reader complaining that Wikipedia's coverage of ID to be \"one sided\" and that pro-intelligent design editors were censored and attacked. Along with the letter, Luskin published a Wikipedia email address for general information and urged readers \"to contact Wikipedia to express your feelings about the biased nature of the entries on intelligent design.\"\n\nDespite being primarily based in the United States, there have been efforts to introduce pro-intelligent design teaching material into educational facilities in other countries. In the United Kingdom, the group Truth in Science has used material from the Discovery Institute to create free teaching packs which have been mass-mailed to all UK schools. Shortly after this emerged, government ministers announced that they regarded intelligent design to be creationism and unsuitable for teaching in the classroom. They also announced that the teaching of the material in science classes was to be prohibited.\n\nOne of the most common criticisms of the movement and its leadership is that of intellectual dishonesty, in the form of misleading impressions created by the use of rhetoric, intentional ambiguity, and misrepresented evidence. It is alleged that its goal is to lead an unwary public to reach certain conclusions, and that many have been deceived as a result. Critics of the movement, such as Eugenie Scott, Robert T. Pennock and Barbara Forrest, claim that leaders of the intelligent design movement, and the Discovery Institute in particular, knowingly misquote scientists and other experts, deceptively omit contextual text through ellipsis, and make unsupported amplifications of relationships and credentials. Theologian and molecular biophysicist Alister McGrath has a number of criticisms of the Intelligent design movement, stating that \"those who adopt this approach make Christianity deeply... vulnerable to scientific progress\" and defining it as just another \"god-of-the-gaps\" theory. He went on to criticize the movement on theological grounds as well, stating \"It is not an approach I accept, either on scientific or theological grounds.\"\n\nSuch statements commonly note the institutional affiliations of signatories for purposes of identification. But this statement strategically listed either the institution that granted a signatory's PhD or the institutions with which the individual is presently affiliated. Thus the institutions listed for Raymond G. Bohlin, Fazale Rana, and Jonathan Wells, for example, were the University of Texas, Ohio University, and the University of California, Berkeley, respectively, where they earned their degrees, rather than their current affiliations: \"Probe Ministries\" for Bohlin, \"Reasons to Believe\" ministry for Rana, and the Discovery Institute's \"Center for Science and Culture\" for Wells. Similarly confusing lists of local scientists were circulated during controversies over evolution education in Georgia, New Mexico, Ohio, and Texas. In another instance, the Discovery Institute frequently mentions the Nobel Prize in connection with Henry F. Schaefer, III, a CSC Fellow, and chemist at the University of Georgia. Critics allege that Discovery Institute is inflating his reputation by constantly referring to him as a \"five-time nominee for the Nobel Prize\" because Nobel Prize nominations remain confidential for fifty years.\n\nThis criticism is not reserved only to the Institute; individual intelligent design proponents have been accused of using their own credentials and those of others in a misleading or confusing fashion. For example, critics allege William A. Dembski gratuitously invokes his laurels by boasting of his correspondence with a Nobel laureate, bragging that one of his books was published in a series whose editors include a Nobel laureate, and exulting that the publisher of the intelligent design book \"The Mystery of Life's Origin\", Philosophical Library, also published books by eight Nobel laureates. Critics claim that Dembski purposefully omits relevant facts which he fails to mention to his audience that in 1986, during the \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" hearings, 72 Nobel laureates endorsed an \"amicus curiae\" brief that noted that the \"evolutionary history of organisms has been as extensively tested and as thoroughly corroborated as any biological concept.\"\n\nAnother common criticism is that since no intelligent design research has been published in mainstream, peer-reviewed scientific journals, the Discovery Institute often misuses the work of mainstream scientists by putting out lists of articles that allegedly support their arguments for intelligent design drawing from mainstream scientific literature. Often, the original authors respond that their articles cited by the center don't support their arguments at all. Many times, the original authors have publicly refuted them for distorting the meaning of something they've written for their own purposes.\n\nSahotra Sarkar, a molecular biologist at the University of Texas, has testified that intelligent design advocates, and specifically the Discovery Institute, have misused his work by misrepresenting its conclusions to bolster their own claims, has gone on to allege that the extent of the misrepresentations rises to the level of professional malfeasance:\n\nAn October 2005 conference called \"When Christians and Cultures Clash\" was held in Christ Hall at Evangelical School of Theology in Myerstown, Pennsylvania. Attorney Randall L. Wenger, who is affiliated with the Alliance Defense Fund, and a close ally of the Discovery Institute, and one of the presenters at the conference advocated the use of subterfuge for advancing the movement's religious goals: \"But even with God's blessing, it's helpful to consult a lawyer before joining the battle... For instance, the Dover area school board might have had a better case for the intelligent design disclaimer they inserted into high school biology classes had they not mentioned a religious motivation at their meetings... Give us a call before you do something controversial like that... I think we need to do a better job at being clever as serpents.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "984662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984662", "title": "International Democratic Education Conference", "text": "International Democratic Education Conference\n\nThe International Democratic Education Conference, or IDEC, is an annual academic and youth conference hosted by a variety of schools and organizations in cities around the world.\n\nIDEC was first held in 1993, and has been held in all subsequent years except for 2001 . The length of the conferences has varied between two days for the first event and 15 days in 1997. The purpose of each conference has been decided by the school that is organising it.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44217228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44217228", "title": "Jenaplan schools", "text": "Jenaplan schools\n\nJenaplan (or Jena Plan) schools are based on a teaching concept conceived and founded by the German pedagogue Peter Petersen from 1923-1927. The term Jenaplan was coined by the London committee for preparing the 4th meeting of the ‘’New Education Fellowship’’ in Locarno in 1927. Petersen developed his concept at the University of Jena (hence the term), where he was the head of the Department of Education since 1923.\n\nThe basic ideas are: independent learning by doing, cooperation and communal life, shared responsibility by school children and parents.\nThe basic forms of education according to the Jenaplan approach are:\n\n\nThe Jenaplan schools operate according to 20 basic principles, e.g.:\n\nJenaplan schools in Germany are, among others:\n\nJenaplan schools in the Netherlands are, among others:\n\nOther Jenaplan schools are located in Austria, Belgium, and in South Tyrol, Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "5906669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5906669", "title": "Language-learning aptitude", "text": "Language-learning aptitude\n\nLanguage learning aptitude refers to the \"prediction of how well, relative to other individuals, an individual can learn a foreign language in a given amount of time and under given conditions\".\n\nAs with many measures of aptitude, language learning aptitude is thought to be relatively stable once a person matures. Many people show a remarkable learning aptitude for learning their language.\n\nSome high schools, universities or other institutions will interpret low language learning aptitude as a sign of a language learning disability. A pattern of evidence from several sources can help to diagnose a foreign language learning disability. Evidence can come from scoring poorly on language learning aptitude assessments, like the Modern Language Aptitude Test, Pimsleur Language Aptitude Battery, Modern Language Aptitude Test – Elementary or Defense Language Aptitude Battery, while attaining average or above-average scores on aptitude assessments in other areas, like general intelligence. A history of scoring poorly on an array of language aptitude tests taken at the appropriate time (MLAT-E for grades 3–6, PLAB for grades 7–12, MLAT for adults) can provide even stronger evidence for a language learning disability. Evidence can also come from comparing a poor past performance in foreign language courses with average or above-average performance in other courses unrelated to language learning.\n\nLanguage aptitude is one of the important factors that determined L2 later learners' ultimate achievement, but it has less effect on L2 early learners.\n\nJohn B. Carroll, an influential psychologist in the field of educational linguistics, developed a theory about a cluster of four abilities that factored into language learning aptitude, separate from verbal intelligence and motivation. Using these four distinct abilities (phonetic coding ability, grammatical sensitivity, rote learning ability, and inductive learning ability), Carroll developed the MLAT, a language aptitude assessment for adults.\n\nThe four ability components are defined as follows:\n\nPaul Pimsleur, also known for the Pimsleur language learning system, spent time researching four factors that he believed to be related to language learning aptitude. Pimsleur included grade point average as an indication of general academic achievement as well as motivation in his factors. In addition, the verbal ability factor indicated how well a student would be able to handle the mechanics of learning a foreign language and the auditory factor indicated how well a student would be able to listen to and produce phrases in a foreign language. To test these four factors, Pimsleur developed the Pimsleur Language Aptitude Battery.\n\nMeasurements of language learning aptitude are used in many different ways. The United States Department of Defense uses a measurement of language learning aptitude, the Defense Language Aptitude Battery, to help place employees in positions that require them to learn a new language.\n\nGovernmental agencies use the MLAT as a tool to select and place employees in intensive language training programs. Businesses and missionaries use the MLAT to select, place and plan for language training. Universities, colleges and high schools use the MLAT to help in the diagnosis of foreign language learning disabilities. Although each institution has its own policy, many will waive a foreign language requirement in cases of a foreign language learning disability in favor of a history or linguistic course.\n\nSchools use the PLAB and MLAT-E to place students in suitable language courses, build a history of a foreign language learning difficulty, identify especially gifted students in respect to language learning and to match learning styles with instructional styles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41885308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41885308", "title": "Living educational theory", "text": "Living educational theory\n\nLiving educational theory (LET) is a research method in educational research.\n\nThe idea of action research as a living practice entered the mainstream of action research from the book, \"Action Research as a Living Practice\" by Terrance Carson and Dennis Sumara in 1997. Carson and Sumara transformed the concept of traditional action research with the idea that, ...\" participation in action research practices are particular ways of living and understanding that require more of the researcher than the \"application\" of research methods. Rather, action research is a lived practice that requires that the researcher not only investigate the subject at hand but, as well, provide some account of the way in which the investigation both shapes and is shaped by the investigator . This requires what Martin Buber called an \"I-Thou\" approach toward other and this approach applied to action research as well. To make Buber's language more modern and accessible, LET translated Buber's \"I-Thou\" approach toward another human being to an \"I/you/we\" approach to action research. This differs greatly from an approach to living theory action research imagined by Jack Whitehead (2002) where he imagines living theory action research as forming an \"I-theory\" of knowledge. Director of the Philosophy for Children Project at Notre Dame de Namur University William Barry proposes LET focuses on the connections between the researcher and the other person or subject where the lives of action researchers are inextricable linked in a profound manner with the individuals and communities involved in the subject of study. LET from a Barryian perspective is a critical theory and emancipatory action research approach which seeks the dialectic, not debate and battles of [discourse].\n\nA major difference of William Barry's version of living educational theory, which was the focus of his successful completion of a Ph.D. thesis at Nottingham Trent University, UK, is the essential question behind the living educational theory approach to action research (2012b). The question is not \"How can I generate a living legacy for myself through an I-It theory approach toward knowledge and other forms of life?\" Rather the essential question is, \"How does one conduct a life that includes the practice of educational action research?\" The theory/practice problem disappears when honesty about one's biases regarding spiritual, existential, and emotional intelligence are made clear in the action research process.\n\nThe phraseology \"educational theory\" originated with the work of Jack Whitehead, a former lecturer at the University of Bath, and it was further developed and greatly improved methodologically by Jean McNiff in 2009 because of her willingness to be transparent about her values and intentions. Whitehead's main emphasis for conducting research is to promote the individual under the guise of collaboration and research outcomes must be captured on video for authentic validation. Whitehead's view of action research promotes that living educational theory (he uses living theory and living educational theory interchangeably so it is difficult for a reader to know what he is writing about) should be aimed at the bringing of energy-flowing values as explanatory principles and standards of judgments into the Academy for the legitimation of living educational theories (Whitehead 2008). In the eyes of Whitehead radical constructivism is at the core of living educational theory research. In 2013, Whitehead and McNiff separated as collaborators as McNiff saw spiritual, emotional intelligence as key to action research while Whitehead disagreed and believed that media accounts (primarily video tapping people) of action research could provide clues to virtues which held the future of humanity though energy flowing examples of collaboration. McNiff stated in a May 2013 conference she San Francisco, California (ARNA Conference) that she would never appear or work with Whitehead again. She repeated this message again months later at a UK conference in York. American William Barry believed the concept of LET was too important and found a dialectic between McNiff and Whitehead and he created a new understanding of LET which was presented at a three-day international conference in 2013 at Liverpool Hope University titled, \"Researching Our Own Practice\" .\n\nLiving educational theory was first clearly defined and developed by California Professor of Philosophy William Barry (2012b) in Liz Atkins and Susan Wallace's book , \"Qualitative Research in Education\", co-published by Sage and the British Educational Research Association (BERA). This book was one of four in a series sponsored by the BERA regarding best practice progressive research methods in educational research. The originality and uniqueness of Barry's development of living educational theory (LET) action research is the importance of gaining \"ontological weight\" through the action research process. Ontological weight empowers the researcher's ability, and the ability of other people involved in the action research project, to have the research experience and focus of the research be transformational and add, or at least reinforce, a sense of meaning in learning and life. Barry was influenced to use the concept \"ontological weight\" by the existentialist Catholic philosopher Gabriel Marcel (1963).\n\nThe idea of action research as a living practice entered the mainstream of action research from the book, \"Action Research as a Living Practice\" by Terrance Carson and Dennis Sumara in 1997. The term \"educational theory\" originated with the work of Jack Whitehead, a former lecturer at the University of Bath, and it was further developed and greatly improved methodologically by Jean McNiff in 2009. Whitehead's main emphasis for conducting research is to promote the individual under the guise of collaboration and research outcomes must be captured on video for authentic validation. Whitehead's view of action research promotes that living educational theory (he uses living theory and living educational theory interchangeably so it is difficult for a reader to know what he is writing about) should be aimed at the bringing of energy-flowing values as explanatory principles and standards of judgments into the Academy for the legitimation of living educational theories (Whitehead 2008). In the eyes of Whitehead, radical constructivism is at the core of living educational theory research.\n\nBarry was asked by the BERA sponsored authors to reflect on the nature of living educational theory (LET) because there existed no clear definition of LET in the literature. Barry was asked because he had successfully used LET in an innovative fashion, and was the first to clearly define LET as based in critical theory which embraced transpersonal psychology through his earned 2012 PhD thesis at Nottingham Trent University Nottingham, UK. He proposed LET as a way of challenging the oppressive use of power using critical theory in a need fulfilling way (Glasser 1998). Barry proposed the following definition and approach to action research he calls living educational theory and his approach has been used as an action research method in undergraduate and graduate courses and research at Notre Dame de Namur University in Silicon Valley, California as well as by other researchers around the world.\n\nBarry explained that living educational theory \"[is] a critical and transformational approach to action research. It confronts the researcher to challenge the status quo of their educational practice and to answer the question, 'How can I improve that I'm doing?' Researchers who use this approach must be willing to recognize and assume responsibility for being a 'living contradiction' in their professional practice – thinking one way and acting in another. The mission of the LET action researcher is to overcome workplace norms and self – behavior which contradict the researcher's values and beliefs. The vision of the LET researcher is to make an original contribution to knowledge through generating an educational theory proven to improve the learning of people within a social learning space. The standard of judgment for theory validity is evidence of workplace reform, transformational growth of the researcher, and improved learning by the people researcher claimed to have influenced...\" .\n\nBarry's LET approach to action research was heavily influenced by action researchers focused on emancipatory social change, collaboration, and liberation theology (2012a). Prominent developers of LET, without whose work LET would most likely never had been developed by Barry, are notable action researchers, educators, and philosophers such as Martin Buber's (1970) conception of 'I and Thou' and Krishnamurti's (1953) liberation pedagogy emphasizing education as significant to leading a quality filled life; Paulo Freire (1998 and 1970) and his concept of participatory action research and the need to be politically aware; the work of Carr and Kremmis (1986) and Habermas (1992) and their concept and building critical educational knowledge; Professor Manheimer of UNC (1999) and his challenge to his readers to enfold the past into the living present in order to become historical to oneself and then strive to linking life times with each other; Apple (1982) and Michel Foucault (1990) and the role of power and politics in education and Joe Kincheloe (2008), Henry Giroux (1997), and Peter McLaren (1989) and their promotion of critical pedagogy.\n\nProf. Barry was the first Ph.D. researcher to successfully use living educational theory in conjunction with neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), spiral dynamics and autoethnography (based on a multiple intelligences model which includes spiritual and emotional intelligence and embraces transpersonal knowing) as valid methods of research working under the methodological umbrella of phenomenology and hermeneutics. His LET approach to Ph.D.level action research led to the unique use of fictional storytelling as a vehicle by which to replace the traditional literature review chapter in Ph.D. research but in a more rigorous and creative fashion. The process of storytelling allows the researcher to exercise their emotional intelligence in a superior manner than the traditional research literature review allows.\n\nLiving educational theory as defined and created by Barry is part of the curriculum of multiple courses at Notre Dame de Namur University located in Silicon Valley, California in their credentialing program for teacher education. Barry's Living Educational Theory Action Research Method is based on a six step process based on research questions that normally start from the format, \" How can I influence the transformation of...?\" or \"How can I contribute to the improvement of...?\" The research is dialectical in nature:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9499387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9499387", "title": "Lottovoittaja UKK Turhapuro", "text": "Lottovoittaja UKK Turhapuro\n\nLottovoittaja UKK Turhapuro is a Finnish 1976 comedy film written by Spede Pasanen and directed by Ere Kokkonen. It is the third film in the Uuno Turhapuro series. The film's title translates to \"Lottery winner UKK Turhapuro\", UKK being an apparent reference to former President of Finland Urho Kekkonen.\n\nIt is the first anniversary of Uuno (Vesa-Matti Loiri) and Elisabet (Marjatta Raita). Uuno has placed a bet with his friend Härski-Hartikainen (Spede Pasanen) a year ago, that if Uuno can take just one year of marriage with Elisabet, Hartikainen will treat him a festive dinner. However, Hartikainen buys a lottery ticket for Uuno, who agrees to deduct it from his debt – and the festive dinner is reduced to a can of milk and half a sausage. As it happens, Uuno becomes the lottery winner of 1.5 million marks, only to soon realize he doesn't own a single penny yet. Mister Tossavainen (Seppo Laine) arrives and offers to finance Uuno before he actually gets the jackpot. Thus, Uuno gets to live a rich live on credit. He buys a raccoon fur, leopard swimming trunks and a couple of Mercedes-Benzes. Women begin to fancy Uuno and so does his father-in-law (Tapio Hämäläinen). As time goes by it is revealed, though, that Uuno is not actually a lottery winner, and so he has to escape the anger of others to Härski's car repair shop.\n"}
{"id": "56721411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56721411", "title": "MicroMasters", "text": "MicroMasters\n\nMicroMasters programs are a series of online graduate level courses launched by edX that one can take to develop standalone skills for career advancement or earn graduate level credentials from its respective universities, equivalent to a semester of a full master's degree. It was designed to be the bridge between a bachelor's degree and a master's degree, allowing employees to continue advancing their education without affecting their employment and personal commitments. \n\nFirst launched in September 2016 with 19 MicroMasters programs as an extension of its MOOC, edX eventually expanded to include 17 additional programs in February 2017. As of November 2018, 51 different MicroMasters programs are being offered, with 47 in English, 3 in Spanish, and 1 in French. Each MicroMasters program is sponsored by at least one industry partner, including GE, Microsoft, IBM, Hootsuite, Fidelity, Bloomberg, Walmart, PWC, Booz-Allen Hamilton, and Ford. These programs are designed to bridge the gap between job candidates with a bachelor's degree and companies that want employees with an advanced degree by offering credentials that are equivalent to 25 to 50 percent of a master's degree or 20 to 30 ECTS in Europe.\n\nUnlike other existing microcredentials, the MicroMasters programs offer both the benefit of gaining relevant skills in a particular field that can support career development and a pathway to advanced credits in the respective universities offering the course. This includes many of the top universities in the world such as MIT, Columbia University, Delft University of Technology, and Indian Institute of Management. The idea of the MicroMasters program started out as an iteration of the existing MOOC model when Coursera first started offering specializations for its various disciplines and a response to the changing nature of work as well as the major skills shortage currently impacting businesses around the world.\n\nAll MicroMasters programs are currently running on the edX MOOC platform, where learners are free to audit any of the courses. Depending on the program, there are prerequisites ranging from graduate level understanding of various specific disciplines or work experienced. However, these prerequisites serve as recommended guidelines for the learners rather than a strictly enforced rule so there are no specific degree requirements for any of the courses. However, learners will have to pay if they wish to pursue a verified certificate.\n\nTo qualify for a certificate for successfully completing a MicroMasters Program, all learners are required to complete a series of interactive courses as specified in the respective MicroMasters program and achieve a minimum grade according to the institution awarding the certification. \n\nFor learners interested in developing skills for professional advancement, the certificate for completing a MicroMasters Program may be sufficient.\n\nFor learners interested in academic credit, the learner must be admitted into the university's respective master's program. Some programs, such as the MicroMasters Program in Supply Chain Management by MIT also operate on a blended learning model which include a timed examination as well as a final proctored examination. Admission requirements for its on-campus blended learning program differ from its traditional residential admission requirements as applicants are not required to submit scores in a GRE or GMAT as performance in the Micromasters program will be taken as a substitute for it. Some other programs still follow usual admission guidelines and the MicroMasters program has little to no impact on their application apart from receiving advanced credits upon admission into its respective programs. Generally, most courses include practice exercises which are ungraded as well as graded assignments with limited attempts.\n\nThe following is a list of the current MicroMasters programs offered as well as the respective graduate degree options available for each program upon graduation of the MicroMasters program.\n!MicroMasters Program Name\n!Institution\n!Institutions Offering Credit for Advanced Standing\n!Subsequent Degree Options with Advanced Standing\n\nGeorgia Institute launched its online master's in computer science to emulate its residential program as much as possible. Later, in 2017, with edX it also started a MicroMasters program for analytics, which would allow advanced credits for its online master's in analytics (for admitted learners) and also support learners interested in the subject matter and for whom the MicroMasters program certificate met career needs.\n\nedX applied for a trademark for \"MicroMasters\" in response to Udacity registering \"nanodegree\" as its trademark in 2014. The Rocheter Institute of Technology launched its MicroMasters in project management, allowing learners to use it to fulfil the prerequisite of project management education for the PMP certification.\n\nGeneral Electric has promised to interview any Massachusetts resident who completed a MicroMasters program in supply chain management, cybersecurity, cloud computing, or artificial intelligence.\n\nMIT admitted its first batch of 40 students into its blended supply chain management program from graduates of its MicroMasters program, reducing its usual 10-month program to 5 months. This pilot also saw 200,000 people signing up, 19,000 earning certificates and 800 sitting for the final proctored examination. It was reported in July 2018 that the students who were admitted into the blended program had better than average scores across the board than those who were in the residential program. The MIT Statistics and Data Science Center has also announced the launch of its MicroMasters program in Statistics and Data Science slated for the fall of 2018. \n\nIn July 2018, the University of Maryland announced a MicroMasters program for a MBA core curriculum, offering graduates transferable credits to a full MBA degree. In September 2018, the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority provided its employees with the opportunity to join the MicroMasters program in data, economics, and development policy led by Esther Duflo as part of a strategy to develop the capabilities of young Emiratis. \n\n"}
{"id": "28498675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28498675", "title": "Mountain &amp; Plains ERC", "text": "Mountain &amp; Plains ERC\n\nThe Mountain & Plains Education and Research Center is one of eighteen Education and Research Centers funded by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). NIOSH and the NIOSH Education and Research Centers are affiliated with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\nThe Mountain & Plains Education and Research Center is a collaboration between the University of Colorado Denver (Anschutz Medical Campus), Colorado State University, National Jewish Health, the University of New Mexico and Denver Health.\n\nThe Mountain & Plains ERC provides financial support for graduate students and medical residents who focus their studies on issues related to health and safety in the workplace. In particular, the Mountain & Plains ERC supports the following academic programs:\n\n- Industrial Hygiene (Colorado State University)\n\n- Occupational and Environmental Medicine (UC Denver, Denver Health & National Jewish Health)\n\n- Health Physics (Colorado State University)\n\n- Occupational health psychology (Colorado State University)\n\n- Ergonomics (Colorado State University)\n\nIn addition to providing financial support for future occupational safety and health professionals, the Mountain & Plains ERC engages in the following activities:\n\n- Outreach to businesses, government agencies, labor unions and community organizations\n\n- Continuing education for occupational health and safety professionals\n\n- Pilot grants for researchers and community organizations\n\n"}
{"id": "161599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161599", "title": "Mutopia Project", "text": "Mutopia Project\n\nThe Mutopia Project is a volunteer-run effort to create a library of free content sheet music, in a way similar to Project Gutenberg's library of public domain books. It started in 2000.\n\nThe music is reproduced from old scores that are in the public domain. New scores are digitally typeset with GNU LilyPond and distributed in the following formats:\n\nCurrently, there are more than 2,000 pieces of music available, more than half of which are pieces for piano. There are also many pieces for voice, and various other musical instruments. The Mutopia Project home page has a list of links to the most recently added pieces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25855499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25855499", "title": "North of England Education Conference", "text": "North of England Education Conference\n\nThe North of England Education Conference (NEEC) was the UK’s biggest annual education conference. The first Conference took place in Manchester in 1903. The event provided an opportunity for senior decision makers in education, Children’s Services, the public sector, associated agencies and organisations to meet and consider the latest thinking and legislation affecting children and young people. In recent years the scope of the conference had expanded to encompass the broader children’s services agenda.\n\nDespite the conference name, delegates attended from across the UK and beyond. In recent years the conference took place outside of the North of England, including Belfast and Cardiff.\nIn 2015 the conference was to be hosted in Manchester between 14–16 January but was cancelled and has not been held since.\n\nWithin recent years the focus of the conference had expanded. Whilst still having education at its core, a broader children’s agenda was embraced. Attendees included Directors of Education, key elected members, headteachers, school governors, those engaged in research in Higher Education and partners from Health, Police and Voluntary Sector organisations.\n\nThe conference attracted high-profile speakers and notably the appropriate Secretary of State. This has included in recent years Ed Balls, Ruth Kelly, David Miliband, David Blunkett and Estelle Morris. The conference was often used as a platform to launch or 'sound out' changes in policy or legislation. Hosting authorities often worked in collaboration with local universities and colleges to tap into national and international expertise and research.\n\nHistorically the Conference has taken place each January and has alternated in venue between the east and west of the Pennines. On occasion however, the Conference has been held outside the North of England. In 2004 the NEEC was held in Northern Ireland in Belfast and in 2008, the NEEC paid its first visit to Wales and Cardiff. In January 2014 the last conference was held in Nottingham. \n\nReflecting changes in recent years in the delivery of services to children, young people and families the conference focus had begun to reflect the wider children’s agenda encapsulated in \"Every Child Matters: Change for Children\". Whilst the conference continued to provide high-profile speakers with an education focus, it had recently included speakers from other areas of the children’s workforce such as health, the police, business and the Third Sector. However the event, which generations of education policymakers viewed as a key moment of the year, now appears to be a thing of the past and by the time Michael Gove took over as education secretary in 2010, it was an event he was quite happy to miss, choosing to make major announcements elsewhere. No minister was due to appear in 2015.\n\nThe NEEC operated under the governance formed by its membership as part of the North of England Education Conference Association. This is defined as \"\"Those English Local Authorities within the Government Office areas for the North West, the North East and Yorkshire and the Humber, and also the higher education institutions lying in this area\".\" Representatives from the host authority, their predecessor and the following years host were represented in the governance.\n\nA strong feature of the conference is the involvement of children and young people. Traditionally involved in artistic, musical and dramatic performance they had begun to play a wider role in the content of the programme. In January 2012 Blackpool had a young person co-preside over the conference for the first time along with President, Ann Widdecombe. In Nottingham in 2014 there was a separate Youth Conference running alongside the main event run by young people from the eight Core Cities.\n\nIn 1902, having seen the success of a conference for science teachers in London, JH Reynolds, Manchester City Council's Director of Technical Instruction, decided to replicate the conference in his home town. The conference, also with a science theme, was arranged for 2 and 3 January 1903 and attended by 3,200 teachers, lecturers, inspectors and local government employees. Built on this success the conference widened the agenda to cover all areas of the curriculum. With short input from a range of professionals the, conference has remained true to the original template and remained a fixture in the first week of the year.\nIn 1924 the political dimension was added and the Secretary of the State of the day has usually been in attendance ever since, the conference often serving as a platform for announcement to changes in legislation or educational approaches. Over the course of its history this has included: Anthony Crosland, Kenneth Baker, Kenneth Clarke, Shirley Williams and Margaret Thatcher. Kenneth Clarke, on assuming his post as Secretary of State, is reported to have been told it was the one conference he could not afford to miss.\n\nThe Conference in Belfast was attended by almost 1,000 delegates and was considered one of the most successful NEECs; (the typical attendance in England is 500 delegates). Amongst the speakers was David Miliband MP who gave a speech on Personalised Learning.\n\nThe Centre for Educational Leadership at The University of Manchester hosted the Conference in 2005. The conference included the first public speech by the new Secretary of State for Education and Skills, Ruth Kelly, appointed just three weeks earlier following Charles Clarke's promotion to Home Secretary. The theme was 'Leading Together' and the aim, to demonstrate how schools, Higher Education and Local Authorities could collaborate to develop leadership potential and to lead education improvement. Speakers included Benjamin Zander, Conductor of the Boston Philharmonic and Dr Peter Senge, author of 'The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice of The Learning Organisation'.\n\nThe 2006 North of England Education Conference was held in Gateshead and consisted of three days of speakers, workshops and receptions. Speakers included Jane Davidson AM, the Minister for Education and Lifelong Learning, Ruth Kelly MP the Secretary of State for Education, Professor Al Aynsley-Green, the Children’s Commissioner for England and Dr Michael Fullan, the former Dean of the Ontario Institute for Studies for Education. There was also a formal Civic Reception and a Gala Dinner.\n\nThe Conference took place from 3–5 January 2007 at the Guildhall, Preston in Lancashire with the theme of ‘Investing for Achievement’. Jonathan Jansen, University of Pretoria, South Africa; Jude Kelly, Artistic Director, South Bank Centre and Leader of the 2012 Olympics Education and Culture Programme; Juan Manuel Moreno, Senior Education Specialist, The World Bank. The ministerial Address was given by Jim Knight MP, Minister of State for Schools and 14 - 19 Learners\n\nIn January 2008 the NEEC once again left the North West and was held in the Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff Bay, with workshops being hosted in various locations across the city and beyond.\n\nThe programme include presentations from Professor John Field from the University of Stirling and Professor David Hopkins from the Institute of Education at London University. In addition there were speeches from the journalist Fiona Millar and the former General Secretary of the Transport and General Workers Union, Bill Morris, Baron Morris of Handsworth. A civic reception was held in the Senedd Building; the home of the National Assembly hosted by the First Minister Rhodri Morgan AM.\n\nThe theme for the conference held in Wirral and Chester was ‘Growing People – Growing Minds’. The conference was notable in its embracing the wider children’s workforce in the programme. The conference president was Baroness Estelle Morris and speakers included Peter Fahy, Chief Contable Greater Manchester, Liz Railton CBE, Professor Sir David Watson, Dame Gillian Pugh, and with the new broader emphasis Dr David Colin Thomé giving a GPs perspective. The conference included the traditional political spot with input from David Willetts MP and Secretary of State Ed Balls who attended following a Cabinet Meeting in Liverpool. All schools in Wirral were involved in a ‘Performance Extravaganza’ held throughout Weather Head High School Media College.\n\nThe theme for York’s conference was ‘Unlocking Children’s Potential’ and had Sir Michael Bichard as conference president. Speakers included Sir Roger Singleton, Sir John Sorrell, Sir Andrew Motion, Dylan Wiliam and Beeban Kidron, British Television and Film Director. The political slot was filled by Vernon Coaker MP, Michael Gove MP and David Laws MP. An input by York’s Member of the UK Youth Parliament was well received by delegates. Delegates attended a civic reception at York Minster with a performance by a large children’s choir. The gala dinner made innovative use of the York Railway Museum. The conference in York went ahead successfully despite falling during a period of heavy snow which caused transport problems nationally for a number of days.\n\nThe theme for Blackpool’s conference theme was ‘Our World, Our Future’. The conference continued the development of previous events in opening the theme out to include aspects of the wider Children’s Services agenda.\n\nThe conference presidency was shared between Ann Widdecombe and a young person from the town. Conference speakers included Nick Gibb MP, Andy Burnham MP, Martin Bell, Baroness Estelle Morris, Dr Margaret Atkinson, Sir Paul Ennals, Steve Munby, Sharon Shoesmith, Sir Ian Kennedy, Saul Nasse, Professor Barry Carpenter, Sir Charles Pollard and Tanni Grey-Thompson. The conference took place between the neighbouring hotels Blackpool Hilton and The Imperial. The Gala Dinner was hosted in the Blackpool Tower Ballroom and featured dancing, circus skills and a performance on the world-famous Wurlitzer.\n\nLeeds City Council hosted the NEEC from 4–6 January 2012 under the title of, \"Passion, Potential, Performance\". Mick Waters, former Director of Curriculum at the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority was the conference president. The venue for the event was the Royal Armouries Museum.\n\nThe theme for Sheffield’s Conference was Mind, Brain, Community, Inspiring: Learners, Strengthening Resilience. The Conference was hosted by Sheffield City Council, the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam University. \nThe Right Honorable David Blunkett MP was the President.\nConference speakers included: Dr. Isaac Prilleltensky, Professor Steven P R Rose, Professor Philip Davis, Marlo Winstead, Baroness Campbell, Professor Kenneth Gergen, Professor Barry Carpenter, Sir Michael Wilshaw HMCI, Elizabeth Truss MP, Professor the Lord Robert Winston, Dr Steven Edwards, Jean Gross Professor Tanya Byron, Camila Batmanghelidjh, Matthew Syed, Lord Baker of Dorking and Charlie Taylor,\n\nThe Gala Event, ‘An Evening of Conversation’ was held in the Millennium Galleries & Winter Gardens, providing an opportunity for delegates to continue their conversations with the conference contributors, and included food and entertainment. The conference took place at Sheffield Hallam University.\n\nNottingham City Council hosted the 2014 NEEC. It took place from 15–17 January 2014 at Nottingham Conference Centre. The 2014 conference was entitled 'Education: Innovation, Creativity, Employability'.\n\nSpeakers included David Puttnam, Charles Leadbeater, David Laws MP, Tristram Hunt MP, Matthew Hancock MP, Sir Michael Wilshaw and Dr Maggie Atkinson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1793875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793875", "title": "One-room school", "text": "One-room school\n\nOne-room schools were commonplace throughout rural portions of various countries, including Prussia, Norway, Sweden, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Spain. In most rural (country) and small town schools, all of the students met in a single room. There, a single teacher taught academic basics to several grade levels of elementary-age boys and girls. While in many areas one-room schools are no longer used, it is not uncommon for them to remain in developing nations and rural or remote areas. Examples include remote parts of the American West, the Falklands, and the Shetland Islands.\n\nPrussia (compare Prussian education system) was among the first countries in the world to introduce a tax-funded and generally compulsory primary education for either boys and girls. In comparison, compulsory schooling in France or Great Britain was not successfully enacted until the 1880s. The state sponsored system was introduced in the late 18th century and has had widespread influences since. The first Prussian schools were simple one-room schools, however already as of 1773 Friedrich Eberhard von Rochow set up a model school with primary education in two age related classes.\n\nIn Ireland, free primary education was mandated in 1931, prompting the establishment of many single-teacher National Schools across rural areas, most initially using a room in an existing building. By the 1890s there was a school in every parish. Most extant one- and two-room school buildings date from the decades after 1891 when primary education became compulsory. Most of those still in use today have been extended following merger with neighbouring schools. Since 2002, any state-funded school with at least 10 pupils is entitled to at least 2 teachers; the 21 schools which fell below this threshold are located on offshore islands. In recent decades, an increasing number of schools have been founded for parents not content with the National School system. These include \"Gaelscoileanna\" (which teach through Irish rather than English) and multi-denominational schools (most Irish schools are controlled by one or other of the main Christian churches). Although such schools eventually become eligible for state funding, they usually begin with a single teacher in a room or prefabricated building.\n\nMany schools also served as the local chapel on Sundays, and evening/Saturday meeting places for local people and activities. Being mostly rural, many schools had no water or sanitation and this was often provided by converting wells into toilets, melting snow for water in the winter and relying on the help of nearby farms in the summer. \n\nTeaching standards often varied from school to school as the teacher was compelled to coach children of all ages/grades within one room and regardless of their area of main competence.\n\nThe quality of facilities at one-room schools varied with local economic conditions, but generally, the number of children at each grade level would vary with local populations. Most buildings were of simple frame construction, some with the school bell on a cupola. In the Midwest, sod construction was also used, as well as stone and adobe in areas like the Southwest where trees were scarce. In some locations, the schoolhouse was painted red, but most seem to have been white. \n\nMission Ridge School was one of the early schools in Mason County, West Virginia. It has since been moved to the West Virginia State Farm Museum complex near Point Pleasant. Examination of the materials in this building indicates that boards and timbers were hand-sawed and also hand-planed. Square nails were used throughout the building. Except for the roof and a few boards in the floor, all of the material in this building is original. The blackboard is painted black. It was not until much later that slate was used for chalkboards, although students often had individual slates for writing practice.\n\nTeachers in one-room schools were often former students themselves. Their role is well-described by a student from Kentucky in the 1940s:\nThe teachers that taught in the one room, rural schools were very special people. During the winter months they would get to the school early to get a fire started in the potbelly stove, so the building would be warm for the students. On many occasions they would prepare a hot, noon meal on top of the stove, usually consisting of soup or stew of some kind. They took care of their students like a new mother hen would care for her newly hatched chicks; always looking out for their health and welfare.\n\nA typical school day was 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., with morning and afternoon recesses of 15 minutes each and an hour period for lunch. \"The older students were given the responsibility of bringing in water, carrying in coal or wood for the stove. The younger students would be given responsibilities according to their size and gender such as cleaning the black board (chalkboard), taking the erasers outside for dusting plus other duties that they were capable of doing.\"\n\nTransportation for children who lived too far to walk was often provided by horse-drawn kid hack or sulky, which could only travel a limited distance in a reasonable amount of time each morning and evening, or students might ride a horse, these being put out to pasture in an adjoining paddock during the day. In more recent times, students rode bicycles.\n\nThe school house was the center and focus for thousands of rural communities, hamlets, and small towns. Often, town meetings and picnics were also held there. \n\nThe vast majority of one-room schools in the United States are no longer used as schools and have either been torn down or converted for other purposes. However, in some rural communities, including among the Amish, one-room or two-room schools are still used, primarily for elementary education, with students graduating to local or regional middle and high schools.\n\nThere are several historic one-room schoolhouses in the United States that were built in the shape of an octagon, instead of the more traditional rectangular style. Most are located in the northeastern part of the country and some have been restored and placed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe following octagonal schoolhouses still stand:\n\n\nThe teacher's residence, or teacherage, was often attached to the school, or very close by, so that a male teacher's wife and family were an integral part of the management and support system for the school. Single, female teachers were more often billeted or boarded with a local family to provide for social norms requiring social supervision of single females.\n\nMotorized school buses in the 1920s made longer distances possible, and one-room schools were soon consolidated in most portions of the United States into multiple classroom schools where classes could be held separately for various grade levels. Gradually, one-room school houses were replaced. Most one-room schools had been replaced by larger schools by World War II except in the most rural areas. However, they are still common in rural parts of Australia and Alaska.\n\nIn Calvert County, Maryland, Port Republic School Number 7 closed its doors in 1932 and sat unused for over 40 years. Then, in 1976 the Calvert Retired Teachers Association, looking for a Bicentennial Year project, decided to restore the one-room schoolhouse. On July 24, 1977, after months of hard work by teachers and community volunteers, the old school bell rang out once more, and the little one-room school house, filled with its memories and memorabilia, was ready for visitors. It is now one of the county's tourist attractions. A similar project was done in Queen Anne's County, Maryland, by retired Teachers and Community Volunteers. The restored schoolhouse is located in front of Queen Anne's County High School. In Iowa, over 125 small one-room school houses have been turned into local museums. The buildings in some places found new purpose as homes. \n\nIn Harrisburg, Nebraska, Flowerfield School serves as a living museum, and fourth-graders within the Nebraska panhandle spend a day at Flowerfield going through an average school day in 1888. The students have the opportunity to experience both log and sod versions of the house, writing with quill pens, and a trip to the nearby museum, where they learn about other aspects of life in 1888.\n\nIn Vandalia, Indiana, the Vandalia District # 2 one-room schoolhouse served Owen County’s Lafayette Township students in grades 1 – 8 from the time it was completed in 1868 until it closed in 1951. The building, restored by a group of volunteers in 1976, is presently maintained and preserved by the Vandalia Community Preservation Association.\n\nThe One Room School House Project of Southwestern College in Winfield, Kansas, includes listings and information on some 880 schools throughout the state and nation. The information, pictures, and stories included in this site have been collected and sent to the project by researchers and historians from across America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8900392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8900392", "title": "Oppositional culture", "text": "Oppositional culture\n\nOppositional culture, also known as the ‘’blocked opportunities framework’’ or the “caste theory of education”, is a term most commonly used in studying the sociology of education to explain racial disparities in educational achievement, particularly between white and black Americans. However, the term refers to any subculture's rejection of conformity to prevailing norms and values, not just nonconformity within the educational system. Thus many criminal gangs and religious cults could also be considered oppositional cultures.\n\nThis theory relates to a larger generalized topic of race and intelligence. According to this theory, minority students underachieve intentionally in school and in standardized testing due to a fear of being stereotyped as acting white. Acting white refers to activities and attitudes associated with white middle-class Americans. Adherence to white norms in African American communities represents a betrayal of black normative culture. Spurred by the pre-existing theories including the culture of poverty and the effects of urban decay, oppositional culture emerged in the late 1970s as a theory to explain the education gap. The principal researcher of this idea, anthropologist John Ogbu, details the principal mechanisms and causes for oppositional culture in his book, “Black Students in an Affluent Suburb, and Minority Status, Oppositional Culture, and Schooling”.\n\nRacial disparities in education stem from the historical foundations of America, from the époque of slavery into the 20th and 21st centuries. Slave owners in the American South by and large prevented their slaves from becoming literate, fearing that literacy and education would strengthen slave resistance and empower the slaves to revolt against their masters. While African-Americans in the North fared better, black schools struggled to keep their doors open.\n\nThe 1896 landmark court case, \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" also helped to define education policies in the United States for years to come. The court case ultimately decided that race was an acceptable categorization by which to divide individuals. Additionally the case determined that separation of these individuals was permissible provided that the condition of both facilities was equal. This case helped to promote segregationist practices that prevented African American children from attending white schools. African-American schools had fewer resources leading to greater racial gaps in educational achievement.\n\nIn 1954, the Supreme Court decided that the concept of separate but equal was unconstitutional in its landmark decision in \"Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education\" 347 U.S. 483. The court also ruled that segregation inherently caused harm to the cognitive development of black children, and officially recognized the importance of educational equality as a compelling interest in the United States. Following this ruling, Southern school districts began to publish findings of racial gaps in academics as a justification to oppose desegregation. As a result, the United States adopted compensatory education in order to equalize educational opportunities for all students. Despite these efforts, the education gap continues to persist in SAT scores and college acceptance rates. In the 1980s, a researcher named John Ogbu suggested that equal opportunity was not enough to diminish the racial disparities gap in education and that additional factors needed to be addressed in order to reduce the racial disparities gap.\n\nRacial disparities continue to persist in the realm of education even today. A study by George Farkas in 2002 identifies several areas where racial gaps and disparities continue to exist. His research findings show that even in early primary education in pre-school and kindergarten, African American children show lower oral language, pre-reading, and pre-mathematics skills in addition to behavior less suited to school environments. In high schools, measures of academic achievement such as grades and class rank also show an under-representation of African American and Hispanics. Additionally, African American and Latino students consistently perform lower on the SAT than their white counterparts thereby affecting their acceptance rates into universities. Even when accounting for differences in socioeconomic status and single parent households this racial disparity, although reduced, continues to exist. These trends have become the basis for sociological theories, including oppositional culture that explain these continuing racial gaps in education achievement.\n\nJohn Ogbu’s primary goal in his research was to explain “academic performance of racial and ethnic minorities with reference to broader societal structures and historical processes ” John Ogbu used case studies, the most famous of which examined the affluent neighborhood of Shaker Heights, Ohio, to research variables that represented oppositional culture. These variables included several explanations of academic disengagement based on African Americans’ self-perception of their work load, their own and white people’s academic efforts, and their own explanations for their disengagement. From this case study and other research, Ogbu formulated his theory of oppositional culture.\n\nAs part of Ogbu’s analysis, he defines the position of voluntary minorities versus the position of involuntary minorities. Voluntary minorities in the United States include immigrant minorities such as Chinese and Korean immigrants as well as autonomous minorities such as Mormons and Jews. Involuntary minorities comprise largely of African Americans, Native Americans, Mexicans, and Puerto Ricans who were incorporated into American society against their will through colonization, slavery, and conquest. While voluntary minorities view cultural differences as obstacles to be overcome, involuntary minorities view participation in dominant cultural practices as a betrayal of their group loyalty and a threat to their identity.\n\nOgbu argues that in African American cultures, a collective identity is created from a young age in which cultural frames of reference indicate behaviors that belong culturally and those that do not. According to self-reports of African American students, “talking proper”, playing sports dominated by white students, and having white friends all show that a person is acting white. Ogbu states that these cultural frames of reference create instances of peer pressure and discourage students from schoolwork. While black students did not necessarily see getting good grades as acting white, they did disengage from academic work because they perceived certain attitudes and behaviors that were conducive to making good grades as acting white. These behaviors include the use of Standard English, enrollment in honors and AP classes and acting “smart” in class. Additionally, students in the same sample felt that black individuals gave up some of their cultural background by succeeding in white institutions.\n\nBased on his findings, Obgu has proposed certain policy changes to help decrease the gap in racial educational achievement. Ogbu argues that encouraging members of the black community to take proactive roles in increasing academic orientation, effort and performance will greatly affect their children’s academic performance. Ogbu states that educational efforts are concurrent with cultural practices. Additionally, he suggests supplementary education programs and increased visibility of successful black role models as helpful solutions. Obgu also encouraged the development of effective parental educational strategies to combat his findings of little parental involvement in black communities, along with improvements in teacher’s expectations of Black students.\n\nMany sociologists and sources have praised his studies as a valuable addition to the theories explaining the gap in educational achievement among different races. Additionally, his research has spurred similar ethno-cultural case studies around the world that have linked gaps in achievement to communities. One example is a case study done in the UK in 2006 by two researchers, Tomlin and Olusola, that sought to discover factors and conditions that affect the achievement levels of high-achieving black students in two urban secondary schools. The study found that African-Caribbean students reported obstacles similar to those faced by African Americans in their attempts to achieve at the levels of their white peers., Studies that seek to explain overall achievement gaps between blacks and whites have also looked at Ogbu’s criteria from his case studies in education.\n\nHowever, other sociologists have argued against the validity of his claims. His findings are most often criticized for overgeneralizing the experience of the black community. A study by Ainsworth-Darnell and Downey found that black students are significantly more likely to believe that education increases the chances of finding a job, and that smart African American students are held in higher esteem by their peers for high academic achievement. These findings all contradict the oppositional culture model proposed by Ogbu. Another study by Cook and Ludwig found that after controlling for socioeconomic status, on average black students were no less alienated from school than white students and were no less popular for being good students. These studies show that inconsistencies regarding the existence of oppositional cultures in black communities persist.\n\nWhile oppositional culture offers one explanation for the gap in racial educational achievement, there are alternative explanations for this phenomenon.\n\nPrudence Carter, a sociologist at Stanford University, published findings that directly contradicted Ogbu’s research that African Americans viewed educational attainment as acting white. She showed in her research, published in her book “Keepin’ it Real: School Success Beyond Black and White”, that the majority of minority students shared 'white' normative values about the roles of work and success. Carter argues that the possession of capital and upper socioeconomic status did not guarantee more interactions with one race over another and that upwardly mobile minorities are more inclined to associate with individuals from their same class over their same racial identification. Carter states that a focus on racialized communities is not enough- a holistic acknowledgement of the relevance and depth of students’ general attitudes and beliefs and how these affect schooling will help improve education policies. Studies of these attitudes should rely less on racial lines and focus more on ethno-cultural identities of the individual.\n\nThis work is supported by a study by Charles \"et al.\" that surveyed the cultural backgrounds of black students in elite universities in the United States. The study found that even though immigrants of African heritage from Africa and the Caribbean represent less than ten percent of the total black population in the National Longitudinal Survey of Freshmen (NISF), half of them went to l0 of the most selective NISF schools. More than one third of multiracial black and other race individuals, who are only 11 percent of the population, also attend the top 10 NISF schools. Multiracial individuals and African immigrants typically are advantaged in socioeconomic status and pre-college preparation. This work shows that race may not be the primary determinant of racial educational achievement and that other factors including socioeconomic status play larger roles in determining educational outcome.\n\nStereotype Threat Assumption is another explanation for the racial gap in educational achievement. According to this theory, African Americans endure stereotypes of intellectual inferiority. Fearing that they would meet these expectations of underperformance, they make the decision to disengage from academics. Additionally, studies have shown that stereotypes themselves divert mental resources away from the area of concentration and can worsen classroom performance, comfort interacting with teachers, and other areas of scholastic life. These feelings of anxiety combined with the stigmatization acts as an inherent obstacle for African American educational achievement. Some African Americans choose to disengage from academics altogether to avoid meeting the expectations of failure and underachievement. This disengagement in academics demonstrates a perceived devaluation in African American culture.\n\nThe capital deficiency theory is heavily related to Racial inequality in the United States, specifically the racial wealth gap. Wealthier families with higher economic capital can afford to provide additional resources for their children to combat any learning difficulties they may face naturally. A related form of capital, human capital, or the skills, abilities, and knowledge possessed by an individual are passed down in families with higher accumulation of human capital. Parents with higher human capital are also better prepared to supervise their children's acquisition of it. Social capital and cultural capital also provide the means for increased support in educational outcomes. Social and cultural capital help to expose children into beneficial social institutions through bonds of kinship and friendship with the skills to navigate these social spheres fluidly.\n"}
{"id": "32304228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32304228", "title": "Pakistani students abroad", "text": "Pakistani students abroad\n\nThere are hundreds and thousands of Pakistani students who travel abroad each year in order to attain higher education. Countries which have large Pakistani international student populations include those in Europe, North America, China and Australia. Every year, nearly 10,000 foreign student visas are granted in Pakistan.\n\nAccording to various reports, there are nearly 10,000 Pakistani students studying in the United Kingdom. All in all, between 2004 and 2008, as many as 42,000 Pakistani students were admitted into the UK. There is an Oxford University Pakistan Society at the University of Oxford as well as Strathclyde University Pakistan Society at University of Strathclyde Glasgow.\n\nAs of 2011, there were 5,045 Pakistani students in the United States, putting Pakistan among the top 25 countries sending students to the U.S. The volume of Pakistani students migrating to the United States has been relatively stable over the past few years. \"The Express Tribune\" reports that the drop in the number of Pakistani students in the United States following the September 11 attacks is a myth and observes that the numbers going to the US for study have simply decreased due to an increase in more higher education institutions opening back home. According to Shazia Khan, \"In the last 10 years, there has been an increase in the number of higher education institutes in Pakistan. This encourages many students to study in the country and not apply abroad\".\n\nThere are many Pakistani students enrolled in different Portuguese universities. Most of the students are doing their doctoral degrees. The medium of instruction for master's degree (5 years) is Portuguese but doctoral level research is in English. Most of the students have scholarship from the Portuguese Foundation of Science and Technology. Some of the programs are specifically designed for foreign students like the programs offered by the MAP consortium.\n\nChina also attracts a large number of students from Pakistan, with 2006 estimates putting their number well over 1,000; in Xinjian alone, there are over 500 Pakistanis in universities. In total, there are over 5,000 Pakistani medical students studying in China as of September 2012.\n\nIn 2016, there were 19,000 Pakistani students in China, making Pakistan the fourth largest source of international students in the country. The main disciplines of studies pursued included medicine, engineering, economics and management.\n\nThere are some 1,000 Pakistani medical students in Cuba. They are on scholarships under a program between the Cuban government and the Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan. Presently, these students are enrolled in three leading Medical Universities of Cuba named Universidad de Ciencias Médicas Villa Clara, Universidad de Ciencias Médicas Sancti Spiritus and Universidad de Ciencias Médicas Cienfuegos.\nIn February 2014 the first batch of 295 students graduated from the University of Villa Clara. The ceremony was held in the presence of ambassador of Pakistan in Cuba and vice minister of Cuba for health.\n\nNowadays Germany is also a choice of many Pakistani Students to study. The only barrier that students face is the language. Although some study programs are in English but they have to learn German Language for their daily life. There are both undergraduate and graduate programs available. But those who are undergraduate have to do one-year program Studienkolleg.\n\nThere are over 2,000 Pakistani students of medicine in the Central Asian state of Kyrgyzstan. In Australia, there were 1,626 Pakistani students as of 2005; this figure increased to 11,000 as of 2012. A report in 2012 showed that Pakistan was becoming the \"top growth market\" for international students choosing to study in Australia, ranking 10th.\n\nThere are about 100 Pakistani students in the National University of Singapore in Singapore, Studying: many subjects such as: Health, Engineering, Computer Science, Law etc.\n\nThere are also significant number of Pakistani students in Bangladesh, mainly studying in the fields of medicine and dentistry. As of 2012, there were 80 registered Pakistani students in several Bangladeshi medical and dental colleges, studying under the SAARC quota. Every year, the government of Pakistan sends 14 students to study medicine in Bangladesh, selected by a test of National Testing Service and approved by the Ministry of Education of Pakistan.\n\nPoland also attracts students from Pakistan, studying mostly: Health and Medicine \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33945549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33945549", "title": "Pay-for-Performance (Federal Government)", "text": "Pay-for-Performance (Federal Government)\n\nPay-for-Performance (Federal Government) is a method of employee motivation meant to improve performance in the United States federal government by offering incentives such as salary increases, bonuses, and benefits. It is a similar concept to Merit Pay for public teachers and it follows basic models from Performance-related Pay in the private sector. According to recent studies, however, there are key differences in how pay-for-performance models influence federal employees in public service roles. James Perry is one scholar who has conducted such studies. His research reveals that public servants tend to be more intrinsically motivated, and thus, are prone to have a negative reaction to monetary incentives. There is still debate, however, on what exactly makes the public sector different.\n\nPay-for-performance programs first began in the private sector. As consultants, academic experts, and employee advocate groups analyzed merit pay systems' success in private businesses, they recommended expanding this method into the public sector. One vital omission in the process of implementation, however, is that the policy makers failed to consider that the stakeholders in the private sector differ from those in the public sector.\n\nThe first trial run of a pay-for-performance system came in the late 1970s. In 1978 U.S. President Jimmy Carter introduced the broad outlines of the Civil Service Reform Act in his State of the Union message. It was the first time a U.S. President had ever included civil service reform among his major legislative proposals.\n\nThe Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 created the Office of Personnel Management, to oversee the human resource management of the federal government, and the Merit Systems Protection Board, to regulate the merit system and prevent any abuse. The major provisions in the act included, but were not limited to, performance appraisals for all employees, merit pay on a variety of levels (but focusing on managerial levels), and modifications for dealing with poor performers. This merit pay system was a break in the long tradition of automatic salary increases based on length of service. Under the new act, employees only got half of their traditional automatic salary increase. The remaining non-automatic portion was divided up according to performance rating. A key part of this system was that it was revenue neutral—this meant that when some employees benefited under the new system, others would of necessity be receive less than in the previous system.\n\nThe greatest benefits of the Act were that it clarified job expectations and defined goals and objectives. The clearest shortcoming was that it failed to establish a “demonstrable relationship between pay and performance.” This failure had a number of causes—most notably a lack of adequate funding. Managers who performed satisfactorily often found themselves receiving less pay than their non-managerial counterparts because the non-managerial employees were still under the previous pay system. Some complained that this merit system seemed arbitrary and many employees did not perceive it as a fair assessment of performance and effort. Furthermore, the public became upset when they saw certain senior executives in the government receiving large paychecks. It became apparent that the Act was not an effective means of civic service reform.\n\nWhen Ronald Reagan was elected in 1982, he significantly reduced the size and cost of many portions of government, thereby greatly limiting the Civil Service Reform Act. Satisfying the need for new legislation, the Performance Management and Recognition System (PMRS) was enacted on November 8, 1984. Most notably, the PMRS provided a greater level of evaluation accuracy and imposed minimum and maximum levels of pay increase to limit disparity among merit pay employees. PMRS also created Performance Standard Review Boards for each department and required that at least half of the board be members who were under the merit pay system. This requirement ensured that at least some board members had a vested interest in dealing with potential problems and concerns.\n\nAlthough it was considered a significant improvement over its predecessor, PMRS only lasted from 1984 to 1991. The demise of PMRS was caused by poor discrimination among performance levels, inadequate performance findings, and little demonstrable evidence that the system improved performance. Over 50 percent of the employees felt like the size of the rewards was inadequate, and more than 75 percent of the managers stated that their performance evaluations provided little guidance for development purposes, mentioning that “insufficient funds [had] resulted in meaningless performance awards.”\n\nSince the PMRS was abandoned, various proposals have surfaced and even a few agencies have tried variations of pay-for-performance systems. The Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security have both developed systems, but they were annulled when President Barack Obama signed the National Defense Authorization Act on October 28, 2009. There has yet to be a new pay-for-performance system implemented on a nationwide scale for the United States Federal Government.\n\nWhen these federal pay for performance systems failed, many were surprised because it had worked so well within the private sector. Much of this failure was attributed to the fact that most of the research on pay for performance had been done in the private rather than public sector. These perplexing and inconsistent results between the private and public sectors led academia to question why pay-for-performance programs in the public sector were not as effective. Research revealed that two main factors contributed to poor public sector motivation and performance: (1) the public sector has unique budgeting restrictions that make it difficult to effectively implement such a program, and (2) the type of motivation that affects employees in the federal public sector is different from the motivators that work for employees of private business firms.\n\nA limited and restricted budget is one of the biggest factors that have prevented the public sector from successfully implementing a pay for performance program. As noted by Antoinette Weibel, the private sector simply has more money and will always be more fluid with cash than any public sector organization. Profit motive will always matter in the private sector because a business organization's function is to maximize profits.\n\nSince public organizations operate on tax revenue, they are expected to act responsibly for that stewardship of resources. Public institutions also operate in nonmarket conditions and are subject to unique rules and expectations. This makes budgeting for incentives very difficult because unlike private sector businesses, public organizations cannot arrange their incentives around the company profit. By their very nature of receiving funds instead of generating them, public organizations can never have the same freedom that private organizations have in providing incentives in the work force.\n\nAs important as the budget differences are to the issue of pay for performance, the difference in how federal and private sector employees respond to motivators is even more crucial. Weibel has demonstrated that public servants tend to gravitate more to intrinsic motivation, but two key researchers, Edward L. Deci and Robert Eisenburger, have disagreed as to whether extrinsic motivation is harmful to intrinsically motivated individuals. Deci designed a study that involved college students who were given an \"interesting\" activity to perform. Some of those students were provided tangible rewards (e.g. money) as an extrinsic motivation and were observed by researchers to see how they reacted. From these studies, Deci argued that some activities provide their own inherent reward, so motivation for such activities is not dependent on external rewards. Deci goes even further to show that when extrinsic rewards are placed on these activities, it is detrimental to performance because it puts a market price on something they already value internally.\n\nEisenberger designed a study meant to refute Deci's claim. His results reported that “perceived competence partially mediated the positive relationship found between performance-contingent reward and intrinsic motivation.” In other words, the detrimental effects of providing tangible rewards, discussed in the Deci studies, occurred under highly restricted, easily avoidable conditions.\n\nAlthough a push for providing extrinsic motivation is still politically popular, research continues to lean toward the understanding of Deci and Perry—that the public sector is fundamentally different from the private sector. Since those who work for government or non-profit organizations are more likely to be in the mindset of serving others, they tend to be motivated more intrinsically. They perform tasks because of loyalty or an internalized sense of duty, and/or enjoyment. Giving employees a performance-contingent monetary incentive to do something they already enjoy can decrease his/her motivation to do it as the person is then likely to view its action as externally driven rather than as internally appealing.\n\nWeibel contributed further to Perry and Deci's findings when she and her team examined the benefits and costs of an extrinsically motivated system, and compared this system in the public and the private sectors. This clearly defined scope allowed the pay-for-performance policies in each sector to be evaluated individually. The authors’ hypothesis was that the public sector has specific characteristics (the same as those diagnosed by Deci and Perry) that would make pay for performance ineffective, calling the proposed adoption for such policies “naïve.” \n\nResearch has continued to support the notion that although incentive systems may be effective and efficient in one organizational context, they can be ineffective or even counterproductive in others. Daniel Pink has been another persuasive voice who has drawn on many of these studies to call for new methods of motivation in the workplace. He cites an MIT study in which the research team repeatedly demonstrated that as long as the tasks being undertaken are purely mechanical, performance-related pay works to improve results. The moment a task required any cognitive skill, the incentives became detrimental to performance.\nOthers, such as Weibel, have also urged caution in implementing the pay-for-performance models of old. In the federal government, this is especially important because intrinsically motivated public service agents are shown to have a “higher incentive to invest in expert knowledge than extrinsically motivated ones and therefore function as the ‘institutional memory’ of public service.”\n\nTo preserve that institutional memory and continue to attract intrinsically motivated employees, the government will likely need alternative models to replace or supplement the popular business model of performance-related pay. Some have suggested an incentive plan that focuses on employees' internal motivation. Instead of cash bonuses or raises, employees may instead be given discretionary time to work on creative projects in which they have a personal interest, as has been implemented by companies such as Google and 3M. Another alternative to a strictly intrinsically based model may be a hybrid in which monetary rewards and intrinsic incentives are offered, giving the employees of both dispositions the motivation to increase performance. It is unclear what the next step of action will be for the federal government, but since the issue of pay for performance is so politically popular it is unlikely that the issue will go away any time soon.\n\nThe President’s Management Agenda (PMA) and Office of Budget and Management asked federal government agencies to maximize performance as well as reevaluate and restructure human capital. These agencies were also required to amend ineffective policies on performance management. The PMA recommended streamlining the system of compensating and rewarding federal employees. One way is move from the present General Schedule approach to a system that emphasizes performance-based wages. In the USA and many countries of Western Europe, pay for performance plans are used collectively. In Hong Kong, the popularity of pay for performance is increasing gradually both in the public and private sectors. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1930350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1930350", "title": "Pennsylvania Department of Education", "text": "Pennsylvania Department of Education\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Education is the executive department of the state charged with publicly funded preschool, K-12 and adult educational budgeting, management and guidelines. As the state education agency, its activities are directed by the governor appointed Pennsylvania's Secretary of Education. The agency is headquartered at 333 Market Street in Harrisburg. The Pennsylvania Department of Education oversees 500 public school districts public school districts of Pennsylvania, over 170ublic charter schools (2014), 14 public cyber charter schools, Career and Technology Centers/Vocational Technical schools, 29 public Intermediate Units, the education of youth in State Juvenile Correctional Institutions, Head Starts and publicly funded preschools in the Commonwealth (PreK Counts Keystone Stars) and 22 community colleges. In 2014, the Pennsylvania Department of Education employs approximately 600 persons.\n\nThe agency maintains a database of all education institutions in the Commonwealth with associated data. EdNA These entities include school districts and their schools, intermediate units, area vocational technical schools, charter schools, nonpublic and private schools, higher education institutions and more.\n\nFollowing passage and signing of the Free School Law on April 1, 1834, the Secretary of the Commonwealth acted as head of the Common School System until 1837. In that year a separate Department of Schools was created with a Superintendent of Common Schools as its chief officer. In 1873, the title was changed to Superintendent of Public Instruction, and greater responsibilities were assigned to that official and to the Department. In 1969, the name of the Department of Public Instruction was changed to the Department of Education, with the title of Superintendent of Public Instruction changed to the Secretary of Education. It previously ran the Pennsylvania State Board of Censors.\n\n\nThe mission statement of the Pennsylvania Department of Education is \"to assist the General Assembly, the Governor, the Secretary of Education and Pennsylvania educators in providing for the maintenance and support of a thorough and efficient system of education.\" The Department has broad discretionary powers in both the development and administration of educational policies which enhance the educational experience and quality in Pennsylvania. The Department also works as an ongoing study of the educational process within the state, conducting studies and programs designed to evaluate specific needs or qualities of the system. In doing so, the Pennsylvania Department of Education will recommend changes and improvements to the Governor, the Board of Education, and the General Assembly.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Education also oversees policies of public libraries, academic libraries, and the State Library of Pennsylvania located in Harrisburg. It provides policy of equal opportunity in the educational system, with special regard to nonpublic education and state policy of education. It is within the Pennsylvania Department of Education's mission to collaborate with other state educational departments in an effort to create a cohesive and dynamic learning environment.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Department of Education operates a plethora of offices and participates in many state related agencies/Boards.\n\n\nPublic school kindergarten-12th grade enrollment as reported by the Pennsylvania Department of Education as of October 1 in each school year. \n\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44419959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44419959", "title": "Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service", "text": "Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service\n\nThe Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service is an award issued by the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on University and College Computing Services. It was established in 2000 to recognise individuals who have made significant contributions to the Special Interest Group, and to computing in higher education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6793888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6793888", "title": "Project 985", "text": "Project 985\n\nProject 985 () is a project that was first announced by CPC General secretary and Chinese President Jiang Zemin at the 100th anniversary of Peking University on May 4, 1998, to promote the development and reputation of the Chinese higher education system by founding world-class universities in the 21st century. The name derives from the date of the announcement, May 1998, or 98/5 according to the Chinese date format. The project involves both national and local governments allocating large amounts of funding to certain universities in order to build new research centers, improve facilities, hold international conferences, attract world-renowned faculty and visiting scholars, and help Chinese faculty attend conferences abroad.\n\nIn 2009, the original 9 founding member universities of Project 985 formed the C9 League, which is referred to as the Chinese equivalent of the US Ivy League. By the end of the second phase of the project, 39 universities were sponsored. It was announced in 2011 that the project has closed its doors, and no more new schools will be able to join in.\n\nIn September 2017, a related plan called the Double First Class University Plan was announced. It was unclear whether this plan represents a new way of ranking universities in China, or replaces Project 211 and Project 985.\n\nThere are 39 universities sponsored by Project 985. The project also assigned funding to each university.\n"}
{"id": "46544101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46544101", "title": "Project Re-ED", "text": "Project Re-ED\n\nProject Re-ED, the Project on the Re-Education of Emotionally Disturbed Children, is a program to provide effective and affordable mental health services for children. The program focuses on teaching a child effective ways of acting in and responding to the child’s social groups (family, schools, peer groups) and also working with those social groups to help them provide a more supportive environment for the child. It began as a pilot project in the 1960s at two residential facilities in Tennessee and North Carolina. It later expanded to more facilities, and the principles of treatment developed in the project have been replicated and adapted in many other programs. \n\nThe program was initiated by an 8-year grant awarded in 1961 by the National Institute of Mental Health to the George Peabody College for Teachers (then a separate school, now part of Vanderbilt University) along with the states of Tennessee and North Carolina. Nicholas Hobbs, a psychology professor and chair the Division of Human Development at Peabody College, was the project’s primary developer. The two states each provided a small residential school – Cumberland House in Nashville, TN and Wright School in Durham, NC – and at the end of the grant period the states assumed responsibility for continuing and funding the program. Within a couple of decades, more than two dozen re-ed schools had been established, and many more facilities had applied principles developed in the re-ed program.\n\nThe program was a response to a 1954 study from the Southern Regional Education Board and the National Institute of Mental Health which noted the lack of adequate services and facilities for emotionally disturbed children available at the time in the southeast United States. The structure of the Re-ED program was inspired in large part by residential programs in post-World War II Scotland and France addressing mental health needs in children resulting from effects of the war. These programs were staffed largely by teachers who received primarily on-the-job practical training in psychological therapy. Following that model, Project Re-ED carefully selected effective, experienced teachers with demonstrated adaptability and creativity, and provided them with one year of graduate level practical and theoretical training in working with emotionally disturbed children.\n\nDevelopment of the program was guided by social learning theory and ecological theory, and the program takes an educational rather than a therapeutic approach.\n\nFollowing social learning theory, the program considers it important to focus on assisting children to learn new and more positive ways to interact with others in a social setting. \n\nFollowing ecological theory, the program emphasizes a holistic approach of addressing issues in the family, school, peer group, and other social settings of a child’s life together at the same time. This way, counsellors can see how troubling issues in each of these social settings influence each other, rather than addressing each setting in isolation.\n\nThe approach of the re-education method is to view emotionally disturbed children’s problems as symptoms resulting from problems in the child’s social settings. So, rather than seeing the goal as curing a child’s mental illness in long-term private, individual therapy, the program seeks to restructure a child’s environment and teach the child how to act more constructively and positively within that environment. \n\nFollow-up studies indicate that the program does effectively attain its goal of restoring and improving social operation of children and their environment in a relatively short amount of time (with an average stay in the program of about 7 months) relative to similar children not in the program. A study of the results in children ages 6-12 found a substantial reduction in problem behaviors among former students in the program, with greater gains associated with younger age and a longer stay in the program. Another study found positive results among adolescents in the program, including among students who had not done well in other programs. Both of these studies noted, however, the difficulty of determining what specific aspects of such a program influence which positive results. In general, the program is judged a viable and effective means of providing help to emotionally disturbed children.\n\n"}
{"id": "58189093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58189093", "title": "Robert Foster Cherry Award", "text": "Robert Foster Cherry Award\n\nThe Robert Foster Cherry Award is a prize given biennially by Baylor University for \"great teaching\". The Cherry Award honors professors at the College or University level, in the English-speaking world, with established track records of teaching excellence and the ability to inspire students. Robert Foster Cherry, a graduate of Baylor University (A.B., 1929), made an estate bequest to establish the award. In a typical award cycle, three Finalists are selected based on nomination packages. The Finalists then compete for the award by giving a series of lectures at Baylor University. Each Finalist receives $15,000 and the ultimate award Recipient receives an additional $250,000 prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3234401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3234401", "title": "Saxon math", "text": "Saxon math\n\nSaxon math, developed by John Saxon , is a teaching method for incremental learning of mathematics. It involves teaching a new mathematical concept every day and constantly reviewing old concepts. Early editions were deprecated for providing very few opportunities to practice the new material before plunging into a review of all previous material. Newer editions typically split the day's work evenly between practicing the new material and reviewing old material. Its primary strength is in a steady review of all previous material, which is especially important to students who struggle with retaining the math they previously learned.\n\nThe Saxon Math 1 to Algebra 1/2 (the equivalent of a Pre-Algebra book) curriculum is designed so that students complete assorted mental math problems, learn a new mathematical concept, practice problems relating to that lesson, and solve a variety of problems. Daily practice problems include relevant questions from the current day's lesson as well as cumulative problems. This daily cycle is interrupted for tests and additional topics. From Algebra 1/2 on, the higher level books remove the mental math problems and incorporate testing more frequently.\n\nThe Saxon math program has a specific set of products to support homeschoolers, including solution keys and ready-made tests, which makes it popular among some homeschool families. It has also been adopted as an alternative to reform mathematics programs in public and private schools. Saxon teaches memorization of algorithms, unlike many reform texts.\n\nBy the mid-2000s, many school districts were considering abandoning experiments with reform approaches which had not produced acceptable test scores. For example, school board member Debbie Winskill in Tacoma, Washington said that the non-traditional Interactive Mathematics Program (IMP) \"has been a dismal failure.\" Speaking to the board, Mount Tahoma High School teacher Clifford Harris noted that he taught sophomores in another district Saxon Math, and their Washington Assessment of Student Learning scores have continually climbed. Unlike IMP, Saxon program gives students plenty of chances to review material, so they retain their skills, he said. In September 2006, Tacoma Public Schools introduced the Saxon books district-wide and rejected the previous IMP textbooks.\n\nSaxon Publishers has also published phonics and spelling curriculum. This curriculum, authored by Lorna Simmons and first published in 2005, follows the same incremental principles as the Saxon Math curriculum.\n\nCurrently, the Saxon Phonics and Spelling curriculum published provides four different levels of materials. The first three levels, starting in Kindergarten and progressing through second grade, offers daily lessons consisting of three main parts: lesson warm-up, new increment, and application and continual review. An assessment tool is included with the teaching materials to show teachers where students may be struggling, and it also provides remediation methods to reiterate the failing concepts. The fourth level of curriculum is intended for the third grade and allows for further advancement in spelling skills. Each level consists of various teaching materials to support the daily lesson plans and remediation factors known of Saxon curriculum. Specifically, the Saxon Phonics and Spelling curricula is \"beneficial for struggling readers because of the structure and repetitive characteristics associated with Saxon Publisher's curriculum.\" \n\nResearch shows that students using the Saxon Phonics and Spelling program showed improvement over a school year in phonics, reading, and spelling. Research has also shown that this program works just as well with males as with females and with special education and non-special education students.\n\nSaxon curriculum remains popular among homeschooling families but is also starting to be incorporated into public schools as well. The repetitive curriculum design provides students with constant reinforcements of previously learned concepts. This routine practice reinforces important topics into the student long-term memory. School districts find this especially beneficial when they need to raise their testing scores in math, phonics, and spelling.\n\nSaxon math textbooks are visible on a table in the film Last Action Hero.\n\n"}
{"id": "8017127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017127", "title": "Small Learning Community", "text": "Small Learning Community\n\nA Small Learning Community (SLC), also referred to as a School-Within-A-School, is a school organizational model that is an increasingly common form of learning environment in American secondary schools to subdivide large school populations into smaller, autonomous groups of students and teachers. SLCs can also be physical learning spaces.\n\nThe primary purpose of restructuring secondary schools into SLCs is to create a more personalized learning environment to better meet the needs of students. Each community will often share the same teachers and student members from grade to grade. Teachers in these units usually have common planning time to allow them to develop interdisciplinary projects and keep up with the progress of their shared students.\n\nSLCs can take several forms.\n\n\nCore courses include:\n\n\n\n\nElectives include:\n\n\nOther courses:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49892", "title": "Socratic method", "text": "Socratic method\n\nThe Socratic method, also known as maieutics, method of elenchus, elenctic method, or Socratic debate, is a form of cooperative argumentative dialogue between individuals, based on asking and answering questions to stimulate critical thinking and to draw out ideas and underlying presuppositions. It is a dialectical method, involving a discussion in which the defense of one point of view is questioned; one participant may lead another to contradict themselves in some way, thus weakening the defender's point. This method is named after the Classical Greek philosopher Socrates and is introduced by him in Plato's Theaetetus as midwifery (maieutics) because it is employed to bring out definitions implicit in the interlocutors' beliefs, or to help them further their understanding.\n\nThe Socratic method is a method of hypothesis elimination, in that better hypotheses are found by steadily identifying and eliminating those that lead to contradictions. The Socratic method searches for general, commonly held truths that shape beliefs and scrutinizes them to determine their consistency with other beliefs. The basic form is a series of questions formulated as tests of logic and fact intended to help a person or group discover their beliefs about some topic, exploring definitions or \"logoi\" (singular \"logos\") and seeking to characterize general characteristics shared by various particular instances.\n\nIn the second half of the 5th century BC, sophists were teachers who specialized in using the tools of philosophy and rhetoric to entertain, impress, or persuade an audience to accept the speaker's point of view. Socrates promoted an alternative method of teaching which came to be called the Socratic method.\n\nSocrates began to engage in such discussions with his fellow Athenians after his friend from youth, Chaerephon, visited the Oracle of Delphi, which confirmed that no man in Greece was wiser than Socrates. Socrates saw this as a paradox, and began using the Socratic method to answer his conundrum. Diogenes Laërtius, however, wrote that Protagoras invented the “Socratic” method.\n\nPlato famously formalized the Socratic elenctic style in prose—presenting Socrates as the curious questioner of some prominent Athenian interlocutor—in some of his early dialogues, such as \"Euthyphro\" and \"Ion\", and the method is most commonly found within the so-called \"Socratic dialogues\", which generally portray Socrates engaging in the method and questioning his fellow citizens about moral and epistemological issues. But in his later dialogues, such as Theaetetus or Sophist, Plato had a different method to philosophical discussions, namely dialectic.\n\nElenchus () is the central technique of the Socratic method. The Latin form \"elenchus\" (plural \"elenchi\") is used in English as the technical philosophical term. The most common adjectival form in English is \"elenctic\"; \"elenchic\" and \"elenchtic\" are also current.\n\nIn Plato's early dialogues, the elenchus is the technique Socrates uses to investigate, for example, the nature or definition of ethical concepts such as justice or virtue. According to Vlastos, it has the following steps:\n\n\nOne elenctic examination can lead to a new, more refined, examination of the concept being considered, in this case it invites an examination of the claim: \"Courage is \"wise\" endurance of the soul\". Most Socratic inquiries consist of a series of elenchi and typically end in puzzlement known as \"aporia\".\n\nFrede points out that Vlastos' conclusion in step #4 above makes nonsense of the aporetic nature of the early dialogues. Having shown that a proposed thesis is false is insufficient to conclude that some other competing thesis must be true. Rather, the interlocutors have reached aporia, an improved state of still not knowing what to say about the subject under discussion.\n\nThe exact nature of the elenchus is subject to a great deal of debate, in particular concerning whether it is a positive method, leading to knowledge, or a negative method used solely to refute false claims to knowledge.\n\nSocrates generally applied his method of examination to concepts that seem to lack any concrete definition; e.g., the key moral concepts at the time, the virtues of piety, wisdom, temperance, courage, and justice. Such an examination challenged the implicit moral beliefs of the interlocutors, bringing out inadequacies and inconsistencies in their beliefs, and usually resulting in aporia. In view of such inadequacies, Socrates himself professed his ignorance, but others still claimed to have knowledge. Socrates believed that his awareness of his ignorance made him wiser than those who, though ignorant, still claimed knowledge. While this belief seems paradoxical at first glance, it in fact allowed Socrates to discover his own errors where others might assume they were correct. This claim was known by the anecdote of the Delphic oracular pronouncement that Socrates was the wisest of all men. (Or, rather, that no man was wiser than Socrates.)\n\nSocrates used this claim of wisdom as the basis of his moral exhortation. Accordingly, he claimed that the chief goodness consists in the caring of the soul concerned with moral truth and moral understanding, that \"wealth does not bring goodness, but goodness brings wealth and every other blessing, both to the individual and to the state\", and that \"life without examination [dialogue] is not worth living\". It is with this in mind that the Socratic method is employed.\n\nThe motive for the modern usage of this method and Socrates' use are not necessarily equivalent. Socrates rarely used the method to actually develop consistent theories, instead using myth to explain them. The Parmenides dialogue shows Parmenides using the Socratic method to point out the flaws in the Platonic theory of the Forms, as presented by Socrates; it is not the only dialogue in which theories normally expounded by Plato/Socrates are broken down through dialectic. Instead of arriving at answers, the method was used to break down the theories we hold, to go \"beyond\" the axioms and postulates we take for granted. Therefore, myth and the Socratic method are not meant by Plato to be incompatible; they have different purposes, and are often described as the \"left hand\" and \"right hand\" paths to good and wisdom.\n\nA Socratic Circle (also known as a Socratic Seminar) is a pedagogical approach based on the Socratic method and uses a dialogic approach to understand information in a text. Its systematic procedure is used to examine a text through questions and answers founded on the beliefs that all new knowledge is connected to prior knowledge, that all thinking comes from asking questions, and that asking one question should lead to asking further questions. A Socratic Circle is not a debate. The goal of this activity is to have participants work together to construct meaning and arrive at an answer, not for one student or one group to “win the argument”.\n\nThis approach is based on the belief that participants seek and gain deeper understanding of concepts in the text through thoughtful dialogue rather than memorizing information that has been provided for them. While Socratic Circles can differ in structure, and even in name, they typically involve the following components: a passage of text that students must read beforehand and two concentric circles of students: an outer circle and an inner circle. The inner circle focuses on exploring and analysing the text through the act of questioning and answering. During this phase, the outer circle remains silent. Students in the outer circle are much like scientific observers watching and listening to the conversation of the inner circle. When the text has been fully discussed and the inner circle is finished talking, the outer circle provides feedback on the dialogue that took place. This process alternates with the inner circle students going to the outer circle for the next meeting and vice versa. The length of this process varies depending on the text used for the discussion. The teacher may decide to alternate groups within one meeting, or they may alternate at each separate meeting.\n\nThe most significant difference between this activity and most typical classroom activities involves the role of the teacher. In Socratic Circles the students lead the discussion and questioning. The teacher's role is to ensure the discussion advances regardless of the particular direction the discussion takes.\n\nTeachers use Socratic Circles in different ways. The structure it takes may look different in each classroom. While this is not an exhaustive list, teachers may use one of the following structures to administer Socratic Seminar:\n\n\nNo matter what structure the teacher employs, the basic premise of the seminar/circles is to turn partial control and direction of the classroom over to the students. The seminars encourage students to work together, creating meaning from the text and to stay away from trying to find a correct interpretation. The emphasis is on critical and creative thinking.\n\n\nA Socratic Circle text is a tangible document that creates a thought-provoking discussion.\nThe text ought to be appropriate for the participants' current level of intellectual and social development. It provides the anchor for dialogue whereby the facilitator can bring the participants back to the text if they begin to digress. Furthermore, the seminar text enables the participants to create a level playing field – ensuring that the dialogical tone within the classroom remains consistent and pure to the subject or topic at hand. Some practitioners argue that \"texts\" do not have to be confined to printed texts, but can include artifacts such as objects, physical spaces, and the like.\n\nPertinent elements of an effective Socratic text\n\nSocratic seminar texts are able to challenge participants’ thinking skills by having these characteristics:\n\n\n1. Ideas and values -\nThe text must introduce ideas and values that are complex and difficult to summarize. Powerful discussions arise from personal connections to abstract ideas and from implications to personal values.\n\n2. Complexity and challenge -\nThe text must be rich in ideas and complexity and open to interpretation. Ideally it should require multiple readings, but should be neither far above the participants' intellectual level nor very long.\n\n3. Relevance to participants and curriculum -\nAn effective text has identifiable themes that are recognizable and pertinent to the lives of the participants. Themes in the text should relate to the curriculum.\n\n4. Ambiguity -\nThe text must be approachable from a variety of different perspectives, including perspectives that seem mutually exclusive, thus provoking critical thinking and raising important questions. The absence of right and wrong answers promotes a variety of discussion and encourages individual contributions.\n\nTwo different ways to select a text\n\nSocratic texts can be divided into two main categories:\n\n1. Print texts (e.g. short stories, poems, and essays) and non-print texts (e.g. photographs, sculptures, and maps); and\n\n2. Subject area, which can draw from print or non-print artifacts. As examples, language arts can be approached through poems, history through written or oral historical speeches, science through policies on environmental issues, math through mathematical proofs, health through nutrition labels, and physical education through fitness guidelines.\n\nSocratic Circles are based upon the interaction of peers. The focus is to explore multiple perspectives on a given issue or topic. Socratic questioning is used to help students apply the activity to their learning. The pedagogy of Socratic questions is open-ended, focusing on broad, general ideas rather than specific, factual information. The questioning technique emphasizes a level of questioning and thinking where there is no single right answer.\n\nSocratic circles generally start with an open-ended question proposed either by the leader or by another participant. There is no designated first speaker; as individuals participate in Socratic circles, they gain experience that enables them to be effective in this role of initial questioner.\n\nThe leader keeps the topic focused by asking a variety of questions about the text itself, as well as questions to help clarify positions when arguments become confused. The leader also seeks to coax reluctant participants into the discussion, and to limit contributions from those who tend to dominate. She or he prompts participants to elaborate on their responses and to build on what others have said. The leader guides participants to deepen, clarify, and paraphrase, and to synthesize a variety of different views.\n\nThe participants share the responsibility with the leader to maintain the quality of the Socratic circle. They listen actively in order to respond effectively to what others have contributed. This teaches the participants to think and speak persuasively using the discussion to support their position. Participants must demonstrate respect for different ideas, thoughts and values, and must not interrupt each other.\n\nQuestions can be created individually or in small groups. All participants are given the opportunity to take part in the discussion. Socratic Circles specify three types of questions to prepare:\n\n\nThe Socratic method, in the form of Socratic questioning, has been adapted for psychotherapy, most prominently in Classical Adlerian psychotherapy, Logotherapy, Rational Emotive Behavioral Therapy, Cognitive Therapy and Reality Therapy. It can be used to clarify meaning, feeling, and consequences, as well as to gradually unfold insight, or explore alternative actions.\n\nThe Socratic method has also recently inspired a new form of applied philosophy: socratic dialogue, also called philosophical counseling. In Europe Gerd B. Achenbach is probably the best known practitioner, and Michel Weber has also proposed another variant of the practice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6361656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6361656", "title": "Standards-based assessment", "text": "Standards-based assessment\n\nIn an educational setting, standards-based assessment is assessment that relies on the evaluation of student understanding with respect to agreed-upon standards, also known as \"outcomes\". The standards set the criteria for the successful demonstration of the understanding of a concept or skill.\n\nIn the standards-based paradigm, students have the freedom to demonstrate understanding in diverse ways, including (but not limited to) selected response (e.g. multiple choice tests), physical constructions, written responses, and performances. Of course, these are not new types of assessments, nor is the concept of differentiated assessment. The teacher uses all available observations and quantitative information to summarize learning with reference to a specific standard. With these data, a teacher can formulate the steps or actions that can be taken to gain mastery of a particular concept. That is, it aids in assessment for learning.\n\nOne of the key aspects of standards-based assessment is post-assessment feedback. The feedback a student receives from this type of assessment does not emphasizes a score, percentage, or statistical average, but information about the expectations of performance as compared to the standard. A standards-based approach does not necessarily dismiss a summative grade, percentage, or a measure of central tendency (such as a mean, or median). However, an assessment that does not reference or give feedback with respect to a standard would not be standards-based. There is a large body of evidence that points to the effectiveness of appropriate feedback.\n\nThe purpose of standards-based assessment is to connect evidence of learning to learning outcomes (the standards). When standards are explicit and clear, the learner becomes aware of his/her achievement with reference to the standards, and the teacher may use assessment data to give meaningful feedback to students about this progress. The awareness of one's own learning allows students to point to a specific standard of achievement and so strengthens self-regulation and meta-cognition, two skills generally understood to be effective learning strategies.\n\nA common approach to standards-based assessment (SBA) is:\n\n\n\n\nA standards-based test is an assessment based on the outcome-based education or performance-based education philosophy. Assessment is a key part of the standards reform movement. The first part is to set new, higher standards to be expected of every student. Then the curriculum must be aligned to the new standards. Finally, the student must be assessed if they meet these standards of what every student \"must know and be able to do\". In the United States, a high school diploma which is given on passing a high school graduation examination or Certificate of Initial Mastery is awarded only when these standards are achieved. It is fully expected that every child will become proficient in all areas of academic skills by the end of a period, typically 10 years in the United States, but sometimes longer, after the passing of education reform bill by a state legislature. The United States federal government, under No Child Left Behind can further require that all schools must demonstrate improvement among all students, even if they are already all over proficient.\n\nRather than using computers to log responses to multiple choice tests, rubrics for state assessments such as in North Carolina ask scorers to look at the entire paper and make judgments. Scorers are not allowed to count errors, and rubrics do not contain numeric measurements of how many spelling or grammar error constitute a \"1\" or \"2\". The Analytical Writing section of the GRE test is scored using a six-point holistic scale in half-point increments. Holistic grading is one of the main reason for disagreement between scorers, but for this reason some tests are scored more than once to check for agreement.\n\n\nCompared to a multiple-choice, norm-referenced test, a standards-based test can be recognized by:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4593659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593659", "title": "Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing", "text": "Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing\n\nThe Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing is a set of testing standards developed jointly by the American Educational Research Association (AERA), American Psychological Association (APA), and the National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME).\n\nThe new edition of \"The Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing\" was released in July 2014. Five areas received particular attention in the 2014 revision:\n1. Examining accountability issues associated with the uses of tests in educational policy\n2. Broadening the concept of accessibility of tests for all examinees\n3. Representing more comprehensively the role of tests in the workplace\n4. Taking into account the expanding role of technology in testing\n5. Improving the structure of the book for better communication of the standards\n\nRevised significantly from the 1985 version, the 1999 \"Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing\" has more in-depth background material in each chapter, a greater number of standards, and a significantly expanded glossary and index. The 1999 version \"Standards\" reflects changes in United States federal law and measurement trends affecting validity; testing individuals with disabilities or different linguistic backgrounds; and new types of tests as well as new uses of existing tests. The \"Standards\" is written for the professional and for the educated layperson and addresses professional and technical issues of test development and use in education, psychology and employment.\n\n1. Validity \n2. Reliability and Errors of Measurement \n3. Test Development and Revision \n4. Scales, Norms, and Score Comparability \n5. Test Administration, Scoring, and Reporting \n6. Supporting Documentation for Tests\n\n7. Fairness in Testing and Test Use \n8. The Rights and Responsibilities of Test Takers \n9. Testing Individuals of Diverse Linguistic Backgrounds \n10. Testing Individuals with Disabilities\n\n11. The Responsibilities of Test Users \n12. Psychological Testing and Assessment \n13. Educational Testing and Assessment \n14. Testing in Employment and Credentialing \n15. Testing in Program Evaluation and Public Policy\n\nIn 1974, the Joint Committee on Standards for Educational Evaluation was charged with the responsibility of writing a companion volume to the 1974 revision of the \"Standards for Educational and Psychological Tests\". This companion volume was to deal with issues and standards for program and curriculum evaluation in education. In 1975, the Joint Committee began work and ultimately decided to establish three separate sets of standards. These standards include \"The Personnel Evaluation Standards\", \"The Program Evaluation Standards\", and \"The Student Evaluation Standards\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8861950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8861950", "title": "The First Year Experience Program", "text": "The First Year Experience Program\n\nThe First-Year Experience (FYE) (also known as the Freshman-Year Experience or the Freshman Seminar Program) is a program at many American colleges and universities designed to help students prepare for the transition from high school to college. FYE programs often foster the participation of students in co-curricular events such as common reads, concerts, art exhibits, and guest lectures.\n\nDepending on the school, the course can last anywhere from two weeks to a full school year. Some larger universities, such as the University at Albany, SUNY, through their Project Renaissance Program,create a \"small college\" feel by allowing freshmen to do their first-year courses in one section of the university. \n\nWhile the origins of the program remain unclear, many people attribute the start of the First-Year Seminar to the University of South Carolina, which houses the National Resource Center for the First-Year Experience and Students in Transition and holds a series of workshops for colleges and universities to better their own first-year programs.\n\nOriginally, Boston College was where the first Freshman Orientation class was offered in the year 1888. Reed College, based in Portland, Oregon, was the first institution to offer a course for credit when, in 1911, they offered a course that was divided into men-only and women-only sections that met for 2 hours per week for the year. \n\nIn May 1970, University of South Carolina President Thomas Jones faced campus unrest and violence. In the aftermath he vowed to create a new course designed to \"bond students to the institution and transform the way that undergraduate students were taught.\" In 1972, Carolina introduced \"University 101,\" designed to \"improve the educational experiences of first-year college students.\"\n\nCarolina's program became a model for colleges and universities across the country, and in 1982, representatives from 175 schools came to Carolina to meet about the first-year experience. In 1983, Carolina's University 101 faculty director, John N. Gardner, organized the first Annual Conference on the Freshman Year Experience. \n\nIn 1986, Carolina partnered with the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Polytechnic to produce the first International Conference on the First-Year Experience. Also in 1986, Carolina established the National Resource Center; as it broadened its focus it underwent a number of name changes, settling on the National Resource Center for the First-Year Experience and Students in Transition in 1998. As the Center states on its website:\nMany of the colleges and universities that use the program require that all incoming freshmen take the freshman seminar; other schools have the program as optional, but recommended. Most first-year seminars are a semester long and start at student orientation. From orientation, students enroll in the course, which gives them a variety of college experiences, from tours of the campus to a breakdown of how to study for tests. Many schools even offer students help with purchasing books from the school's bookstore.\n\nFor instance, as part of Mitchell College's First-Year Experience (FYE) program for transitioning into college, first-year students are assigned to Freshman Interest Groups (FIGs) in their first semester according to a common academic interest or major. These groups explore the topics and issues related to their chosen path. Those who arrive at Mitchell undecided about their academic route are also grouped together to allow for a broader survey of options. Students are encouraged to communicate their unique perspective and make connections through co-curricular activities.\n\nColby College's outdoor orientation COOT (Colby Outdoor Orientation Trips) program is designed to ease new students' transition into college and introduce them to Maine's cultural and natural resources. COOT features an on-campus orientation and a variety of trips, including hiking trips at Acadia National Park and Mount Katahdin canoe trips on the Kennebec and Moose Rivers, and other trips around the state. There are over 60 different trips, designed to appeal to incoming students with a variety of interests and fitness levels, and more \"front country\" trips have been added in recent years, including service- and arts-oriented options such as an organic farm stay and a challenge course. COOT leaders are chosen from upperclass students who apply for these positions, and are expected to help the students both during and after the trip with the adjustment to campus life.\n\nIn 1991, Norman Adler initiated the Penn Reading Project at the University of Pennsylvania, an integrative introduction to liberal learning for college freshmen newly arriving on campus. Subsequently, Freshman Reading Projects have been adopted widely as part of the first-year experience at many college campuses.\n\nAs a standard for most first-year seminars, many colleges give students one to two credits for completing the program, such as UC Irvine. Many schools, such as the State University of New York at Old Westbury in Old Westbury, New York, merge the program into a second course which helps to satisfy New York's general education requirement. In addition, the school recently introduced its Civic Engagement program, which is designed to allow students to participate in community service as a part of its First-Year Experience program.\n\nThe University of South Carolina hosts a seminar every year in which the many colleges and universities which have the First-Year Program get together to improve their own programs, and to offer suggestions to their colleagues on how they might also improve. The workshop is usually a week long and attendance is voluntary.\n\nThe University of North Carolina at Greensboro's First-Year Experience program is called University Studies 101 (UNS 101). The program aims to assist students in discovering their purpose, identifying their strengths, and aligning these newly discovered assets with a plan for their future. The activities, class discussions, and assignments used in the course guide students through the six appreciative advising stages. A comprehensive program evaluation which includes the tracking of academic outcomes and assessment of student attitudes and behaviors has evidenced the positive impact of the UNS 101 program. For example, the freshman to sophomore retention rate of freshmen who completed UNS 101 in fall 2006 and returned for fall 2007 was 81.9%. This compares to a retention rate of 74.4% for freshmen who did not take the course. Meanwhile, the average first-semester GPA for students who did not take the course was 2.49, while UNS 101 participants had an average first-semester GPA of 2.72.\n\nJ.N. Gardner, member of The Journal of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers and author of The freshman-year experience, emphasized the importance of having courses that focus on the first few weeks of college. During this time is most likely when students will make the decision to drop-out, due to the increase of feeling personal independence and habit forming, as well as forming relationships that they will continue throughout their college careers. Gardner also suggested that things such as curriculum modifications, academic advisement, faculty led freshmen level courses instead of graduate student led, living/learning environments, peer counseling, and special freshmen administrative units improve the student’s freshman year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34652655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34652655", "title": "Three Minute Thesis", "text": "Three Minute Thesis\n\nThe Three Minute Thesis competition or 3MT, is an annual competition held in over 200 universities worldwide. It is open to PhD students, and challenges participants to present their research in just 180 seconds, in an engaging form that can be understood by an intelligent audience with no background in the research area. This exercise develops presentation, research and academic communication skills and supports the development of research students' capacity to explain their work effectively.\n\nThe competition originated at the University of Queensland (UQ) in 2008. There are currently three categories, UQ, Trans-Tasman and International.\n\nThis category features students from the University of Queensland.\n\n\"2015\" \n\n\"2014\" \n\n\"2013\"\n\n\"2012\"\n\n\"2011\"\n\n\"2010\"\n\n\"2009\"\n\n\"2008\"\n\n\"2015\"\n\nFinals held at The University of Queensland;\n\n\"2014\"\n\nFinals held at The University of Western Australia;\n\n\"2013\"\n\nFinals held at The University of Western Sydney;\n\n\"2012\"\n\nFinals held at The University of Queensland; \n\n\"2011\"\n\nFinals held at the University of Western Australia.\n\n\"2010\"\n\nFinals held at University of Queensland; \n\n"}
{"id": "15060003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15060003", "title": "Transitus (education)", "text": "Transitus (education)\n\nTransitus is the name given to a year in a number of independent schools in Scotland. As the name would suggest, this year is offered as a bridge between 'primary' and 'secondary' education.\n\nTransitus replaces the final year of primary education used in state schools, often referred to as Primary 7 (P7). In preparatory schools, it may also share the 'P7' designation, although in this case it is instead the abbreviation of 'Prep'.\n"}
{"id": "15855800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15855800", "title": "Volvo effect", "text": "Volvo effect\n\nThe Volvo effect is a term used in critiquing standardized testing that was created by Peter Sacks in his 2001 book \"Standardized Minds\". The term has been picked up by other sociologists, and counting Volvos has even been facetiously proposed as an alternative method to the spending millions of dollars on standardized testing.\n\nThe original text in which the Volvo effect was advanced:\n\n"}
{"id": "34509791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34509791", "title": "Writing about Writing", "text": "Writing about Writing\n\nWriting about Writing (WAW), is a method or theory of teaching composition which puts emphasis on reading and writing about writing in the writing course, and reimagines first-year composition as an \"introduction to writing studies.\" This is not to say WAW only teaches a first-year writing course as if it were an introduction to a writing major, but rather it advocates merging the \"how\" of writing with its practice. An introduction course to a writing major has both a different audience and purpose than a first-year composition course framed in WAW. The development of WAW is largely credited to Elizabeth Wardle and Douglas Downs after the publication of their 2007 article \"Teaching about Writing, Righting Misconceptions.\"\n\nComposition is not widely recognized as its own discipline. Composition instructors strive to teach students how to become better writers. As public perception often shapes public policy, this uninformed view of composition as a legitimate field of study has contributed to a lack of funding and emphasis on composition classes in academia.\n\nIn 2007, Douglas Downs and Elizabeth Wardle published an article titled \"Teaching about Writing, Righting Misconceptions\" in which they propose a reform of first-year composition instruction based on the results of a test course they developed. This course sought \"to improve students' understanding of writing, rhetoric, language, and literacy\" and promoted a view of reading and writing as scholarly inquiry, encouraging \"more realistic conceptions of writing.\" The article is considered to be revolutionary by other scholars in the field, and it's frequently cited by those who have continued the work in the WAW movement.\n\nIn the article, Downs and Wardle deny the existence of a universal educated discourse, which conflicts with first-year composition goals of preparing students to write across the curriculum. Downs and Wardle write that teaching students how to write across the curriculum supports the idea that \"writing is not a real subject, that writing courses do not require expert instructors, and that rhetoric and composition are not genuine research areas or legitimate intellectual pursuits.\"\n\nThe article goes on to outline the course they designed that is centered more on teaching the students about \"writing studies\", rather than how to write in college. The authors discuss readers, research assignments, reflective assignments and presentation assignments before going on to report case-studies of two students who took Downs' and Wardle's WAW-centered first-year composition course. While these were different types of students who had different learning outcomes, both stories illustrate the flexible nature of WAW and how this type of course can be tailored towards individual student needs. The authors discuss several benefits they observed of using WAW to teach first-year composition, but also indicate the presence of challenges associated with teaching this kind of course, and address both these challenges as well as critiques they received from colleagues.\n\nThe authors conclude that an implementation of WAW-centered classes in first-year composition professionalizes writing instruction, and raises awareness about writing studies as a legitimate discipline. Downs and Wardle write \"rather than purporting to teach students 'academic writing' and claiming to prepare them for writing in their disciplines, the course teaches students what we as a field have learned about writing as an object of study.\" Essentially, the aim of a WAW course is to demonstrate how writing works.\n\nAfter its publication, the article caused a stir in academia and received a lot of response from the community, prompting a follow-up article by Wardle in 2008 titled \"Continuing the Dialogue: Follow-up Comments on 'Teaching about Writing, Righting\nMisconceptions.'\" In it, Wardle addresses responders who commented that she and Downs put too much emphasis on first-year composition within the field by explaining that first-year composition should not hold more value than other branches within their field, but it is of importance and merits scholarly inquiry. She reaffirms their main point as being \"that we should reconceive the nature of FYC goals and focus on the content knowledge we have as a field from which students can benefit.\" She goes on to write, \"Let me be as clear as possible: Doug and I are arguing that composition instructors should refuse to separate knowledge about writing from practice in writing and some instruction on how to complete the writing tasks at hand.\" Another misconception she addresses is misconstruing a first-year writing WAW approach as being the same as an introductory course to a writing \"major\" and dismisses the claims that a WAW approach is put in place to recruit writing majors. The differences between these two courses, she explains, are both audience and purpose. Downs and Wardle expanded have produced an accompanying textbook, \"Writing about Writing: A College Reader\", which was published in 2011.\n\nIn \"Teaching About Writing, Righting Misconceptions,\" Downs and Wardle discuss several benefits they found WAW affords students including:\n\nWAW asks students to read about writing and various processes, which allows them to identify what works for them. By reading articles that a composition studies student might read, the first-year composition student is able to gain further insight into the ongoing conversation centered around writing. In her article \"Writing about Writing in Basic Writing,\" Shannon Carter explains \"a writing-about-writing approach foregrounds research in writing and related studies by asking students to read and discuss key research in the discipline and contribute to the scholarly conversation themselves.\" She explains that having students immerse themselves in this type of scholarship will not only improve their writing but their understanding of writing as an academic discipline will increase as well, which in turn contributes to changing the public perception that writing is only something that is a piece of other disciplines.\n\nMany instructors who use WAW are also benefited in that they themselves are able to learn more about composition studies along with their class, promoting parallel learning. In an article titled \"Seeing is Believing: Writing Studies with 'Basic Writing' Students,\" Charlton reports that some see value in teaching first-year composition from a cultural studies approach because not only does this allow for composition instructors to teach what they love, but the types of reading promote critical thinking and analysis—two goals many first-year composition courses have. Also, the article reports on several instructors incorporating graduate level writing-studies readings into their first-year writing courses with much success. Charlton writes, \"Students were engaged and were developing research questions and projects that rivaled my on senior-level composition theory class, both in terms of complexity and overall quality of finished products.\"\n\nAs WAW is a relatively recent movement and is still in its early stages of development, proponents don't always agree on how WAW should be applied to the classroom. Carter points out instructors only account for a small portion of the composition community, and therefore disagreement is common and \"often in fundamental ways.\" \n\nIn his response to Downs and Wardle's \"Teaching About Writing, Righting Misconceptions,\" Joshua P. Kutney argues that providing students with an awareness of writing through WAW won't necessarily transfer to their writing performance. He compares WAW to students who take courses that raise their awareness of social problems. While students gain a greater sense of these issues through these courses, rarely do they display behavioral changes in regards to these issues.\n\nKutney also argues that an increased awareness of writing studies may result in students becoming more comfortable with validating their insufficiencies as a writer because they now recognize the difficulties expert writers have, and not because they now comprehend \"the nuances of the composing process.\" He goes on to say that while Downs and Wardle discuss WAW as allowing students to see academic writing as engaging in an ongoing conversation, this knowledge might overwhelm the student and cause them to avoid engaging in the conversation altogether. Kutney writes, \"While First-Year Composition may not do much to develop the writing abilities of students, Downs and Wardle offer no reason to think that Introduction to Writing Studies, a course that does not purport to teach writing, will do more.\" \n\nIn their response to Downs and Wardle, Miles et al. claim a WAW approach seems like it serves as an introduction to a writing major, which would not be beneficial to first-year students. They take issue with Downs and Wardle's \"dismissal of the importance of teaching situated procedural knowledge\", most notably the rhetorical situation. Miles et al. claim the only rhetorical situation a WAW course exposes its students to is that of scholarly research. They also argue that Downs and Wardle put too much emphasis on first-year composition within the field of writing studies, seeing it as the predominant branch of the field. They also argue that Downs and Wardle fail to give voice to the students in their case study who didn't benefit from the WAW approach and that only those who did are highlighted. Another main criticism they have is WAW's reliance on one modality of research writing while they argue that their \"research and scholarship is an interesting hybrid of several modalities at once.\"\n\nDowns published a response to Miles et al. in which he expresses displeasure at the arguments the authors laid out: My first reaction to Miles et al.'s response to \"FYC as Intro to Writing Studies\" is about as magnanimous as their response itself – that is, not remotely. This disappoints me, because I do maintain the ideal of scholarship wherein a constructive dialectic stretches, shapes, and builds ideas rather than merely tearing them down. I confess my first instinct is to tear down Miles et al.'s response as they attempt to tear down the construct we forwarded. (Earning the condemnation of an entire department is bracing-and ironic when the scholarship of some of the signatories – for me, Schwegler and Shamoon – planted seeds of ideas they find unworkable.He writes Miles et al. \"seem to address us as if we are sitting at the kids' table at Thanksgiving dinner.\" His main contentions are:\nHe concludes by writing \"I am grateful not only for the opportunity to respond, but to have something to respond to. And I wonder how differently our students might understand writing if they had similar opportunities.\"\n\nA response to Downs' response to Miles et al. by Slomp and Sargent doesn't reject Downs and Wardle's ideas in the same way Miles et al. does, but calls for more research on the WAW method. The authors also argue that Downs and Wardle fail to position themselves into an ongoing conversation in the same way they advocate for in WAW. Slomp and Sargent say that Downs and Wardle paint themselves to be \"lone pioneers\" in this venture, but in the 1990s Wendy Bishop supported the use of writing as the main subject in the writing classroom. They also reference Peter Elbow as being someone who touched on similar ideas to WAW long before Downs and Wardle published \"Teaching about Writing, Righting Misconceptions.\"\n\nShannon Carter, while a proponent of WAW, describes how it isn't always accessible to other instructors or policy makers. She describes how WAW can be \"off-putting\" to others, and the scholarship on the subject cannot be relied on in making changes to composition curriculum. She explains that while WAW can be effective for some, it is simply one way to approach teaching composition and won't work with everyone's teaching style.\n\nAs previously mentioned, many believe that because the readings are written by professionals for professionals, undergraduates will not be able to easily understand the concepts, which will negatively affect engagement with the course. Some even question Downs and Wardle's motives, and see WAW as a ploy in \"recruiting\" more students to become majors in the field.\n\nPublished in 2011, Downs and Wardle's book is described as \"encouraging students to draw on what they know in order to contribute to ongoing conversations about writing and literacy.\" \nIn the preface for the instructors, Downs and Wardle describes their frustration with composition courses that are based around themes that have nothing to do with writing. They list several reasons as to why WAW is a \"smart choice\" in terms of an approach to teaching first-year composition:\n\nThe book addresses several questions geared towards helping the student understand multiple components of writing: Why study writing? How do readers read and writers write? How do you write? How have you become the readers and writer you are today? How do communities shape writing? How do you make yourself heard as college writer? A mixture of selected readings from both scholars, authors, and students are provided, as well as various activities and discussion questions associated with the readings.\n\nBelow are some of the readings included in \"Writing about Writing: A College Reader\":\n\n\nThe book is praised for its accessibility and forward thinking. For instance, David R. Russell from Iowa State University called the book \"a milestone in composition textbooks.\" Russell is known for his work in Writing Across the Curriculum and activity theory.\n\nIts publisher's website describes it by saying \"Throughout the book, friendly explanations and scaffolded questions help students connect to readings and — even more important — develop knowledge about writing they can use at work, in their everyday lives, and in college.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2450915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2450915", "title": "Youth Training Scheme", "text": "Youth Training Scheme\n\nThe Youth Training Scheme (YTS) was the name in the United Kingdom of an on-the-job training course for school leavers aged 16 and 17 and was managed by the Manpower Services Commission. The scheme was first outlined in the 1980 white paper \"A New Training Initiative: A Programme for Action\", and it was brought into operation in 1983 to replace the Youth Opportunities Programme by the government of Margaret Thatcher. Initially lasting one year or 6 months, the scheme was amended in 1986 to be so that it could be extended to two years.\n\nThe 1981 England riots encouraged that, by bringing into sharp focus the results of large numbers of unskilled unemployed finding their own solutions.\nThe scheme promised training to its applicants and made use of a variety of different training locales such as businesses, colleges of further education or training workshops run by voluntary organisations. Since the training place was guaranteed by the government and trainees were to be paid if they were on the course, eligibility for social security unemployment benefit was withdrawn.\n\nAccredited organisations were required to provide at least 13 weeks per year of training away from the job and include life skills and social skills. A standardised form of certification was issued at the end of the training period.\n\nIn 1989, it was renamed Youth Training and was placed under the management of local Training and Enterprise Councils. The trainees on the schemes could be classified as either trainee status or employed status.\n\nThe difference was distinguished by whether the trainee was recruited by an employer and provided with training for the company needs or if the trainee was being trained by a training organisation using employers as training placements. Often, employed status trainees would have their training allowance improved by the employer.\n\nThe YTS attracted political and social criticism from an early point. Critics claimed that the scheme enabled employers to exploit school leavers for cheap labour, and it provided little substance in the way of genuine education. The broad left alliance of musicians, artists, comedians and writers, \nRed Wedge, criticised YTS for its discriminatory nature toward black people and women. The government's line was that the scheme was an effective counter to the drop in apprenticeships and marked rise in youth unemployment that was seen in the early 1980s.\n\n"}
